()N l-iU Null1)1 N\ I' () 101 1 \I (1)F1~ I()' D\I FI E11 )()

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, April 15, 2014

michigandaily.com

ADMINISTRATION
Regents to
consider
LSA dean
candidate

University Provost Martha Pollack speaks with SACUA members Monday in the Fleming Administration Building.
SACUA talk future deans,
gpupco-mingapointment

Board will also
approve nominee
for chancellor of
UM-Flint
By SAM GRINGLAS
and CLAIRE BRYAN
Daily News Editor
and Daily StaffReporter
When the University's Board
of Regents convene for their
monthly meeting Thursday, they
will vote on an agenda filled
largely with personnel items,
including the appointments a
new LSA dean ; the vice provost
for inclusion, equity and academ-
ic affairs and the chancellor of
the University of Michigan-Flint.
The regents will also approve
academic appointments for Uni-
versity President-elect Mark
Schlissel, who will assume the
presidency in July.
Washington University in
St. Louis professor to be
appointed next LSA dean

Pending approval by the
regents, Andrew D. Martin, vice
dean at the Washington Univer-
sity School of Law, will serve as
the next dean of the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts.
Martin's term will be effec-
tive July 1, 2014 through June 30,
2019. He will also receive a ten-
ured appointment as a professor
of political science in LSA.
The position of dean was held
on an interim basis by Psychol-
ogy Prof. Susan Gelman who
served from September 2013 to
August 2014. Gelman replaced
History Prof. Terrance McDon-
ald, who stepped down in 2012
after nearly a decade in the posi-
tion.
A search advisory committee
recommended Martin's selection
after an international search.
Martin earned a bachelor's
degree in mathematics and gov-
ernment from the College of Wil-
liam and Mary and a doctorate
degree in political science from
Washington University in St.
Louis.
He later taught at Stony Brook
University in New York for two
See REGENTS, Page 3

Last meeting
includes visit from
Provost Pollack
By ANDREW ALMANI
Daily StaffReporter
At the Senate Advisory Com-
mittee for University Affairs' last
meeting of the year Monday, the
group discussed several upcom-
ing dean appointments set to be

finalized at the meeting of the
University's Board of Regents
Thursday.
University Provost Mar-
tha Pollack addressed SACUA
after an executive session was
held with Regent Julia Darlow
(D). Pollack shared informa-
tion about her recommended
appointments to fill several open
administrative positions.
Andrew Martin, vice dean of
the School of Law at Washington
University in St. Louis, has been

selected to serve as LSA dean,
pending approval by the regents.
His term would be effective July
1, 2014 to June 30, 2019.
In addition to his position at
Washington University's School
of Law, Martin is the found-
ing director of the Center for
Empirical Research in the Law, a
Washington University research
center focused on studying
the methodology behind legal
research. He is also a political
science professor at the univer-

sity.
"He's very committed to
ensuring that LSA become an
even more welcoming, diverse
and inclusive environment," Pol-
lack said.
Astronomy Prof Sally Oey, a
member of SACUA, asked the
provost whether she had any
comments regarding Martin's
leadership style.
"(His leadership style) is col-
laborative, very collaborative,"
See SACUA, Page 3


CAMPUS IMPROVEMENT
North Campus,
Ross to receive
renovations

POLCE CHIEF


Projects to improve
infrastructure,
provide new study
and social spaces
By YARDAIN AMRON
DailyStaffReporter
At their regularly scheduled
meeting Thursday, the Univer-
sity's Board of Regents is set to
approve several improvement and
relocation projects. These renova-
tion plans include a new Athletic
Department center, revamping
the Ross School of Business and a
series of North Campus projects.
Business Schooltoreceive
$135 millionoverhaul
The regents plan to approve a
series of renovations to various
parts of the Ross School of Busi-
ness, expected to cost $135 million
overall.
Among the areas scheduled for
upgrades are the Kresge Business
Administration Library, demoli-
tion of the Computer and Execu-
tive Education Building and the
construction of an academic
building in its place, and facade
improvements. The project will
add classrooms, offices and other
study spaces, totaling to approxi-
mately 75,000 square feet of reno-
vated space and 104,000 square
feet of the new building construc-
tion.
According to a communication

to the regents by Tim Slottow,
executive vice president and chief
financial officer, the project will
"create a unified look for the entire
Ross School complex of buildings."
The project will be funded by
donations and investment returns
and is scheduled for completion in
fall 2016.
Ross students are invited to a
forum to discuss what will go into
the new building on Thursday at
4:30 p.m. at the business school.
The New Building Student Com-
munications Task Force, student
representatives from the Dean's
Office, will lead the discussion
Athletic Department seeks
new operations center
Withtheinitialprojectapproved
by the regents in November, the
Department of Intercollegiate
Athletics will request approval
for the schematic design of a new
buildingto centralize manyunder-
sized functions housed across the
Stephen M. Ross Athletic Campus.
The $6 million building will be
funded completely by the Athletic
Department, and will accommo-
date maintenance shops, offices,
laundry, shipping and receiving
and equipment storage across
18,000 square feet.
Slottow and Athletic Direc-
tor Dave Brandon recommended
Niagara Murano, LLC to serve as
the architect for the project.
Construction is scheduled for
completion in summer 2015.
Temporary use for North Cam-
See RENOVATIONS, Page 3

ALLISON FARRAND/Daiiy
University Police Chief Robert Neumann, who previously served asa lieutenant, has been with the UMPD since 1985
Neum ann to face arr ayV
of challenges in new post

New chief
will draw on
experience to
lead UMPD
Neumann was one
of eight original
members of police
department
By JACK TURMAN
DailyStaffReporter
Robert Neumann, the newly
appointed chief of police for the
University of Michigan Police
Department, is no rookie.
Neumann, who first began his
time on campus in 1982, the year
he graduated from high school,
has worked his way up the ranks
to assume this position.
"I was fortunate because I
realized that before I graduated
from high school," Neumann said,
"From the beginning, Iknew what
I wanted to do."
Previously a University
Police lieutenant, Neumann was
appointed as the new chief of
police for UMPD in February 2013
after serving for the department
since 1985. Neumann was chosen
from a pool of over 150 applicants.
After UMPD's creation in 1990,
Neumann was one of the original
eight sworn in to serve, including
five officers, two sergeants and
one captain.
After seeing the management
styles of a variety of leaders over
the years, Neumann said he hopes
to run an efficient department
that focuses on participation and
involvement from all levels. He
See CHIEF, Page 3

Officer hopes to
build stronger
relationships with
student leaders
By MAX RADWIN
Daily StaffReporter
One month after Robert
Neumann was appointed
the new chief of police for
the University of Michigan
Police Department, he was
informed that his depart-
ment would provide assis-
tance for the security of
the President of the United
States.
The details of what goes
into protecting the Com-

mander in Chief are, for the
most part, kept under wraps
- University Police aided the
Secret Service with perim-
eter protection to the Presi-
dent - but Neumann said
that it went well overall.
"We actually involved
law enforcement from the
region," he said. "It's very
much a team effort whenever
a president goes to a commu-
nity."
Though helping protect
the president is an arduous
first task for a new chief of
police, more challenges lie
ahead for the 29-year UMPD
veteran.
Neumann has served with
the University Police since
1985, and was one of the
original eight officers hired

by the University police in
1990. He became a lieuten-
ant in 1999 after graduating
from Madonna University.
He also graduated from the
Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion's National Academy and
earned a degree from East-
ern Michigan University's
School of Police Staff and
Command.
Now, one of Neumann's
biggest tasks will be leading
a unit of the new Division
of Public Safety and Secu-
rity - comprised of UMPD,
Hospitals and Health Cen-
ter Security Services, Hous-
ing and Safety Services and
University Security Ser-
vices. DPSS was created
after internal investigations
See CHALLENGES, Page 3


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 46 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Feminine Critique: Time to move on
LO: 28 news@michigandaly.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX N EW S ....,...... . ... ......... 2 ARTS S.................... .. .5
Vol, CXXIV, No.101 SUDOKU ..K.,.........., ........3 CLASSIFIEDS ...............6
@2014TheMichiganDaily OPINION .................. 4 SPORTS ........................7
michioondoilycom

I



2 - Tuesday, April'15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, April15, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
This Week in Histor

WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Alumni Profiles Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.c"m kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

Prof. specializes in ancient texts

Classical Studies Prof Arthur
Verhoogt teaches Papyrology and
Greek. He has written five novels
and seven edited volumes . He is
the recipient of several fellow-
ships, including LSA's Arts Excel-
lence in Education Award and
Arts John Dewey Award, both of
which he received in 2013.
What is Papyrology?
Papyrology is the field of
scholarship that studies the
papyri from Egypt and I study
those papyri in ancient Greek. I
also try to read those documents
and try to understand them and
make them available to other
scholars.

What classes do you teach? exciting adaptions of whatever
text is out there.

I teach a mixture of ancient
Greek classes from both the
beginning levels to the upper
level undergraduate classes. I
teach a lot of classical civiliza-
tion classes-Greek mythology,
Roman sports and a Cleopatra
class-and then some graduate
seminars about papyrology.
Howdoyou structure your
classes?
In my classical civilization
classes I can take a source, an
ancientsource, in translation and
throw it in front of the group and
get these wonderful, new and

What made you want to study
this field?
I wanted to study this field
because it's a very direct way of
looking into the ancient world.
It's like looking over the shoul-
ders of people form 2,000 years
ago. I'm opening letters that peo-
ple wrote 2,000 years ago and
they were not expecting scholars
like me to be opening these let-
ters to try to understand what
was happening in the ancient
world.
- MAXERADWIN

Newsroom
734-418-4115sopt.3
Corrections
corrections@ichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaiy.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letes tnthe Editnn
tothedity@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Chinese poet Yang Lion reads poems from his new
book in the UMMA Monday. His monk, includine
two volumes of prose, has been translated into over
twenty languages.

ON THE WEB... michigandaily.com CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Pulitzer prize
BY MAX RADWIN
University alum Stephen
Henderson, a member of
the class of 1988 and former
Editorial Page Editor of the
MichiganDailywas awarded a
Pulitzerprizeforcommentary
reporting. He works for the
Detroit Free Press and has
provided reporting on the
city's financial crisis.
Music review
BY LEJLA BAJGORIC
In Flatbush Zombies'
third installment "Red
Light, Green Light," the
group delivers an "eerie"
tone and lyrics that befit
their name. When "grimey
lyrics" and "deep topics"
come together, it makes for
a one-of-a-kind series.

Crime alert
BY MAX RADWIN
A student reported that
theywere armed atknifepoint
on.the 500-block of Church
Street at around 1:50 a.m.
Sunday morning, according
to a crime alert sent out on
Monday. UMPD has aided
AAPD in their investigation,
but no suspects have been
identified as of yet.
Flawless?
BY EMMA MANIERE
In her self professed
"feminist rant" Emma
Maniere takes on Beyonce
in her semester finale.
Though Queen Bey is fierce,
fresh, and friends with the
Obamas, Maniere believes
she has one quality over her:
unquestioned feminism.

Restorative 4,000 years of
justice forum choice exhibit

WHAT: A symposium will
act as a dialogue for campus
allies to the use of restorative
practices and philosophies in
all aspects of public life.
WHO: Office of Student
Conflict Resolution
WHEN: 1p.m. to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Couzens Hall

WHAT: An exhibition by
graphic designer Heather
Ault will depict reproductive
freedom as it has been seen
throughout history.
WHO: Women's Studies
Department
WHEN: Today from 8a.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Lane Hall

Equality Beating the
lecture series blues seminar

The lawsuit against
poker star Phil Ivey by a
New Jersey casino con-
tinues after allegations of
cheating, CNN reported. In
2012, Ivey allegedly noticed
and failed to report a defect
inthe cardsusedthatallowed
him to see the cards dealt.
The future of the
Michigan men's
basketball team will
come into focus Tuesday
when a pair of sophomores
announce their NBA Draft
decisions.
>> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8
John Klatzman, the
man behind the Princ-
eton Review, a popular
college prepatory program
for high school students, told
MSNBC he expected the ACT
and SAT to "disappear" by
now becuase they don't accu-
rately measure students' skills.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Barke Managing Editor kgburke@mtchigandaily.com
JenniferCalas ManagingNewsEditor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWSEDITORS:Ian Dillingham, SamGringlas,WinGreenberg, Rachel Premack
and SephniShenoua
ASSISTATsNE S E ITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis,ShohamGeva,AnabelKaroub,ThomasMcBrien,EmiliePlesset,MaxRadwinand
Megan Mclonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garnoand
Alejandro Ziiga Managingsports Editors sportseditors@michigandailycom
SENI S0RTS nDTORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
Jons lynch and jplynch@michigandailyecom
Akshay Seth Managing Arts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSsEDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,sErikaHarwoodand
ASSSTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Faul Shennan ManagingPhoto Editors photo@mihigandaity.con
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR0SPatrickBaroand Ruby Wallaput~ihgnal~o
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Allison Farrand, Tracy Ko, Terra Molengraff and Nicholas
Carlyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasquezManagingDesignEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy MackensandAliciaKovalcheck
Canlina uan M EgazinetEditor statement@mihigandaily.com
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: RubyWallau
STMkTssLEkADESIGNER my Mackens
Mak Ossnlinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford OnlineEditor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal MUZaftar DigitalAccountsManager
Doug SolOmon University AccountsManager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasMO Local Accounts Manager
HillaryWang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan LohSpecialProjectsCoordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The 0ichigan Dail (SN155 967)oss pbi' sh~5edsMonaythroughCFida rng,,the al as itrte rmsby
studntsattheUnivesityichiganOncp,,isavnalsefreegcarietoeadersAddna iesmy
be picked upattheDsil' cefor$2.SubscriptionsforaltermstartninSeptember,via..milare$110.
bi d.e ThJ Miuaryhough Apily is $1mbe epason tedet roug hAprl i s$15. Uiveri iate s re,
are . 1 sube .o s edd sci pt. iorate O n -campus subsc.riton,1 sfofalterm are $35. Subsripiosmust
be pepaid. The Micigan Dal, is anmnberofThe s ociatedPresnsd TheAsociated CllegiatePress.

WHAT: This lecture by
Aldo Schiavone will discuss
differences between ancient
and modern equality, as
he believes it is a crucial
aspect of Western identity.
Schiavone is a visitng
professor of Roman Law
from Italy.
WHO: Department of
Classical Studies
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Palmer Commons

WHAT: This session
will provide students
information on living with
depression.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Todayfrom4:15to
5 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Scholarships announced to LSA Student Gov. plans

commemorate student's life
Rachel Smylie's it organization that offers stu- their lives," Stein said. "We are
dent educational programs in 17 very honored to be able to pro-
family and sorority countries around the world. vide this memorial scholarship
Jim Stein, co-founder of in her memory."
arrange funds to Geography of Hope and co- Stein and the Geography of
owner and director of The Road Hope organization hope the
honor her memory Less Traveled, said mutual fam- scholarship will keep the mem-
ily friends referred Smylie to ory and spirit of Rachel alive.
By MAX RADWIN the program when she was a "The Smylies are an incred-
Daily StaffReporter junior in high school. ible family, and we're very hon-
"Through her participation ored," he said. "We're very sad
A week after LSA junior and through the other students that she'll be missed by so many
Rachel Smylie passed away in a that we do know and the other who really loved her. She was an
car crash while studying abroad leaders that are in the pro- incredible young woman."
in Cape Town, South Africa, gram," Stein said. "Rachel dem- Business sophomore Eliza-
two memorial scholarships have onstrated a tremendous energy beth Griffith, president of the
been established in her name. for everybody, great compassion Alpha Phi sorority, said the Uni-
The first, Rachel G. Smylie for other people and other cul- versity's chapter, which Smylie
Memorial Scholarship orga- tures. She was the glue that held was a member of, is also orga-
nized by Smylie's family will the group together in Tanzania, nizing a scholarship in Smylie's
help support students who want demonstrated leadership and name.
to travel to Tanzania. maturity." Griffith said the scholarship
The Rachel G. Smylie Memo- Smylie decided to return to established through Smylie's
rial Scholarship established Africa this semester to study at sorority will be awarded to an
by Smylie's parents is run the University of Cape Town, outstanding and exemplary
through Geography of Hope, where she worked as a volunteer member - undergraduate or
which helps students who nor- in an HIV/AIDS clinic. graduate - of the University's
mally cannot afford excursions "Rachel was an incredible chapter of the Alpha Phi soror-
abroad to go on The Road Less spirit and everyone she touched ity.
Traveled programs - a nonprof- and knew her, she enriched "She was such a memorable
and lively girl, and it's impor-
K(EUU EOE Etant to do something so that
everyone remembers how
wonderful she was," Griffith
said. "She was also very pas-
sionate about Africa, so nam-
ing these scholarships in her
4 7 3 honor makes everyone aware
of what she thought was impor-
2 6 tant. It's really meaningful that
it's named after her because it's
5 6 1 2 something she loved."
3 5 FOLLOW
1 9 US ON
8 7 6 TWITTER
7 4 9 @michigandaily
4 1 3 AND'LIKE' US ON
FACEBOOK.
3 18 5 -
facebook.com/
michigandaily

for next semester's goals
In an e-mail to SG. made based on responses to the
LSA SG President-elect Nata- survey.
students, LSA SG sha Dabrowski, an LSA junior, She added that the idea of
said the repeated funding cycles adding a food service venue was
outlines its new will allow student organiza- considered during the recent
tions to more flexibly plan events renovations of the Fishbowl, but
programs throughout the semester, instead planners prioritized adding more
of needing to have an upfront computers over the creation of a
By KRISTEN FEDOR funding estimate. cafe space.
Daily StaffReporter "This will allow for more stu- Students also received a sur-
dent innovation, creativity and vey regarding the use of Lecture
Though there are still a couple flexibility in managing their Capture in classes. The program
weeks left in the Winter 2014 funding," she said. records lectures and posts them
semester, the LSA Student Gov- LSA sophomore Jason Colella, to CTools as a supplemental
ernment is already planning for incoming chair of the LSA SG review resource for students.
the fall. Budget Allocations Committee, Dabrowski said LSA SG has
In an e-mail sent to the student said he believes the increased already been working with
body Monday morning, LSA SG flexibility will lead more student administrators to expand the
outlined a number of new initia- organizations to seek funding availability of Lecture Capture to
tives and programs slated for from LSA SG. more courses. She added that the
launch in the Fall 2014 semester. The e-mail also contained two results of the survey would help
The LSA SG Budget Alloca- surveys for students to fill out to pinpoint how students find the
tions Committee announced a regardingnew LSA SG initiatives. program mostuseful.
new process for student organiza- The surveys focused on the pos- Additionally, LSA SG
tions to secure funding from LSA sible implementation of a coffee announced their formal support
SG. Under the new system, stu- cartinMason Hall anduseofLec- of Blood Drives United blood
dent organizations will have four ture Capture - a program which drive. Unlike traditional blood
opportunities to apply for funding allows lectures tobe recorded and drives, Blood Drives United
throughout the semester. Cur- displayed in an interactive online encourages those who are ineligi-
rently, there is only one deadline environment - in classes. ble to donate blood as determined
for student organizations to apply The proposed coffee cart in by the Food and Drug Adminis-
for these grants. Mason Hall would feature a vari- tration - such as men who have
There will also be additional ety of drinks and snacks for on- had sex withother men - tobring
deadlines for student organi- the-run students between classes. a sponsor donor on their behalf.
zations to turn in receipts for The survey includes questions LSA junior Corey Walsh, LSA
reimbursement. If a student regarding student product prefer- SG vice president-elect, said the
organization fails to claim their ences and optimal hours of opera- drive is part of their efforts to
apporopriation in a timely man- tion. raise awareness about the FDA
ner, the money can be reallocated Dabrowski said the cart would ban.
to another organization. Student be an extension of existing Uni- The drive will take place in the
organizations can receive up to versity-sponsored cafes on cam- Michigan Union from 2 to 8 p.m.
$2,000 per semester from LSA pus, but more formal plans willbe Tuesday.
University alum wins Pulitzer

Henderson, 1988
alum, wins honor for
commentary
DETROIT (AP) - Detroit Free
Press columnist Stephen Hen-
derson, who has been willing to
criticize powerful interests to
defend average citizens of the
troubled city, was awarded a
Pulitzer Prize for his commen-
tary on the city's financial crisis,

it was announced Monday.
The Pulitzers are given out each
year by Columbia University in
New York on the recommendation
of a board of journalists and others.
In their announcement of the
award for commentary, prize orga-
nizers said that the Detroit native's
columns on Detroit's bankruptcy
were "written with passion and a
stirring sense of place, sparing no
one intheir critique."
The city of 700,000 is operat-
ing under a state-appointed emer-

gency manager and struggling to
provide some basic services as it
goes through federal bankruptcy
proceedings to reduce $18 billion
in debt. Detroit has lost L1 million
residents since the1950s and much
of its taxbase.
Paul Anger, the Free Press'
editor and publisher, said Hen-
derson has brought a mixture of
eloquence, wisdom and heart to
hisjob asthenewspaper'seditorial
director and editorial page editor
since 2008.

4 I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 15, 2014 - 3


NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
General Motors
replaces executives
General Motors is replac-
ing the executives in charge of
communications and human
resources as it struggles with a
string of embarrassing recalls
that have led to congressional
hearings and federal investiga-
tions.
Communications chief Selim
Bingol and human resources
head Melissa Howell are leav-
ing the company to pursue other
interests, the company said
Monday ina statement.
John Quattrone, who current-
ly is executive director of human
resources, will replace How-
ell, but GM has not yet named
a replacement for Bingol, the
statement said. The changes are
effective immediately.
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.
Space cargo sees
minor delay
A space station cargo ship will
remain Earthbound for a while
longer because of a rocket leak.
Withjustoveranhourremain-
ing, the SpaceX company called
off Monday's planned launch.
Officials said they believe the
problem can be fixed by Friday,
the next opportunity for flying
and the last chance before astro-
nauts do urgent spacewalking
repairs.
A helium leak in the first-stage
of the unmanned Falcon rocket
forced a halt to the countdown,
the latest delay spanning the
past month.
Over the weekend, NASA
almost postponed the launch
attempt because of a computer
outage at the International Space
Station. But mission managers
decided Sunday that everything
would be safe for the arrival of
the Dragon capsule and its 21/2
tons of supplies.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Obama and Putin
talk after delay
Speaking for the first time in
more than two weeks, President
Barack Obama and RussianPres-
ident Vladimir Putin showed
little sign of agreement Monday,
with the U.S. leader urging pro-
Russian forces to de-escalate the
situation in eastern Ukraine and
Putin denying that Moscow was
interfering in the region.
The White House said Russia
initiated the phone call, which
came as pro-Russian forces
deepened their insurgency in
Ukraine's east, seizing more
than a dozen government build-
ings.
"The president expressed
grave concern about Russian
government support for the
actions of armed, pro-Russian
separatists who threaten to
undermine and destabilize the

government of Ukraine," the
White House said in a descrip-
tion of Obama's call with Putin.
PERTH, Australia
Search continues
for missing plane
The search area for the miss-
ing Malaysian jet has proved too
deep for a robotic submarine
which was hauled back to the
surface of the Indian Ocean less
than half way through its first
seabed hunt for wreckage and
the all-important black boxes,
authorities said on Tuesday.
Search crews sent the Bluefin
21 deep into the Indian Ocean on
Monday to begin scouring the
seabed for the missing Malaysia
Airlines Boeing 777 after failing
for six days to detect any sig-
nals believed to be from its black
boxes.
But after only six hours of its
planned 16-hour mission on the
sea bed, the autonomous under-
water vehicle exceeded its maxi-
mum depth limit of 4,500 meters
(15,000 feet) and its built-in
safety feature returned it to the
surface, the search coordina-
tion center said in a statement on
Tuesday.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

diversity-focused initiatives.
In a January e-mail, Pollack
From Page 1 announced the administra-
tion's intentions to spearhead
an array of policy changes in
years before he became an assis- response to the campaign,
tant professor in Washington including renovations to the
University's political science Trotter Multicultural Center
department. and the creation of the new
In 2004, Martin was pro- vice provost position.
moted to associate professor of "This commitment is long-
political science, before earning standing and fundamental to
an appointment in the School of who we are as an institution,"
Law. Pollack wrote. "And yet, there
Martin is also the found- are times we have not lived up
ing director of the Center for to our highest aspirations."
Empirical Research in Law Sellers will replace Lester
and the principal of the analyt- Monts, the current vice pro-
ics consulting group Principia vost for academic affairs, who
Empirica LCC. is stepping down to return to
According to a communica- teaching. Sellers' term begins
tion to the regents, Martin is an July 1 and ends in 2019. Under
expert in the study of judicial Sellers, Monts' position will
decision-making, specifically in be rebranded to focus more on
the Supreme Court and lower issues of diversity and inclu-
federal courts. sion.
In 2012, Martin was elected Sellers received a B.A. in
as a fellow of the Society for psychology from Howard Uni-
Political Methodology. He is a versity and earned his Ph.D in
principal investigator of eight personality psychology from
grants from the National Sci- the University in 1990. He was
ence Foundation and, along appointed an assistant profes-
with his collaborator, Kevin sor at the University of Virginia,
M. Quinn, developed the Mar- before joining the University's
tin-Quinn Scores, an ideologi- ranks in 1997.
cal continuum that is used to As a professor in the depart-
measure ideology on the U.S. ment of psychology and the
Supreme Court. School of Education, Sellers'
During Martin's time as research interests have focused
chair of the Department of on the role of race in the psy-
Political Science at Washing- chological lives of African
ton University, he recruited Americans, touching topics
six faculty members, improved such as racial discrimination
the undergraduate curriculum and racial identity.
and worked to improve the aca-
demic environment, University Schlissel to receive
Provost Martha Pollack wrote appointments in LSA,
in the communication. Medical School
In Martin's current posi-
tion as vice dean of the School The regents will also approve
of Law, he works closely with appointments for University
senior administrators and the President-elect Mark S. Schlis-
school's dean on issues involv- sel as a professor of microbi-
ing curriculum, enrollment ology and immunology, with
management, student services, tenure, and a professor of inter-
fundraising and budget. nal medicine, without tenure,
"I am confident that Andrew in the Medical School, as well
Martin will build on the col- as a professor of molecular, cel-
lege's extraordinarily strong lular and developmental biol-
foundation to empower fac- ogy, with tenure, in LSA.
ulty to achieve their greatest The recommendations were
potential; to further strengthen signed by LSA Interim Dean
our undergraduate and gradu- Susan Gelman and Medical
ate programs; and to advance School Dean James Woollis-
the university's commitment croft. The appointments will
to diversity, excellence and be effective July 1, 2014, the
access," Pollack wrote. date Schlissel is scheduled to
Regents to appoint psychol- assume the presidency.
ogy chair as vice provost for Schlissel is nationally rec-
inclusion, equity and academic ognized for research on the
affairs development of biology of B
The regents will also appoint lymphocytes, genetic factors
Robert Sellers, chair of the involved in the production of
department of psychology, as antibodies and mistakes and
the University's first vice pro- processes leading to lymphoma
vost for equity, inclusion and and leukemia. Schlissel has
academic affairs. authored and co-authored over
The position was created as 100 scientific publications.
the request of Pollack as part of He has also served as a mem-
a series of University initiatives ber of the Howard Hughes
designedtopromoteamoreinclu- Medical Institute Scientific
sive climate and address issues of Review Board, was elected to
race and diversity on campus. the American Society of Clini-
"In his new role as vice pro- cal Investigations and was
vost, Professor Sellers will elected to be a fellow of the
provide strategic leadership American Association for the
for programs and policies that Advancement of Science.
result in increased access and As provost at Brown Uni-
success for all students, the versity, Schlissel continued to
recruitment and retention of author papers, publishing five
diverse faculty, and the devel- last year.
opment and expansion of aca- Academic appointments are
demic programs that prepare all not uncommon for University

students for success in a diverse presidents. University Presi-
world," Pollack wrote in a com- dent Mary Sue Coleman has
munication to the regents. appointments as a professor
Sellers' main responsibili- of biological chemistry in the
ties will include advising the Medical School and as a profes-
provost on issues of diversity at sor of chemistry in LSA.
the University and throughout
the field of higher education, Susan Borrego to succeed
as well as overseeing new pro- Ruth Person as UM-Flint
grams created to foster inclu- chancellor
sion.
Last semester, members of The regents will also vote
the University's Black Student on the appointment of Susan
Union launched the #BBUM E. Borrego, the vice president
Twitter campaign where thou- for enrollment management,
sands of users shared their planning and student affairs
experiences as Black students at California State Univer-
and called on the administra- sity, Dominguez Hills, as the
tion to implement an array of chancellor and chief executive

officer for the University of
Michigan-Flint campus.
Her term is effective Aug. 1,
2014 until July 31,2019.
Borrego will succeed Ruth
Person, chancellor of the UM-
Flint campus, who has served
in the role since 2008 and
announced her retirement in
January 2013. UM-Flint's new
chancellor will face an array of
challenges as the satellite insti-
tution transitions into a greater
emphasis as a residential cam-
pus.
In her current role, Borrego
oversees student affairs and
intercollegiate athletics, and
developed the university's new
strategic plan, rebranding cam-
paign and the development and
implementation of the institu-
tion's strategic enrollment plan.
California State University,
Dominguez Hills, located in the
South Bay region of Los Ange-
les County, is one of 23 campus-
es that make up the California
State University system.
Borrego was previously
the vice president for student
affairs at California State Uni-
versity, Monterey Bayand assis-
tant vice chancellor and dean
of students at the University of
Arkansas. Additionally, Bor-
rego worked at the California
Institute of Technology where
she developed a high-achieve-
ment program for underrepre-
sented students.
She serves on numerous
national and local boards and
task forces including the Amer-
ican Association of State Col-
lege and Universities Hispanic
Success study, NASPA: Student
Affairs Administrators in
Higher Education undergradu-
ate fellows program and Irvine
Campus Diversity Initiative
project.
"I look forward to the leader-
ship, depth of experience, and
vision that Ms. Borrego will
bring to the University," Cole-
man wrote ina release.
Array of appointments to
round out regents agenda
Douglas Strong, current chief
executive officer of the Uni-
versity's Hospitals and Health
Centers, will be appointed
interim executive vice presi-
dent and chief financial officer,
effective June 20,2014.
Upon the board's approval,
Strong will serve in the role
vacated by Tim Slottow, cur-
rent executive vice president
and chief executive officer,
who leave to serve as Univer-
sity of Phoenix's president on
June 20.
Anthony Denton will be
appointed acting chief execu-
tive officer of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers, effective June 20,
2014.
Denton will serve in this role
while Douglas Strong, the cur-
rent CEO, serves as the Uni-
versity's interim executive vice
president and chief financial
officer. Denton is the current
chief operating officer for the
University of Michigan Hospi-
tals and Health Centers.
Ronald Zernicke will be
reappointed as the dean of the

School of Kinesiology, with a
term beginning January 1, 2015
and concluding June 30, 2016.
The regents will also appoint
James Dalton as the dean of
the College of Pharmacy, effec-
tive September 1, 2014 through
August 31, 2019.
The appointment follows
an international search con-
ducted by a search advisory
committee. Dalton was most
recently vice president of pre-
clinical research and develop-
ment at GTx, Inc. in Memphis
while on entrepreneurial leave
as a professor at The Ohio
State University College of
Pharmacy.

SACUA
From Page 1
Pollack said. "When Italked with
references, they spoke both about
him being very collaborative but
also him being someone who
makes decisions and gets things
done ... I'mveryexcited abouthim
... I think he's going to fit in very
well in the University of Michi-
gan's culture."
Robert M. Sellers, the Charles
D. Moody Collegiate Professor
of Psychology and chair of the
department of psychology, has
been chosen as the vice provost
for equity, inclusion and academic
affairs. The position was created
in January in response to con-
cerns about minority inclusion on
campus.
"He's a very distinguished
scholar," Pollack said. "What I
think is most impressive about
Rob for this position is that he's

got this huge track record of
funded research and publications
in the area of ethnicity, racial and
ethnic identity, and personality
and health."
Sellers' five-year term would
also begin July 1,2014.
James Dalton, chair of the
Division of Pharmaceutics and
Pharmaceutical Chemistry at The
Ohio State University, is the rec-
ommended replacement for the
dean of the College of Pharmacy.
Dalton, who is also a Ohio State
professor, currently serves as the
Chief Scientific Officer at GTx
Inc., a biopharmaceutical com-
panyin Memphis, Tennessee.
Dalton would assume his posi-
tion Sept. 1 and serve a five-year
term.
The finalization of the appoint-
ments is pending approval by the
University's Board of Regents.
The regents will meet to review
the candidates during a meeting
Thursday.


RENOVATIONS
From Page 1
pus Research Complex renova-
tions explored
With comprehensive renova-
tions to the G. G. Brown Laborato-
ries on North Campus set to begin,
the Department of Chemical Engi-
neering is preparing to transfer
some operations to a temporary
newhome.
The regents are set to approve
the temporary relocation of the
departmenttothecurrentlyvacant
Building 28 on the North Campus
Research Complex. Building 28
was purchased in 2009 and will
require an estimated $2.3 million
to make lab space viable for the
department's temporaryuse.
Construction is scheduled for
completion in summer2016.

North Campus grove plans
seek approval
The regents will also consider
a project for upgrades to the
central lawn on North Campus.
The estimated $6.9 million
project will create a central
plaza, new walkways,
integrated seating, an informal
amphitheater and additional
lighting, among other additions.
The lawn covers about four
acres currently. Funding will
flow from gifts and College of
Engineering resources.
Adjacent parking will be
temporarily impacted during
construction. The architectural
firm Stoss will designthe project.
No construction schedule
is apparent yet, but design
will begin immediately upon
approval.


CHALLENGES
From Page 1
in 2013 found ineffective com-
munication between what were
previously separate branches of
security services. DPSS Execui-
tive Director Eddie Washington,
Jr heads the organization.
The former University Police
Chief Joe Piersante serves as
Chief Operations Officer the
new DPSS, but Neumann is
responsible for making sure his
department collaborates with
the others.
Newmann said providing
safety is easier under the new
structure because it allows
those different branches of safe-
ty service to work together and
pool resources under a unified
leadership. University Police
now form cross-functional
teams with hospital and hous-
ing security to conduct more
efficient and cohesive investi-
gations. Collaboration is also
proving useful for behavioral
threat assessment and site sur-
veys evaluating security levels
at University facilities.
"There's a lot of expertise in
the other departments that we
haven't necessarily tapped into,"
Neumann said. "We have a lot
of expertise, too, that we could
do a better job of sharing with
them - just working together
more efficiently and eliminating
redundancies."
Under Neumann's leadership,
a hospital security officer taught
a class to University Police
officers on crime prevention
through environmental design
- a way to systemically evalu-
ate the security of a facility and
harden it against intrusion.
Neumann would not say what
his other plans for changes were
for the University Police; beyond
stayingbusy with the new DPSS,
he said it was too premature to

delve into his own ideas for bet-
tering the department.
One initiative he did highlight
was the importance of main-
taining a strong relationship
with students.
"I want the department to be
more closely engaged in the stu-
dent community, and be more
visible with student leadership,"
he said.
According to Neumann, stu-
dents' perception of the Univer-
sity Police is not consistent with
how officers within the depart-
ment view themselves.
"I really want to focus on our
community outreach and hav-
ing the students have a comfort
level with our department so that
we're not perceived as out to get
tickets and arrests," he said.
According to the 2012-2013
incident report issued by the
University's Office of Student
Conflict Resolution, underage
alcohol consumption - which
wentup 42 percent - is the high-
est reported form of misconduct
on campus. Neumann said their
philosophy for underage alcohol
consumption prioritizes safety -
not punishment - whether that
be in dorms or on a game day.
"When we write up a minor
in possession of alcohol, that
initiates a process of interven-
tion to get somebody help," Neu-
mann said. "The goal is to get
people the help that they need.
It's to help everyone else in that
environment to have a safe and
enjoyable experience ... The goal
is not to punish."
Neumann said there is not
anything about the job keeping
him up at night just yet.
"You always worry about any-
thingthat mighthappen on cam-
pus. There's always the threat
of violence," he said. "There's a
lot to worry about in the world.
I don't spend a lot of time wor-
rying on things I can't control,
but trying to educate the com-
munity on having them help us."


CHIEF
From Page 1
said that there needs to be a hier-
archicalsystem at timesbut added
that he wants to avoid an autocrat-
ic style and focus on including all
levels of the department.
"Culture of everybody feel-
ing valued and included is what I
strive for," Neumann said.
Even though Neumann is now
the chief of police, he said he never
envisioned this opportunity when
he first began to followhis passion.
"It was not one of my aspira-
tions necessarily to be a police

chief," Neumann said. "My big
goal was to serve in the capacity I
was serving and do the best that I
can do."
Although Neumann is still new
to the job, he said that his experi-
ence in the community and cam-
pus and his relationships with
colleagues in the police force may
have set him apart from other can-
didates and will help him in his
new job.
In 1982, Neumann worked with
State Security Services, a contract
guard service that was a security
unit for buildings on campus. Neu-
mann was promoted to lieutenant
of the guard service and worked
continuously on campus until the

Department of Public Safety hired
him in January 1985.
Once with the Department of
Public Safety, Neumann worked
with Michigan State Police
through The Explorer Program,
which provided citizens with an
interest in law enforcement the
opportunity to ride along with
police officers.
Neumann said that this pro-
gram influenced him to become a
police officer.
"It really solidified my interest
in law enforcement as a career,"
Neumann said.
After being sworn into the
police force in 1990, he was pro-
moted a sergeant in 1992, serving

in the position until 1999, where
Neumann's duties included being
a shift supervisor and an investi-
gator in the investigations bureau.
From 1999 to February 2014,
Neumann worked as a lieutenant,
where he worked as a shift com-
mander and supervisor in charge
of the criminal investigations unit
from 2004 to 2009.
In 2009, Neumann graduated
from the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation's National Academy and
was in charge of control opera-
tions at UMPD. In February 2012,
Neumann went back to being a
supervisor in charge of the crimi-
nal investigations unit.
Eddie Washington, Jr., the

executive director of the Division
of Public Safety and Security, said
he is confident in Neumann's qual-
ifications for the position.
"Chief Neumann has a proven
record of building extensive rela-
tionships across the University as
well as within our Division and
with many local and federal agen-
cies," Washington said. "These
effective relationships, along with
Bob's loyalty and commitment
to the U-M students, faculty and
staff, will continue to benefit our
campus community with Bob
leading our law enforcement ser-
vice delivery. I'm very excited to
have Bob join our public safety and
security management team."

t


4 - Tuesday, April 15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, April 15, 2014 The Michigan Daily - nichigandaily.com

hEdited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Awarding artistic expression
The University should continue recognizing its student groups
T he University of Michigan is home to more than 150 arts
organizations that enhance culture on campus. Friday, many
of these groups will come together at the Lydia Mendelssohn
Theatre for the first-ever Accolades Achievement in the Arts Awards. The
Accolades will recognize the accomplishments of student arts groups by
announcing the winners of 18 different award categories as determined by
studentvotes. Winners will receive various prizes including advertisement
space vouchers and Student Organization Account Services funds. In
addition to award delivery, the event will include group performances and
special guests. The awards ceremony will commence at 8 p.m. with free
admission. The event is a positive way to promote and recognize student
arts groups, and similar events should be considered in the future.

Goodbye, lovehounds
Youicee Sxvi WEL.AI"' S!'A6i~T. P ENRno 0Yoqu
r s"e

I I

The Accolades was developed by
Arts at Michigan and its organizational
collaborators. Arts at Michigan organizes
events and opportunities for students to
experience various forms of visual and
performing arts at the University and in the
Ann Arbor area. SAOR is a forum that meets
monthly to unite student arts leaders from
across campus, working to address topics
in student arts and, overall, advocate and
promote student-initiated art. Some of the
organization's most popular offerings include
the Passport to the Arts, Art Outta Town and
Welcome Week's Artscapade.
The Accolades is an effective method for
giving arts groups the attention they deserve.
Though the University includes a number
of talented arts organizations, many are
often overlooked by students. The Penny W.
Stamps School of Art and Design - one of
the University's most competitive schools
- offers a variety of notable exhibitions and
has an impressive alumni network. Likewise,
the University of Michigan Museum of Art
is home to many notable pieces and exhibits
that change throughout the year and in, the
past has featured works by famed artists such
as Picasso. Still, many students tend to ignore
these opportunities.
In addition to reaching out to students, the
Accolades promotes positive relationships
between student art organizations. Among

a somewhat spread-out campus, the awards
provide aspaceto unite students andcelebrate
artistic culture. Though many of these
groups hold their own, separate concerts,
the ceremony is an opportunity to juxtapose
these performances, giving students a
sampling of what arts organizations at the
University have to offer.
Though Arts at Michigan has a stable
marketing base - with a weekly newsletter
e-mails and a prominent online presence -
transparency could be increased between arts
programs and the general student population.
This might include a student-driven website
where arts groups or individual students can
post announcements about events or promote
theirownachievements.Atransparentwebsite
would give individual students inside and
outside of arts organizations the opportunity
to engage with peers in art culture.
Among the constant academic and
organizational engagements of campus
life, it's important that students and faculty
recognize the opportunities provided by
arts programs at the University. Visual
and performing arts provide campus
with necessary artistic culture and new
perspectives through the achievements of
peers. The Accolades Awards praise, unite
and promote student groups, and similar
events should be continued in the future to
foster apositive community at the University.

came out in my very first Daily
article. No, I don't just mean
that it was my debut as a writer
venturing into
the realm of
print media.
I mean that I
gave a detailed
account of my
desire to take
ladies out for 1
dates and then EMILY
touch their PITTINOS
naked bodies
- as long as
the feeling was
mutual, of course.
Looking back, it was an odd
choice. I'd hardly even come out
to myself at the time, let alone my
friends and family. Perhaps slipping
"I want to put my mouth on both
men and women" into casual
conversation was too ham-handed
and uncomfortably earnest for me,
so I just put that information on
the Internet where all my future
lovers and employers could unearth
it with a simple Google search.
Sure, it was a reckless move, but
definitely efficient.
Right after the essay was
published, I crossed paths with my
editor at the Daily Jeopardy party,
which was churning with drunken
lovehounds on the scent of Daily
Points. In one breath fortified by
giggles, she shrieked, "I love your
writing; my entire staff wants to
sleep with you."
She wasn't the only person to have
this giddy response to my openness
about dildos and bad gaydar. Women
weren't lining up around Kerrytown
to kiss my hand, or pelting my
window with pebbles by moonlight,
but my Facebook inbox gathered
messages from ladies thanking me
for my bravery and looking for coffee
dates. People were asking me for sex
advice. It was nuts.
But honestly, thoughI enjoyed the
attention, I was confused by these
exuberant reactions. I didn't think
the essay was sexy at all; inmy mind, I
was merely confessing my ignorance
and fear about my own identity. In

MEGGIE RAMM/ Daily
fact, when I revisit it now, I'm still to grab a guy and have all kinds of
seized by anxiety flashbacks - partly straightforward, hetero sex.
because not much has changed in the It's a ride; it's distracting; it's
last few semesters. exhaustingly exhilarating, and I'm
Of course, the events of my life not the only one who thinks so.
have progressed since then. My After I wrote that first essay,
gaydar has improved. I came out to I befriended a young woman
my parents, who basically replied, who asked me out for coffee and
"we're not surprised; just' don't identifies in my same realm of queer.
mention it to your grandmother." I I interviewed her for a project on
had an affair with a dazzling roman bisexuality and toward the end
candle of a woman. We made our she shook her newly buzzed head,
romance highly visible, holding sighing, "It's not going to get any
hands and kissing in public, and less confusing." In the interview's
it felt good to be so exposed and recording, her voice sounds exactly
unashamed after those years of like mine does when I take that
internal suspicion. look into my own eyes - rapid and
But my pilgrimage to openness stammering through attempts to
came with its own strings. It turns articulate desire, laughing off the
out that when people see two cute resulting frustration. "Yeah," she
brunettes "together," they take said, "if you figure out the magic
notice. One night at a bar, a guy formula to not be confused, please
followed my date back to our table, let me know."
calledus"unicorns"andofferedupan Well, I didn't have the formula
invitation to guest star in a foursome then and I definitely don't have it
with him and his wife. (It also turns now. I've learned a lot of lessons at
out that being openly bisexual leads the University, buthow to be gay, and
to a lot of group sex proposals; I've how often, is not one of them. Now
had seveninthelasteight months,not I'm graduating, and every aspect of
including the anonymous messages mylifeisinastateofdisarray.I'vegot
accumulating to pack up four
in my OKCupid years of trinkets
inbox.) These and clothes
kinds of and creations; I
experiences - In a way, my sexual have to decide
the ones that uncertainty has where I want
make me feel to stumble
targeted because prepared me for these through the
of whom I choose next phase of
to enjoy - help radical transitions. my saga. I'm not
keep that old sure what I'll be
caution and doing, or whom
confusion alive. I'll be with, in
This uncertainty also stems from just a few months from now. My
the nature of my identity. My desire mind is cluttered with more doubt
is ever-expanding and fluid, which than ever, but ... I'm not panicking.
is not always as fun as it may sound. In a way, my sexual uncertainty
When I'm walking down State has, prepared me for these radical
Street and my head turns to follow transitions. Instability is scary as hell,
a beautiful body, it usually belongs but tackling that monster again and
to a woman. Even if I'm totally in again has proven that not knowing
love with a man, instincts like that has always helped me discover new
leave me staring into my medicine pleasures, and the incredible leaps I
cabinet's toothpaste-splattered am capable of taking.
mirror and asking aloud, "What
if you're just super gay?" Other - Emily Pittinos can be reached
times, I'm overtaken by the urge at pittinos@umich.edu.

PAUL PARKER I
Greeks and giving

When I was a freshman entering the
University, the idea of rushing a fraternity
never even crossed my mind. However, by
impulse and the nudging of a friend,Ihappened
to stumble upon the table for Beta Theta Pi.
After hearing more about this organization, I
decided to push aside any and all reservations
or concerns about joining a fraternity and went,
through with the rushing process. Today, two
years after my initiation into the fraternity, I
have grown as a leader and a young man. I've
servedinofficerpositions,donejustaboutevery
job possible and made some great friendships.
In one of my officer capacities, I was charged
with overseeing a unique part of our fraternity:
our Men of Principle Scholarship.
The Men of Principle Scholarship is one
sponsored by our national fraternity, For us
here at the University, it's a $1,000 scholarship
awarded to a non-Greek male who best
embodies our values and ideals. Our fraternity
has five core values: mutual assistance,
intellectual growth, trust, responsible conduct
and integrity. We look for these qualities in
young men here at the University, and seek
to reward them for their honorable sense
of morals we share. The process consists
of a preliminary application, interviewing
applicants, the selection of finalists and an
awards banquet to announce the winner.
The funding for the scholarship comes
twofold: $500 from our general fraternity
and $500 from dues collected from our own
brothers. Many Beta chapters across the
country do this scholarship with the $500;
we are somewhat unique in adding additional
moneytomakeitmoreofaworthwhilefinancial
reward. And yet, why should fraternity
brothers give part of their own money just to
give a scholarship to a guy who's not even in
their chapter? We dothis because inour minds,
the qualities of these young men who apply to
the scholarship prove the merit and caliber of
their worth, and to that end we seek to reward
them for their values. When we conduct these

interviews and actually meet these guys, we
find so much more than just an application can
read. Personal stories of working several jobs
to afford the cost of college, balancing several
commitments with difficult family life and
doing everything possible to be the best young
men they can be are relayed to us; I assure you
these young men represent some of the finest
this University has to offer.
We are not alone in our commitment to non-
Greek students who embody our values. Sigma
Phi Epsilon has a similar initiative through
its Balanced Man Scholarship. The Greek
community here at the University is committed
to giving back; funding through scholarships
such as these can make a significant difference
in a young man's life. Many of us are unaware
of the stresses of affording college. While I pay
for things such as gas and groceries myself, I
am fortunate and blessed to say my parents
saved enough money to finance my tuition and
housing. Weat Beta, and the Greek community
at large, recognize that many students here
at the University struggle not only with the
stresses of class, student organizations and
family life, but with the stresses of finances
and other costs. To that end we extend financial
support to these individuals who reflect our
values: people who pay for their own education
and still embody fine qualities and morals.
With the recently started Victors for
Michigan campaign, we see the scholarship as
relevant to our mission as a fraternity as ever.
Giving for the sake of advancing education
and promoting values worthy of a Michigan
Wolverine, are what we and others inthe Greek
community seek to accomplish. We hope to
continue giving back to the men that make this
University the prestigious institution it is today,
and work toward giving so that, as former
University President James Angell said, "an
uncommon education for the common man,"
can be made the reality of any who seek it.
Paul Parker is an LSA and Engineering junior.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Edvinas Berzanskis, David Harris, Rachel John,
Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Victoria Noble, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul
Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Meher Walia, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
HALEY GOLDBERG I
About that bucket list...

I sat down with a blank piece
of paper and a black Sharpie last
month, determined to curate a list of
adventures I needed to have before
graduating in May. It included the
expected - a trip to Maize and Blue
Delicatessen, Washtenaw Dairy ice
cream, breaking into the Big House
- as well as the creative: a "Karaoke
Krawl" that involved four nights in
a row of karaoke at four different
bars and a wobbly rendition of "No
Diggity" by Blackstreet.
With one monthleft in my college
career, I've started crossing off
those adventures. Sunday brunch
at aut BAR in Kerrytown? Check.
Tea at Crazy Wisdom Bookstore
and Tea Room? Done. But as I've
started striking a line through
each item on the list hanging on
the light blue wall in my room, I've
realized something: I think I made
the wrong bucket list. I should have
made a "bucket list" of people.
What I've learned to hold most
precious in Ann Arbor and at
the University is the people and
community around me. After four
years at this University, I've found
my place, my friends and a support
system that's there for me at the drop
of a text with a sad-faced cat Emoji.
It's the idea of losing that chance
to run into a friend at the Union or
at Backroom Pizza early Sunday
morning that scares me the most.

And it's the fear of the "We should
get together soon" finally having
an expiration date that makes my
bucket list seem all wrong. The
phrase that often accompanies my
run-ins with an old friend from
freshmanyear intheDiagnow comes
with an awkward pause afterward
as I realize "soon" is slowly winding
away - "soon" we'll no longer be
able to just meet at Espresso Royale
to catch up over coffee.
That's why I want to make a list
of people, not ranked in the "Top 8"
style of Myspace but rather gathered
together on one piece of paper to
remind me of the conversations
and interactions I still need to have
before I leave this place. I want to
talk with my friend in Computer
Science about what really happens
at a Hackathon, my classmate in
the Public Policy school about how
he plans to revitalize Detroit after
he graduates, my professor on
what makes her passionate about
studying the media.
The adventures on my current
bucket list serve more as a vehicle
of bringing people together, but
why not focus on what I want itself?
I want to be with people, to talk to
them and learn from them one last
time in the way that I have learned
or wanted to learn in the past four
years. I want to take in more of the
words that helped me grow from

the nervous girl who pushed a big
blue bin overflowing with clothes
into a small room in Mosher-Jordan
Residence Hall to the girl I am
today - still slightly nervous about
what happens next, but excited and
confident Ican handle whatever the
"real world" entails.
I find myself not wanting a
minute alone this last month. I
want to soak in the people and
the ideas that surround me at all
times. And it doesn't matter the
activity, whether the adventure is
something on my original bucket
list or just a conversation with my
roommates over wine and Magic
Mike. To me, the real "bucket list"
isn't what I do with my last month
in college, it's who I do it with.
When I leave for the West Coast
in May, sure, I'm going to crave
the #73 "Tarb's Tenacious Tenure"
from Zingerman's and a craft brew
from Mash, but I'm going to long for
the people more: a diverse group of
thoughts, perspectives and ideas
that scatter across the country and
the world at the mere throw of a
graduation cap.
So I'm putting them all on my
"bucket list" for one more moment
together in Ann Arbor, not out offear
it will be the last, but to appreciate
what I will really miss most.
HaleyGoldberg is a an LSA senior.

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

I

4
'1 4

4


The Michigan Daily - rnichigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 15, 2014 - 5

'Enemy' underwhelms

I

I'

I wonder what Angie did with my blood."
Freeman shines in
FX 'Fargo'rboo

>Ste
hi
C

Aft
can I
ed to
the
series
which
found
on l
"True
tive."
Tuesd
the de
mostt
ing th
charm
movie
seasot
to be.
a diff
acters
ries ti
genre
the m
to cre
"Fa
when
Thorn
manv
in a s
meets
Free

llar scenery pays conversation promisesto change
each of their lives and Lester's
omage to classic Minnesota town forever.
n m What "Fargo" does
,-oen Bros.fillm remarkably well is set up a
sense of place, creating a very
ByALEXINTNER specific world. Given that FX
Daily Arts Writer airs "Justified," it shouldn't be
surprising that another one of
er the success of "Ameri- their shows can capture this
Horror Story," FX decid- particular slice of life. From
expand its presence in the snowy backgrounds to the
"limited accents, the show's location is
field, unique and special in its own
recently right, capturing the "charm"
Ssuccess Fargo of Minnesota. It also utilizes
HBO in its aesthetics to create some
Detec- SeriesPremiere striking imagery, especially at
This AMC the opening of each episode.
lay marks A world like the one created
ebut of its isn't interesting if it's not
recent entry: "Fargo." Tak- filled with interesting people,
e location and some of the and "Fargo" was able to cast
cter archetypes from the fantastic actors to fill those
of the same name, each roles. Thornton is giving a
n of "Fargo" is designed remarkable performance as
a closed-ended story with Lorne. He's playing a character
erent cast and set of char- that doesn't show emotion often,
. What results is a minise- but makes his presence known
hat's a great entry into the in every scene. And, when he
, using the elements from breaks out of his straight faced
ovie and its fantastic cast character, it's amazing.
ate a fascinatingnew story. Although Thornton is great
rgo" follows what happens and will probably earn an Emmy
Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob nomination later this year,
ton, "Armageddon") a Freeman is the star here. His
with a sketchy past, arrives character changes immensely
mall Minnesota town and in the first episode alone from
Lester Nygaard (Martin a person who can't stand up
nan, "Sherlock"). Their for himself to someone who is

capable of some horrible acts
of violence. Freeman makes it
seem realistic that the character
could flip 180 degrees, without
losing the core of his personality.
It's exceptional work. Plus, the
British Freeman accomplishes
a decent Minnesota accent.
He slips in and out at times in
the pilot, but he gains more
confidence as the series goes on.
I'd call him a lock for an Emmy
nomination as well.
Thornton and Freeman are
the main reason why the "cat
and mouse" element of the
show is so fascinating. Even if
some of the things stopping the
cops from making their arrests
feel like they're artificially
inserted, especially with the
incompetence of Molly's (new-
comer Allison Tomlin) new
boss, played by Bob Odenkirk
("Breaking Bad"). Lester and
Lorne's attempts to throw the
cops off their scent are'fascinat-
ing because of the actor's per-
formances. It's just enough to
make up for the artificial story
obstacles thrown in the depu-
ties' way by the writers.
It seems like the "limited
series" genre is here to stay.
As long as we get shows like
"Fargo," with its brilliant
performances and fantastic
sense of place, it's a great
thing for the future of FX and
television in general.

By KAREN YUAN
Daily Arts Writer
The best way to watch
"Enemy" is without knowing
anything beforehand. Don't
read the
Wikipedia
page. Don't
read any Enemy
reviews
(except this StateTheater
one). Watch A24
the trailer if
only because
it's misleading and doesn't truly
reflet the film's absurdity.
The reason to go into
"Enemy" blind is because the
movie relies on unpredictability
and shock factor. It works:
You'll lean back several
times while watching with
an uncomfortable, churning
feeling in your gut. And the
ending may be one of the most
unexpected and jarring endings
of all time - people remained
rooted in their seats, wide-eyed,
as the credits roll.
"Enemy," directed by Denis
Villeneuve ("Prisoners"),
stars Jake Gyllenhaal ("End
of Watch") as Adam Bell, a
depressed history professor
who spends every day
teaching the same lectures
on dictatorship to a glassy-
eyed group of undergraduates.
Each day after expounding
upon Hegel he goes home to
his sparse apartment and has
loveless sex with his girlfriend
Mary (M6lanie Laurent, "Now
You See Me"). The routine falls
apart when Adam spots his
doppelganger Anthony Claire,
also played by Gyllenhaal, in a
movie and becomes obsessed
with meeting him.
The movie is far from your
typical thriller. As it begins, an
epigraph emblazoned on screen
says, "Chaos is order not yet
deciphered." The pace is tense
but slow, interspersed with
surrealist frames of spiders in

A24

"What you looking at, POLE?!"

variou
omino
backd
awash
with
like
Empt
Thr
Villen
film f
impor
this is
Adam
throu,
says t
An
jar
class
most
possib
is sym
in you
about
cycles
resem
Antho
Gadon
the sa
showe
hands

is sexual contexts and But where does all this
us strings and bass. The metaphor lead the film? The
rop of Toronto looks moody imagery, in-your-face
in smog - ill, latticed thematic messages and random
telephone lines that look spiders - they cram the film
spider webs, uninviting. with aDeep Meaning, butit's too
y. vague and unspecified for the
oughout the confusion, viewer to reach it. How do the
euve inserts clues into the spiders relate to the characters'
or us to put together. "It's sexual relationships? Though
tant to understand that Villeneuve is a master of
a cycle that repeats itself," presentation, fastidiously
lectures on oppression structuring his storyline with
ghout history. Then he artistic sequences, he falls short
:he same line to another of giving it substance. "Enemy"
is a glossy and mesmerizing
package with nothing inside.
There must be some
unexpected, significance in how Adam first
-rn esees Anthony in a movie, since
"' we're watching a movie too.
The screen is a reflection of
reality, and in this case reveals
how grotesque life's banality
a few minutes later. It's the can be, as Adam's dull routine
hideous, garish neon sign is punctuated by Kafkaesque
le, blaring the words, This events and a confrontation
rbolic! Talk about this part with the self, which terrifies
rfilm class! The film is all rather than fulfills Adam. It's
repetition and parallels - a dark movie - literally, since
in history, the physical characters never turn the light
blance between Mary and on while indoors, preferring to
ny's wife Helen (Sarah move about in gloom so as to,
n, "A Dangerous Method"), again, hammer in a symbolic
me scenes of Adam in the message. Are we all walking
er, staring at his shaking in darkness? Is life but a dingy
apartment with bad lighting?

Afghan Whiggin' out

ByAMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR
Daily Arts Writer
Remember those
multicolored Transformers
toys your mother used to buy
you when you
were nine?
You know, the
ones that could Do the
be whatever
you wanted to Beast
be, and could Afghan Wigs
surpass your
adolescent e~ne Music
short attention
span with its
ability to reconstruct at any
given moment?
Imagine what it would be
like if music had the power to
do the same. What if a band
could evolve and grow through
the span of only an album and
recreate itself from start to
finish while still maintaining its
authenticity?
Let me introduce you to The
Afghan Whigs'Do the Beast. The
band's first record in 16 years
and first after being reunited
as a band last year, Do the Beast
tells a story of dimness and
obscurity, drawing on minor
progressions and sweltering
melodies to showcase emotion
through every mix.
As the album opens with
"Parked Outside," it's clear
that The Afghan Whigs has
reemerged unblemished,
reunited as a band that remains
just as experimental as it was
two decades ago. Still, the light
jazz-influenced, avant-garde
rock the band categorized itself
under in its last record, 1965,
appears tobe nothing more than
a reminiscence of the past, and
the sex appeal in tracks such
as "Somethin' Hot" and "John
the Baptist" has dissolved just
as the band did in 2001. But in
return, The Afghan Whigs has
given us a sultry record that

'

EONE

The Backstreet Boys haven't aged well.

keepst
untiltI
Do t
No, it'
track i
tracks
start t
an une
accider
you ba:
throug
metam
riff th
'Dc
flaw
inspira
metal,
a Midd
mood
"Algier
piano
"Lost
represe
as the
aggreg
melodi
you be
your fl

us casted to the bass line There's no doubt: very few
he very end. bands know their sound as well
he Beast isn't an album. as The Afghan Whigs. With
s an experience. Every lyrics that hardly sound through
is evolutionary, with no the variations of instruments
sounding the same from that pound through every
o finish. There's always track, it's evident that the focus
xpected riff, a seemingly of each track remains intact
ntal melody that grips through founder and frontman
ck into each song midway Greg Dulli's vibrant mixes.
h. "Matamoros" is a The Afghan Whigs may be
orphosis, with a thematic more bass-driventhanithasever
sat begins by drawing been before, but it's a change
that's welcome. The band has
abandoned its technical polish
and classical undertones for
) the Beast' a energetic melodies, drawing on
international music and cross-
dess reunion. genre rhythmic elements. A
lot has changed in music since
1998 - rock 'n' roll began
relying more on low-toned
tion from experimental resonances to assert its genre
later renewing itself in while alternative became a brew
le Eastern scale. In the of both pop and rock rather
for a Tango? Turn on than standing out as a genre
s." The eerily nostalgic of its own. Do the Beast is an
bass that starts off example of The Afghan Whigs
in Woods" is far from exploiting that transition,
entative of its entirety, making music that experiments
piano leads into an among different genres rather
ation of instruments, than conforming to any one
es and themes, leaving definition of music.
hind with nothing but If anything, the result is
eeting breath. flawless.

I



6 - Tuesday, April 15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Tuesday, April 15, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

AMC
Still not as good as Breaking Bad.'
'Mad Men' returns

AMC
"Quick! Act natural."
'Scandal' off the rails

AMC series back for cult and Pete is livin' it up in
California, where the pants are
Don Draper's plaid and the bagels are ... not
as good as the ones in New York
final run (duh).
Despite the "new beginning"
By MADDIE THOMAS vibes that radiated throughout
Daily TVEditor the final moments of season six,
"Mad Men" 's seventh season
"Are you ready? Because I is off to a bleak start. Rather
want you to pay attention. This than turning a new leaf, "Time
is the begin- Zones" turns the same old
ning of some- leaves over and over again. Don
thing." is in a loveless marriage. Peggy
It's fitting Mad Men is struggling to impress her new
that the first boss. Roger is having another
episode of SeasonPremiere mid-life crisis. Sound familiar?
"Mad Men" 's AMC As is the case with many
final season season premieres, the bulk of the
begins with the episode is spent on exposition
most fundamental aspect of the - catching us up on what's
series: a pitch. In the Manhattan been going on with each of the
offices of SC&P, a catchphrase central characters (excluding,
for Accutron watches is born. notably, Betty Francis and
"It's not a timepiece. It's a the Draper children). Thanks
conversation piece." But staring to some historical clues (and
at us through the TV screen with a few Google searches) one
a bold confidence that could only can decipher that we've
accompany the words of true jumped forward to January
creative brilliance is not "Mad 1969, just around the time of
Men" 's resident genius, Don Richard Nixon's inaugural
Draper - it's Freddie Rumsen. address. (What a way to cast a
OK - technically it's not metaphorical storm cloud over
actually Freddie. As is revealed the episode!)
later in the episode, Freddie "We have found ourselves
is simply acting as a surrogate rich in goods, but ragged in
pitchman for Don, who is still spirit," Nixon announces from
on forced leave from SC&P; a a television screen near the
fact he's kept secret from Megan episode's end. "Reaching with
while they attempt to maintain magnificent precision for the
a fizzling bi-coastal marriage. moon, but falling into raucous
Meanwhile, as Joan and Peggy discord on earth."
are still struggling to break Showrunner Matthew
through Madison Avenue's Weiner uses that specific Nixon
glass ceiling, Roger Sterling quote to center a major theme
has joined some kind of orgy of the episode and probably

the season's entire first half.
Sure, everyone - even Don - is
making money and technically
succeeding in one way or
another, but spirits are still
low. For each character there's
something missing, something
to reach for. Don wants his job
back, Peggy wants her respect
back and Ken Cosgrove probably
wants the sight in his right
eye back. Maybe the lingering
cloud of disappointment is a
result of an even more abstract
desire - a grand "something"
like the ellusive American
Dream. Either way, the pursuit.
of a great unknown has begun.
In a premiere that drags plot-
wise, these subtler messages are
key to keeping hopes up for a
satisfying final season.
As a stand-alone episode,
this "Mad Men" installment
is middling at best. But that's
exactly the game Weiner likes
to play. It's all about the build-
up from here on out, and "Time
Zones" does its job of laying
the groundwork for the coming
episodes quite well.
Time is of the essence in this
final season of "Mad Men."
With only thirteen episodes
and twelve months remaining
on a finite timeline, the clock
(maybe an Accutron watch?) is
ticking away on Don Draper -
he is aging and the show is too.
"Time Zones" is the beginning
of something - the beginning
of an ending and the beginning
of a countdown. "Mad Men"
has always been a conversation
piece, but in its last lap, it's also
a time-piece.

By ALEC STERN
SeniorArts Editor

I've never written about
"Scandal." I've especially never
called into question its realism or
legitimacy as a political drama. For
the past three years, I've enjoyed
the series for exactly what it is -
a guilty pleasure. Sure, at times
the Shonda Rhimes series can be
more poignant or more significant
than typical ABC fare (like
"Revenge" or "Killer Women").
But even at its best, "Scandal" is
simply a good primetime soap -
crazy, crass and shocking. Season
three, however, has pushed the
boundaries of what's acceptable.
Even in "Scandal" 's soapy, hyper-
fictionalized world, what the hell
is going on? White hat's off, crazy
hat's on.
After its blink-and-miss-
it seven-episode first season,
"Scandal" grew into a massive
hit for ABC midway through its
second season when its ratings
steadily climbed until hitting
a series high in the 2013 finale.
Recently though, it would seem
"Scandal" 's flame burned bright
but quick. Given its never-ending
twists and turns, it's no surprise
that a little "Scandal" fatigue has
begun to set in. There's a limit to
how far and how fast you can push
the boundaries, and I think Cyrus
Beene potentially allowing a bomb
to go off at a state senator's funeral,
or a teenager bargaining her
virginity for a college acceptance
might just be that limit.
The back half of season three's
18-episode order has seen the rails
come off - throwing any caution
or common sense to the wind. In


i

1 1Call: #734-418-4115
C las s ifEmail: dailydisplay@gmail.com
RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, April 15, 2014 E 4 BDRM HSE Soath Central Campus
~ 1037 Packard-5$2450/m + atils. 2 bath,
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle 3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
________________________ 2914. Contact 734-996-1991.
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis 2014._Contact_734-996-1991.
ACROSS DOWN 39 Combatively 54 Men's CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
1 Wire insulator 1 Part of Uncle supportive Wearhouse items TEMPORARYJANITORIALPOSI- rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
5 Australian Sam's outfit 41 Religious sister 56 Chase flies or TION P/T for local school until mid- bath., internet, summer from $400, fall
gemstone 2 Turn on 42 Self-absorption grounders June. Potential to restart at end of from $525. Call 734-276-0886.
9 Dressed 3 Pre-euro Spanish 45 Rain-on-the-roof 57 Let loose August. Hours 330-530 M-F, $10/hr.
13 They'relfound in coin rhythm 61 Online crafts Background check. 669-9394, ext 21 or HALF OFF SALE
veins 4 Bepairshoptfig. 47 Kept secret marketplace srajewski~steinerschvol.org. HALF OFF SRIYLEPOI
14 Zany escapade 5 Penta- plusthree 49 Hollywood hrs. 63 Chop with an ax saje. HALF OFF SECURITY DEPOSIT
16 Saintly ring 6 Lose one's cool 50 Money in the 64 SFO posting HALF OFF PROCESSING FEE
17 Yellow ticky 72014 Olympics mattress, e.g. 66 Gardening tool THE MICHIGAN DAILY Business HALF OFF 1ST MONTHS RENT
brand skating analyst 52 Karate instructor 67 Portfolio- staff is looking for students interested *Limited Apartments Left*
1B Ericof Ohno 53 More like child's increasing in working 20 hours/week base pay + University Towers & The 2nd Floor
1Eiaralot" 8 Replayedtennis play market moves commission from May 5th-Aug. 1st. www.universitytowers-mi.com
20aClor serve Great opportunity for students taking 536 S. Forest Ave.
21 Manicti 9 Fire-breathing ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: classes in Spring/Summerterms. Please 734-761-2680
cMncn' Greek monster GAZE TAB PIL ATE contact jobs.tmda gmail.com for more
can 10 0s White information. NOW AVAIL FOR FAIL 20141
22' "reaking Bad" House nickname OMEBN W I S E H 6 B C S ________________ Fully furnished 2 Bdrm opt - heat, wa-1Iawr11Eeyoe DIRTDEVIL A G Ltanprkgicld.A/ad u-
award 11 Everyone I I B T I C v I L A 5 G C L .ter,andparkingiucludcd.A/Cand loon-
24Out of bed 12 Anonymous Jane S N 0 B E O F F A N D O N WORK ON MACKINAC Island This dry avail. Contact 734-904-6735.
20 Caffeination 1Snreigaas v T B TSummer - Make lifelong friends. 'he _______________
listation 18snoralen masse A T R I D UBL Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge EFF. & 1 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
30 Vesselfor the 23 Bumpedintos T P A I Shops are looking for help in all areas: E77F-130Bdshowngs F 2-
Mud Haler 25 Here, to Henri rot Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Sta 1am-3:30m w/ 24 hr notice.
Past-mnning bird 27 Folded TS A t I M 0 A NR Sales Clerks, itchen, aristas. ous- po/De ocappvmaaemc m.
33 Kibbutzcauntry manuscript sheet CEMI N C M I SO0T 0 N C B lug, bvnus, & discounted meals. (9061-otc Contact 7394-996-1991 914-aF 9amr-4pm
3618th-century 28Clearasiltarget D U C K D Y N A S T Y D R Y 847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
composer 29 Actress Perlman A T E C P R
Thomas 31 Expert N U T S H E L L E U R O S
37 Kenya neighbor: 34dOn a cruise, say N I N D i S K D R I V EF
Abbr. 35Angled pipe fitting O P I N E LOAM APE X
40 Crisis phone 37 Meat-and-
service potatoes dish WATEB ENTtS LENT
43 "Breaking Bad" 38 Ocean predator xwordeditor@aol.com 04/15/14
law org. 1 2 3 4 5a s 7 9 10 1 12
44 Journey ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. ! T h e
46 Shed, with "off" 13 14 15 16 ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
48 Solaror lunar 17 1a 19 ! www.HRPAA.com !
phenomenon
51 Hissand hum 20 21 22 23 ** AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
55 Cafd sewving
grgup 2e 25n sw 72n29 4 Bedroom House. Near B-School.
P 2lawless 4$2000/month. Call: (734)223-7777
59 British "bye-bye" 31 32
60 Teesuof 4 BDRM HSE, taller by North Cam-
02 Electronic m t3a 35 36 pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2300/m + lo v e s its
eavesdropping 37 a as w 40 41 42 43 utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
63Japy aa as an readers!
65 Composer's a as v 51 52 sa 34 ARBOR PROPERTIES
output, and Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
where to find the s5 se 57 su Central Campus, Old West Side,
last words of 17-, Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
26-, 40- and 55- 59 so 61 734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
Acrss
68 Sicilianvolcano 00 ea e es _7
69Goltargetsr en 86noSTUDIO'SONLY $1,195.00!
70lQuick gander nONLya Few Left*
71 Light bulb unit 71 72 73 www.universitytowers-mi.com
72 Circular current 536 S. Forest Ave.
73 Respectful titles By Annemarie Brethauer n4/15/14 734-761-2680

i
l

turn, the series' heightened drama, the same passionate argument in
sexual antics and topsy-turvy the Oval Office? "Scandal" 's love
narrative has become a parody of triangle has reached an extreme
itself. Concurrently, Olivia Pope - levelof saturation, diminishingthe
this supposedly groundbreaking likability of all those involved.
female character - has continued These issues of character
to regress from the season opener. complicate "Scandal" 's end game.
Whereas Olivia was once a How are we supposed to root for
capable and strong professional the series' central pairing when
woman - the anti-Ally McBeal it's so obviously toxic for Olivia?
or even Meredith Grey - season How are we supposed to root for
three has seen her become a Olivia and Fitz when Olivia is not
fragile, bumbling mess. Even his only mistress? Lest we forget
worse, her greatest flaw is the man that Cyrus had a pregnantAmanda
Tanner murdered to preserve
Fitz's reputation. And how are we
A rsupposed to root for Olivia and Fitz
when with each passing episode,
falters in season it's Mellie who truly deserves our
sympathy and attention. Bellamy
three. Young's nuanced, delectable
performance is soap opera done
right, though it demonizes not
only Fitz, but also the Olivia-Fitz
she is so devoted to. Olivia Pope pairing.
continues to allow herself to be With that being said, even
marginalized by Fitz, subservient Mellie's arc has become
to his every whim. And despite significantly flawed. Her storyline
announcing in the series premiere is defined by her rape, perpetrated
that "she doesn't do crying," Olivia by her husband's father, as
has shed tears in nearly every revealed through flashbacks in
episodebecause of her relationship an earlier season three episode.
with Fitz. Sexual assault is a crutch Shonda
"Scandal" 's story has also Rhimes has turned to in all three
faltered this season. In case of her series - though far more
anyone had forgotten, the first and effectively in the 2010 episode of
second seasons - forthe most part "Private Practice," "Did You Hear
-featured amixofprocedural and What Happened to Charlotte
serialized elements, acombination King?" In that series, a majority of
that grounded "Scandal" 's the fourth season was dedicated
oftentimes frantic narrative. to the episode's titular character's
Its case-of-the-week format experience - "what happened"
separated Pope and Associates to Charlotte King was a crucial
from the White House, allowing journey for every character,
for much-needed breaks between significantly elevating the
each ofthe series'definingentities. quality of Rhimes's lesser "Grey's
But Fitz's reelection campaign has Anatomy" spinoff. "Scandal"
brought the two closer than ever, can't make any of these claims.
effectively changing the series' The incident between Mellie and
DNA. Even more, its over-the- her father-in-law was as quickly
top storylines come closer and addressed as it was turned into yet
closer to eclipsing the brink of another contrived melodramatic
comprehension with each passing mystery (Is Jerry really Fitz's
week. son?), not to mention the fact that
I'm not making any claims Mellie uses her rape as leverage to
about "Scandal"'s believability. It's ensure her father-in-law's support
unfair to criticize a soap opera's in an upcoming election. In stark
realism, unlike other political contrast to "Private Practice,"
dramas. Conversely, "Homeland" "Scandal" 's rape undercuts a
's misguided third season was serious subject, neither giving
flawed precisely because its it the sufficient attention nor
believability was sacrificed in respect as it serves as a B plot for a
favor of action. The difference is secondary character.
"Homeland" operates under the "Scandal" 's frenetic third
assumption of realism - when season - at times "24," at times
its plausibility suffers, so does its "Grey's Anatomy" on steroids
worth. "Scandal" never promised - comes to an early close this
realism, which is not to discount week (its episode order was cut
any of its success. But even from 22 to 18 to accommodate
"Grey's Anatomy" - a show that Washington's pregnancy). And
has featured a male pregnancy I'll admit, I'm eager to see many
and more natural disasters than of the plots come to fruition, if for
I'd care to count - respects its no other reason than leaving this
own confines more strictly than whole mess behind us. After Fitz's
the Kerry Washington series. first election, prior to the first
"Scandal" 's universe has no rules, season of "Scandal," Olivia left the
which doesn't make it excitingt It White House to pursue her own
makes itcsloppy. life, apart from her tumultuous
Above all, it's the repetition affair and hectic lifestyle. Here's
that is killing "Scandal." How hoping season four will have her
many late-night Olivia-Jake phone make the same realization.
calls - which end with Olivia "Scandal" needs fixing, but it's
declaring with finality, "Goodbye, notcup to Olivia Pope to solve every
Jake" - is too many? How many problem. Shonda Rhimes is going
times must Olivia and Fitz have to have to handle this one.
INTERESTEDIN
GETTING WRITING

PUBLISHED
THIS SUMMER?
JOIN THE DAILY ARTS SECTION
AND GAIN
JOURNALISTIC EXPERIENCE
E-mail gbuonomo@umich.edu to

uw
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, Ll.C

w 1.7114 1

I I

T

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 15, 2014 - 7

Club boxing wins first title -
Betsaregains
rotation spot

LUNA ANNA ARCHEY/Daily
Engineering junior Ahmad Sakallah and the Michigan club boxing team sent 15 people to the National Championship this year and earned the team title.

Program rebounds
from near death
sentence to capture
national crown
ByZACH SHAW
Daily Sports Writer
When you walk up the
wooden stairs of the Sports
Coliseum, you're introduced to
a room full of champions. The
second floor of the Coliseum
contains nine punching bags,
two makeshift rings and boxing
equipment with aged sweat
stains only rivaled by the stains
on the gnce-white wall nearby.
The second floor wasn't
meant to house champions, but
the Michigan Men's Boxing Club
doesn't care. As dusty photos of
past boxers look on, two dozen
boxers go through technique in
unison. Hooks, dips, jabs and
slips are accompanied by grunts
that could be heard from outside
in the parking lot.
As coaches egg them on, the
group progresses through more
and more complicated moves,
until the team is matching in
practice what it did in Miami
April 5. That day, five individual
titleshelpedtheWolverinesbeat
out 19 other teams to win the
school's first-
ever boxing
national
championship. "J ren
After nearly ,
being kicked thinkin
off campus as
a club sport ... that's
three years heft
ago, the club
has fought
its way to
the forefront
of collegiate boxing. With
an energetic group and an
increasingly competitive
atmosphere, the team looks to
make success in the ring the
latest Michigan tradition.
Four years ago, Michigan
boxing was dead. A decade after
Shamael Haque became the
team's last individual national
champion, the program had
declined into a non-competitive
one; practices became little
more than a good workout.
With not enough competition,
the Athletic Department pulled
what little funding the team
received, leaving it hanging on
threads.
"Club sports need to
compete," said junior Kevin
Bosma, the team's vice
president. "Michigan wants to
see its name represented in a
positive light and see its teams
win with the block 'M', but
with boxing, the University got
nothing out of it.
"They pulled funding to
enact change. It took a couple
years and a ton of hard work,
but now we're representing the
school well."
After receiving the harsh
wake-up call from the
University, the Wolverines
began registering for more
tournaments. The team grew,

ByJAKE LOURIM
Daily Sports Writer
Three weeks ago, Michigan
coach Carol Hutchins came
out to get the softball from
freshman right-hander Megan
Betsa, and it appeared she had
closed the starting pitching
rotation down from three
players to two.
Betsa had given up three runs
on two hits and two walks, and
surrendered a leadoff home run
in the second. Just after the
ball cleared the fence, Hutchins
walked out to the circle.
One bad outing could
normally be overlooked, but not
with two experienced juniors
also in the mix. With left-
hander Haylie Wagner sporting
a sub-1.00 earned-run average
and an undefeated record, and
right-hander Sara Driesenga
regaining the form that sent
the Wolverines to the Women's
College World Series last year,
there wasn't room for Betsa in
the regular rotation.
"You could say that I was in a
little bit of a rut for a few games,"
Betsa said. "I think every pitcher
goes through it."
The following weekend,
Hutchins sat Betsa for all three
games, the first time any of the
three had missed a weekend all
season.
In doing so, Hutchins
followed the motto of John
Wooden, whom she considers
one of the best coaches ever: The
bench is the best teacher.
"If you want to pitch, you've
got to pitch better," Hutchins
said. "I've got three pitchers, and
if you're not going to pitch well,
I'm going to put somebody else
in. ... We expect you to perform
and to be able to manage your
game, manage your confidence.
Those are all important - you're
not just a physical person. Your
confidence is important, and
you're expected to manage it."
Betsa got the message loud
and clear. The Monday after
the Penn State series, normally
the players' off day, she came
in on her own to clear her head
and work out the kinks in her
pitching. She started putting a
cutout of a batter at the plate to
simulate a game situation.
On the more mental side of
things, Hutchins gave her a
book to read - Ken Ravizza
and Tom Hanson's Heads-Up
Baseball: Playing the Game One
Pitch at a Time.
Two weeks later, after
regaining her rhythmin practice
and in a midweek game, the
McDonough, Ga. native found
herself back in the mix for
important games alongside
Wagner and Driesenga.
"I don't know what the point
of not throwing at Penn State
was, but I used it as fuel to my
fire," Betsa said. "I'm here, and
I'm supposed to be helping my
team, andthey'renotevengiving
me the opportunity. That's what
I used that as."
Since her early exit against
Indiana, Betsa has allowed only
one run in 1 innines and has

Triple Aces
Michigan's starting pitchers
1. Haylie Wagner
ERA: 0.95
Record: 19-0
Complete Games: 12
2. Sara Driesenga
ERA: 2.15
Record: 5-3
Complete Games: 4
3. Megan Betsa
ERA: 1.92
Record: 9-3
Complete Games: 7
gone 3-0. Her ERA is down to
1.82,good forthird intheBigTen
behind Wagner and Minnesota's
Sara Moulton.
Hutchinsthoughtbybenching
Betsa against Penn State, she
would light a fire within the
freshman. And she couldn't have
been more right.
"Megan is a competitor - we
thought that when we recruited
her," Hutchins said. "I know she
wants to play, and I know she
wants to be good."
Betsa also credits an intense
practice routine, including
one drill in which the pitchers
repeatedly face hitters with the
bases loaded and a full count.
Hutchins' goal is to make
practice difficult so that the
game seems easy.
It certainly has looked easy
for Betsa lately. She has mixed
her various pitches well, keeping
the hitters off balance to the
tune of 26 strikeouts in her last
19 innings.
Her mentality has also
improved. Sunday against
Michigan State, Hutchins visited
the mound with two on and two
out in the first inning, and Betsa
struck out the next hitter. Later,
she induced two popups to get
out of a two-on, one-out jam in
the sixth.
. "Mentally, you could say I've
gotten a little bit tougher," Betsa
said. "Also, my preparation in
practice has been different,
and I've been taking different
approaches on my warmups and
beingmore focused andcarrying
what I do in the bullpen-into the
game."
After the series against Penn
State, Hutchins started Betsa
in a low-pressure Wednesday
home game against Detroit,
which came in with a paltry
2-20 record. The result was a
no-hitter. Since then, Betsa has
gotten the nod in both Big Ten
series finales.
"You could say that Penn
State, when I didn't even get an
opportunity, kind of put (my
confidence) down," Betsa said.
"After I got over it and used it as
positive, it's definitely helping
that I'm getting in the game."
Hutchins preaches several
mottos to her team, one of
which, according to Betsa, is
"Tough times don't last, tough
people do."
Now, a month after handing
the ball to Hutchins in the
second inning, it appears Betsa
will last after all.

LUNA ANNA ARCHEY/Daily
Engineering alum Andrew Sensoli qualified for the USIBA National Championship last year and finished third.

and so did its confidence. Last
year one boxer went to the
national championships, but
that didn't stop volunteer coach
Tony Sensoli from setting the
bar even higher. Walking into
this year's
first practice,
Sensoli told
.ember the team
they should
g, 'Damn have one
goal: Win
a pretty a national
,oa ,,' title.
goal."' "I
remember
thinking,
'Damn,
Tony, that's a pretty hefty
goal,' especially considering we
weren't really on the national
stage before," Bosma said. "We
tried to get everyone experience
early and some of the fights
didn't go so well, and I was
really doubting if we would be
able to compete on a national
level."
The year progressed, but
Sensoli's goal still looked out
of reach. While younger boxers
caught on, others quit the team.
Club sports like boxing require
far more work than perks, and
many find they aren't up to the
task.
"We really got on people who
weren't taking things seriously
and held people accountable
for sticking to our goals," said
freshman Yazan El-Baba. "Our
coaches emphasized the idea
that 'those who stay will be
champions,' which is huge in a
club sport because people don't
get any sort of compensation.
It's really just the will to win
that keeps them going, and you
could tell how passionate the
coaches were and that trickled
down to us."
With the United States
Intercollegiate Boxing
Association National
Championships approaching,
Michigan began to like its

chances. It was sending the
largest team to nationals,
and had a real shot at making
program history.
But a slew of injuries hurt
the team's chances. A ruptured
spleen, a broken wrist, a
concussion and a cracked
sternum bruised the team's ego
just days before the tournament.
"Most of these guys are new
to the sport, and many had
only had one or two fights, so
the team was already nervous,"
Bosma said. "All those injuries
right before the tournament
were sitting in their minds, and
it was very hard for us to calm
their nerves and figure out a
way to reinstill confidence in
them."
In Miami, the nerves took

they could win it on their own
without us having to stay on
them to work hard. It was
awesome to watch."
Added Tony: "If you had
asked me even two weeks
ago if we were going to win
I would have said no way. It
was very emotional moment,
and it validates the effort that
everyone has put in this year to
achieve that goal."
Today, Michigan boxing is as
alive as ever. After four years of
creating a competitive culture,
afterjustdaysofrecoveringfrom
their national championship
and months before their next
competition, almost the entire
team is still at practice. The nine
punching bags sway back-and-
forth as they are pummeled, the

a bow to
victories.
Staying in a
low-budget
hostel with
justtwo rooms
and 23 people,
onlya5-0 start
relaxed the
Wolverines.
Even
shorthanded,
the team
sent seven box
championship s
than any other
time the final b
El-Baba, juniors
Pete Herzog a
Alec Sensoli, Ti
crowned chan
Michigan the n
to win the tee
Bosma still reco
victory in the 21
the captain loo
team reached its
"They didn't
close- we were,
"I think they
a little bit, but
a recognition
everything the
rather than a sur
"They came1

jump ropes
skip as hard
rock plays on
"It validates the speakers,
and the red,
the effort that white and
blue rps
everyone has put bounce as
- boxers spar
in this year. in the nearby
ring.
After
years of
ers to Sunday's housing boxers who fail to win
late, five more it all, the stained walls and piles
team. By the now host national champions.
ell rang, Bosma, With a title under its belt and a
Khaled Abbas, young core returning next year
nd sophomore and plans for the women's team
ony's son, were to gain club status next year, the
npions, giving Michigan boxing program has
ecessary points crawled from afterthought to
am title. With champions.
vering from his Boxing dominance has
01-pound finals, become the latest Michigan
ked on as the tradition.
destination.
realize how For exclusive coverage of
" Bosma said.
were surprised all 27 varsity sports
it was more of
that they did Follow @theblockm on Twitter or
ny needed to check MichiganDaily.com
prise.
to believe that roughoutthe semesterfor a

JAMES COLLER
Carol Hutchins helped Megan Betsa work her way back to being a starter.

s


8 -- Tuesday, April 15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Report: Robinson going pro; Stauskas to announce

Pair of sophomores
will reveal Draft
decisions in press
conference Tuesday
By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
For the second time in the
last week, reports surfaced that
a Michigan men's basketball
player will be fleeing Ann Arbor
for the NBA. This time, it's
Glenn Robinson III.
According to the Detroit Free
Press, Robinson plans to sign
with an agent later in the week.
That followed an initial report
from Jake Fischer, a Boston
Globe correspondent and Slam
Magazine writer, that the
sophomore forward has already
signed with an agent and will
declare for the NBA Draft this
week. An ensuing CBS Sports
report confirmed that Robinson
would be leaving school and
stated that Robinson had yet to
inform the Michigan coaching
staff of his decision.
Monday evening, the Athletic
Department announced via
e-mail a press conference to
be held Tuesday afternoon.
The e-mail did not provide
further details, but ESPN's Jeff
Goodman later reported that
Robinson and sophomore guard
Nik Stauskas would both be
revealing their decisions.
Robinson was Michigan's
second-leading scorer this
season, averaging 13.1 points
along with 4.4 rebounds
per game. Though he had a
propensity to disappear in the
Wolverines' offense at times this
year - he scored in single digits
nine times - he was assertive
late in the season and became a
feared scorer with his deadeye
midrange jump shot.
He is projected as a late first-
round or early second-round

BY THE NUMBERS
Glenn Robinson Ill
13.1
Scoring average during the 2013-14
season, good for second on the team.
75
Career starts in two seasons.
Gs28
Games in which he scored in double
digits (out of 37),
34
Projected Draft rank, according to
ESPN's Chad Ford,
Their NBA Draft decisions.
ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Sophomore forward Glenn Robinson will forgo his final seasons of eligibility to enter the NBA Draft and will announce his decision Tuesday, according to a report

pick. His stock has fallen since
last year, when he was projected
to go as high as the lottery - a
top-14 pick.
This follows an ESPN report
last Thursday that Stauskas
would be declaring for the
draft, though Stauskas insisted
through Twitter that he had not
made his final decision.
A year ago this week,
Robinson, along with forward
Mitch McGary, both announced
that they would return for their
sophomore seasons. The two
are best friends, and whereas
last year's decision was a
collaboration between the two,
Robinson said after Michigan's
Elite Eight loss that this year
their decisions would be
conducted more independently
because of McGary's back injury
and extended absence.

The report leaves McGary
as the only mystery remaining
as far as who might be leaving
for the pros. Following the
announcement that redshirt
junior Jon Horford would be
transferring, there may be as
many as five players leaving
the program, with forward
Jordan Morgan being the lone
departure without eligibility
left.
While Robinson wanted
to play the '3' at Michigan,
on the wings and with more
ball handling opportunities,
personnel necessitated that
Michigan coach John Beilein
play him at the '4.' When he
announced he'd be returning for
his sophomore season, Robinson
declared his intention to play
the '3,' but Beilein was never
able to fulfill his wish for any

substantial period of time.
When he struggled early
this season, Robinson admitted
during the NCAA Tournament
that he had second thoughts
about his decision to come back
to Ann Arbor, but that he gained
comfort as the season went on.
Despite shootingtroublesthat
plagued him during the bulk of
the Big Ten season, Robinson
hit a series of key 3-pointers in
March. He shot 41 percent from
behind the arcduringthe month
after making 27 percent of his
threes the rest of the season.
Robinson was also Michigan's
best athlete. He accounted for
the lion's share of the oohing
and ahhing at Crisler Center
the past two years with his
highlight-reel dunks.
Feb. 26, Robinson, the team's
best leaper, was thrown a

cross-court lob pass near the
baseline in Mackey Arena with
a couple ticks remaining and the
Wolverines down one point.
Robinson caught it, took a
dribble and banked the ball off
the glass at the buzzer.
He made the shot in front of
his father in Glenn Robinson
Jr.'s college gym, and the play
served as perhaps the highlight
of Robinson's two years.
Late Monday night, Stauskas
announced on Twitter that
he would make his NBA draft
decision Tuesday.

BY THE NUMBERS
Nik Stauskas

3-anes80
3-pointers made as a freshmana
Michigan first-year record.
44.4
Career 3-point shooting percentage.
17.51
Scoring average during the 2013-14
season, which ledtheteam.

Want live updates from

the press conference?
Follow @theblockm on Twitter or 19
check Mlhgallyom Projected Draft rank, according to
throughout the day for updates ESPN's Chad Ford.


Baseball set to play home-
and-home against Eagles

On baseball: A sub-.500
record that says a lot

By JASON RUBINSTEIN
Daily Sports Writer
If last weekend is any
indication,
the Michigan EMU vs.
baseball team Whon
will be a force
to be reckoned Matchup:
with at the EMU 12-21;
plate and could Michigan
wreak havoc 16-19-1
on Eastern When:
Michigan in Tuesday
back-to-back 4P.M.,
midweek MWednesday
mdek 6 P.M.
games.
After taking Where:
two of three at Staamser
Illinois, with Oestrike
their lone loss Stadium
coming in a 1-0 Radio:
pitchers' duel, MGolue
the Wolverines (Tuesday)
showed their
hitting slump is
a thing of the past, positioning
themselves as one of the most
competitive teams in the Big
Ten.
Michigan (6-6 Big Ten, 16-19-
1 overall) will use the pair
of midweek contests against
the Eagles on Tuesday and
Wednesday to fine-tune the
small parts of its game, but it
won't be easy.
Eastern Michigan (2-10 MAC,
12-21) beat the Wolverines
in both matchups last season
- Michigan coach Erik
Bakich's first at Michigan -
by considerable margins. The
Eagles scored 28 runs over the
two games and have a history of
playing Michigan tough.
"The way Eastern Michigan
has been dominant over the
University of Michigan in
baseball for the last few years,
I would hope we come with a
pretty big chip on our shoulder
and are ready to play," Bakich
said.
But with a full offseason
under Bakich, the Wolverines
look like a brand-new ball club.
Michigan's most consistent
hitter is junior outfielder
Jackson Glines. The junior

college transfer has been the
steady force Bakich craves in the
heart of the order.
Glines' 45 hits, .346 batting
average and 22 RBI all lead the
team, while his 13 doubles also
lead the Big Ten.
In the early parts of the
season, the Wolverines were
only finding production from
their top five hitters. The bottom
of the lineup was the team's
Achilles' heel, but the Illinois
series showed otherwise.
Freshman designated
hitter Carmen Benedetti
found a groove at the plate in
Champaign, going 6-for-11 in
the five hole while tallying three
RBI and three doubles, upping
his batting average to .256.
The team also found
production from right fielder
Johnny Slater. The freshman
provided quality at-bats
consistently throughout the
weekend and provided a spark
to an otherwise anemic part of
Michigan'sbatting order - going
4-for-6 with two RBI in the
Wolverines' 17-9 rout Saturday.
"Baseball is mostly mental,"
Bakich said. "(Benedetti and
Slater) both made a lot of
progress as this season has gone
along, and it's what you want to
see from freshmen. Carmen has
been pretty consistent for us, but
he exploded in Saturday's game.
"Johnny has pretty much
struggled all season long, but he
had heck of a game. His batting
practice has been night and day
since the beginning. He has
matured, and we expect big
things from John Slater."
On the other side of
Washtenaw Avenue, Eastern
Michigan boasts three hitters
batting over .300 and, though
its record may not show it, has
an ability to score plenty of runs.
The Eagles have scored more
than seven runs in 10 contests
this year.
Michigan will look to weather
Eastern Michigan's strong
hitting by throwing fifth-year
senior Ben Ballantine. The right-
hander has struggled of late

and hopes to use the midweek
game to regain his early-season
form. Bakich also said he has no
intentions of pulling Ballantine
early, showing confidence in his
wily veteran.
Wednesday's starter has not
yet been determined.
Though riding a current
wave of momentum, Bakich
is making sure he and the
coaching staff keep the team
grounded and focused heading
into the home-and-home
against the cross-town rival
- a team that has had more
success against the Wolverines
than many others.
"If our guys have any mental
lapse whatsoever in a midweek
game, then they're going to learn
a tough lesson," Bakich said. "We
learned that last week against
Notre Dame. The coaching staff
and myself won't allow that to
happen again - ever again."
NOTE: There is a distinct
possibility Tuesday's will
be canceled due to freezing

CHAMPAIGN - Illinois
had scored in the bottom
of the fourth inning to
put Michigan baseball down
1-0, and was
knocking
on the door
again in the
fifth. With
two outs an
Illini hitter
reached
second base, B
and one
of the Big FIDELMAN
Ten's best
players, Will
Krug, stepped to the plate. The
outfielder yanked an 0-1 fastball
through the left side of the
infield, and the third base coach
had no hesitation signaling the
runner to head for home plate.
Sophomore left fielder
Jacob Cronenworth fielded
the ball as the baserunner was
rounding third and came up
gunning. The ball came on a
rope to catcher Cole Martin,

before the runner could slide
around the senior. Martin
hopped up and emphatically
spiked the ball - his head
cocked to the lights screaming
for his team,
Martin knew this game was
big, and that play embodied
something the team has
exhibited all season: It's not
backing down from anyone.
But what separates a
contender from the rest is how
quickly it can rebound and get
back to winning. So where is
Michigan baseball in this maze
of momentum?
Though its overall record
has been below .500 all year,
conference play was the perfect
clean slate opportunity for
this team. The only hurdle
to overcome would be its
conference schedule.
Michigan went 6-6 through
the first four conference
weekends against Indiana,
Iowa, Minnesota and Illinois
- not a bad mark considering
+ -+-fthnP pnm hw+h - e

conference records coming into
the respective weekends.
Somethingthat's helped
Michigan throughout the
season has been spending time
around military and security
specialists, hearing what they
have to say about teamwork and
perseverance.
On March 3, the team visited
Fort Bragg, N.C., where it
learned how to embody a "Band
of Brothers" mentality from
the 160th Special Operations
Aviation Regiment. More
recently, a member of President
Barack Obama's protection
detail visited the team when
the President was in town for a
speech on April 2.
"One thingthat stuck out to
myself and a lot of the guys was
(the concept of) failing quickly,"
said sophomore shortstop Travis
Maezes.
Moving forward, it's time to
see if the team can do something
that it hasn't been asked to do
often this season: win against
weaker lineups. Being consistent
enough to sweep, or at least win,
upcoming series against Purdue
and Northwestern will be what
defines Michigan's season.
Anything more than one loss
in the six games in those two
series will be tough to make up,
as the Wolverines also have to
face Nebraska and Ohio State
before potentially qualifying
for the Big Ten Baseball
Tournament at the end of May.
Every season has highs
and lows, but the good teams
find a way to battle through
and move toward undoubted
success. There can be a battle to
.500 baseball early, but at some
point teams destined for the
postseason have to makea turn
for the better.
Through the early parts of the
season, the team was building
confidence and perseverance,
and now it's time to show that it
has learned those lessons. The
upcoming weekends will bea
perfect opportunity to prove
just that and make a run to the
postseason.

Catcher Cole Martin shifted momentum in Michigan's favor when he tagged out a runner at home pla

I


