U~be Mid~gan aiIF

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, April 3, 2014

michigandailycom

A WLCOME RETRN

President Barack Obama addressed his administration's push to increase the federal minimum wage to $10.10 per hour at the Intramural Sports Building on South Campus Wednesday afternoon.

Speech echoes,
Johnson in '64

Wages focus of address

50 years after Great
Society speech, a
new call for equal
opportunities
By KATIE BURKE
ManagingEditor
Fifty years ago, former Presi-
dent Lyndon Johnson stood
in Michigan Stadium and out-

lined his plan to create a "Great
Society" in the United States.
Wednesday, President Barack
Obama stood in the Intramu-
ral Sports Building and rallied
the crowd with his vision of
"opportunity for all."
Johnson told University
graduates in his 1964 com-
mencement address, "Your
imagination, your _ initiative,
and your indignation will
determine whether we build
See SPEECH, Page 3A

Students, faculty
praise Obama's
loyalty to the
University
By JENNIFER CALFAS
ManagingNews Editor
As President Barack Obama
approached -the podium at the
Intramural Sports Building,
more than 1,400 students and
University affiliates rose from

their seats, eliciting a thunderous
applause.
Obama traveled to the Univer-
sity Wednesday to speak about
his proposal to raise the federal
minimum wage from $7.25 to
$10.10 per hour. In his speech,
Obama pointed to the state's
efforts to support the bill and
brought a partisan tone to his
speech, calling out Republicans
in Congress who oppose the pro-
posal,
"You've got a choice," Obama
said. "You can give America the
shaft, or you can give it a raise."

Obama noted the extreme liv-
ing conditions in America today,
adding that some full-time work-
ers are living in poverty despite
holding steady employment. In
Michigan, the minimum wage is
$7.40 per hour.
While the average American
who earns minimum wage is
35 years old, Obama noted the
importance of establishing a
higher minimum wage for col-
lege students - some of whom
will be entering the workforce in
a month.
"We should make it easier for

your generation to get a foothold
on the ladder of opportunity,"
Obama said, with applause short-
ly following. "And we believe the
economy grows best not fromthe
top down, but from the mid out."
Obama has made more visits
to the University than any sitting
president in history. In 2010, he
served as the University's Spring
Commencement speaker. The
president visited the University
again in 2012 to discussthe rising
cost of higher education - a point
he touched on Wednesday.
See OBAMA, Page 3A


CAMPUS LIFE
Administrators
discuss revised
misconduct policy

Head of SAPAC says
'U' is a national
leader in handling
sexual misconduct
By CLAIRE BRYAN
DailyStaffReporter
On Wednesday afternoon, The
Michigan Daily and the Univer-
sity's Office of Student Life part-
nered to host a panel discussion for
students to voice their questions
about the University's sexual mis-
conduct policies. The event was
tailored around students' ques-
tions and helped to clarify some of
the changes to the Student Sexual
Misconduct Policy, the Universi-
ty's education process and resourc-
es available for the survivors of
sexual assault.
Holly Rider-Milkovich, director
of the University's Sexual Assault
Prevention and Awareness Cen-
ter, joined Dean of Students Laura

Blake Jones; Jay Wilgus, director
of the office of Student Conflict
Resolution; and Anthony Walesby,
the University's Title IX coordina-
tor, to engage with around 40 stu-
dents and community members in
the Kuenzel Room of the Michigan
Union.
Students also tracked the con-
versation online through a Twit-
ter live stream under the hashtag
#DailyDiscusses.
At the beginning of the discus-
sion, each panelist described the
respective roles his or her depart-
ment plays in investigations and
sexual misconduct prevention.
"SAPAC plays a significant role
in providing expertise and guid-
ance to the institution as it relates
to the creation of policy so that
we are representing the needs of
survivors and ensuring that the
best practices that we know of find
their way into the work that we are
doing," Rider-Milkovich said.
Walesby later outlined the mis-
sion of the office of Institutional
See POLICY, Page 2A

History Prof. Victor Lieberman, the 2014 Golden Apple Award winner, gives his "last lecture" at Rackham
Auditorium Wednesday.
Lieberm1an delivers 'last
lecture' for Golden Apple

ACADEMICS
ArmyROTC
takes trip to
Gettysburg
for training
Annual event
challenges students
to apply tactics to
historic battlefield
By AMIA DAVIS
Daily StaffReporter
Instead of learning about
battle tactics in the classroom,
junior officers in the University's
Army ROTC program visited the
battlefield itself.
Lieutenant Colonels Allana
Bryant and Wayne Dole took the
senior class on a weekend trip to
Gettysburg, Pa. to study the his-
toric Battle of Gettysburg. The
trip was part of an annual event
called a staff ride.
The staff ride is an annual
tradition in the Army ROTC in
which junior and commanding
officers travel to historic battle-
fields and study various tactics
See ROTC, Page 3A

Award-winning
prof. has spent 30
years teaching
By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
About 750 University stu-
dents, staff and members of
the Ann Arbor community

stood and applauded as His-
tory Prof. Victor Lieberman
took the stage to receive the
Golden Apple Award and give
his "last lecture" Wednes-
day evening in the Rackham
Auditorium.
Sponsored by the Univer-
sity's chapter of Hillel, the
Golden Apple Award was
inspired by Rabbi Eliezer ben
Hyrkanos, a lst- and 2nd-

century Jewish scholar. The
award honors professors who
embody ben Hyrkanos' man-
tra of living as if each day is
his or her last, dispensing
their knowledge through stu-
dent engagement. The award
has been presented annually
for the past 24 years to highly
acclaimed professors nomi-
nated by students.
See LIEBERMAN, Page 3A



HI: 58 GOT A NEWS TIP?
WEATo:HER Call 734-418-411s or e-mail
TOMORROW LO 3 news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Take Back the Night hits the streets
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS .........................2A SPORTS.........
Vol. CXXIV, No. 94 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS.
02014TheMichigan Daily OPINION.....................4A B-SIDE........
michigandaily.com

.6A
.. A
.... 11B


2A - Thursday, April 3, 2014

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
This Week in History Professor Profiles in Other Ivory Towers Student Profiles Photos of the Week

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ens. 1251 734-418-4115ext. 1241
pjsahlin@michigandailycom kvoigtman@michigandailyeaom

Student takes center stage

When LSA senior Mira Fried-
lander checked her phone on
Tuesday afternoon, she had one
missed call - the White House.
"I thought, 'Holy shit!"'
Friedlander, a political sci-
ence major and restaurant server,
was asked to write and deliver
the opening remarks for Presi-
dent Barack Obama's Wednesday
address about increasing the fed-
eral minimum wage. As an added
surprise, she was also invited to
have lunch with the president at
Zingerman's Delicatessen prior
to the event.
Obama ordered a #2 Reu-
ben and Friedlander ordered a
#73 - "Tarb's Tenacious Ten-
ure." Joined by Rep. Gary Peters

(D-Mich.), Friedlander said the
lunchtime discussion touched
on minimum wage, the revital-
ization of Detroit and her career
goals.
"I was obviously freaking out
because I was so hyped about
meeting the president of the
United States, but he was just
very cool," Friedlander said. "It
was very comfortable .speak-
ing with him and we talked a lot
about being a server, being a stu-
dent and paying my way through
school."
In addition to working for a
mayoral campaign in her home
state of Minnesota, Friedlander
has worked as a server to cover
living expenses while in college.

While the federal minimum wage
for most jobs is $7.25 an hour,
servers and other similar tipped
positions have a lower standard
- $2.13 an hour - as long as the
addition of tips covers the differ-
ence.
"For me, I've been lucky with
the restaurants I've worked at,"
Friedlander said. "I was raised
to be very independent and very
self-sufficient - and also I come
from a single mother home ... For
me, it's troublesome when I have
to ask for money."
"It's hard, butI make it work,"
she added.
- IANDILLINGHAM
1HRL THINGS YOU

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section EioilPt
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
opinion@micigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

MCKENZIE BEREZIN/Daily
LSA senior Mira Friedlandergrabs lunch with President
Barack Obama at Zingerman's Deli Wednesday prior
to his address on a proposed minimum wage increase.

ON THE WEB.: michigandai

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Beyonce love
BY PHOEBE CLARK
Clark explains that
apart from the widespread
appreciation for Beyonce's
music, the , pop star is
deserving of admiration for
her strength as a mother,
wife and businesswoman.
She writes that Beyonce's
accomplishments are "very

Banana Bandit
BY ANDREW LIEBERMAN
Lieberman writes that
after years of searching,
University Police have
apprehended the "Banana
Bandit." He quotes an
officer as. saying, "BAM!
You can take one banana but
once you take two, it's game
over."

Charity a
cappella
WHAT: An a cappella con-
cert by Angels on Call, a
University group that sings
for hospitals, nursing homes
and charities.
WHO: Gifts of Art
WHEN: Today 12:10-1 p.m.
WHERE: University Hospi-
tals Main Lobby (Floor 1)

.


Digital studies
Researchers and activists
colloquium talk worry that the pangolin,
the only scaled mammal
WHAT: The inaugural talk in the world, may be going
will welcome Finn Brunton exctint in Southeast Asia.
to talk about the history of Described as a "walking arti-
cryptocurrencies leading up choke" or a "friendly dragon,"
to and including Bitcoin. it is being poached for Chi-
aHO: Dertment nese medicine and meat.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham,Sam Gringlas, WillGreenberg, RachelPremack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amnon, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
MichaelSugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel WangEdio rilPageEditrrs opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
AleandroZitiga Managing Sports Editorssportseditors@michigandaily.com
SN ORSORTSED sTORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
lohn Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
Akshay Seth ManagingArts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
Alec Ster"
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Patrick Barron and Ruby Wallau
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:Allison Farrand, TracyKo, Terra Molengraffand Nicholas
Wilam
tarolyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasquez Managing DesigntEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackens and Alicia Kovalcheck
tarlin Doan Mang neTEdir x staementmichigandaily.com
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Walau
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPYEDITORS: MariamSheikhandDavidNayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasMo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh special Projectscoordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
Tstudents totheUisyooMichia. nepy s avaniaefre f hrgItsa ederns. diinlcpe a
be picked up at the Dailys office for $2 Subscriptions for fall termstartingin September, via U.S mai are $110
Wier rmain th ruhig A rili smm5,earlsonsgi(Se tedbe rthog Aesrsl iss nityagiaterss
be pai.oTeMihgn yisa emersof The Asocia~ed e sn h socitdsCliat res

xmerican ku ture
WHEN: Today 4-5:30 p.m.
WHERE: North Quad
Room 2435


rare and very powerful. Democracy in Self-esteem and
the Middle East relationships
Birth control Smoke on State
BY TH E STATEMENT STAFF BY MICHAEL SUGERMAN WHAT: Dr. Rashid Khalidi WHAT: A workshop will

The Statement staff
lists five new birth control
developments that could
make safe sex easier in
the future, including an
injection called RISUG for
males, a once-a-year pill, an
emergency contraceptive
gel and smaller interuterine
devices for more comfort.

Four Ann Arbor Fire
Department trucks came
to a smoky 720 S. State St.
apartment on the night of
April 1. It was determined
that the smoke was not from
a fire, but from unattended
cooking instead.
Read morefrom these
blogs at michigandaily.com

will discuss obstacles to
democracy in the Middle
East and misconceptions
about the region's inability
to support consitutionality
and representative govern-
ment.
WHO: Many sponsors
WHEN: Today 5-6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Hall,
Room 100

help attendees examine how
they think about themselves
and how this affects their
relationships, hopefully
leadingto better relation-
ship honesty and skills.
They will also learn skills to
help them manage stress.
WHO: CAPS
WHEN: Today 4:15-5 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
CAPS Annex

The B-Side takes a look
at SAC 423, a screen-
writingclass in LSA that
lets students submit film proj-
ects to the Traverse City Film
Festival. The secondary exam-
ines the Zell Writing Program.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE BSIDE
New York high school
student Kwasi Enin was
just accepted to all eight
Ivy League schools. Enin
plays three instruments, acts
as lead in plays, throws shot
put and discus, sings a cap-
pella and volunteers at a local
hospital.


Guest professor Nicholas
Freudenberg talks health

Hunter College profit from these industries, the
impact of their products affects
prof. gives lecture billions of people and will con-
tinue to over the next century,
to Public Health he said.
During his lecture, Freud-
students enberg said chronic disease
and injuries are the leading
By JOEL GOLDSTEIN causes of death and both are
Daily StaffReporter rooted in lifestyle choices. Fast
food and cigarettes are linked
Public Health Prof. Nicholas to many chronic diseases and
Freudenberg of Hunter College firearms and automobiles have
spoke at the School of Public caused millions of injuries, he
Health Wednesday, discuss- said, adding that cigarettes are
ing the consumption culture in expected to kill one billion peo-
the United States. The themes ple. With the large number of
in his talk echoed his recently victims, few people benefit from
published book, "Lethal but these industries.
Legal: Corporations, Consump- "The 'most effective strate-
tion, and Protecting Public gies are the ones that come from
Health." _ within communities," Freuden-
Freudenberg's work focuses berg said in an interview after
on how corporations influence the lecture.
society by encouraging con- Freudenberg has conducted
sumption of goods that ulti- research on how small sections
mately cause illness and death. of business cause large strife
While relatively few people in communities. He added that
a, ..,,

another paradox is the dispro-
portionate political power these
industries wield.
He compared President
Dwight Eisenhower's "military
industrial complex" to today's
"corporate consumption com-
plex." Freudenberg's complex
consists of any corporation that
promotes unhealthy behavior,
focusing primarily on ciga-
rettes, alcohol and fast food.
These corporations can be food
companies themselves as well
as lobbies and advertising agen-
cies.
Freudenberg has also
researched solutions to prob-
lems caused by the corporate
consumption complex, such as
the '90s fight started by commu-
nity organizers against Uptown,
the cigarette brand that was
attempting to break into the
market by specifically market-
ing to African-Americans.
Freudenberg also discussed
the progress made in this area,
citing the successful ban on
new fast food franchises in
downtown Los Angeles that
has opened up space for farm-
ers' markets, mom-and-pop
stores and other alternatives.
Freudenberg advocates for
community action as well as
government restrictions.
"The antidote is more
democracy," Freudenberg said.
Freudenberg said full dis-
closure of political contribu-
tions as well as capping the
amount of money corporations
can donate and lobby for could
help alleviate corporations'
hold on consumers. Freuden-
berg praised other Western
nations that have restricted
marketing toward children,
who can't tell the difference
between the truth and persua-
sive tactics. Other suggestions
for dismantling the corporate
consumption complex were
more radical. He said in addi-
tion to public transportation
and 1ibraries, the United States
would benefit from having a
public food source.

Fort Hood shooting leaves
three dead, wounding more
Military base suffers in 2011, had been undergoing an immediately available.
assessment to determine whether The injured were taken to Dar-
second shooting in he had post-traumatic stress dis- nall Army Community Hospital at
ft yorder, according to Lt. Gen. Mark Fort Hoodandotherlocal hospitals.
ye years A. Milley, the senior officer on the Dr. Glen Couchman, chief medical
base. officer at Scott and White Hospital
FORT HOOD, Texas (AP) - A There was no indication the in Temple, said the first four people
soldier opened fire Wednesday on attack was related to terrorism, Mil- admitted there had gunshots to
fellow service members at the Fort ley said. chest, abdomen, neck and extremi-
Hood military base, killing three A Texas congressman said the ties and that their conditions range
people and wounding 16 before shooting happened at a medical cen- from stable to "quite critical."
committing suicide at the same post ter. Rep. Michael McCaul, chairman The 2009 assault on Fort Hood
where more than a dozen people of the House Homeland Security wasthedeadliestattackonadomes-
were slain in a2009 attack, authori- Committee, also identified the sus- tic military installation in U.S. his-
ties said. pect as Ivan Lopez. But additional tory. Thirteen people were killed
The shooter, who served in Iraq details about the gunman were not and morethan 30 wounded.


__ _ _ _.. a


POLICY
From Page1A
Equity, which is responsible for
enforcing the University's non-
discrimination statement, which
ensures thatcampus remains a safe
and welcoming climate built on
mutual respect for all students.
"With respect to student sexual
misconduct issues, we have two
full-time investigators who handle
those matters exclusively," Wales-
bysaid.
He briefly described the inves-
tigation process, which begins
when the survivor or complain-
ant in a case notifies the Univer-
sity through one of many available
mediums, such as a residential
adviser or online through the Uni-
versity's sexual misconduct web-
site.
After the complaint is filed, OIE
will immediately assess if extra
measures need to be taken to sepa-
rate the person from the situation.
OIE will next make sure the com-
plainant is aware of all resources
that are available to him or her.
Walesby said OIE is equally
interested in making sure that
person who is accused - the
respondent - is also supported by
connecting him or her to resources
on campus.
OIE receives the respondent's
statement, ensures that it is correct
and starts an investigation by iden-
tifying witnesses and searching for

any other information.
"We are very interested in a fair,
thorough and equitable process,"
Walesby said.
Wilgus elaborated on the proce-
dure from a resolution standpoint,
as the next part of the process
involves sending reports to OSCR
to facilitate the sanction.
"Our goals are to eliminate the
misconduct, prevent its reoccur-
rence and remedy its effects," Wil-
gus said.
He added that OSCR seeks to
create an agreement between the
complainant, the respondent and
the University.
In the rare number of cases in
which an agreement is not met,
OSCR will facilitate a "resolution
by decision" in which the Univer-
sity makes a binding decision about
the matter without the consent of
the respondent.
As dean of students, Blake
Jones said her office is intricately
involved in educating the student
body about sexual misconduct, as
well as facilitating student com-
plaints and sometimes referring
themback to SAPAC.
Several students in attendance
asked why the University's sexual
misconduct policy was changed
and revised over the course of
the last three years. Since 2010,
Holly and Wilgus began actively
researching how to manage stu-
dent sexual misconduct. Wilgus
added that they kept very close
attention to relative legislation in
thinking about ways to improve.

The U.S. Department of Educa-
tion's Office for Civil Rights issued
guidance regarding student sexual
misconduct on April 4,2011. Imme-
diately following the release of the
letter, OSCR instituted an interim
procedure for addressing student
sexual misconduct issues in order
to learn the new process and get
student feedback.
"We actually took the time to
create a policy that is uniquely
Michigan, that genuinely responds
to what our community identified
as being importantto us and where
we wanted to center our values,"
Rider-Milkovich said.
According to Rider-Milkovich,
other campuses and the White
House are looking to the Univer-
sity's policy as a "novel practice"
and a way in which the campus is
furtheringthe knowledge ofsexual
assault prevention.
"We are trailblazers," Blake
Jones said. "And an institution
that most of the country looks to in
terms of our prevention and educa-
tion efforts."
Students were also curious
abouthowmanystudentsuse these
services annually.
Each year, SAPAC supports 150
to 160 individual students. OIE sees
about 60 to 80 cases per year, and
about half of those cases proceed to
an investigation. OSCR reviewed
about 83 cases in the last academic
year.
"Not all of those matters result
in a full scale investigation that
See POLICY, Page 3A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 3, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 3, 2014 - 3A

OBAMA
From Page 1A
"My point is we got to make
sure that everybody can afford
to do things that may not pay
huge sums of money but are
really valuable to society,"
Obama said.
While many students filled the
audience, University administra-
tors and governmentofficials also
made a strong showing. Included
among the attendees were Uni-
versity executive officers, mem-
bers of the University's Board
of Regents, Rep. Gary Peters
(D-Mich.), State Reps Jeff Irwin
(D-Ann Arbor) and Adam Zemke
(D-Ann Arbor) and Congressio-
nal candidate Debbie Dingell.
LSA senior Mira Friedlander,
a restaurant server who finances
her college education with her
minimum wage job, introduced
the president before he gave his
remarks. Inan interview after the
speech, Friedlander said she was
honored to introduce the presi-
dent, especially before a speech
that would hit close to home.
"It was completely surreal,"
she said.

Obama's address comes only
a day after the White House
announced that 7.1 million Amer-
icans signed up for the Afford-
able Care Act. The president cited
the success of the legislation as
another mechanism he has used
to ensure that every American
has an opportunity to succeed.
Raising the minimum wage, he
said, is another shot at granting
Americans the success the coun-
try promised in its founding.
In an interview after the
speech, Regent Mark Bernstein
(D-Ann Arbor) said Obama's
multiple visits to campus signify
the University's role in national
issues of concern.
"It speaks to the stature of
this great public university,"
Bernstein said. "Each time his
message has been targeted at a
student body that i think appre-
ciates his message. It's a great
honor to participate in that kind
of experience."
Bernstein added that he and
several other University offi-
cials met with Obama before his
speech.
During the address, more than
100 students lined the bleachers
behind him with an American
flag draped above them on the

IM Building's brick wall. Some of
these students included Business
senior Michael Proppe, CSG pres-
ident; LSA senior Phil Schermer,
MUSIC Matters president; and
LSA senior Tyrell Collier, Black
Student Union president, among
other campus leaders.
In an interview after the event,
E. Royster Harper, vice president
for student life, said the office of
Student Life chose which stu-
dents to invite to sit in the select-
ed seats. While many of them
were leaders of prominent cam-
pus organizations, Harper said
some represented sectors of cam-
pus that are less well known -
including first-generation college
students, international students,
students who work in campus
dining halls and some who grew
up in foster care.
"We tried to be really thought-
ful," Harper said. "Some were
students in leadership roles, but
others were students who lead in
a very different way."
Students showed up in droves
Monday afternoon to wait for
their chance to secure their spot
at the event. The University dis-
tributed tickets on a first-come,
first-served basis Tuesday morn-
ing at 9 a.m., motivating students

to wait in line overnight for the
opportunity to see the president.
Harper said this commit-
ment to engaging in campus life
showed how willing the students
are to interact with the world
around them.
"Our students are always
engaged and thinking about
what's going on in the world and
they're just smart in that way,"
Harper said. "They're politically
smart. I think students on boths
sides of the issues kind of want to
be in the conversation."
Bernstein echoed Harper's
sentiments after Obama's speech,
adding that students are engaged
in nationally pertinent topics.
"We have a uniquely engaged
student body," Bernstein said. "It
shows that we have students that
are intensely interested in. mat-
ters of consequence that face this
nation."
Schermer, who interned with
the National Economic Council
in the White House last sum-
mer, said in an interview after the
event that Obama's speech gave
resounding statistical economic
and public policy evidence for
raising the minimum wage.
Proppe said Obama's emphasis
onloweringthecostofhigheredu-

cation was particularly important
for the University community. To
ease costs on higher education,
the University has initiated a host
of cost-containment initiatives
- including the lowest increase
in tuition in recent years and an
uptick in financial aid funding.
As for Obama's strong presence
at the University, Proppe said his
willingness to come back again
and again is due to the thriving
entrepreneurship community.
"A lot of really motivated peo-
ple live here and things start in
Ann Arbor and spread nation-
ally," Proppe said. "I think the
president understands that."
Before his speech, Obama
ordered a #2 Reuben from Ann
Arbor landmark, Zingerman's
Delicatessen - which Obama
said is an example of a business
that values its employees. Zing-
erman's co-owner Paul Saginaw
pays his employees more than
minimum wage.
"Zingerman's is a business
that treats its workers well, and
rewards honest work with honest
wages," Obama said. "And that's
worth celebrating."
Over lunch, Obama spoke to
Friedlander about her experience
navigating college depending

financially on her minimum wage
job. While she said she was sur-
prised by Obama's calm demean-
or, Friedlander said she was upset
he chose a "new pickle" over an
"old pickle" to supplement his
sandwich - a Zingerman's tra-
dition that Ann Arbor residents
take pride in.
"It was the most unreal thing
of my entire life, but it made me
comfortable introducing him,"
Friedlander said. "But then
speaking was the biggest high in
the world. I thought, 'Who gets
to introduce the leader of the free
world?"'
Among passionate state-
ments in support of raising the
minimum wage, Obama jokingly
recalled his decision to choose
the Michigan State University
basketball team as the champions
of his March Madness bracket.
At the beginning of his speech,
Obama mentioned University
basketball players Jordan Mor-
gan, Glenn Robinson III and Nik
Stauskas, congratulating them on
their season and run in the tour-
nament.
"My bracket's a mess," Obama
said. "I learned my lesson: Iwill
not pick against the Wolver-
ines."


SPEECH
From Page 1A
a society where progress is the
servant of our needs, or a society
where old values and new visions
are buried under unbridled
growth."
In front of a crowd of about
1,400 University students, faculty
and Michigan legislators, Obama
harkened back to Johnson's
vision.
"We want to make sure that no
matter where you're born, what
circumstances, how you started
out, what you look like, what your
last name is, who you love - it
doesn't matter, you can succeed,"
he said. "That's what we believe."
Obama's 35-minute speech
was filled with references to the
University and Ann Arbor, from
Nik Stauskas to Zingerman's
Delicatessen, but his most impor-
tant relation to the state was the
recent initiative of state legisla-
tors to raise the minimum wage.
"If you're working, if you're
responsible, you should be able to
pay the rent, pay the bills," Obama
said. "You've got more states and

counties and cities that are work-
ing to raise the minimum wage
as we speak. That includes your
state legislators from Ann Arbor."
State Reps. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) and Adam Zemke (D-Ann
Arbor), who both attended the
event, co-sponsored State House
Bill 4386 in March 2013, which
proposes the state minimum
wage be raised from $7.40 to $9
per hour.
"(Raising the minimum wage)
puts more money into pockets,
which will be put back into the
economy," Zemke said.
He added that Obama's pub-
lic presence has put significant
weight behind gathering support.
"It's important that he contin-
ues to speak about this around
the country, to dispel false conno-
tations or associations with rais-
ing the minimum wage," Zemke
said.
Obama has endorsed a pro-
posed bill to raise the federal
minimum wage from $7.25 to
$10.10 per hour .On Feb. 12, he
signed an executive order raising
the minimum wage for federal
government contractors to $10.10.
"It's easy to remember," he said
in his address. "10-10.10-10."

One week earlier, the Congres-
sional Budget Office released a
report on the effects of a poten-
tial raise. It estimated that a raise
to $10.10 per hour would increase
the nation's unemployment by
500,000 workers, or 0.3 percent,
and 16.5 million workers would
have higher earnings. However,
just 19 percent of those earnings
would go to families living below
the poverty threshold.
Though a minority of the
excess earnings would go to fami-
lies in poverty, the CBO reported
that such a raise would lift about
900,000 of the roughly 45 million
people who are currently below
the poverty threshold above it.
Many University students
work part-time jobs, which often
pay minimum wage, to supple-
ment living and tuition costs;
however, the average age of mini-
mum-wage earners is 35.
Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.)
introduced a budget Tuesday
outlining Congressional Repub-
licans' plan to grow the economy
by cutting spending by $5.1 tril-
lion. Raising the federal mini-
mum wage was not included in
the plan.
"(Republicans) sincerely

believe that if we give more tax
breaks to a fortunate few and we
invest less in the middle class and
... do only what's best for their
bottom line without the responsi-
bility to the rest of us, then some-
how the economy will boom, and
jobs and prosperity will trickle
down to everybody," Obama said.
In his speech, the president
called on businesses to act as well,
referencing Henry Ford's famous
wage-doubling initiative in his
Michigan factory 100 years ago.
"Not only did it boost pro-
ductivity, not only did it reduce
turnover, not only did it make
employees more loyal to the com-
pany, but it meant that the work-
ers could afford to buy the cars
that they were building," Obama
said.
Wallace Hopp, senior associate
dean for faculty and research at
the Ross School of Business, said
this type of strategy is necessary
for businesses to be successful.
"By paying high wages he not
only attracted the best people,
but held onto them ... as a result he
had very high levels of productiv-
ity," Hopp said. "Ford was right
when he said raising wages was
the greatest cost-saving device he

had come up with."
He added that Costco, also
referenced in the president's
remarks, is a modern example of
this practice. The Center for Posi-
tive Organizations at Ross stud-
ies Costco and other models, and
has repeatedly seen productive
results coming from their higher
wages.
Though the majority of Ameri-
cans support raising the mini-
mum wage, Hopp said there is
opposition both from smaller
businesses that depend on min-
imum-wage workers and from
within Congress.
"One word: politics," Hopp
said. "If you believe that the free
market is the right thing and can
never fail, and any effort to regu-
late it is evil, then you oppose
minimum wage laws because
they are anti-free trade."
Mike Traugott, professor
of communication studies and
political science, said Obama's
speech focused more on the
equity issue of raising minimum
wage rather than the economic
argument.
"The president doesn't talk
about this in terms of jobs,"
Traugott said. "He talks about it

in terms of getting by."
He noted that in front of a
sympathetic audience, Obama
referenced his vision for an
Opportunity Society more fre-
quently than his plans for the
federal minimum wage.
Traugott said the president,
now in his second term, is able
to talk about social issues such as
equity and gay marriage without
fear of negative attack ads. He
added that Obama may look to
the Democratic nominee in 2016
election to carry on the fight.
One of Johnson's first men-
tions of the "Great Society" came
in front of a crowd of 85,000 in
Ann Arbor. Half a century later,
Obama stood in a smaller build-
ing down the street, in front of
a smaller audience, but with the
same call to action.
"We believe in opportunity
for everybody," Obama said.
"More good jobs for everybody.
More workers to fill those jobs. A
world-class education for every-
body. Hard work that pays off
with wages you can live on and
savings you can retire on and
health care you can count on.
That's what 'opportunity for all'
means."


LIEBERMAN
From Page 1A
"It's very satisfying to realize
that my efforts are appreciated by
some people," Lieberman said. "It's
an incentive to continue working
and putting energy and enthusi-
asm into course preparation. It's a
recognition of the past and incen-
tives for the future."
The ceremony provides profes-
sors with an opportunity to give
their "last lecture." In his last lec-
ture, titled "What I Think I Know
About History," Lieberman dis-

cussed the history of the world and
his predictions for the future.
"It was an opportunity to play
with some big ideas that I hadn't
yet formulated," Lieberman said.
"I thought I'd vent these large
thoughts that I'd had for some
time."
University President Mary Sue
Coleman, who was presented with
the first Golden Apple Award for
university leadership, spoke before
Lieberman delivered his lecture.
"I am deeply humbled by this
award," Coleman said. "There's
nothing quite as important as being
with students, lecturing them and
seeing them grow as they progress

through their academic careers
and their time at the University."
Prior to coming to the Univer-
sity, Lieberman obtained his Bach-
elor of Arts and graduated first in
his class from Yale University and
received his Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of London's School of Ori-
ental and African Studies.
Lieberman has written four
books, which have been acclaimed
by the Association for Asian Stud-
ies and the World History Asso-
ciation. He has also published
numerous articles and is working
on his fifth book, to be published
by Harvard University Press.
Lieberman first came to the

University in 1984 as an assistant
professor and became a full profes-
sor in 1991. He previously taught a
course on Southeast Asian history
and a course on the Vietnam War.
He currently teaches a History244
course on the Arab-Israeli conflict.
LSA sophomore Greg Klein
took the class last year and said
Lieberman was one of his favorite
instructors at the University.
"I thought he was one of the
most intelligent professors I'd
ever had," Klein said. "I think
he's a genius, I think he is a great
historian, I think he gives great
lectures and I think that's why he
won."

POLICY
From Page 2A
goes all the way to a finding,"
Wilgus said. "Oftentimes the Uni-
versity becomes aware of an inci-
dent of sexual harassment and a
student specifically requests that
the Universitynot take any action."
The Dean of Students Office
reaches 95 to 97 percent of the
incoming student body through
an online course called Commu-
nity Matters, Blake Jones said.
Three studentsinthe audience
asked about what challenges the

University faces when reaching
out to the Greek Life community.
"The challenge is one of num-
bers," Blake Jones said.
The Dean of Students Office
partners closely with the national
organizations that work individ-
ually with each chapter to elevate
the standards their foundations
were created upon, Blake said.
Rider-Milkovich ended the
panel by stressing the impor-
tance of collaboration, likening
sexual assault awareness and
prevention to the act of pushing
a rock uphill- a task achievable
with community support and
understanding.


ROTC
From Page 1A
that were used in those battles.
The trip aims to give cadets a
better understanding of battle
tactics, how to lead and howto
deal with stressful situations.
The trip also gives cadets
hands-on experience in deci-
sion-making and leadership
that they normally would not
experience in a more tradition-
al setting.
"Classroom learning doesn't
really cut it when you're out
in the physical world," said
Engineering senior Matthew
Blanchard, an Army ROTC
cadet who served as cadet bat-
talion commander last semes-
ter.
This was the first time the
Army ROTC program trav-
eled to Gettysburg for the
staff ride. Blanchard said the
ROTC program chose Gettys-
burg for its complex battle-
field, intricate planning and
the tactical decisions com-
manders had to make.
"It is one thing to read
about the Battlefield of Get-
tysburg, or to watch a spe-
cial on -the History Channel,
but there is an element that
you just can't pick up unless
you are there witnessing it

yourself," wrote Engineering
senior Michael Konieczny,
an Army ROTC cadet, in an
e-mail interview.
Once at Gettysburg, each
cadet was assigned to a spe-
cific battlefield and asked to
analyze its terrain as well as
present various facts and sto-
ries about it to the rest of the
group.
The battlefields the cadets
visited were Devil's Den, Tri-
angle Field, Little Round
Top, Cemetery Ridge, Peach
Orchard and Culp's Hill.
Cadets also participated in
group discussions and prac-
ticed devising their own battle
tactics after analyzing their
chosen battlefields.
Konieczny wrote that he
was assigned to analyze Dev-
il's Den, where Union and
Confederate soldiers fought
during the second day of the
battle. His battle tactics con-
sisted of providing the other
cadets with information about
both their own forces and the
hostile forces, leading them to
the starting point of the battle,
commanding them to formu-
late a plan and to adjust the
plan whenever needed.
"The whole purpose of the
exercise was to demonstrate
how rapidly and unpredictably
a battle can change from the
commander's initial assess-

ment," Konieczny wrote.
Cadets also visited the
monument of Colonel Charles
Frederick Taylor, a former Uni-
versity student who was com-
mander of the Union Army's
First Rifle "Bucktails." LSA
senior Hari Vutukuru, another
Army ROTC cadet, presented
facts and stories about Taylor
to the cadets.
"While our generation
spends their twenties working
or attending college, just start-
ing to figure things out and to
put our lives together, this man
was responsible for the lives
and welfare of hundreds of
men in one of the most pivotal
moments in American history,"
Konieczny wrote.
Blanchard wrote that the
staff ride was valuable to
the ROTC program because
cadets sometimes miss cer-
tain concepts when reading
about a battlefield in a class-
room setting. He added that
visiting the battlefield is
invaluable to their learning
experience.
"Actually standing on the
battlefield was a very emotion-
al experience. To stand in the
same place that so many thou-
sands of men fought and died,
the same place that the course
of our nation's history was for-
ever changed, was indescrib-
able," Konieczny wrote.


4A - Thursday, April 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, April 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109'
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Keep the lakes reat
Michigan needs to enact stricter legislation on oil transportation
n March 24, the BP Whiting Refinery in Whiting, Ind.
experienced a malfunction causing crude oil to spill into Lake
Michigan. BP initially estimated that nine to 18 barrels - about
377 to 755 gallons - were spilled. Later, those estimates were doubled.
Lake Michigan, along with the other Great Lakes, is a significant element
of the state's identity and play a large role in Michigan's tourism industry.
To protect the lakes, Gov. Rick Snyder and other state legislators should
exhaust all options to implement stricter regulations when oil is processed
or transferred near the Great Lakes.

Another petty election
F or a minute there, I actually that our work in college is pointless, Can we stop this charade?
thought we'd be better off but we shouldn't take it to the point I've become so annoyed with
without astudentgovernment of suing people and running a these ridiculous elections, I actually
entirely, campaign like the U.S. Senate. Rarely argued to my roommates that CSG
Yet another can we make the wide-ranging doesn't need to exist. It serves no
year has gone by impacts we hope for, and those who purpose, I told them - student
with a group of do are typically not members of organizations can do better alone.
self-important, student government. According to But before we plunge into anarchy
pretentious can- Make Michigan - our new student (sorry, YAL) let's remember
didates taking government executives - they're that CSG actually does have
themselves and "changing campus culture." real responsibility. They control
the shoddy insti-JAMES No, no you are not. hundreds of thousands of dollars
tution of Central BRENNAN CSG and political parties don't in student organization funding,
Student Govern- change campus culture. The Coali- are supposedly our unified voice on
ment far too seri- tion for Tuition Equality changes campus and have the ability to create
ously. I'm just campus culture. The Black Student dialogues on important causes. The
thankful I became too cool for Face- Union changes campus culture. Even point I'm making is that elections
book so my exposure to wannabe groups that I typically disagree with, - even when they only garner a
politicians and their platitudes was such as Students Allied for Free- small sliver of student attention
left to unwarranted retweets and dom and Equality, Hillel and Young - are so pathetic they can make a
e-mails. Americans for Liberty, change cam- reasonable person want to toss out
Here's something to think about: pus culture. CSG serves as a platform an occasionally useful system.
for every year I've been at the for self-important, goal-driven kids It's inconceivable how stupid
University, student government to pretend they matter. They occa- cheating to win an election to be
elections have ended with lawsuits. sionally go speak to the University's student body president is. It's even
Let me repeat that with emphasis Board of Regents, get nods of approv- more inconceivable that a person
to make sure that we all understand alfor dressingup in a suitandtalking would sue their way into office over
how ridiculous itsounds: like a bigboy, and infractions
Student government elections then sit down as pointless
have ended with lawsuits. while grownups . as showing
Really, guys? discuss real mat- Let me give you friends how to
A glorified resume builder is ters. Sometimes s advice: e' vote or failing
worth "suing" people in student they jump on to report small
court over? Like alot of people, I was board and pass Voung and most expenses. Maybe
shocked to find out we even have a resolution (or * I'm just being
a student election commission, let don't) in support of what we do is pessimistic, but I
alone the sheer number of election of a real student i sa find it incredibly
rules. Aren't we better than this? group's goals inconsequential. petty, immature
Aren't we mature, reasonable adults while approving and selfish
who realize how insignificant CSG their funding, to go to such
elections are? Don't we realize how but the idea that they "change cam- lengths all so you can call yourself
sad it is that we need to have such pus culture" is comical. "President." There are easier ways
a cadre to fight cheating? This is a Everyyear, Iwatchthese elections to back up your self-importance, like
student government election, not the and I shake my head and laugh. I see getting a college newspaper column
U.S. Congress. The one talking point kids my own age or younger get overly and calling yourself a "journalist."
for your law school interview isn't worked up over aglorified popularity Most students probably wouldn't
worth the grief to cheat, and neither contest, taking to the pages of The be familiar with what the BSU,
are your plans for some bus system Michigan Daily in an attempt to SAFE or YAL have legitimately
that I'm sure would be enacted distinguish themselves from the accomplished - fair enough. But I
anyways. And please, stop acting like equally homogenous party they're bet even fewer could point out who
you do this because you care. You do running against. They all "believe our new President is and what his
it for the same reasons college kids do in student government," speak in position actually entails.
almost anything: ambition. the politically correct euphemisms Everyone who just got elected,
Let me give you some advice that we hear from U.S. presidential please remember that.
mymentorsinlife continuallyremind candidates, and tweet about how
me of: we're young and most of what "It was great meeting with (insert - James Brennan can be
we do is inconsequential. It's not group)! #MichiganDifference." reached at jmbthree@umich.edu.
Thank you, Obama

Last Thursday, BP representatives revised
their estimates for the amount spilled
to between 630 and 1,638 gallons. One
week after the spill, an assessment team
- comprised of the Coast Guard, BP and
the Environmental Protection Agency -
reported there was no more oil visible on the
shore or in the water. Phillip Willink, senior
biologist at Chicago's Shedd Aquarium, said
Lake Michigan wildlife shouldn't suffer
any long-term harm. Despite the relatively
small size of the spill, the failure of existing
facilities and regulation to safeguard the
lakes is concerning.
The Great Lakes are an incredibly
important ecosystem for fish, agriculture,
various animals and even humans. Currently,
37 million people live in the Great Lakes
Basin, more than 26 million of whom rely on
the lakes for drinking water. The people in
the surrounding area rely on this important
ecosystem. About 67,000 of the 201,000
square miles in the Basin are used for
growing crops such as wheat, corn, soybeans,
barley and oats. The area surrounding Lake
Michigan contains the most farmland of all
the Great Lakes and is a leading producer of
fruits and vegetables.

With a history of oil spills, BP's conduct
merits heightened attention from both the
state and federal government. Just last
month, a ban on federal contracts with BP
was lifted. The sanction was initially put in
place in response to the disastrous Deepwater
Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. This
recent spill - along with previous oil spills
in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico - raises
questions about whether BP needs to be
placed back under a federal ban. Considering
BP's questionable track record, it's imperative
that the company be transparent with the
spill and the resulting cleanup.
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel called
for full transparency from BP regarding
the events leading up to the spill. U.S.
Sens. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Mark Kirk
(R-Ill.) elaborated on Emanuel's speech,
calling for a full investigation to prevent the
possibility of future oil spills in the Great
Lakes. According to The Chicago Tribune,
representatives from Michigan are also
calling on BP to tighten regulations. Given
that the Great Lakes are equally important
- if not more so - to Michigan, it's time for
Snyder and Michigan senators to voice their
concerns as well.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Edvinas Berzanskis, Rachel John, Nivedita Karki,
Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria
Noble, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
EDVINAS BERZANSKIS
Understanding HJVAIDS

The 12 of us were making the last leg
of our long and exhausting drive to Fort
Worth, Texas, as part of Alternative Spring
Break. We were going to spend our time at
Samaritan House, a nonprofit organization
that provides housing and care to individuals
and families living with HIV/AIDS and other
special needs.
I did not save anyone. I didn't expect to.
We entered the community with anticipation
and anxiety, ready to experience a new envi-
ronment, hear new stories and do some good
old-fashioned manual labor. And we did. But I
would like to think that there is a reason why
year after year, they continue to invite students
from the University back. To be honest, yes -
our five days of physical work most likely didn't
have any grand effect on Samaritan House or
the community. To them we may have been
a passing kiss, a short, sweet presence com-
monplace in an environment that attracts so
much service and assistance from the commu-
nity. But to us, or at least me, the people at the
Samaritan House offered a window into a stig-
matized group of society who is often margin-
alized, ignored and even avoided. They're those
who are living with HIV/AIDS.
Phrasing was the first lesson. He or she is not
an "HIV-positive person" or "a person infected
by HIV." They are living with HIV/AIDS. First
and foremost, despite what society miscon-
strues, this community of people do, in fact,
have lives that are often quite fulfilling and are
comprised of employment, families and close
relationships. But even more importantly,
an individual living with HIV/AIDS doesn't
allow it to envelop or define their entire lives.
Hearing the stories of the residents of Samari-
tan House, their illness was merely one of the
many hardships faced, and like all the other

hardships, they were merely facts to live with,
not be defined by. This is becoming more and
more a reality as changes in medical technol-
ogy have transformed HIV/AIDS from a death
sentence to a manageable chronic illness.
I remember coming home and hearing one
of my friends make a seemingly "harmless"
joke regarding contracting HIV by sharing a
spoon. I went off. To be fair, my verbal back-
lash was unnecessarily mean. I know there
was no malicious intent, and it very well could
have been a joke I would have made a few
months prior. There was the second lesson:
stigma. Most don't consciously recognize the
perpetuated stigma over HIV/AIDS via non-
chalant comments or "harmless" jokes.
As it is with many stereotypes, the root
of this one is a lack of accurate information.
According to aids.gov, HIV can only be
transmitted through sexual contact,
pregnancy/childbirth, drug injection,
occupational exposure or organ transplant.
It cannot be contracted through physical
contact like hugging, a handshake or a kiss.
Neither I nor anyone else in my group ever
felt like our safety was at risk at any point.
On the contrary, we felt welcomed and very
comfortable in their community. Their homes
and communal spaces were open to us and we
truly had the opportunity to witness the very
human faces behind the illness that social
stigma unjustly distorts.
It's peculiar to think that I had to travel
1,160 miles into the heart of Texas to gain
insight into a global issue that affects us in
our very own backyard. But sometimes it
takes a new environment for people to see an
issue in a fresh, eye-opening context.
Edvinas Berzanskis is an LSA sophomore.

on't boo. Organize."
How profound.
And only three words.
For all of the
hours President
Barack Obama
and his writers
likely spend writ- '
ing, editing and
perfecting his
speeches, it was d
an off-the-cuff DEREK
remark that shed WOLFE
the most light
on where the
priorities of the
American people are and where they
should be. And it only strengthened
his argument.
Speaking to a crowd yesterday
mixed with students, donors and
alumni who were all thrilled to be
at the musty, dimly lit Intramural
Sports Building, Obama empha-
sized the importance of raising the
national minimum wage to $10.10
from the current $7.25 - $7.40 in
Michigan. I've never seen a more
engaging speaker. And he obviously
knows his audience.
He began with a resounding "Go
Blue!"
He ate lunch at Zingerman's and
had something to say about it: "One
of the reasons I went was because
the sandwiches are outstanding.
The second reason, though, is
Zingerman's is a business that treats
its workers well, and rewards honest
work with honest wages ... and that's
what I'm here to talk about today."
And if you haven't heard by now, he
ordered a Reuben.
He gave a shoutout to Nik Stauskas,
Glenn Robinson III, Jordan Morgan
and Devin Gardner - specifically
saying that Stauskas shouldn't worry
because he has a contract coming up
and that Morgan was the definition
of a true student-athlete.
He definitely covered the bases,
including his obligatory shot at
Republican incompetence. Obama
claimed that the Republican's tactics

- includingan origi:
the Affordable Care
terproductive to An
The crowd agreed a
resentment.And Ob
"Don'tboo. Organ
Obama can oni:
with the minimum
Smooth talking w
rolled up button-do
only go so far. He
to pass a bill, whii
seems more unlik
with midterm elect
in November. So he
roots as a communit
And that's wher
There arehundreds
on campus, so really
the problem. Rathe
to organize. We ca
with booing. With
an obnoxious sound
breath. The statusc
wage, specifically,i
directly affects our
to care. Because it m
citizens of ours arev
jobs and are still n
ends meet.
"Don't boo.
Organize. That's
what you need
to do, because
they may not
hear the boos,
but they can
read a petition
and they can
see votes."
It seems like

nal idea to repeal houses was rewarding, it was even
Act - are coun- more amazingto hear about how the
merica's success. local community came together and
nd expressed its began making the surrounding area
ama responded. a safer place, so people, especially
iize." children, don't have to live in fear
y do so much and can enjoy life. They wantto build
-wage initiative. a park. They want to resuscitate the
hile wearing a damaged houses and turn them into
:wn and tie can small businesses that students will
needs Congress work and learn in. Truly inspiring.
ch at this point But, of course, this all takes effort.
ely than likely Thinking is a lot easier than doing.
ions coming up That being said, I'm not calling
went back to his for a "Students for Higher Minimum
y organizer. Wage" group to start tomorrow.
e we come in. Quite frankly, I've never been a
ofstudentgroups part of a movement advocating for
organizing isn't political, economic or social change
r, it's the desire myself. And I admit that what Obama
nnot be content said today probably won't have me
out action, it's jumping out of bed tomorrow to join
I and a waste of one. I think that's also OK.
of the minimum Nonetheless, I want to start by
is an issue that asking the right questions.
futures. We have Why don't companies, big or
atters that fellow small, pay their employees more?
working multiple What would have to change to make
ot able to make that happen? Is it purely profit-
motivated?
Why do some
companies pay
If you truly want their employees
above minimum
something, you wage?
And with
cannot sit idly. those answers
in hand, action
can follow - or
not. Weighing
priorities is

a common sense issue. Evidently,
it's not. And actually, we don't even
have to wait for Congress - or the
government, in general - to make
something happen.
Effective organization is possible.
I saw it firsthand last weekend.
As a participant ofDetroit Partner-
ship Day, my site was at Denby High
School. Directly across the street
from the school were several blocks
filled with abandoned and blighted
houses. While helping clean up these

important as well.
However, the future of the
minimum wage debate among other
things is unclear right now. And
that's why it's crucial to understand
the gravitas of Obama's remark.
"Don't boo. Organize."
If you truly want something, you
cannot sit idly. And your friends,
family and community can't either.
- Derek Wolfe can be
reached dewolfe@umich.edu.

INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES?
POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK 'N' ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every
Monday and Thursday at 6 pm, the Daily's opinion staff meets to
discuss both University and national affairs and write editorials.
E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.

Don't boo. Organize."
- U.S. President Barack Obama during his speech on raising minimum wage
at the University of Michigan on Wednesday afternoon.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 3, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 3, 2014- 5A

Who, What, Where: The week in review
By Alicia Adamczyk, Weekend Roundup Editor

Spring fever (pitch)

President Barack Obama spoke at the Intramural Building W

It's been a long and eventful
week. It's difficult to keep
track of and remember ev-

Michigan Men's Basketball
team falls to Kentucky

that spotlights professors and stated that limits of $48,600
other instructors at the Uni- every two years by individu-
versity who are particularly als to all federal candidates
engaging and help students. violates the First Amendment.
University President Mary

erythi
Daily
the m
have I
and ar
Obar
for
Pr
ited tI
time i
- the
presid
motel
in the
from $
Ab
dents
ty me
-h fb

ng that's happened, so the In a stunning last-minute
has rounded up some of upset, the Kentucky Wildcats
ost significant events that defeated Michigan 75-72 and
happened around campus will continue to the Final Four,
ound the world this week. where they will face Wisconsin.
This marks the first time
Around Campus that a team has advanced to
the Final Four with an all-
mavisits the University freshman starting lineup since
the third time during Michigan's Fab Five in 1992.
presidency ."There's games that end
right now where there's offi-
esident Barack Obama vis- ciating controversy or there's
he University of the third some crazy thing that happened
n four years Wednesday or your team just comes out
most visits of any sitting and lays an egg;' said Michi-
ent in history - to pro- gan coach John Beilein after the
hisproposalfor anincrease game. "That didn't happen. It
federal minimum wage was an exciting basketball game.
$7.25/hour to $10.10/hour. "I think everybody walked
out 1,400 University stu- areuad here and said 'Col-n
and Ann Arbor communi- lege basketball is a wonder-
mbers attended the speech fixl sport, and I loved watch-
. Tt ll ung these two teams play."'

Sue Coleman also spoke at
the event, and was recognized
by Hillel for her outstanding
leadership at the University.
Around the World
Supreme Court strikes
down cap on individual
contributions
The Supreme Court struck
down a cap on individual do-
nations to candidates in a two-
year election cycle Wednesday.
The ruling follows the prec-
edent set in the 2010 Citizens
United decision, which struck
down a cap on independent
campaign contributions from
corporations and unions.
The case, McCutcheon
v. Federal Election Commis-
sion, No. 12-536, was brought
by Shaun McCutcheon, a
businessman, and the Repub-
lican National Committee.
"There is no right in our
democracy more basic than
the right to participate in
electing our political leaders,"
wrote Chief Justice John Rob-
erts in the majority opinion.
Specifically, the ruling

Peace talks in Middle East fall
apart
The most recent peace
talks brokered in the Middle
East are once again on the
verge of collapse as Palestin-
ian President Mahmoud Ab-
bas signed over a dozen inter-
national conventions Tuesday.
The 15 treaties and conven-
tionscouldgivethePalestinianAu-
thority the benefits of statehood.
Secretary of State John Ker-
ry canceled a trip to the West
Bank Wednesday in response.
Shooting at Fort Hood mili-
tary base kills at least four,
injures 14
A shooting at the Fort
Hood military base in Texas
left at least one dead and 14
injured Wednesday night, the
New York Times reported.
The military base is also
the site of a November 2009
shooting that killed 12 unarmed
soldiers and one civilian, and
wounded dozens of others.
The gunmen was one of
those killed, law enforce-
ment officials announced.

It's the most wonderful time of
the year. And no, I'm not quoting
Frank Sinatra.
April brings the comfort of
warm weather as well as the
excitement of Major League Base-
ball, and that's all that matters.
The winter has been a rough
one, maybe
even rough-
er than the
coming
winter in
this Sun-
day's "Game
of Thrones"
season pre-
miere. 45
degrees
BRAD has become
WHIPPLE the new
Daily Weekend norm for
Columnist shorts and a
T-shirt, and
no longer are the days when you
worry about what is warm enough
to overcome the early morning
wind chill.
While summer is the hot-
test part of the year, spring gives
a certain satisfaction that you
don't find during the time off
from school: Think of spring as
the moment you emerge from a
cold and dark cave you've spent
the last three months in, whereas
summer is more of living a famil-
iar life - you're a lot happier ini-
tially getting out of that damn
cave.
There aren't leaves on the trees
and the wind hasn't exactly died
down, but spring is upon us ... I
think. As a new resident to Michi-
gan, I'm not exactly sure how long
the warm weather will be around.
Most people tell me the weather
here is bipolar, and it's believable
considering there's a chance of
snow showers on Monday.
For the most part, though,
the climate is at peace and soon
enough, the color green will fill
Ann Arbor (and I'm not speaking
strictly about Hash Bash).
More importantly, the warm
weather is a springboard for the
opening days of professional
baseball teams across the United

States. Baseball is the nation's
pastime and there's nothing bet-
ter than sitting at a ballpark with
a bag of peanuts or sunflower
seeds (I only mention these
because they're standard ballpark
fare, but both would actually kill
me because I'm deathly allergic).
Monday, the Detroit Tigers
defeated the Kansas City Royals
4-3 on Opening Day at Comerica
Park. But my eyes are on New
York and Chicago.
Yes, I love the Yankees and
the Cubs. My parents were born
in upstate New York and my dad
would've actually donnedthe pin-
stripes if a baseball player's career
was more profitable in the '70s, so
it was the only choice for them to
raise me and my siblings as fans.
As for Chicago, I was raised in the
suburbs and avoided making the
mistake of being a White Sox fan.
I'll admit that the Cubs haven't
been too hot in recent years, or
really the last 106 years. The last
time they won a World Series was
1908 and it looks like The Curse of
the Billy Goat is still going strong.
As for New York, the Yankees
are no longer the highest-bud-
geted team in the MLB (thank
you, Dodgers), so no one can give
me crap for that anymore. They
haven't won a World Series since
2009, but I'm confident this is the
year things will turn around. For
the haters, mainly Red Sox fans,
count the rings (all 27to be clear).
Sports rivalries aside, opening
day for baseball is something to
be admired and brings together
fans who lost their way when
their team didn't make the play-
offs. Baseball also gives us a new
form of sports entertainment
with March Madness ending (no,
I swear those aren't tears...) and
the NBA and NHL drawing to a
close in May.
While the familiarity of base-
ball overtakes you, don't look past
the sun that is washing out the
bleak, gray colors of winter and
take a few moments to get outside
and do something you've missed,
because eventually, winter will
once again knock on our doorstep.

at te eintramurai Nports Build-
ing, where the President struck
a particularly partisan tone, say-
ing while the many Republican
constituents support an increase
in the minimum wage, Congres-
sional Republicans would pre-
fer not to vote on thedmatter.
He appealed to students in
particular, saying a minimum
wage increase would help stu-
dents better afford college.

History Prof. Victor Lieber-
man gives Golden Apple
address
History Prof. Victor Lieber-
man, who has taught at the
University since 1984, gave his
"last lecture" Wednesday as
part of the Golden Apple, an
annual award granted by the
University's chapter of Hillel


CAMPUS
EVENTS
IThursday, 4/3
TEDxUofM Salon: Cam-
pus of the Future
6:45 p.m.
BSRB
Friday, 4/4,
Baseball vs. Minnesota
4 p.m.
Wilpon Complex
Softball vs. OSU
6p.m.
Wilpon Complex
NOW 10: That's What I
Call Groove!
7:30 p.m.
Michigan Theater
She's The First Second
Annual Gala
8 p.m.
East Hall Atrium North
Women's Tennis vs.
Northwestern
12 p.m.
Varsity Tennis Center
Football Spring Game
2 p.m.
Michigan Stadium
Baseball vs. Minnesota
2 p.m.
Wilpon Complex
Softball vs. OSU
2 p.m.
Wilpon Complex
That Brown Show 2014
7 p.m.
Power Center for the
Performing Arts
NOiR Runway Fashion
Presents: Shameless XV
7 p.m.
530 South State Street

A University student works on her FestiFools project earlier in the year
T WE

The end of the semester is
almost in sight (only two more
weeks), hang in there! If finals
crunch has already started for
you or this is the last week you
have before all the craziness
starts, consider checking out
some of the following events
happening around campus this
week - either as a study break
or as a way to enjoy your remain-
ing free time.
Friday, April 4
The fourth annual Fool-
Moon is the kickoff event for
FestiFools, a foolishly fun two-
day event meant to celebrate art.
FoolMoon also serves as a fund-
raiser for FestiFools, an annual
papier-mache puppet parade.
Sponsors such as the Grizzly
Peak Brewing Company and
Blue Tractor BBQ & Brewrey are
involved in this event. Grizzly
Peak will host the FoolBrew tent
at 5:30 pm.
Attendees are encouraged
to create their own luminaries
for a "stroll to W. Washington
Street," which begins at 8:15
p.m. at three starting places:
The Farmers' Market in Kerry-
town, in front of the University
of Michigan Museum of Art and
at Slauson Middle School. There
will be live music and a series of
experimental films.

Saturday, April 5
Help support the C.S. Mott
Children's and Von Voightlander
Women's Hospital by attending
the annual Mott Spring Game
presented by PNC Bank this Sat-
urday at the Big House.
Last year, $60,000 was
raised for Mott. Since 2010, the
game has raised nearly $1 mil-
lion for the hospital.
The scrimmage will begin
at 2 p.m. The event is free to
the public, but donations can
be made online or at the door. If
you can't make it to the game, no
need to worry because you can
watch it on the Big Ten Network.
Sunday, April 6
The Ann Arbor Film Fes-
tival may be over but there's a
new festival in town! Head to
the Michigan Theater this Sun-
day night at 7 to watch the 38th
annual Banff Mountain Film
Festival World Tour.
The lineup features many
adrenaline-raising films relat-
ed to mountain climbing in
extraordinary places around the
world. The films from the festi-
val are shown in approximately
400 communities across the
globe such as London and Alber-
ta, Canada. Tickets can be pur-
chased online through outdoor
Adventures or at the door.

Summer Sessions 2014
Enjoy all that Chicago and Loyola have to offer this summer
while taking a class to lighten your load for the fall. Choose from
several convenient locations and more than 300 courses.
Chicago - Online - Retreat and Ecology Campus (Woodstock, IL)
Cuneo Mansion and Gardens (Vernon Hills, IL) " Study Abroad
Apply and register today at LUC.edu/summer.
LOYOLA
UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
*1
r ex
Preparing people to lead extraordinary lives


6A - Thursday, April 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

fiA - Thursday, April 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Betsa throws no-no

By MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Detroit kept swinging, and it
kept sitting down.
The in-state rival Titans
(2-21) had just about 24 hours
to prepare
for their DETROIT 0
contest in MICHIGAN 10
Ann Arbor
on Wednesday, and it looked like
they could have used a few more.
Freshman right-hander
Megan Betsa recorded a
no-hitter and sophomore third
baseman Kelsey Susalla went
3-for-3 with two RBI, pacing
Michigan to a 10-0 mercy-rule
victory at Alumni Field.
Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins had been frustrated
with rained-out games, so late
Tuesday afternoon she invited
Detroit to fill one of the five
open game slots.
It got ugly fast.
The Wolverines jumped out
to an early lead, scoring four
runs in the first inning - two
of them courtesy of a line-drive
double by outfielder Sierra
Lawrence. The sophomore has
been a force to be reckoned with
when the bases are loaded this
season, and her two-run double
bumped her average to .833
when the bases are juiced.

One inning later, sophomore
shortstop Sierra Romero got a
turn with the bases full, and she
wasted little time in clearing
them. Romero smoked a pitch
from Detroit's Kat Hoffman
to deep right center, her third
grand slam of the season.
"I really just focus on pitch
selection," Romero said. "I don't
want to try to do more than I
can do."
That doesn't leave much out.
The preseason All-American
shortstop entered the day
fourth in the nation in batting,
and boasts 40 RBI.
After two innings, with the
score already a lopsided 9-0,
Hutchins began subbing in new
players. Seldom-used senior
outfielders Katie Luetkens and
Brandi Virgil entered the game
in the top of the third inning,
and sophomore outfielder Mary
Sbonek took her first career
at-bat.
"We're always messing
around in practice, coming up
with hand signals and little
jokes," Romero said. "Once
they get out there, it's really fun
seeing the look on their faces.
You can just tell they're on
cloud nine."
Still, the star of the game was
Betsa.
The freshman has struggled

this season to maintain her
composure after walks, a
problem Hutchins has chalked
up to shaky confidence.
Wednesday, there were no
such problems. After each of
the two walks Betsa issued,
she struck out the next batter
swinging. Infact, alleightbatters
the freshman fanned went down
swinging, a testament to the
attack-the-batter mindset she's
been working on.
"You could say I was in a little
bit of a rut," Betsa said. "(Today)
I was just kind of telling myself
that if somebody gets on base, I
need to come back stronger. So
I just work on getting ahead on
the next better."
Hutchins said the
opportunity to get Betsa a
chance to pitch in a game
setting in the middle of the
week was an important reason
in scheduling Detroit.
The Wednesday night contest
delivered that and more. Betsa
looked much more collected
with runners on base than
she had earlier this spring,
something she credits to a self-
run practice session she held
Monday on her day off.
There were no hitters at
that session. Wednesday, with
batters in the box, she got the
same result..

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Michigan Stadium is expected to be the venue for Real Madrid vs. Manchester United in August, sources told the Daily.
"
Sources: Madrid vs. Man.
U to be announced Friday

By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
Daily Sports Editor
A press conference to be held
on Friday is expected to confirm
international club soccer at
Michigan
Stadium, Michigan Daily
multiple EXCLUSIVE
sources told
the Daily.
Per the sources, the
International Champions Cup is
expected to announce that Real
Madrid and Manchester United
will play Aug. 2, 2014, at the Big
House.
Wednesday afternoon, an
Athletic Department e-mail
invited media members to a
"special event announcement,"
to be held Friday.
The e-mail stated that
Athletic Director Dave

Brandon and members from the
organizing committee will be
present to discuss the "historic
event to be held at Michigan
Stadium."
Associate Athletic Director
David Ablauf told the Daily that
he was not allowed to comment
on the nature of the press
conference.
The International Champions
Cup pits some of the world's
top club teams in elimination
rounds. Currently, the Real
Madrid-Manchester United
game is the only contest without
a venue on the tournament's
website.
Real Madrid, which won the
inaugural ICC last year, boasts
32 La Liga titles. Manchester
United has finished atop the
English Premier League 13
times since the EPL's foundation

in 1992.
The two clubs feature some
of the world's top players,
including Cristiano Ronaldo
and Gareth Bale of Los Blancos,
and Robin van Persie and Wayne
Rooney of The Red Devils.
An ICC spokesperson
previously told the Daily that
the host city would be revealed
in early March.
Feb. 20, the International
Champions Cup sent an e-mail
promoting "the Gods of soccer"
visiting Ann Arbor, among 11
other North American cities.
The following day, a
tournament spokesperson
confirmed to the Daily that
the ICC had been in serious
discussion with the University
to host the game at Michigan
Stadium, but that no plan had
been finalized.

Freshman right-hander Megan Betsa was nearly portedt as the Wolverines topped Detroit, 10-0, Wednesday afternoon.
C l/ ! # 7 3 4 4 l 8 4Cll 44841
Email: dailydiapillayC gmaileuom

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, April 3, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Shark, maybe 33 Saturn SUV 46 Gushes on a set
1 Lab has lots of 3 Comparable toa 34 Physicsclass 49 His last blog post
them cucumber topic ended, "I'll see
7 Many a chalet 4 Hurtful remark 38 Bryce Canyon you at the
13 Nielsen of 5 Cocktail with state movies"
"Airplane!" cassis 39 Cider press 50 Most Iraqis
14 Purple Label 6 Baseball leftovers 53 Mid-11th century
designer commissioner 40 Patricia of year
15 Open, as afem underwhom "Everybody 55 Eye, at the Louvre
frond interdeagae play Laes Raymond" 57 Some RPI alums
16 Relieving became a reality 41 Ot a bland line 59 Mike Trout's
17Olfactory 7Wake-upcall, 44"Va-va-voom" team, on
detection sany 45 Sel-assared scoreboards
18 Rumrstarter 8 Pilot-licensing
22 Spanish pronoun a Red herring ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
24 Ballerina's asset 10 Nashville: S H H P I SA E J E C T S
26 Dresnatly, with untry record K I A A R K S M A X O U T
gyp" 11Stay Fresh" I N V E R S E S O N T O N Y
27 Wrinkle-resistant candy E D E N I N S T I L L S
synthti l2 Mesh, asgears RU0N IDOWtN B I S C
29 A liternaetvetto 19esasff U M MA L 0 0 1 I N K
gravel, perhaps 20 Joie deavivre I N F R A C T I O N S C C E
3tlHumiliate 21lCarriermwith a KA E AN ox
32Wth 37-Across, MaplerLea K A R E N ANN E P O X Y
whatthecircled Lounge E R E I N V E S T M E N T S
words(shown in 24"Here's what A C D C D E R A I L
the appropriate happened US SR A B S O L U T
direction)lare next " I N B 0 U N D S S 0S 0 A
capable of doing 25Onesgetting lots M OO1 N G I N Q U I R E S
35 Pokervariety of Bronx cheers
36 Golfer laso 26 Hopadriems RUSSIA
37See32-Across 3Speakeasy IS HTA R SPEC APE
39 Part ofta process employee xwordeditor@aol.com 04/03/14
42 "Bartender make
doublet k 1 2 3 4 s 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
43 Tie the knt on 31
the sly
47 LBJ's antipoverty 1s 16
agcy.
48 Siea _ 17 1a 19 20 21
51 "Papa-_-Mow-
Mom' 1962 23 24 2
novety hit 27 as 29 as xi
52 Suffix with
school 32 3 3 34
54 FormerThe
VieW" co-host 35 as
55Conglomeration
56'30s-'50s British 37 s
Labour Party as 41 42 44 4
leader
5825-Down div. 47 484x su a
60 Oneon a ladder,
t kitten up a 52 54
tre
61 Property 5s 5 58
recipient, in law
63 Garden sides s
DOWN sp yDnonGagliardo and CC.surnikel 04/3/14
1 Prefixwithscope(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, LLC0

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.
! www.HRPAA.com !
** AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
4 Bedroom House. Near B-School.
$2000/month. Call: (734)223-7777
4 BDRM HSE South Central Cumpus
1037 Packurd - $2500/e + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Bucus Puck. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. I & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$700-$1395, showings avail. M-F
10am-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
HALF OFF SALE
HALF OFF SECURITY DEPOSIT
HALF OFF PROCESSING FEE
HALF OFF 1ST MONTHS RENT
*Limited Apartments Left0
University Towers & The 2nd Floor
www.universitytowers-mi.com
5363S.ForestAve.
734-761-2680
NOW AVAIL. FOR FALL 2014!
Fully furnished 2 bdrm apt - heat, wa-
ter, and parking included. A/C and laun-
dry avail. Contact 734-904-6735.
H LP WANTED
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Pudge
Shops are looking far help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
lng, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

Junior left fielder Kyle Jusick went 2-far-4 and scored a pair of runs as Michigan won its third game in a row Wednesday.
'M' rallies to best Central

By BRAD WHIPPLE
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan baseball coach Erik
Bakich stood in the corner of the
dugout with his players huddled
around him, emphasizing how
Central Michigan's pitcher
lacked
command. CMU 3
He clapped MICHIGAN 6
his hands
twice and the players nodded
and then dispersed with their
eyes on teammate Harrison
Wenson at the plate.
With the Wolverines down
2-1 in the sixth inning, the
freshman catcher hit a line
drive to right field that dropped
too fast for the right fielder to
make a sliding catch, scoring
junior left fielder Kyle Jusick.
The ball rolled to the wall and
Wenson sprinted past second
and slid into third for his first
career triple, which started a
three-run rally. The Wolverines
never looked back in a 6-3 win
over the Chippewas Wednesday
evening.
"Hitting is contagious, both
positive and negative," Bakich
said. "It's something where
guys start stringing quality
at-bats together and get a big hit
like Harrison's. It's just being
aggressive and continuing to
stick with our plan all along."
Added Jusick: "It's definitely

nice to get a nice midweek
win and carry it on into the
weekend."
Following Wenson's triple,
junior designated hitter Kendall
Patrick then drove a single up
the middle to score Wenson, and
eventually scored on a throwing
error to first base.
Michigan extended its lead
by two in the seventh when
freshman right fielder Carmen
Benedetti launched a shot
to center field that took one
hop and hit the wall, scoring
Jusick and junior center fielder
Jackson Glines.
"That separated the game
in that moment to give us a
four-run lead," Bakich said.
"We needed that cushion, and
Carmen did a good job of laying
off some borderline pitches
down in the zone where maybe
a month ago we were swinging
at those."
The Wolverines had a tough
first inning with senior right-
hander Logan McAnallen at the
mound. He tried drawing the
opposing batters from the zone
with outside pitches, but they
weren't biting, and McAnallen
was forced to bring it inside
or throw down the middle.
But McAnallen couldn't find a
groove and gave up an early run.
Michigan's relief pitching
struggled further. Junior right-
hander Donnie Eaton started

the fourth inning by walking
the first batter and hitting the
next in the head, enough to have
him pulled for junior right-
hander James Bourque.
There were moments when
Bourque seemed to be losing his
touch. It seemed like he would
get pulled in the sixth when
freshman right-hander Mac
Lozer began warming up in the
bullpen.
But Bourque found a rhythm
with an arsenal of pitches - a
low 90s fastball, a deep curveball
and a changeup - that he
hammered down in the zone to
strike out five batters in his four-
inning performance.
"He's tough to hit, because
he has so many moving parts
coming at the hitter," Bakich said.
"When he's on and he's throwing
competitive strikes in the bottom
of the zone, he's tough to hit. He's
been doing a good job of forcing
contact and throwing - three
pitches for strikes."
Sophomoreright-hander Jacob
Cronenworth finished off the
game with a 1-2-3 ninth inning
and extended the Wolverines'
winningstreak to three.
"Bottom line: We have alot of
work to do," Bakich said. "Even
if we were 29-0, I'd still tell
you that we have improvement
to make and work to do - it's
sticking with the process of
getting better every day."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 3, 2014 - 7

Final Lap: Ferry Field's run comes to an end

Once the home of
Michigan football,
Ferry Field is slated
to be demolished,
turned into a
parking lot
By ZACH SHAW
Daily Sports Writer
The white Frisbee glided
through the air, drifting further
right than anticipated toward
the shot-put fence. The intended
recipient of the throw,wearinga
maize 'Team 134' football shirt,
rolled his eyes, took a breath and
sprinted after it.
Never losing sight of the disc,
the man wouldn't be denied, as
he snagged it mid-divejustcabove
the cool grass. The necessity of
the dive - a glorified tumble,
really - was debatable, but to
the man, and his two friends,
there was no doubt; victory was
in the air at Ferry Field.
They weren't alone. Thirty
yards south, a boy had just
defeated his younger brother in
a race. Occupying lanes one and
two of the track and wearing
matching purple soccer jerseys,
it surely wouldn't be their last
race. It was the first warm day
of the year, and all around them,
joggers, photographers and
aspiring football players were
celebrating the defeat of an
impossibly cold winter.
Few on it
may know, but
Ferry Field is
no ordinary "It's gm
track. The
orange the com
synthetic
polyurethane loving O
beneath their
feet was so M
once grass
whose growth
coincided
with Michigan football. It then
became unbreakable black
concrete that reflected the
unbreakable Black athletes
who blazed trails above it. But
despite the tradition, the track's
days are numbered.
An hour later, Frisbee tossers
were calling it a day. The sun
was setting, and the cool March
air Michigan is known for slowly
crept in. Walking toward the
southeast corner of the track,
they dodged several joggers -
including the brothers - before
exiting toward the parking lot.
As they left, they stopped
to read a plaque on the wall.
The man of honor wasn't a
Wolverine, but a Buckeye named
Jesse Owens.
Since its opening in 1906,
Ferry Field has been home to
plenty of legendary history, but
its open-door policy has also
allowed it to host plenty of other
stories. From football to Jesse
Owens to Frisbees, Michigan
history has been embedded in
the track.
But in today's age, history
takes a backseat. In Sept.
2012, the Michigan Athletic
Department announced its plan
to revamp the athletic campus.
The $250-million project will
provide 16 new or upgraded

facilities to the University.

athletics. Both programs have
lamented their frustration with
recruiting visits gone sour.
The puny stands and a run-
down track simply don't cut it
anymore.
The track is currently the
onlyone inthe Big Ten incapable
of hosting a conference
championship meet, a fall from
grace for a facility that used to
host the Olympic trials regularly.
After plans for a new track fell
through in both 2005 and 2010,
Athletic Director Dave Brandon
has been adamant about getting
a new facility that will be among
the best in the country.
But when the cement is finally
laid over, more than a century
of memories will be buried
beneath it. The lore and history
of the field is something even the
winning-driven Henry will miss.
"It's a piece of history," Henry
said. "You don't always think
about it, but when someone
pulls out a camera to take a
picture, it hits you: Every day,
we train and compete on the
same track Jesse Owens did, or
the Michigan football team did,
sometimes you just have to step
back and say 'Wow!'
"The new track will be like
trading in a '63 Mustang for a
brand-new Mustang. The new
one doesn't have the memories
or sentimental value the old one
did, but it is a brand new car. You
miss the '63 and keep it in your
heart, and you just have to hope
the new one can make just as
good memories too."
In recent years, Michigan has
opted for the

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Ferry Field was the home of the Michigan football team after it drew crowds that were too large for Regents Field. Since 1926,it has been used for track and field.

Behind the shining proposals
and hype around the expansion,
the plan spells the end for Ferry
Field. Proposed plans have
slated for the once-great facility
to be paved over and turned into
a parking lot.
Less than
half a mile
southwest
at to see of the track,
the Michigan
mu iy women's
Lmunity
lacrosse
ur track team was
celebrating
uch." its first-ever
victory at
Michigan
Stadium. The
storied house that Yost built
blared "The Victors" for all to
hear, echoing to the storied
track where Yost's teams once
played.
The decision to pave over
Ferry Field was a monetary
decision, but it wasn't long ago
that Ferry Field actually made
money for the University. In
1902, realizing that 800 seats
were no longer enough to host
Michigan football games, the
University's Board of Regents
set their eyes on expansion.
Dexter M. Ferry, a Detroit
businessman and owner ofFerry
Seed Company, stepped up.
In part to support the football
program, but also to divert
students away from tearing
up central campus (and his
new botany fellowship), Ferry
donated 20 acres of land, now
home to most Michigan athletics
facilities.
After going 87-2-3 at Regents
Field, the Wolverines began
their 20-year tenure at Ferry
Field on Oct. 6, 1906 with a
28-0 victory over Case Western
Reserve ina stadium that seated
18,000.
As the years passed, the
following of Michigan football
expanded beyond just students
and locals. By Michigan's
return to the Big Ten in 1917, the

Wolverines player
crowds of 25,000
time in school his
in Ann Arbor we
revenue.
Though Ferry
hosted a football g
'20s, its impact o
program can't be
where Michigan
from an afternoo
a way of life, goi
front of crowds tf
year. It was whe
Brown Jug was fi
where Michigan S
State became rival
After World
more successful
opportunity to
brought up agair
Michigan coach
Director Fieldin
bigger plans. HeN
Ferry Field to 41,t
use increased fun
new stadium tha
150,000. He settle
Stadium, which
70,000 at the time
The football te
Field behind dec.
without it, the pro
be the same. The t
Field still stands t
can look through
from South State
imagine one
of the most
storied football
programs
playing on the
grass in the
shadows of the
Intramural
Sports
building.
But when
the cement
trucks come
in the summer c
imagination will b
Even as the s
a warehouse by

d in front of momentous achievement that
. For the first warranted the honor.
tory, athletics On May 25, 1935, Owens had
re generating what Sports Illustrated would
call "The Greatest Hour in
Field hasn't Sports History." Setting four
same since the world records - the 100-yard
n the football dash, long jump, 220-yard sprint
forgotten. It's and 220-yard low hurdles - in
football grew just 45 minutes on a bad back,
n activity to Owens not only showed what
ng 90-13-2 in minorities could accomplish
hat grew each in sports, but what the human
re the Little body can achieve when in
irst won, and perfect sync with itself.
tate and Ohio There were, of course,
s. legendary Wolverines who
War I and blazed their own trails and
seasons, the broke racial barriers at Ferry
expand was Field. William DeHart Hubbard,
n. This time, Booker Brooks, Eddie Tolan,
and Athletic Willis Ward and Bill Watson
g Yost had combined to win 31 individual
would expand Big Ten titles, six individual
000, and then national titles and four Olympic
tds to build a gold medals.
t would seat But the highest honor Ferry
d for Michigan Field can give didn't go to
"only" seated any Michigan athlete, but the
Buckeye Bullet. A year after
am left Ferry beating Michigan and setting
ades ago, but four world records, Owens
gram wouldn't shattered the Aryan elitist ideas
unnel to Ferry of Adolf Hitler on his home turf,
oday, and one winning four gold medals and
the archway capturing America's hearts at
e Street and the 1936 Olympic Games. His
glory shone
across the
world, but he
"It's a piece of wouldn't have
gotten there
history. You without his
day at Ferry
don't always Field.
In two
think about it." years, the
plaque
honoring one
of America's
tf 2015, even greatest heroes won't overlook
e paved over. the track where it all began, but
rows of cars. The plaque may be
* taken down altogether. When
the cement trucks come in the
un sets over summer of 2015, even the work
the railroad of legends will be paved over.

course, legendar'
makes Ferry Field
you don't have to
to receive its ben
University Presid
Angell originally
Michigan to pr
uncommon educa
common man," as
the school's missi
In Ferry Field,
the statement
makes a
successful
translation into
athletics.
Michigan
has dozens of
facilities for
its 27 varsity
sports, but only
one remains
unlocked. Even
inthe dead of wint
is littered with am
following the colo
of Yost, Owens anc
greats that once
grounds.
"They come
said Michigan w
and field coach J
"I'm one of the
anywhere that has
off of our Division
about every day. It
the community lo
so much."
In the decad
the football team
this - above all e
Ferry Field stood
years wore on an
have made nearby
lucrative for the "c
doors were lockec
very second, Ferry
at three different
anyone who desir
exercise an opport
where world-class
Beginning in 21
and women's trac
have a new home
of its current on
all a bad thing, m
Ferry Field's cur
unacceptable fo

y, but what
special is that
be a legend
efits. Former
ent James B.
committed
oviding "an
tion for the
still found in
on statement.

new car time
and again.
"We train and The new
facility will
compete on the be for varsity
athletes
same track Jesse and paying
customers
Owens did." only, not the
common man.
er, Ferry Field
ateur athletes With the sun and its
ssal footsteps accompanying warmth gone,
d all the other the track has emptied out. A
roamed the pair of walkers exit the gate,
and another man walks in. With
in droves," short black jogging shorts, a
omen's track grizzled face and thin limbs, the
lames Henry. man - like the track - has seen
only coaches better days.
to kick people Ferry Field is cold and dark,
I facility just but the man stretches anyway.
's great to see With numbered days for the
ving our track track, opportunities like this
won't be around much longer.
es following With a deep breath, the man
i's departure, steps into the outside lane.
else - is why Sometimes, the best solution is
1 out. As the to just start running.
d renovations
'facilities too BY THE NUMBERS
ommon man,"
d. But at this Ferry Field
'Field is open
places, giving
es a place to
unity to do so Yearsthat the Michigan football team
athletes do. spentoccupying Ferry Field.
45
016, the men's Minutes it tookforJesse Owens to break
k teams will four records, per Sports Illustrated.
a mile south
e. That isn't
rany feel that
rent state is Wins for the Michigan football team at
r Michigan Ferry Field.

tracks just west of Ferry Field,
the plaque of Owens glimmers.
It isn't a physically large, but
it's impossible to deny the

Legendary stories are, of

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Ferry Field sits in the shadow of the Intramural Sports Building, the crowning jewel of the first-ever intramural program. By the 2016 track and field season, proposals have slated Ferry Field to be turned into a parking lot for nearby facilities.
r a J 1


8A - Thursday, April 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
RUBY WALLAU AND ALLISON FARRAND/Daily

"m ~

' _';I
3 w. 'a'" -'3.
f

a


Contact a fellow U of M alum to help
you find your NYC home.


AA 08
LiR. F E.Saesperson
212,76AA8A3
t michAel kaufmanUAASimar corn

ASK


LIGHTSCAMERA
SACTION
SCREEN ARTS AND CULTURES 423:
THE MAKING OF STUDENT FILMS
By Paige Pfleger
Daily Arts Writer
Photos above courtesy of SAC students Matt Birnholtz (Thru Traffic),
Benjamin Foote (Thru Traffic), and Julie Via (Bad Girls).
Characters
(In order of appearance):
Robert Rayher, professor - Rayher is a senior lecturer in the Screen Arts & Culture department. He has
angular features and is beginning to go gray, which gives him an authoritative look.
Jim Burnstein, professor - Burnstein is the screenwriting coordinator for the SAC department. His hair
is white and he wears wire-framed glasses. Cohort of Rayher.
Layne Simescu, Director, "Thru Traffic" - LSA senior Layne Simescu is from Traverse City, Michigan, and
is majoring in SAC. She has acted in, written and directed films. She has soft features set in an often
serious expression.
Jackie Vresics, Director of Photography, "Thru, Traffic" - LSA senior Jackie Vresics works closely with
Simescu on set and is charged with making Simescu's vision of the script come to fruition. She is
small, and the film camera looks like a large bird that she carries on her shoulder.
Graham Techler, Star, "Thru Traffic" - Music, Theater & Dance sophomore Graham Techler is the actor
that stars in "Thru Traffic." He is tall, lanky and has a knack for comedic flair.
Matt Montgomery, Writer, "Thru Traffic" - LSA senior Matt Montgomery is in the screenwriting subconcen-
tration in the SAC department. He is a skinny guy, mousey brown hair. He's unassuming and for the most
part quiet on set, since he no longer has control over the script.
Erika Henningsen, Star, "Bad Girls" - Music, Theater & Dance senior Henningsen is in the Musical The-
ater program. She is the star of the film "Bad Girls," and is classically pretty - she has blonde hair
and blue eyes and would be easily translated into an animated Disney princess.
Dustin Alpern, Director, "Bad Girls" - LSA senior Dustin Alpern is from Los Angeles, California. He is
the director of the film, "Bad Girls." He is unimposing, with red hair and wears a blue crew neck shirt
with Michigan scrawled across the front.
Janet Hu, Writer, "Bad Girls" - LSA senior Janet Hu is a SAC major with a screenwriting subconcentra-
tion. The original version of her piece, "Bad Girls," was extremely intense. It is hard to picture her
writing anything psychologically unnerving - she is very pleasant to speak with.
ACT ONE - INT. NORTH QUAD, RAYER'S OFFICE - FRIDAY AT NOON
RAYHER sits behind a desk that is cluttered with papers. His bookshelves are filled with books on film.
BURNSTEIN sits in a chair to my right, Rayher to my left.
Both characters are extremely respected in the film department. Together, they dictate who gets the
coveted roles in the SAC 423 class - a class that produces two 30-minute films that will be featured
at Michael Moore's Traverse City Film Festival. The roles of writer, director, producer and actor are
once in a lifetime opportunities that offer up chances at the big time. The class comprises two sepa-
rate teams, about 50 students, and is the pinnacle of the film department. The competition gets more
and more intense each year.
RAYHER: The first year we taught it there were 18 students for two productions.
BURNSTEIN: (Joking) That many?
RAYHER: (With a laugh) Yeah, well eight of them were actors. We had two production teams of five each a
little over ten years ago, so it's matured. We are reaching the point where this year there were a lot
of very talented people who didn't get department head jobs. Maybe at some point we'll be able to offer
the class both terms.
And, with competition comes drama. Some of the decisions made by the professors have turned out to be
quite controversial among the students, like the choice to let DUSTIN ALPERN direct his junior and
senior year, which has happened only one other time. The professors argue that these decisions mirror
the cutthroat nature of Hollywood.
RAYHER: Each step in this process is about finding your way in the world. In any professional situa-
tion, that's how these choices get made. Prt of the educational process is finding out how this works
and then figuring out how you work within that process. It's complex.
BURNSTEIN: The exceptions never prove the rule. It's very rare that juniors do direct, and last year
Dustin was ready. I like to compare what we do to what you see in the Musical Theater department. I
don't think anyone is saying, 'You know, she had a lead in Chicago, why is she...' ya know?
But the balance between educational experiences and a real world mentality is a difficult one to ob-
tain. The professors also keep a careful eye on gender balance - even though the TV and movie busi-
nesses are mostly male dominated from a production and writing standpoint, the students cast as pro-
duction heads are equally distributed in terms of gender. The professors assure me that this is an
ideal to aim for, but not necessarily a written rule. They acknowledge the gender disparity in the
profession and hope that their attention to eguality will help to even out the future of the field.
END OF ACT ONE

See SACTION, Page 4B


2B - Thursday, April 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, April 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Killing c aracters
for more than
shock value

San Cristobal evolves
its youthful sound

Warning: This col-
umn contains
massive spoilers
for the current season of "The
Good Wife."If you are not caught
up on "The
Good Wife,"
are plan-
ning at some
point to
watch "The
Good Wife,"
or somehow
haven't heard A
of "The Good
Wife" until UPADHYAYA
now and
think maybe
you'll look into whether or not
you should start watching "The
Good Wife" (hint: you should),
please do not read anyfurther.
Please. I'm purposefully making
this spoiler warning extra long
to underscore its seriousness and
also ensure that you don't acci-
dentally read too far ahead. The
column also contains informa-
tion about character deaths from
"Once Upon a Time," 'American
Horror Story: Coven," "Lost,"
"The L Word," "Buffy the Vam-
pire Slayer," "Breaking Bad" and
"24," so be careful about those.
OK. Stop reading if you don't
want to be spoiled. Seriously.
Don't send me hate-tweets.
Last week, "The Good
Wife" viewers' worlds
were rocked when hus-
band-wife showrunning
duo Robert and Michelle King
executed what was almost
certainly the most shocking
television moment and best-kept
secret of the year: They killed
off leading-man Will Gardner.
Shortly after1Twitter suf-
fered a collectivemeltdown in-
response to the episode, CBS
released a letter penned by the
Kings, in which they explain
their reasons for the twist. In
short: Actor Josh Charles want-
ed to move on, and instead of
developing a simple departure
arc to explain away his absence
- like Will moving or getting
a new job far, far away - the
"Good Wife" writers decided
to make him the casualty of an
unexpected courtroom blood-
bath.
The letter goes on to claim
that the narrative choice is
somehow unique in its boldness.
"Television, in our opinion,
doesn't deal with this enough:
the irredeemability of death,"
the Kings write.
Wait, what? I watch aslot of
television. And if death is some-
thing TV doesn't have enough
of, that's news to me. ISwatch
"The Vampire Diaries," where
death is so common that it's
almost a character in its own
right. I also watch "Justified"
and a whole slew of other series

rooted in crime that have more
on-screen shootings than on-
screen makeouts. If the Kings
think TV needs more death,
what exactly are they watching
In fact, in the current golden
age of TV dramas, it seems like
writers feel like they have to
start killing characters left and
right in order to get a "Serious
Drama" stamp of approval. One
of the reasons people consis-
tently give for loving "Game of
Thrones" is that death is a legit
imate threat for each and every
character. And Joss Whedon
has been praised as television's
own Grim Reaper, whacking of
enough beloved characters to
inspire the genius Funny or Die
(and unfortunately fake) reality
series.
Blame itcon my self-identi-
fication asa Whedonite or on
my obsession with all things
sad, butI love when characters
die on television. That comes
with a huge however. I love
when characters die on televi-
sion; however the death has to
serve a larger function than
just simple shock value. All too
often, death is used as a cheap
plot device. What purpose did
"Once Upon a Time"'s season-
three death serve other than
allowing ABC to tease the twis
for weeks on end? "American
Horror Story: Coven" racked
up quite the body count in its
13-episode stay, but when you
have a resurrection witch on
your hands, death doesn't carry
much weight. "Lost" writers
literally only killed off Nikki
and Paulo because fans didn't
respond well to the characters
when they were introduced.
And I'll never quite understand
the point of Dana's death on
"The L Word," especially when
the showrunner herself admit-
ted it was a mistake.
But, as the Kings point out,
losing loved ones is a very real
fear and experience that we all
face at some point or another.
Television shouldn't ignore tha
Characters should never be
wholly invincible. Otherwise,
why would we care about them
Some series have effectively
navigated the balance between
shock value and the simple real
ity of death. The inhabitants of
Sunnydale suffered countless
casualties, but "Buffy"'s most
indelible death remains that of
Buffy's mom, who dies not at
the hands of vampires or mon-
sters but from an unexpected,
sudden aneurysm. Jane's death
on "Breaking Bad" propelled
Jesse's arc forward. Teri's mur-
der at the end of "24"'s first sea
son remains one of my favorite
television moments of all time.
Effective TV deaths aren't
just rooted in believability:

They have lasting effects on the
remainder of the series. There's
nothing I hate more than when
a show kills off a major charac-
ter, dedicates a single ratings-
seeking episode to an overacted,
melancholy funeral episode, and
then lets its characters go on
about their lives (still looking at
you, "The L Word").
Silly letter aside, I actually
do think killing Will Gardner
counts as a "good" TV death. I
disagree with the critics who
despise the move enough to
actually tune out for the rest of
the season. His death isn't just
f an empty twist; it's a narrative-
shattering bomb. The relation-
ships at the heart of "The Good
Wife" have always been its
strongest facet and the fount
from which its most compel-
ling drama springs. The writers
have consistently shifted the
show's pieces around, changing
the relationships over and over
again: Cary's move to the State's
Attorney Office; Will and Ali-
cia's love affair; Cary's return to
Lockhart/Gardner; Alicia and
Peter's reconciliation; Alicia and
Kalinda's falling out; Diane's
near-judgeship; and, of course,
the ultimate show-changer that
was the formation of Florrick/
t Agos.
Well-planned
deaths mean
more than a
shocking twist.
Will's death is basically a
supercharged version of all of
these narrative shifts. And the
episode that follows his depar-
ture proves the event is going
to have very serious emotional
and professional repercussions
for all of the characters. It's
t. an immensely heavy episode
that would probably teeter on
melodramatic in the hands of
less capable actors. I had to
pause the episode no less than
five times to collect myself, but
- never once did I feel hollowly
manipulated by the writers.
"The Good Wife" has
always been a difficult show to
describe, because it's more nar-
ratively complex than a legal
procedural but more episodic
than your average serial. It's
also more fun than your average
serious drama but too heavy to
just be regarded as a legal soap.
- Will's death only adds to the
complexity and versatility of
the series. As it wraps up what
is one of the most impressive
seasons of television I've seen
in a very long time, "The Good
Wife" has opened up aslot of
new possibilities. Will's death
touches each of the characters
in different ways, and those
effects have already started
manifesting in beautiful charac-
ter work.
And that matters aslot more
than just a shocking twist.
Upadhyaya is thinking
about murder. To join, e-mail
kaylau@umich.edu.
ARE YOU

INTERESTED IN
WRITING FOR A
STUDENT-RUN POP
CULTURE BLOG?
APPLY TO
THE FILTER,
DAILY ARTS'
ONLINE BLOG.
Email jplyn@umich.edu to
request an application.

Six LSA freshmen the keyboard player, in the prac-
tice rooms in Markley."
are chasing San Cristobal is continuously
evolving. The band has realized
the dream its potential, revised its sights
and shifted the direction of its
By GRACE HAMILTON music to mirror their refocus-
Daily Arts Writer ing.
Sigman describes the band's
Success stories in the music earlier music as a "wall of
business usually grow from sound." The band's first album,
modest roots - sometimes bril- before it even had an official
liance can be accidental. After name and went simply by Jacob
all, the Ramones began as a Sigman, was never actually
garage band called The Tan- intended to be played live.
gerine Puppets. LSA freshman "It was more folk-driven,
Jacob Sigman and lead singer kind of big and grandiose. There
of the 6-piece band San Cris- were so much going on," Jacob
tobal, echoed this familiar pat- said, citing Fleet Foxes, Sufjan
tern when he discussed how the Stevens and Sigur Ros as com-
band came together. parisons and inspirations.
Jacob met Andrew Hiayama, on the other hand, the newer
the band's cellist, at a summer music feels spacious and more
camp, and through him, bass- of combined effort among band
ist Sam Collins. Having set members.
his mind on putting together "These songs are coming to
a "record debut type thing," life as we play them, together,
as Jacob described their first rather than just on a record,"
album, they began experiment- Jacob said.
ing. San Cristobal's new music
"I worked a lot with them. channels a slightly different set
And then Cory, the drummer, is of artists, like The Beatles' later
my cousin, who I met at a wed- material (the White Album),
ding this past year and found Harry Nilsson and Paul Simon.
out he played the drums and It's easy to hear these influ-
was coming here," Jacob said. ences in San Cristobal, with as
"I went to high school with the many as four vocalists on at a
guitarist and then met Andrew, time in certain songs. They pull

it off; the harmony holds, the
volume remains under control
and the lyrics come through.
It is the way that the very
different pieces of the band
(Andrew Solway on keys/vocals,
Andrew Hiyama on cello, Hunt-
er Viers on guitar, Cory Tripa-
thy on drums, Sam Collins on
bass, and Sigman on vocals)
come together so fittingly that is
remarkably impressive for such
a new group. It's as if they've
been doing this for years.
Jacob is equally modest
speaking about his personal
relationship with music and
how it became a part of his life.
He recalled his parents Beatles
records, music he only came to
fully appreciate later, and taking
piano lessons, adding that, "alot
of people take piano lessons."
That being said, the natural tal-
ent in this group is unquestion-
able.
For now, the hope is to "keep
living from show to show, and
just play out as much as we can
and write better songs," Sigman
said.
San Cristobal is planning on
releasing a full-length album
this summer and will be play-
ing in the Diag at Spring Fest on
April loth. Their debut album,
Virginia EP, is available for lis-
tening and download online.

EVERYTHING'S GOOD,
THIS WASN'T ONE OF OUR
TWEETS. IT'S A CHANCE
THE RAPPER LYRIC.
WE'RE STILL COOL THOUGH.
@MICHIGANDAILY

TRAILER REVIEW

"Transcendence" will be the
first picture directedby Wally
Pfister, whose entire career
up to this
point has
consisted of
cinematog- Tranende
raphy work,
mostly for WanerBros.
Christopher
Nolan.
Nolan's influence is apparentin
this trailer for the sci-fi feature
about technology gone ballistic.
It follows a group of scientists
on the verge of revolution-
izing technology to the point
of transcendence: the point
where technology surpasses
the knowledge of every human
past, present and future. The
head scientist, Will Caster,
played by Johnny Depp, is shot
by a radical anti-technology
group. With her husband's
body left to deteriorate, his
wife and fellow scientist,

Evelyn (Rebecca Hall) uploads
Will's consciousness to a com-
puter so that he may continue
to live.
Until Will, in about of Sky-
net-like megalomania, begins
to stretch beyond the limits
of this single computer, grow-
ing in power and knowledge
to the point that he threatens
the safety of the world. It also
seems to take that whole "I'm
in love with my computer"

concept in "Her" to a whole
new, disturbing level; hope-
fully that story gets placed on
the back burner as far as focus
goes. Featuring a strongsup-
porting cast in Paul Bettany,
Kate Mara and Morgan Free-
man, "Transcendence" looks
to be an original take on an old
theme that carries impressive
visuals and genuine suspense
and drama.
-JAMIE BIRCOLL


MUSIC VIDEO REVIEW

This past October, Mapei
released her debut single, "Don't
Wait." One of the best tracks of
the year, the
song- with
its sparse
snaps, heart- Don't Wait
felt lyrics and
incredible
instrumen- Downtown
tation - is
perfect pop
and immediately took off
after its release. Mapei's label,
Downtown Records, rode out
the momentum as long as pos-
sible (the track nowhas over 1.5
million plays on Soundcloud)
until announcing Mapei's
upcoming summer debut. In
the meantime, Mapei dropped
off the video for "Don't Wait,"
and while it can't completely
encapsulate the purity and
bliss of the song, it comes tan-
talizingly close.
Director Dori Oskowitz,
who has worked with Jack

White and Passion Pit, does an
expert job of bathing Mapei
and her incredibly exquisite
love interest in a glow of golden
light that perfectly compli-
ments the warm, sampled
Brazilian baile funk drums at
the core of the song. The video
rightly encapsulates the genu-
ineness of a blossoming young
love, and Oskowitz is able
to frame some impressively
cinematic and picturesque
moments with the help of some
great settings, from empty

DOWNTOWN
highways to rural towns to oil
wells to a killer house party.
But the real star here is, nat-
urally, Mapei. Whether its bik-
ing through town draped over
her boy, playing on a basketball
court or laughing with her
friends, she is utterly lovable,
completely genuine and notice-
ably comfortable in front of the
camera. Mapei has the potential
to be absolutely huge, and there's
a good chance we don't have to
wait much long
-JACKSON HOWARD


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 3, 2014 - 3Br

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 3, 2014 - 3B

Prestigious Zell
program this

Saying goodbye

MFA program
fosters writers and
relationships
By ADAM DEPOLLO
Daily Online Arts Editor
One lesson to be learned from
the success of the most recent
Coen Brothers film "Inside
Llewyn Davis" is that the image
of the starving artist remains as
popular and compelling today as
ever. As almost all of those starv-
ing artists would attest, however,
it's neither as glamorous nor as
full of spontaneous singing as
"Rent" or "Moulin Rouge!" would
have you believe. Writing the next
Great American Novel suddenly
seems much less important when
you default on your electricity bill.
Fortunately, for a handful of the
most talented young poets and fic-
tion writers in America each year,
the University of Michigan offers a
way to leave the "starving" moni-
ker behind and just be artists.
The Helen Zell Writers' Pro-
gram - named after University
alumna Helen Zell, who, along
with her family's foundation,
donated $50 million to fund the
program into perpetuity - is the
current incarnation of the Univer-
sity's creative writing MFA pro-
gram, which first began in 1982.
The gift was the largest in the his-
tory of the college of LSA. Megan
Levad, an alumna of the program
and its current Assistant Director,
explained that creative writing at
the University has an impressive
pedigree.
"Nicholas Delbanco, who is now
the Robert Frost Distinguished
Professor of English Language
& Literature, came to Ann Arbor
and was the director (of the MFA
program) for several years," Levad
said. "And even before that there
was Robert Hayden on the fac-
ulty, Robert Frost was here, W.H.
Auden was here. The University
of Michigan has a really long,
rich history, especially with the
poets."
Thanks to itsgenerous funding
and the number of exceptional
writers among the University's
faculty, admittance to the writ-
ers' program is highly competi-
tive. As Levad explained, over a
thousand writers apply for the
program's 22 spots - 10 for poet-
ry and 12 for fiction.
For the lucky and talented

few who do get in, the Zell Writ-
ers' Program offers a series of
invaluable assets to aspiring
writers in addition to three years
of the funding necessary to live
and write in Ann Arbor without
needing a full- or part-time job to
make ends meet.
The program's first and second
year students attend workshops
each semester in which they dis-
cuss and critique their own and
their colleagues' work, guided by
an English Department profes-
sor. Poet J.D. Duval, one of the
program's first year students,
described these workshops as an
important opportunity to grow as
a writer.
"(My favorite aspect of the
program has been) just working
with a group of people who are
all serious about poetry, and also,
surprisingly for me, the range
of aesthetics," he said, "Some of
which I didn't think that I liked
at first, and didn't really know
how to talk about. But in work-
shops, as we figure out ways to
talk about each other's work, you
really learn to appreciate dif-
ferent things, and learn how to
incorporate things into your work
that you didn't think were impor-
tant before, or weren't thinking
about."
Writers in the program also
take on some academic respon-
sibilities. First and second year
students typically take three
graduate-level English courses
and one graduate-level course
outside of the department in addi-
tion to preparing a thesis for the
end of their second year. Each
writer is also assigned to teach
two undergraduate courses - one
in composition and one in creative
writing - in their second year
in the program. The students-
turned-teacher develop their own
syllabi and generally have little
faculty supervision.
After earning their MFA at the
end of the second year the stu-
dents are guaranteed placement
in a postgraduate fellowship to
spend time writing without aca-
demic responsibilities.
"The third year is really when
wedon'thave anyresponsibilities,
don't have any teaching or work-
shops, so we really have the time
to get something publishable out
there and really complete what
we're working on," Duval said.
Another important aspect of
the program is the Zell Visiting
Writers Series, which brings a

different writer to the Univer-
sity every Thursday to perform a
public reading of their work at the
University of Michigan Museum
of Art and conduct small work-
shops with the program's MFA
students. Pulitzer Prize-winning
novelist Jane Smiley was on cam-
pus on April 1st as a part of the
series, and past visitors include
poets Eduardo C. Corral, Edward
Hirsch and Marianne Boruch.
Duval got the opportunity to
work one-on-one with Boruch
when she came to the University
in February.
"She was really fantastic, real-
ly sweet," he said. "She gave me
some great advice on some poems
that I thought were close to being
finished, and also she gave me a
miniature notebook 'to record
images in,' she said. Like when
you're on the bus, conversations
you hear, that kind of thing, it was
really nice."
The goal of the Zell Writers'
Program is not, however, to sim-
ply provide students with an MFA
and send them on their way. The
workshops, one-on-one time with
established writers and consul-
tation with faculty are aimed at
providing some of the best young
voices in poetry and fiction with
a point of departure into a life of
writing and publication.
"Work ethic is really empha-
sized here - our students are
expected to handle quite a lot,
whichI think will serve them well
for rest of their lives," Levad said.
"As a writer, you have to be so self-
disciplined and so able to manage
your time. But I think that we are
also particularly tuned in on talk-
ing about craft and being really
transparent about how talking
about poems and stories and nov-
els and essays are put together. If
you learn how to read for craft,
that's going to be so instrumental
for you in the rest of your writing
life."
For the three years that they're
here, however, the program pro-
vides its writers with a commu-
nity of fellow artists and mentors
devoted to their craft that would
be hard to recreate anywhere else.
"It'll be great to know that
there's a group of people out there
who I spent my time with, who
I'm comfortable with sharing my
work with and who are serious
about it," Duval said."To always
be able to have that even if poetry
turns into more of a hobby than a
career."

ver the past two and
a half years, I've had
the great pleasure of
developingthis column dedicated
to good food and the gathering of
close friends and family around it.
"The Under-
grad Gour-
met" - as
I've come to
only half seri-
ously refer to0
it-has been
a source of
pure joy in my NATHAN
college career WOOD
as I've con-
nected with
my fellowstudents, University
faculty, staff and alumni; and Ann
Arbor community members over
the culture of cuisine. It's been the
lens through which I've focused
my perception of the experiences
that I've had here, and, unapolo-
getically, I wouldn't have it any
other way.
Moving into South Quad my
freshman year, I remember viv-
idly the hustle and bustle of the
move-in-makers, the bright and
shining faces of the resident-
ready RAs and the emotions of
fear, anticipation and eagerness
plastered plainly across my peers'
faces. But even clearer are my
memories of the homemade baked
goods nervous mothers sent with
their kids: "They'll help you make
friends," they coaxed hopefully. I
remember the ecstasy of realizing
there was all-you-can-eat food
in the dining hall 14 hours a day.
And, of course, I remember the
warm and creamy chickenobroc-
coli bake - the truest "Welcome
to Michigan!" any student could
possibly have.
The Welcome Week to follow
had me slurping bubble tea with
my roommate and discovering the
dive that is Bell's Pizza. Chicken
quesadillas from BTB - nobody
knew what it stood for - were
S
GScreeching guitar tinged
with eloquent desperation and
avoice to match - that's the
essence of
Jack White's
career. Lis-
tening to the High Ball
guitar maestro
do histhing- Stepper
whether with
The Racon- Jack White
teurs, The Third Man Records
White Stripes
or his solo
work - I rarely
give a shit what he sings about.
I mean seriously, who/what the
fuck is an "Icky Thump?" I don't
have the answer, but I do know
itsounds awesome when White
sings about it.
Strangely enough, Jack
White's lead single, "High Ball
Stepper," off his newsolo album
Lazaretto, is an instrumental
track. Lazaretto is White's
second solo album and his first
since 2012's Blunderbuss. When

consumed late night en masse.
The quad at Blimpie Burger (RIP?)
was conquered, and countless slic-
es of pizza courtesy of Kaplan Test
Prep were garneredby pimping
out my newly acquired @umich.
edu email address.
Not more than a few days later,
I found myself stumbling around
Festifall, where hoards of candy
were thrown my way at every
turn as over 1,400 student orga-
nizations pined for my supposed
a capella voice, Quidditch skills
and - yes, it's true - Bollywood
dance moves. I began acclimating
myself to the idea/reality ofcthe
freshman 15.
Before long, though, I was
passing as an upperclassman.
I pretended to understand the
course numbers people injected
casually into conversation. Ihad
a beard, which helped. And most
importantly, I was picking up on
where to eat: The Hill Dining Cen-
ter - "MoJo" - was where you
could getsushi. North Quad was
for crispy brick oven pizza, West
Quad for burritos and Martha
Cook for ladies only. (I hadto find
this one out the hard way.)
Also like an upperclassman,
however, I tired quickly of dining
hall food (who doesn't?). Eager
to try each and every Ann Arbor
eatery classic, my friends and I
embarked on a four-year culinary
adventure. And as shallow as it
sounds, these tasty excursions are
what I'm going to remember most
fondly about mytime here at the
University. Playingnose-goes to
see which poor sap got the job of
runningto Jimmy John's to bring
back subs for Professor Nolta's
Friday-night organic chemistry
review sessionswas a weekly
game of luck. Waiting in line in
the freezing cold for deep-fried
French toast at Angelo's was
a Saturday morning tradition.
Late-night shakes and feta bread
at Pizza House. Espresso Royale
I NG LE REVI EV

lattes - with an extra shot of
espresso - during exam weeks.
The occasional Main Street al
fresco dinner. And, of course,
Zingerman's Deli.
Then suddenly - BAM: senior
year. It's crept up on me. With
so many places left to try - and
even more now that I'm 21 (sorry,
grandma) - a few of my friends
and I form "The Rooftop Club."
Essentially, we use the custom-
ary social celebration of one's day
of birth as an excuse to dress up,
head somewhere new and fancy
and enjoy a great meal. Usually, to
our mutual delight, this occurs at
restaurants offering rooftop seat-
ing. A little pretentious? Probably.
Totally awesome? Definitely.
Fishbowls and trivia at Char-
ley's on Wednesday nights. San-
gria and a Constant Buzz to share.
at Dominick's on warm after-
noons. Ashley's for craft brews
and pesto fries. Rod's Diner for
candy-packed colliders. And most
recently, fragles - deep-fried
raisin bagels coated in cinnamon
sugar (oh yes) - after a long,
sleepless night of waiting outside
in the hopes of getting tickets to
see Obama. Does senior year have
to end?
But I guess the answer is yes,
isn't it? Just like all good things,
this food-filled college journey to
adulthood whose final destination
I'm oh-so-quickly approaching
must come to an end. My solace is
that friendships and memories...
they don't.
For the last time, this isthe
Undergrad Gourmet reminding
you to savor each bite: each bite of
food, of life, of friendship, of each
moment you have at this amazing
University. And from here, what-
ever you eat, whomever you meet
and wherever you go, GO BLUE.
Wood is moving on up in
life. To send encouragement,
e-mail nisaacw@umich.edu.

ARE YOU AN AVID PITCHFORK OR SPIN READER
WITH A KNACK FOR WRITING?
START YOUR JOURNALISTIC CAREER WITH THE
DAILY ARTS MUSIC SECTION.
Email jplyn@umich.edu to request an application.

I first listened to "High Ball
Stepper," I was expecting some-
thing innovative in comparison
to his previous work. However,
"High Ball Stepper" is less of an
instrumental revelation than it
is a standard Jack White song -
just without his voice. The track
is not a failure - it's always a
pleasure to hear him shred - but
it doesn't offer many surprises.
Without hisvocals, the track
is rendered one dimensional
and repetitive. "High Ball Step-
per" without White's signature

vocal touch is like Burt without
Ernie, college without ramen,
Bill without Monica - it just isn't
right.
"High Ball Stepper"leaves
the listener wondering what
White is going for on Laza-
retto. Is Jack trying to reinvent
himself? Willhe attempt more
surprises - and if so, will they
be more successful than his first
try? And most importantly, is
there a love stain on the ceiling
of the oval office?.
-NICKBOYD

TH E D'ART BOARD
Each week we take shots at the biggest
developments in the entertainment world.
Here's what hit (and missed) this week.nN
Grande pain in the ass
Nickelodeon shuts down production on
"Sam and Cat" amid reports of drama
between stars Ariana Grande and
Jennette McCurdy.

DesignbyGabyVasquez
.rs
a Sequel?
Story 3"
rated


4B - Thursday, April 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, April 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

SACTION
From Page 1B ACT TWO - SCENE ONE - INT. APARTMENT, "THRU TRAFFIC" SET - FRIDAY AT 5 p.m.
I walk into the basement of an apartment building off of Washington Street. Various members of the production team sit
hunched quietly against the walls on either side of the hallway, and usher me into an apartment to the right. The apartment
is devoid of furniture and film equipment leans against the wood paneled walls. Cottage Inn pizza boxes are scattered across
the floor, doubling as product placement and sustenance for the crew.
LAYNE SIMESCU stands at one end of the apartment in front of a -monitor that is hooked up to the camera. The camerawoman,
JACKIE VESICS sits on the ground next to her, with the monstrous filming device perched on her shoulder. She is small, with
a Peter Pan-like air and a checked lady blazer with suede elbow patches. The camera dwarfs her, in comparison.
VRESICS: Let's start taking it now just in case some movie magic happens.
Enter GRAHAM TECHLER. He is standing over by the door, texting on his cell phone.
SIMESCU: (To Techler) Graham, do you need me to take your phone away?
The crew laughs. Techler puts his phone back in his pocket and sets up for shoot. Two men, the antagonists of the story,
enter the door. They punch Techler, who offers them a beer. They kick him until Simescu shouts cut. She asks them to do it
just one more time. The crew breaks for dinner. Cottage Inn, again.
TECHLER: In movies, you use the same toolbox and skills as in theater, you just apply them in completely different ways. In
stage acting, if something goes wrong the actors have to cover it. There's a lot of emphasis placed on the actors. But in
movies, you are acutely aware that you are a small part of a large machine. It's an extremely humbling experience, being
a tiny gear in this movie. I'm relying on them heavily, and they're relying on my heavily. It's a symbiotic relationship.
TECHLER's character, Brendan, is at the center of "Thru Traffic" 's plot. The story is about the essential spirit of a road
trip, as inspired by Jack Kerouac. The story deals with two estranged brothers and a hitchhiker that they pick up, traffick-
ing drugs across the nation from Detroit to Chicago.
MATT MONTGOMERY has been working on this script for three years. From what I've gathered, he is a fantastic writer. When his
name is mentioned in conversation, it usually accompanies some praise.
MONTGOMERY: None of the characters are ever really at home until they find each other and are able to connect with each
other. Brendan is self-isolated, they all are really. Karina is this hitchhiker whose doesn't want to make any connections,
Brendan is just trying to get away and Connor is really caught up in his own world. The idea of "Thru Traffic" is that thru
traffic in traffic laws is traffic that is non-residential, the non-home traffic. Throughout the story, they are the thru traf-
fic because they don't have a sense of home until the end of the script.
The crew reconvenes in the tiny apartment, setting up a different angle of the same scene. The guy holding the boom mic
contorts himself into a pose like Atlas, holding the long stick with a ball of fuzz at one end up and over the actors. They
run the scene again, and get halfway through when an ambulance drives by outside, sirens blaring. The crew rolls their eyes.
They'll have to scrap that take and go again. Simescu says a phrase the crew is all too familiar with, "One more time, guys."
They sigh and resume their positions.
This is how they spend about 12 hours of their Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays for 5 weeks until the movie is complete.
END SCENE
SCENE TWO - INT. SOUSE, "BAD GIRLS" SET - SUNDAY AT 1 p.m.
I pull into the driveway of the house that "Bad Girls" is shooting in. It is a modern brick house that is virtually transpar-
ent - it has floor to ceiling windows in front and in back that look out over the woods. Three deer are wandering, cracking
through the brush immediately to my left. They perk their heads and freeze when I lock my car.
The inside of the house is open and airy. The floors are lightwood, the walls white and the windows are the only source of
light but they are plenty. The house was recently purchased by a woman who agreed to let the students use it as long as
they didn't bring in any "bad energy." I'm led into a bedroom that is being constructed carefully by the art crew - they are
crafting a queen bed out of a pile of air mattresses and blankets. At first glance I am skeptical about the idea. Ten minutes
later there is a fully made bed with a canopy hanging above it in the center of the room. This is a clear example of what
is referred to as "movie magic."
Enter ERIKA HENNINGSEN, dressed in her costume - ripped jeans, a slouchy purple t-shirt. She and actress Lena Drake walk
through their scene, rolling around on the multi-mattress bed. Dustin Alpern looks on as they rehearse.
HENNINGSEN: Were those lines right?
ALPERN: I wasn't paying attention to the lines.
HENNINGSEN: (laughing) Neither was I.
Henningsen's musical theater personality has been toned down over the years for the films she has been part of. Where she
once over-acted, now she tones down her emotionality. Her character in "Bad Girls," Christine, is a shy, meek teenager who
is easily manipulated. The part seems the exact opposite of the actress's true personality.
The story, written by JANET HU, centers on Christine and Sara, the new girl at her school. Christine is drawn into Sara's
scheming ways, which ends up getting them both into trouble.
HU: I look back on high school, kind of wanting to gain independence but not really knowing where the line is, and then
you get yourself in over your head. I definitely relate .to Christine sometimes, just in floating through life and reacting
to it, more than just making it happen. Then eventually you have to decide for yourself.
END OF ACT TWO
ACT THREE - INT. NORTH QUAD, RAYHER'S OFFICE - CONTINUED
When it comes down to examining this long and grueling process, I am left with one main question - why? Why do these stu-
dents spend virtually all of their free time making these movies? Why is there a class at this University that cranks out
two student films every single year? I see the answer most clearly through a comparison. Musical Theater students put on
musicals, art students slave away over gallery openings, music students practice for their concerts and almost everyone else
work on their theses. But what do Screen Arts majors have to mark the pinnacle of their college career? The answer is the
Traverse City Film Festival.
BURNSTEIN: Six years ago, the Traverse City Film Fest called me and said 'We'd like you to do something with the film fes-

tival.' 'What're you looking for?' 'Maybe you could do something with screenwriting.' And I said 'Yeah, I'll do that, but
I want you guys to do something for me. We have these two films that come out of this class, and I would love if we had a
chance to show 'em.' They said yeah, we could do that. So we did, and they were a hit. Michael Moore said to me the next
day, 'So you're going to do this every year, right?' And I said 'deal.'
The tradition has stuck, and for the last six years it has been the motivating factor that drives 423. The students conclude
that seeing their names on the big screen more than makes up for losing their weekends and for the most part, their social
lives. On July 31, in Traverse City's City Opera House, their hard work will pay off. For now, they lug cameras, costumes and
equipment around Ann Arbor, inhabiting vacant homes and apartments and using movie magic to make local haunts into Hol-
lywood sets.
BURNSTEIN: We tell every class, your job is to raise the bar for the next class. You want to be the best one yet, and you
want the next one to be better than you by the example you set. That's how you get great.
FADE OUT


