C(ELFBI1I IN()I OU )NEIIUNI)IIEI)DA\,I) ' \I' F T I! TI! N AI'OF H14114'0111A L F1ILO
Ann Arbor, Michigan Friday, October 10,2014 michigandailycom
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG Pres.,
AID10 lokt
I build closer
relationshi
Students may MGoBlog is a Michigan sports
contnueuo prtest blog centered on Wolverine ath-
VICKI LIU/Daily~ letics, according to the website. It
Rackham student Joseph Bayer speaks about the role of Facebook in everyday life at the MCubed Symposium at Rackham Auditorium Thursday.cAtl et is run by a University alum and is
Athletic Department largely catered to University alum-
1de i d ni. The rally to fire University Ath-
decisionsI1a jr c1etiDirector Dave Brandon Sept.
30 was also initiated by a comment
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN on the MGoBlog site. The event
0 Daily StaffReporter ultimately mobilized current stu-
dents to gather outside of Universi-
ilIn a plea to disillusioned stu- ty President Mark Schlissel's house:
dents, CSG President Bobby and demand Brandon's immediate
Dishell, a Public Policy senior, dismissal.
Second annual In a different context, a 2012 when the University's Hu, interim vice president released a statement Wednesday Dishell met with Brandon
"cube" is a group of three Third Century initiative for research, and a keynote night discouragingthem fromboy- Thursday morning to discuss stu-
event inspires work University faculty members allotted $15 million for the by University President Mark cotting Saturday's football game dent concerns. Dishell said he will
from different departments. program, which aims to Schlissel. At noon, researchers "under the lights" against Penn reveal some ofthe department's
between departments Each cube is formed with the encourage interdisciplinary began to present their findings State. His end message: #StandBy- future plans early next week.
intention of solving global research. Of the $15 million, ina poster session. Blue. "We are the victors and best,"
By AMABEL KAROUB challenges that are too difficult each cube receives $60,000 One innovative project was Dishell was responding to a Dishell wrote in his statement."We
Daily StaffReporter or broad for a single discipline to begin their project. created in part by Associate loosely organized plan to protest create effective change from the
to take on..At the 2014 MCubed All cubes are required to Information Prof. Paul Conway. the game on MGoBlog. The boycott bleakest of challenges, we utilize
University President Symposium Thursday, the involve one undergraduate Conway's focuses on releasing would have students gather outside activism and enthusiasm to imple-
Emerita Mary Sue Coleman cubes presented their findings student, graduate student or live music to the public from the gates to each section before the ment new policies, and we strike
was known to spin the Cube from the past year. postdoctoral fellow to train the collections such as The Ark's game but not enter, subsequently out in new directions when the
each day on her way to work, This year was the second of next generation of researchers. in Ann Arbor. He said this giving the appearance of an empty chance presents itself."
but that's not the only cube the inaugural MCubed cycle. The day began with a music is currently inaccessible student section on national televi- "But we don't do these things
taking off on campus. MCubed was launched in May welcome speech from Jack See MCUBED, Page 3A sion. See BOYCOTT, Page 3A

GOVERNMENT
Survey shows
mixed political
participation

SWING IN'

Ase
Da

Stu
demog
cans a
ing to
Michi
Michi
to do
dents'
The
over e
ate Stt
comipl
Am
than
either
cally
cific
issues
labor
laws,
Care
Michi
requir
additi

lections approach, erage on some healthcare plans,
respondents consistently chose
ily survey shows that they had no opinion as the
majority response.
ack of student This excluded questions gaug-
ing support for a raise to the min-
engagement imum wage and a raise in taxes to
fund education, which a majority
By SHOHAM GEVA of students supported.
Daily StaffReporter Furthermore, across the board
in state races, an overwhelming
dent voters can be a key percentage of respondents iden-
graphic for both Republi- tified as undecided, by margins
nd Democrats, but accord- ranging from 65 percent in the
a survey conducted by The race for Michigan's governor, to
gan Daily, candidates in 82 percent in the race for the 12th
gan still have some work District U.S House race, which
at the University to get stu- includes Ann Arbor in its borders.
attention. In the race for one of Michigan's
survey, which was sent out two U.S. Senate seats - the first
mail to 1600 undergradu- open Senate seat in the state in 20
udents late last month, was years following the retirement of
eted by about 200 students. Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) - 73
ong respondents, fewer percent identified as undecided.
50 percent identified as The numbers aren't entirely
politically active or politi- surprising. Younger voters, both
informed. On most spe- those enrolled and not enrolled in
national policy and state college, are typically considered a
including support for lower-engagement demographic
unions, right to work as a whole when it comes to poli-
aspects of the Affordable tics, especially-in years without a
Act and a controversial presidential election.
gan law approved in 2013 A spring 2014 study by the
ing the purchase of an Harvard Institute of Politics on
onal rider for abortion cov- See SURVEY, Page 3A

VICKI LIU/Daily
Senior Hub Humphrey, a member of the University's men's gymnastics team, performs a pommel horse routine on
the Diag Thursday. The team won the their second consecutive NCAA championship in April
DETROIT
Speaker series exam--ines
issues with publicschools

RESEARCH
Tech Transfer
fiscal year
sets record
in research
Historic performance
involved new startups,
and inventions moving
to mass market
By MAYA SHANKAR
Daily StaffReporter
The University announced
Monday the Office of Technology
Transfer had a record-breaking
fiscal year 2014, reporting a con-
siderable increase in the number
of new inventions, agreements
and startups launched based on
research conducted at the Uni-
versity, including 439 new inven-
tions, 148 option and license
agreements and 14 startups.
The office serves as the Univer-
sity's primary unit for facilitating
movement of research technolo-
gies to the market, "as to gener-
ate benefits for the University, the
community and the general pub-
lic," according to their mission
statement.
Ken Nisbet, associate vice pres-
ident for research-technology
transfer at the University, attrib-
uted the success of the office's
performance this past year to
See TECH, Page 3A

Semester in Detroit
launches series to
engage with city
By NEALA BERKOWSKI
Daily StaffReporter
The Detroiters Speak Series
kicked off Thursday with the
hot topic of Detroit Public
Schools, prompting passion-
ate responses and conversation

regarding the future of educa-
tion in the city.
Semester in Detroit and the
University's Detroit Center are
co-sponsors of the six-week
public mini-course, which aims
to give students and the public
a better understanding of his-
toric and contemporary top-
ics in Detroit, Craig Regester,
associate director of SID, said.
This is the third time the mini-
course has been offered.
"We want people to feel like

they have a really thorough
introduction to complicated
challenges in the city as well
as to wonderful assets like the
music scene and the jazz scene,
which we'll talk about in the
future," Regester said. "So it's
not just about covering the
issues and the challenges. It's
a nice combination of what's
beautiful about Detroit, and
has been for a longtime, as well
as what's really challenging
See DETROIT, Page 3A


WEATHER HI 56
TOMORROW LO 30

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Clinic offers free mental health screeings
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXV, No 10
0204tThe Michigan Daily
michigandaily.com

NEW S .....................2A CLASSIPED S...............6A
SUDOKU................... 2A ARTS .............7A
OPINION.............4A FOOTBALLSATURDAY...1B

o,

x


2A - Friday, October 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com A

2A - Friday, October10, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 6

(te filhipan 43djj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERBSHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com dougsolo@michigandaily.com

LEFT SAFE's Education Day
featured a staged simulation
of a West Bank checkpoint.
on the Diag Wednesday. The
demonstration mimicked the
daily commute of Palestinians
from the West Bank into Israel.
(RUBY WALLAU/Daily)
RIGHT Chance the Rapper
performs at Eastern Michigan
University Wednesday. Chance
featured his new works as part
of "The Social Experiment."
(MCKENZIE BEREZIN/Daily)

Newsroom
n4-418-4115 opt.3'
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts'Section
arts@michigandaiy.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmaii.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
lettersto the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaiy.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sates
classifed@michigandaily.om
Finance
finance@nichigandaiy.com

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
THE WIRE Taubman UMMA After "Good Kids"
Clinton in Mich. symposium Hours play
BYEMILIEPLESSET
Adding to a notable line WHAT: The Institute WHAT: The community WHAT: Based on the
of Democratic leaders set to will award its annual $100 is invited to explore the 2012 Steubenville High ;
make campaign appearanc- thousand research grant to museum's permanent and School rape case, the play
es in Michigan this month, Carl June from the Perelman special exhibitions: Live addresses sexual assault
Hillary Clinton will be trav- School of Medicine. music and refreshments will and its public aftermath.
eling to the state to support WHO: A. Alfred Taubman be provided. WHO: School of Music,
campaigns for Rep. Gary Medical Research Institute WHO: UMMA Theatre and Dance
PetersansforerRep.Gary WHEN: Today at 10 a.m. WHEN: Today 7 p.m. to WHEN: Today at 8p.m.
Peters and former Rep. Murk WHERE: Kahn Auditorium 10 p.m. WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Schauer in Metro Detroit at the BSRB WHERE: Museum of Art Center
next Thursday.

THREE THINGS YOU-
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
North Korean dictator
Kim Jong Un has not
appeared publically
since September because,
he injured his leg, Reuters
reported Thursday. Kim
needs 100 days to recover
from the injury he sustained
during a military inspection.
The Michigan football
team hopes to earn its
first win over a Power
5 opponent when it faces
Penn State under the lights
Saturday. It's the third official
night game in Michigan
Stadium history.
FOR MORE,SEE FOOTBALLSATURDAY
French writer Patrick
Modiano is the 107th
winner of the Nobel
Prise for Literature, The Daily
Beast reported Thursday.
Modiano's most popular
novel, "Missing Person," is
about a detecive with memory
loss.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.om:
lennifer Calfas ManagingNewsEditor jratfas@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham, Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amaie Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaiy.com
SENIOREDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Matthew Seligman and David Harris
Greg Garno and
Alejandro ZW iga ManagingsportsEditors sportseditos@michigandailycom
S aNInRSPO SEDITORSn MaxnCohen,AlexaDettelbach,LevFacher,RaatOKhane,Jake
LourimoandanJereyaaonmis
ASSISTANTS ORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim, and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michiandaity.com
AkshaySeth ManagingArtsEditors akse@michigaodaity.om
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo,Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSsnNTARTSaEDITORS:JamieBircoll,JacksonHoward,GillianJakabaandMaddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul ShermaoMsnaginohooEditors photo@michigandaity.com
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Katherine Pekela,Virginia Lozano,
JamesoCller,McKenzieBerezin,andNicholasWilliams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasquezManagingDesign Editors design@michigandaiy.com
SENIORDESIGNEDITORS: AmyMackensandAliciaKovalcheck
Carlina DuanMagazine Editor statement@michigandaiy.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENTILED DESIGNER my Mackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopyEditors copydek@michigandaiy.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:Mariam SheikhandAlishaQiu
Austen Hufford OnlineEditor ahufford@michigandaiy.com
VIDEO EDITORS: Paula Friedrich and James ReslierWells
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: Brianne Johnson
BUSINESSSTAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir Classified Manager
Simonne Kapadia Local Accounts Manager
Lotus An National Accounts Manager
Olivia lonesProductionManagers
Nolan Loh special Projects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily (SSN0745-967) is published Monday through Fiday during the fall and winter terms by
students at the University of sichigan.One copy is ava efreeo harge to alreaders tonal esmay
be picked upat the Dailysofi efor$2.Subscriptionsforlterm,startinginSeptemeia . aiae$110.
ine to a yary yhapr 5iss$115.yaslng (SptbrtrohAPl)r$195.Uviaffaes
aebetto rduescripionae.aOn-cmsbsciptos oe rfalrmarenn Suiscptowanan
b, prpi.TMcia 05,nDaly s a mmrof heAss ,ocatePenad SlTheAsocated Clate Prons

Urban
T HE WIRE
Free screenings Symposium

BY JOEL GOLDSTEIN
In support of National
Depression Screening Day,
the University hosted free
depression screenings at a
number of locations around
campus. It's estimated that
depression currently affects
about 10 percent of the U.S.
population.

WHAT: Students are
invited to explore the
challenges, and potential
solutions, of major urban
issues at this year's
Urban Entrepreneurship
Symposium. WHO:
Innovate Blue & Center for
Entrepreneurship
WHEN: Today from 8 a.m.
to 2 p.m.
WHERE: Gerald Ford
Presidential Library


Human Rights Cabaret
Symposium WHAT: The University
will performthe Broadway
WHAT: The symposium will play "Cabaret." Set in
discusssocial responsibility. Weimar Berlin, the musical
Speakers include University follows Clif, an American
President Mark Schlissel, writer who is inspired by
Former U.S. Assistant the enticingKit Rat Club.
Secretary of State Michael H. WHO: School of Music,
Posner, among others. Theatre and Dance
WHO:Advisory Committee WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
on Labor Standards and WHERE: Mendelssohn
Human Rights Theatre
WHEN: All day today 0 Please report any error
WHERE: Ross School of in the Daily to correc-
Business tions@michigandaily.com.

Coalition fighting ISIS

bombs t
U.S. leads charge in
aerial attacks against
Islamic State
MURSITPINAR, Turkey (AP)
- The U.S.-led coalition intensi-
fied its aerial bombardment of
Islamic State positions Thurs-
day in the Syrian border town of
Kobani as the extremist group
fought street battles with Kurdish
forces and reportedly rushed in
reinforcements.
The battle for the town near
the frontier with Turkey has
emerged as a major early test for
the air campaign aimed at rolling
back and eventually destroying
the extremist group.
It has also strained ties
between Washington and Ankara
over the long-term U.S. strategy
in Syria. On Thursday, the U.S.
special envoy for the coalition,
retired Marine Gen. John Allen,
and NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg
-5S

actical positions
were in Turkey to press the coun- of effort against ISIL, including
try to join military operations. military support, countering for-
Turkish officials have said that eign fighters, counter-finance,
while they 'do not want Kobani humanitarian assistance, and de-
to fall, they will not take on a legitimizing ISIL's messaging and
greater role until the coalition rhetoric," she said using and acro-
outlines a broader strategy that nym for the Islamic State group.
also includes attacking Syrian Turkey also has called for the
President Bashar Assad, who is creation of a buffer zone inside
best positioned to benefit from Syria to secure the border, but the
any rollback of the Islamic State White House and Pentagon said
group. Wednesday the U.S. is not con-
But attacking Assad's regime sidering that option. Such a zone
"is not the focus of our inter- would be costly and complex to
national coalition and not the enforce.
focus of our efforts by the United U.S. officials said Thursday
States," State Departmentspokes- the U.S. is largely talking to Tur-
woman Jen Psaki said. key about other things it could do
Psaki said Allen and Turk- besides inserting ground forces
ish officials discussed ways to into the fight: allowing U.S. and
advance the effort against the coalition aircraft to fly over Turk-
Islamic State group and said a ish territory; allowing its air base
joint military planning team will in Incirlik, some 160 kilometers
visit Ankara early next week. (100 miles) from the Syrian bor-
"Both sides also agreed that der, to be used by U.S. or coalition
we will continue a dynamic and planes or for logistics and train-
deepening bilateral consultation ing; and equipping moderate Syr-
process across the multiple lines ian opposition forces fighting to
topple Assad.
The officials were not autho-
rized to discuss meetings under-
way between U.S. and Turkish


CHANMEE CHUNG/Daily
LSA sophomore Miles Shatkin participates in Diag Day, an event used to hear concerns from the student body,
Thursday.
LSA SG 'hosts. event to
hear student concerns

officials in Ankara and requested
anonymity.
The fight for Kobani has
brought Syria's civil war yet
again to Turkey's doorstep, and
for weeks the U.S. and its allies
have pressed Ankara to take a
more robust role in the coalition.
In addition, Kurds have held
massive demonstrations across
Turkey in which they accuse the
government, which has deployed
its tanks just across the fron-
tier, of doing nothing to save the
town.
Ankara is suspicious of the
Syrian Kurdish forces fighting in
Kobani, seeing them as an exten-
sion of the Kurdish PKK, which
waged a long and bloody insur-
gency against Turkey.
Responding to the criticism,
Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut
Cavusoglu said it was unrealis-
tic to expect Turkey to launch a
ground war against the Islamic
State group on its own.

Diag Day seeks to
provide avenue for
student needs to be
addressed on campus
By ALYSSA BRANDON
Daily StaffReporter
LSA Student Government
held their annual "Diag Day"
Thursday to give students an
opportunity to voice their con-
cerns about the University.
Representatives from LSA
SG set up a station on the Diag
at which students were able to
submit written complaints and
express concerns to representa-
tives that they would like to see
addressed.
LSA freshman Caitlin Stew-
art, an SG representative,
worked at the event and heard a
wide variety of complaints from
students.
"We've heard everything
from getting more silverware in
some of the dining halls to hav-
ing a girls-only section in the,
CCRB," Stewart said. "We've

also heard complaints that the
Fish Bowl is too cold."
The Student Life Committee
is responsible for addressing the
various concerns students voice
at the University. Public Poli-
cy junior Hilary Forrest, SLC
chairwoman, said LSA SG start-
ed holding Diag Day five years
ago after working to gather all
the complaints they received
from LSA.
"It started with the creation
of the e-mail account This-
Sucks@umich.edu, where stu-
dents could send emails about
things they didn't like so much
here at the University," Forrest
said.
From there, Diag Day was
created to further publicize the
creation of the e-mail account,
as well as to give students an
opportunity to discuss their
concerns in person.
Based on the comments LSA
SG received Thursday, For-
rest said students seemed to be
concerned about the condition
of the facilities at the Univer-
sity, ranging from getting more
printers in the UGLi, to having
more bike racks installed around

campus. Committee members
already have an idea of how
they'll address some of these
concerns in the future.
"We plan to serve as a liai-
son for the students, and to
work to set up meetings with
appropriate administration to
bring these concerns to their
attention," Forrest said. "For
instance, regarding having
more printers in the UGLi, we'll
work with ITS to see what we
can do to get more printers for
students."
The Student Life Commit-
tee also plans to meet Oct. 14 to
read through all the concerns
they received in detail and
develop a plan to address them.
Overall, Forrest said ' the
committee hopes that Diag Day
and the promotion of the eamail
account will let students know
they have a forum they can use
to safely express their opinions.
"We want "students to know
that they have an outlet they can
use to voice their concerns, and
that they have a committee that
is working hard to make sure
they can maximize their college
experiences."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Friday, October 10, 2014 - 3A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom N tW Friday, October 10,2014- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
FLINT, Mich,
Man sentenced
to five years for
drunken accident
A young man has been
sentenced to at least five years
in prison for a drunken wrong-
way crash that killed a woman in
Genesee County.
Zachary Parker shed tears
Thursdayashetold ajudgethathe
wishes he could trade spots with
the victim, Mariah Bailey-Collins,
who was killed in February.
The 19-year-old Parker was
driving the wrong way on U.S. 23
in Mundy Township. He was 18
at the time, and his blood-alcohol
level was more than twice the
legal limit. Bailey-Collins' son and
new husband were injured in the
crash.
Parker will be eligible for parole
after five years. His maximum
sentence is15 years in prison.
OAKLEY, Mich.
Judge: Oakley
police department
is closed for now
A judge has declared there's no
police department in a small town
in Saginaw County.
The Saginaw News says Judge
Robert Kaczmarek granted an
injunction Thursday, saying
Oakley can't have a police
department after the village
council voted to disband it last
month.
Chief Robert Reznick had
resumed patrols after obtaining a
privately funded insurance policy.
Oakley has roughly 300
residents, but Reznick had a corps
of 12 officers and 100 reserve
officers who lived around the
state and helped pay for the police
budget.
AUSTIN, Texas
Texas judge rules
against voter ID
requirements
A federal judge likened Texas'
strict voter ID requirement to
a poll tax deliberately meant to
suppress minority voter turn-
out and struck it down less than
a month before Election Day -
and mere hours after the U.S.
Supreme Court blocked a similar
measure in Wisconsin.
The twin rulings released
Thursday evening represent
major and somewhat surpris-
ing blows to largely Republican-
backed voter identification rules
sweeping the nation that have
generally been upheld in previous
rulings.
Approved in 2011, Texas' law
is considered among the nation's
harshest and had even been derid-
ed in court by the Justice Depart-
ment as blatant discrimination.
Wisconsin's law was passed the

same year and has remained a
similar political flashpoint.
MEXICO CITY
Leader of Juarez
drug cartel arrested
by Mexican officials
Federal police arrested alleged
Juarez drug cartel leader Vicente
Carrillo Fuentes in the northern
city of Torreon on Thursday,
Mexican officials announced.
After investigators narrowed
Carrillo Fuentes' whereabouts
to a neighborhood of Torreon,
he was taken into custody at a
traffic checkpoint without a shot
being fired, National Security
Commissioner Monte Alejandro
Rubido said.
Attorney General Jesus Murillo
Karam called the arrest "a capture
of great importance."
"We are extremely heartened
by the court's decision, which
affirms our position that the
Texas voter identification law
unfairly and unnecessarily
restricts access to the franchise,"
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said in a statement. "We are also
pleased that the Supreme Court
has refused to allow Wisconsin
to implement its own restrictive
voter identification law."
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

DETROIT
From Page 1A
people."
The series is held weekly in
Detroit, with program operators
offering transportation for stu-
dents of the class and others.
Thursday's event, "Reflections
on the State of Detroit Public
Schools," focused on controver-
sial topics around education in
Detroit and featured three guest
speakers.
Linda Spight, former Mum-
ford High School principal,
Asenath Andrews, former prin-
cipal of Catherine Ferguson
Academy, and Yolanda Peoples,
the parent of both a current and
former DPS student, all voiced
concerns about the schools in
Detroit.
Peoples called for the Univer-
sity to give up its partnership
with the Detroit School of Arts,
saying the school is being mis-
managed. She cited overall atten-
dance dropping, arts programs
being cut and what she sees as
a poor decision to replace the
school's certified teachers with
teacher volunteers from Teach
for America.
"What self-governing schools
are supposed to do is to allow
the school and the community
to run itself," Peoples said. "It
is supposed to work to improve
academics and whatever
performance is lacking.
But remember DSA wasn't
lacking. It wasn't lacking in
attendance, it wasn't lacking in
performance, it wasn't lacking
in overall academics. So we have
to ask ourselves, 'Why are you
here?"'

Spight voiced separate
concerns, saying Republican
Gov. Rick Snyder's Educational
Achievement Authority
initiative, implemented
in 2012 and designed to
improve struggling schools, is
experimental and not turning
around schools.
Andrews, whose school
exclusively enrolls pregnant
and parenting teens, criticized
DPS for dropping Catherine
Ferguson from the district after
it became expensive, forcing it
to become a charter school. n
After the lectures, the floor
opened to the audience for
commentary, resulting inheated
comments from attendees.
Elena Herrada, member of
the DPS board, asked for the
EAA to revert DPS back to
Detroit and for the University to
withdraw its presence from the
Detroit School of Arts.
"We're asking for the support
of U of M students to go to the
School of Education and to tell
them to get out of Detroit School
ofArts,"Herradasaid. "Students
have the power to do this. You
don't have to live with what
Detroit students are livingwith.
They will never get to U of M if
they continue on the path that
they're on. You have the power
to make this happen for our
students. I'm asking you to go
to your Board of Regents, go to
your professors, go everywhere
and tell them hands off Detroit
Public Schools."
LSA junior Amy Kanka said
she took the mini-course to
learn more about the current
events and history of the city
she enjoys visiting and where
her father grew up.

"I just thought it was really
interesting that I actually never
knew about any of these topics,"
Kanka said. "I thought with
discussing schools in Detroit,
we would talk about unions or
the effect the economy had on
schools. I didn't know it was
such a deep, emotional topic, or
that the University of Michigan
had a direct relationship with it.
I'm applyingto the School of Ed.
and I had no idea that the school
had any correlation to DPS."
Regester said SID has a
philosophy that there are many
different kinds of educators
for their students, including
Detroiters who have formal
and informal qualifications.
The series is open to the public
to enable deeper learning for
everyone in attendance.
Members of the public who
attend at least five lectures
will receive a certificate of
participation, Lolita Hernandez,
SID creative writing lecturer
and Detroit native, said.
"When we open it to the
general public,we'regoingtoget
a wider array of perspectives,
viewpoints, life goals, and
developmental phases,"
Regester said. "All of that just
makes for a richer conversation,
and everybody ends up learning
more in the end."
The series will take place
most Thursdays this fall at
the U-M Detroit Center until
November 13. The University's
Detroit Center Connector bus,
which travels between Ann
Arbor and Detroit, provides
free transportation to and from
Detroiters Speak. Spaces for the
public can be reserved on the
UM Detroit Connector website.

MCUBED
From Page 1A
because it often isn't digital, or
is restricted by copyright laws.
"Our solution is to build
a system that would deliver
the songs in context of the
performance and then engage
performers in cataloguing
their music," Conway said.
"We educate them about their
options for copyright release
and ask them to make some
decisions song by song."
RackhamstudentVenkatram
Pepakayala was participating
in a much different project. He
spent the past year working to
improve biomedical implants
by removing cells that would
cause scar tissue formation.
Pepakayala said he was in
need of funding when he heard
about MCubed.
"I was looking for funding
for my Ph.D. work, and my
previous budget ran out last

year," Pepakayala said. "My
adviser got in touch with one of
the doctors from the eye clinic,
and they applied for a grant
and they got it."
LSA senior Jeff Pituch
was at the Symposium not
as a member of a cube but
for personal enjoyment. A
researcher himself, he said
he came to the Symposium
the year before and found it
inspirational.
"I found it really helpful in
terms of giving me new ideas
to approach other people in
different areas of research that
have similar ideas that I could
collaborate with in the future,"
Pituch said. "We're always
looking for new, innovative
solutions that I think are best
brought about when you talk
with somebody who really
doesn't know exactly what
you're doing, but likes to
research and has a passion for
finding out new things about
literally anything."



TECH
From Page 1A
the ingenuity of the tech trans-
fer team, the quality of research
being done at the University and
the resources and support pro-
vided by the University and com-
munity.
"The record number of new
inventions is a reflection of
the level of engagement our
researchers are having," Nisbet
said. "Because of their creativity,
we are seeing more of their work
coming to us."
University research discover-
ies are implemented around the
world, Nisbet said, though tech
transfer tries to boost the local
economy by finding local busi-
nesses that can benefit from the
inventions and creating startups
that are - at least initially -
located in Ann Arbor.
When looking to put their dis-
coveries on the market, research-
ers first report their idea to tech
transfer. The office gets more

than 400 reports per year, Nisbet
said. Specialists at tech transfer
then work on assessing, techni-
cally and commercially, what
wduld need to happen to make
the discovery a viable and valu-
able market item. They work
with the researcher on either
integrating the technology into
an existing business, or creating
a startup with the new technol-
ogy at its core.
After initial success, the busi-
nesses and startups pay royalties
to tech transfer and that money
is reinvested into research at the
University.
The record number of agree-
ments reflects a growing interest
in collaboration between busi-
nesses and the University, Nisbet
said. For example, the Michigan-
based engineering corporation
Michigan Aerospace has licensed
University technology through
tech transfer that allows for bet-
ter detection of ice and snow on
aviation equipment.
University startups are creat-
ed with the help of Tech Trans-

fer's Venture Center. A start-up
located in Ann Arbor called Aler-
tWatch, which allows physicians
to see all their patient informa-
tion in one centralized location,
was created with guidance from
the Venture Center.
"That's the whole idea," Nis-
bet said. "It's to have the work
of our research help the general
public."
Nisbet also spoke aboutthe rep-
utation of the University and the
research being done here, tying
the record-breaking success of
Tech Transfer this year to the suc-
cess of the University as a whole.
"The reason we have over
$1.3 billion in research expendi-
tures every year is because our
researchers are of such high qual-
ity," Nisbet said. "We're viewed
as one of the best research uni-
versities in the world."
The University will recognize
Tech Transfer's endeavors at the
14th annual Celebrate Invention
reception, which will be held in
the Michigan League Ballroom
Oct. 28.

SURVEY.
From PagelA
American 18 to 29 year olds eli-
gible to vote found that overall,
only 19 percent of those sur-
veyed considered themselves to
be politically active. In contrast,
30 percent of respondents in the
Daily's survey said they were
"politically active" and an addi-
tional 5 percent who said they
"strongly agreed."
Peter Levine, director of the
Center for Information and
Research on Civic Learning and
Engagement at Tufts Univer-
sity, said low levels of engage-
ment among young people and
differences between young
people enrolled in college and
those who are not can often
be explained by differences in
mobilization - the process of
disseminating campaign infor-
mation and encouraging voter
participation.
"There's a good effect to
mobilization. It works," Levine
said. "The University can be a
place that's targeted for mobili-
zation for party operations and
party volunteers to reach out
and that's a good thing. Rela-
tive to suburban neighborhoods,
there may be less mobilization
going on (there). Everybody's
young and they tend be off lists
and not noticed. On the other
hand, relative to low-income
working twenty-year olds in
Detroit, a University of Michi-
gan student is much more likely
to be contacted."
He added that at four-year,
competitive institutions like the
University of Michigan, several
factors can contribute to rela-
tively higher level of engagement
in comparison with others in the
same age demographic, most
namely higher levels of societal
advantage among the campus
population.
Michael Burns, director of
the Campus Vote Project, said in
terms of direct political partici-
pation by voting, there are also
several basic structural barriers
to the act of voting for college
students, namely lack of knowl-
edge about deadlines, residency
requirements for out-of-state
students and other logistics.
Only 23 percent of voters in
the Harvard survey said they
would "definitely be voting" in
this year's November midterm
elections, and in the last mid-
term elections in 2010, 24 per-
cent of 18-29 year olds voted,
according to U.S. Census data.
On college campuses, a little
over 30 percent of college stu-
dents voted in 2010, according to
data from CIRCLE.
In comparison, the average
voting rate among eligible voters
in U.S in the 2010 midterm elec-
tion was 45.5 percent.
"I think alot of it is just over-
coming - I like to call it an
information deficit," Burns said.
"Only about 13 percent of (col-
lege students who don't vote)
say 'Oh, it just wasn't important'
or 'Oh, my vote wasn't going to

change anything.' So I think the
majority of folks would vote,
even in midterm elections, if
they had the right information."
For two of the biggest partisan
political student organizations
on campus - the College Demo-
crats and the College Republi-
cans - high levels of potentially
unengaged and undecided eli-
gible voters are something they
see as both an opportunity and a
responsibility.
According to The Daily's sur-
vey, along with alack of demon-
strated political engagement and
a tendency toward indecision,
only 40 percent agreed that they
were well informed about politi-
cal issues.
"I think that there is a huge
problem of disengagement from
politics with young people," LSA
senior Trevor Dolan, chair of
the University's chapter of the
College Democrats, said. "A lot
of it is people haven't necessar-
ily had the time to experience
what political processes can
do for them, and they're sort of
divorced from it because they
haven't been moved by it ever."
LSA senior Gabriel Leaf, chair
of the University's chapter of
the College Republicans, said
especially on college campuses,
the first step towards becoming
engaged can be difficult.
"It's hard for youth to get
involved in politics ... it's defi-
nitely not something we think
about all the time," he said. "It's
the first election for many of us."
Dolan said for this year's mid-
term election, College Demo-
crats is choosing to focus on
specific issues and the progres-
sive values they speak to, as
opposed to simply encouraging
people to vote Democratic, in an
effort to better cater to students.
He pointed to several issues
as particularly relevant for stu-
dents from the Democratic per-
spective, including incumbent
candidate Republican Gov. Sny-
der's 15 percent cut to university
funding in 2011 and the recent
introduction of amendment to
the Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights
Act by several Democratic state
senators and representatives,
which would change the act to
include sexual orientation, gen-
der identity and gender expres-
sion as protected classifications.
"It's really important that
people understand that what's
being debated impacts them
very directly, like for example
their tuition increase, or that
they'll be secure in their job and
can't be fired because they act
too effeminate," he said. "I think
that's what our responsibility as
the College Democrats is, to con-
vey to them why what is happen-
ing right now matters, and why
the people they vote for matter."
Leaf said College Republicans
was also taking an issues-based
approach, namely focusing on
jobs and the state's economy.
"I see us as an opportunity,"
he said. "We are there to educate
everyone, to provide opportuni-
ties, to give people access to that
(and) further their involvement."


BOYCOTT
From Page1A
- we don't leap to conclusions
or take on new projects - until
we've completed the first step:
trust," he added. "Trusting the
team, its leaders, and those
who help it develop - that is
how we open doors to a bright-
er future."
As confirmed by a search of
MCommunity, all respondents to
Dishell's statement in the com-
ments section of the CSG web-
site were alumni. In addition to
thoughts posted on MGoBlog
and the CSG website, recent
data analysis conducted by The
Michigan Daily revealed that
the majority of signatures on
the CSG petition to fire Brandon
were also graduates.
University alum Joseph
Lechtner said he agreed with
Dishell's sentiment that students
must support their athlete peers
on football Saturday. That, how-
ever, was why he endorsed the
boycott.
"As you clearly state, it's criti-
cal to support the players off and
on the field," Lechtner wrote in
his comment. "With the current

AD in place, the correct coaching
staff will never be here in Ann
Arbor and we'll continue to let
down the next group of Michi-
gan Student Athletes."
Law School student Zachary
Robock added commentary in
support of Dishell's statement,
writing that he is a proponent of
Brandon's firing, "But ... waiting
outside the game is not the way
to send this message."
"Regardless of the intended
message, an empty student sec-
tion is a signal to our players that
we don't support them," Robock
wrote. "We should not be airing
our concerns over Dave Brandon
by undermining our support in
the football team."
In a phone interview Thurs-
day, Dishell said he understands
the student body's call for a per-
sonnel change, but feels that
working to create effective poli-
cy changes within the preexist-
ing boundaries will be the most
realistic method of creating a
positive student experience.
As to Brandon, Dishell said
meeting with the Athletic Direc-
tor was a humanizing experi-
ence, and explained Brandon is
different than the pejorative way
some students portray him.

"He's someone who we're
looking to build a relationship
with to bridge the gap that exists
between students and the Ath-
letics Department," Dishell said.
"Absolutely it's going to take
time but I can tell you, the way
to build relationships is not by
going out and attacking some-
one. At the end of the day, agree
with him or disagree with him
on certain things, he's still our
athletic director."
To mitigate this perceived
gap, Dishell said CSG will soon
be releasing a survey where stu-
dents can respond to questions
and publish their criticisms of
the Athletic Department, which
he will parse through with Bran-
don in subsequent meetings.
Although he couldn't reveal
the exact plans for working with
the department until next week,
he hinted that they will entail
setting up a new, streamlined
way for students to communicate
with the Athletic Department,
while making administrators
more transparent and available
to the student body.
"I'm still going to go to rep-
resent the student voice, but the
way to do that is not by boycot-
ting," Dishell said.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY WANTS TO FOLLOW YOU.
EVERYWHERE.-
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER @MICHIGANDAILY
For the latest on campus news, goings-on
and the occasional clicktait squirrel video


4


4A - Friday, October10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

ll

A

Gly idtpan Big
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandailycom
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles snd illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F ROM T HE DAILY
A major wake up call
Athletic Department must repair relationships
viral campaign began earlier this week, urging students
to boycott the kickoff of Michigan's home game against.
Penn State Saturday. Originating from the comments
section of MGoBlog, an online blog that chronicles Michigan
Athletics, the boycott is a student response to a series of mistakes
and failures from Athletic Director Dave Brandon and the
University's Athletic Department. This list of grievances begins
as early as 2009 - before Dave Brandon's tenure - and concludes
as recently as two weeks ago. Student outrage has reached a peak,
culminating with protests on the Diag and outside University
President Mark Schlissel's house. Such an outburst is not easy to
incite and should not be taken lightly. The University, the Athletic
Department and Dave Brandon need to begin a serious push to
win back the student body by implementing policies that can
preemptively address potential crises.

Ann Arbor's housing headache

As we've entered October, I'm
sure everyone's settling into
theirapartments,housesand
dorms. But don't
feel too settled,
because now's the
time that you real-
ly need to think :
about housing.
Simply put, a
student's search
for housing in Ann '
Arbor is ridicu- MICHAEL
lous. Not only are SCHRAMM
housing prices
unreasonable rela-
tive to what students at other col-
leges pay, but the process of finding
housing contains an unreasonable
number of traps and difficulties.
The process's stress stems from
issues explained by basic economics.
A culmination of factors - including
the renovations in large student
housing facilities like South Quad
and West Quad, a consistent increase
in admitted students and off-campus
housing reaching or exceeding
capacity - has created an excess
demand that the housing supply
struggles to meet. With so many
students looking for housing, tenants
in convenient locations can charge
higher prices and expect students to
sign leases in October or November.
The expectation of signing a lease
in October or November can lead to
serious issues. You've lived in your
current housing for a month or two,
so you really haven't lived with your
housemates or roommates long
enough to know whether your liv-
ing styles are similar. But you don't
have the time to see how things play
out. If you're even considering living
with them, you have to immediately
look into the possibility of living with
them next year. If they're down,
that's great, and you can renew your
lease or find new housing and pray
that you'll live well together for the
next two years. However, this doesn't
always happen, and sometimes your
roommates want different housing
experiences or already realize your
living situation isn't suitable. This
would be stressful in any circum-
stance,but you don't reallyhave time
to think your other options through.
You only really have three weeks
before all your friends solidify their
plays, soi you have to scramble, and
accept any housing offer you find -
even if it's one that you don't want.
This isn't even taking into con-
sideration how much relationships
can change in a year. If you sign an

August-to-August lease in October, should be developed to stop these
you have 11 months until you live sidestepping policies. The University
with those people. Eleven months should advocate to the Ann Arbor
of time can have a pretty significant City Council for a 100-day period as
impact on a person's social life. You opposed to the current 70-day policy.
could very well realize in January Additionally, rules should exist to
or February that you would have prohibit students from touring or
preferred to live with other people, signing May-to-May leases until
particularly if you're a freshman or Dec. 15. These policies would allow
sophomore who immediately signed students to sign leases during mid-
a lease with people youbarely know. December at the earliest. Coupled
But let's just assume that you find with exams and Winter Break,
the right people to live with next students would likely not be able
year. Now you can actually begin to sign a lease until they return for
your housing search. However, this second semester. Having all of first
is by no means a period of leisurely semester to brainstorm housing
searching options to determine your groups would give students an
bestfit.Youhave at most amonth and opportunity to make informed and
a half to decide where you want to intelligent decisions. This could also
live, so your search turns into a rabid decrease housing prices as landlords
hunt to find a place that you don't may lower rent to attract, more
hate, is located somewhere you want students given that they have less
to live and falls within your budget. time for studentsto signleases.
Unfortunately, you're not the only This policy change would also be
person in your living group, and optimal as second semester is around
each individual has different prefer- the time that the University opensup
ences. These people are your friends, the process-for on-campus housing,
though, so you don't want to step allowingstudentstorealisticallycon-
on anyone's toes, and you also don't sider both possibilities. As it is now, if
want to say anything that would a student chooses to live on-campus
remove you from the group. These for the following year, they ,take a
issues obviously arise in any hous- risk because if they don't get housing,
ing situation, but the higher-priced the off-campus market is essentially
student housing drained.
in An 'Arbor Going to
coupled with the Michigan
expectation of Simply put, a student's already entails
signing a lease . numerous
so soon, elevates search for housing in responsibili-
the need to find Ann Arbor ties. Students
something - struggle jug-
whether it's per- is ridiculous. gling school,
fect or just OK. organizations
These issues and their social
are significant, life. With all
and I think the of these issues
University should be advocating for going on, housing should be the least
changesinleasingpoliciestoalleviate of students' concerns, but neverthe-
the situation. No, the University less remains one. This is my third
cannot do anythingto guarantee that year of experiencing an unreason-
housingwillbe effortless,butit could able amount of housing stress cou-
fight for regulations if it really cared pled with hearing about how all my
about students' well-being. Codes friends are stressed out. And from
exist in Ann Arbor that prohibit what I hear, this isn't something
renters from allowing anyone to sign that students at schools with more
a lease or view housing until 70 days relaxed housing markets experience.
after current leasers have lived in the After spending six years renovat-
property. However, landlords can ing on-campus facilities without
allow unattended viewing of housing making efforts to alleviate the extra
units and force students to sign pre- students in the off-campus market,
lease agreements in order to sidestep I hope that the University (or time
these, "odes.. Furthermore, ;with force, with .political .clout) makes
the options of May-to-May leases, an effort to alleviate some of these
some renters don't need to sidestep issues.
the policies and can immediately
find students to sign a lease within Michael Schramm can be reached
the first weeks of school. Rules at mschramm@umich.edu.

Perhaps the most alarming fault was the
perceived mishandling of the sexual assault
case involving former Michigan kicker
Brendan Gibbons. Though Gibbons was
accused of sexual assault on Nov. 22, 2009,
he was not suspended from play until more
than four years later, in December of 2013.
This delay in confronting the issue revealed
a clear flaw in the system that various
University units have since had to remedy
- including upholding the Student Sexual
Misconduct Policy.
The Athletic Department played a
significant role in mistreating the situation
by concealing Gibbons' separation from,
the University. After the Office of Student
Conflict Resolution issued Gibbons'
suspension Dec. 19, 2013, a copy of the
expulsion letter signed by Gibbons was
faxed from the Athletic Department on
the same date. This indicates that athletic
officials were aware of the separation at
that time at the latest. Only a very serious
breakdown in communication would explain
Brandon's ignorance of the separation at this
point. However, at the Buffalo Wild Wings
Bowl Dec. 28, Michigan Coach Brady Hoke
claimed that Gibbons would not play because
of a "family matter." Hoke also stated that
Gibbons would not participate in the regular-
season finale against Ohio State due to an
undisclosed injury. Again, either the Athletic
Department had a very troubling problem
with communication, Brandon failed to
inform Hoke of the situation or Hoke's
statements were made up. Regardless, Hoke's
indirect manner of addressing the questions,
as well as providing false information, brings
to light an institutional problem within
the Department.
The U.S. Department of Education has
since opened a federal investigation into
the University's handling of the case. The
Department's Office for Civil Rights is now
reviewing whether or not the University
violated the Title IX legislation in relation
to the Gibbons case, as well as sexual assault
and harassment on campus in general.
The fact that the Athletic Department and
University bungled a situation so seriously as
to draw the attention of federal investigators
aligns with its repetitive lack of transparency
and questionable procedures.
Ticket pricing and policies have also

angered students and non-students alike.
The increase in the cost for season tickets,
coupled with the weakest home schedule
in recent memory, makes the Athletic
Department seem out of touch with the
reality of fans unable to afford tickets. The
switch to general admission seating for
students last season also caused students to
lose trust in the department's ability to make
decisions regarding student ticket policy,
as the system was a failure that had to be
altered again in short order, this time with
the Central Student Government and the
departmentworking together to institute the
new policy in place for this year. The Athletic
Department's failure to include student input
from the beginning not only manifests in
negative opinion, but smothers school spirit
and future fans of University athletics.
Most recently, the Shane Morris incident
has driven student patience to the brink. By
allowing a concussed sophomore quarterback
to continue to play, the Michigan Football
program put a 20-year-old's life at risk.
Morris' injury showed that sideline medical
policies - which have since been updated -
weren't thorough enough to protect student
health. While Brandon has said that it was
a miscommunication and a "mistake that
cannot occur again," the fact that it happened
at all suggests incompetence, as negligence is
an unacceptable excuse for risking student
lives. Brandon and the Athletic Department
need to be proactive rather than reactive. The
Athletic Department's communication issues
were not isolated to the field. After the game,
Brandon and Hoke publicly contradicted each
other multiple times, the most concerning
of which was when they were spoke of
Morris' condition.
The fact that a group of students is willing
to sacrifice the public image of the University
to institute a boycott at this Saturday's game
is a clear example that student opinion of the
Athletic Department under Dave Brandon has
hit an extreme low point. The Department
has lost support of fans with its ticket pricing
and policy, and the support of sports fans
and non-fans alike with its handling of the
Gibbons incident and Morris injury. This
outcry and negative sentiment cannot be
ignored by the Athletic Department, which
must now bring about substantive change to
rebuild lost trust.

An open letter to President Obama

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Devin Eggert, David Harris, Rachel John, Nivedita Karki,
Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Victoria Noble, Allison Raeck, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman, Linh Vu,
Meher Walia, Mary Kate Winn, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
All signs point to a cover-up, but
I want to give the White House a
chance to explain itself."
- Rep Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), chairman of a House oversight
subcommittee investigating the Secret Service prostitution
scandal, said after the release of new information in the case

To Mr. Obama,
To Mr. Obama,
I address my letter to
you in earnest. I
write in the full
faith that one
day, somehow,
you will read it.
I write you as an
American. But I
do not write you
as my president.
I write you as no OMAR
one else will, for MAHMOOD
the war criminal
that you are.
Of course, being a war criminal is
a prerequisite for taking residence
in the White House. The CIA, under
LBJ and Nixon, would keep akill list
of Viet Cong members. In a covert
operation called the Phoenix, they
would send out assassins to check
off those names. So you are hardly
being creative. Instead, !you have
earned your place in a long-standing
American tradition, and are on the
wrongside of history.
Decades from now, students of
history will remember you as the
drone president. What I remember
of the Vietnam War from my history
class is not the valor ofthe Americans
in the jungle. I remember the piles
of dead villagers all reported by
our soldiers as Viet Cong members.
Squadrons of American soldiers
would rifle through the villages and
count dead babies and even pet dogs
amongthe terrorists they had killed.
No American can walk out of history
class with his head held high. We
have blood on our hands.:
What you are doing, Mr. Obama,
is even more sinister. You deliver
death in the most cowardly of ways.
And you revel in it. At the White
House Correspondents' Dinner in
2010, you dressed up in your tux-
edo and bow tie and flirted with the
crowd. The Jonas Brothers were
there, and we learned that Sasha
and Malia were big fans. But you
warned them to tread carefully.
"Boys, I have two words for you,"
you said. "Predator drones ... you
will never see it coming."
I dare you, Mr.Obama, tolook into

the eyes of any on
whose fathers an
taken away and cra
But you persist in
ror. In 2011, the
350 drone operate
fighter jet pilots. N
operator have to]
And never does
have to see the fac
killing. Instead the
a red body on the
once his body isr
Hellfire missile, t
watch as it bleeds o
In military slang,
call their victims "
This is how y
Rehman's grandn
out picking okra i
ing fields of Kh]
Pakistan and Afg
steppes of great
grandmother was
was ready to pick
not yet ripe, and f
ed she was a tei
was engulfed in
ness, and when
they subsided
her grandmoth-
er was dead.
Momina Bibi
had been flung a
league away, so
badly disfigured
that the villag-
ers would not let
her sons see her
body. She was a
grandmother of
nine. The childre
scared of blue sl
drones will see th
Only five mem
were there to hi
when she visitedy
You've chosen Ma
stani poster child,
don't need anothe
probably is awkw
the eyes of a littleI
mother you killec
eyes, Mr. Obama.
The Bureau
Journalism has do
procure from you
those you have k

ie of the children them well hidden. I think it might be
d mothers you've best to not tell how many you have
ck that same joke. killed, and how many more whose
your reign of ter- lives you have ripped apart. Not only
Air Force trained because they can't be told, but that to
ors and only 250 quantify death is more the practice
lever does a drone of the politicians and cynics that
leave the ground. defend your drone program.
a drone operator But I do have to address my
e of the man he is detractors, simply because they are
target appears as in power. Some, such as Douglas
heat sensor, and Murray of the Henry Jackson
ripped apart by a Society, argue that you should be
the operator can congratulated for having "landed on
sut and turns blue. the most efficient means known to
drone operators kill Western enemies while harming
bug splats." as few potential friends as possible."
ou killed Nabila Another, Norton Schwartz, retired
mother. She was U.S. Air Force general and former
n the never-end- chief of staff of the Air For e,, was
yber in between just as eloquent in declaring that
;hanistan on the your drone program "minimizes
mountains. Her loss of life for friendly forces and
telling her which maximizes the opportunity to avoid
k and which was needless casualties of friendlies; in
or that you decid- other words, collateral damage." But
rrorist. The field so what, I ask, if drones minimize
flames and dark- civilian casualties? So what if they
are surgical and
precise? Your
program can
Decades from now, only be justified
with such
students of history will jargon, because
the plain truth
remember you as the belies it. These
drone president. megalomaniacs
' have turned
warfare into
ratios, into a
trolley problem,
n of Khyber are and humanity is lost.
ky, because your Those who defend the program
em. profess that terrorist cells are
bers of Congress being decapitated. But they have no
ear Nabila speak ground to stand on - if anything,
'ou in the Capitol. it helps recruitment. Decapitating
lala as your Paki- organizations has historically been
and I suppose you ineffective and counterintuitive.
r. In any case, it One needs only point to the assas-
vard to look into sination of Chechen leaders by the
girl whose grand- Russian government from 2002 to
d. She has hazel 2006. As explains Professor Audrey
Kurth Cronin of George Mason Uni-
of Investigative versity's School of Public Policy, the
one well to try to conflict changed from a "separatist
the numbers of insurgency to a broader
illed. You've kept See OBAMA, Page 5A

lk

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ip 1 .

Friday,"October 10, 2014 - 5A


OBAMA
From Page 4A
radical movement in the Cau-
casus." The conflict spread to
nearby areas like Dagestan, from
where the Boston bombers hail,
motivated by that same Russian
crackdown. Your drone program
has become a recruiting poster
for al-Qaida and other insurgent
groups. For every father we kill,
we leave behind more children
who want to avenge him. We
create our own enemies. In the
words of one of your victims,
'May Allah give me power for
one day to use a single drone on
the American people so that the
American politicians understand
how much it pains when a missile
comes from the sky and kills your
relatives in front of your eyes,
and you can't revenge them any
more."
We can argue against your
drone program from a rational
perspective, as concerns efficacy
in war strategy. But our argu-
ment must not be one of num-
bers. It must be one of principles,
a moral argument. We stake our

contention on the simple human
truth that to take an innocent life'
is wrong. Because your ratios will
not bring back the dozen lives
that you took in a wedding pro-
cession in Yemen. What do your
assurances do for Juda? She is 40
years old and her youngest isi5R
days old, and she is now a mother
and a father. Will you bring back
her husband?
One of the first drone attacks
to be carried out killed two peo-
ple. One of them was a man who,
was mistaken for none other
than Osama bin Laden, because
of nothing other than his height.
And since then, it seems that as,
Afghanistan is a declared combat
zone, any male found there with
a weapon is a potential target
who can be engaged. A prompt
death sentence, the push of a
joystick, as far as a drone is con-.
cerned.
How many innocent lives
is your drone program worth?,
How many innocent Muslim
lives? American lives? Is it worth
Momina Bibi's life? Would you not
abort the program, Mr. Obama, if
your own daughter were abroad
in that part of the world? I know

from your writings that you shun
religion. But it is nevertheless a
powerful maxim of the Hebrew
tradition, and our tradition, that
to kill a single innocent life is like
killing the whole world. And that
saving a single life is like saving
the whole world. So don't=count
lives.
My name is Omar, Mr. Obama.
It is true that I am a Muslim. It
is true that my blood is of the
steppes of Asia. But I write you
as an American who wants to
hold his head high, but who can
only look down in shame when
he walks out of history class. I
know nothing about killing. But
if you want to be rid of me, have
some dignity about it. Don't send
a drone after me. Have dignity
enough to look your victim in his
eyes.
Will you riot have some dig-
nity, Mr. Obama? Will you not
look into Nabila's eyes and tell
her that her grandmother's death
was a minimized casualty, that it
was surgical and precise? She has
hazel gyes, Mr. Obama.
Omar Mahmood can be
reached at syedom@umich.eda.

BOBBY DISHELL W
Why you shouldn't protest the Penn State game

Dear Students:
This Saturday, on October 11th,
our football team will play Penn
State at home under the lights.
Families from the greater Ann
Arbor area will come to campus to
support our school, alumni from
across the country will venture
here, to their home, to show their
continued support, and we, the
students, will recognize and cele-
brate the unparalleled community
we have here at Michigan. Foot-
ball games are a time-honored tra-
dition, a tradition that stretches
back over a century, one that thou-
sands of people have enjoyed long
before us, and one that thousands
of Michigan fans will continue to
follow long after we've left.
Earlier this week, on the
MGoBlog message board, several
Michigan students made posts
about a protest that would take
place th4is Saturday. The origi-
nslpoer< believes that students
should "unite" against Dave
Brandon, and that they should
strive to "dispatch" him while
doing everything in their power
to make him feel "embarrassed"
on the sideline. The protest orga-
nizers hope to achieve these goals
by encouraging students to wait
outside the section gates before
and during kickoff, essentially
aiming to construct the image of
an empty Big House, a massive
no-show, and worst of all, a com-
munity that refuses to support
the people who've made so many
weekend games so worthwhile.
This strategy is problematic for
several reasons. First, we should
not, under any circumstance,
make it our mission to disrespect,

isolate, and otherwise harm our team, its leaders, and those who
players. They play for Michigan. help it develop - that is how we
We, as students, are Michigan. To open doors to a brighter future.
disregard the work of the athletes Members of CSG have cre-
who play for us would be detri- ated a survey to learn more about
mental not only for the players how you would want the current
themselves, but for the image of athletic situation to improve. We
the University as a whole. We do want your feedback about your
not succumb to struggle. We don't own Michigan football experi-
give up in the face of adversity. ences, which policies you prefer,
Instead, we rise above and sup- and your thoughts on ticket prices.
port the athletes that sacrifice so This will help us understand how
much to represent the University best to voice your concerns and
of Michigan. create new policies in line with
Second, it is crucial that we your interests. Please take the
not only support our players off time to respond and speak out in a
the field, but also on the field. respectful and constructive man-
In this time of division, confu- ner. Students will be able to find
sion, and uncertainty, Michigan the survey in their email inbox
must stand behind its team - not later this week.
behind the section gates. We Once again, now is the time to
should seize every opportunity support our team and our play-
to align ourselves with the team, ers. I encourage younot to partic-
with its goals, its hopes, and 'ipate in the protest on Saturday,
succegses because that is ;what as it does .not reflect the true,
makes .theesport. thrivi:n fans- nature of;Michiga. Gommunity,.
and players completely in-tune, unity, fellowship - we strive for
ready to negotiate challenges these ideals as students. We find
together. If we want to create ;a them not outside the gates, not
better program environment, outside the section stands, but
it starts by supporting the team inside the stadium, right along-
this Saturday. side the players. "The love of the
Third, we are the victors game must be genuine," Field-
and best. We are leaders, doers, ing Yost said about football, "it is
achievers, innovators, inventors, not devotion to a-fad that makes
organizers, and pioneers. We men play football; it is because
create effective change from the they enjoy their football." We, as
bleakest of challenges, we uti- Michigan's greatest football fans,
lize activism and enthusiasm to must enjoy the struggle as well.
implement new policies, and we We must #StandByBlue,
strike out in new directions when Go Blue!
the chance presents itself. But we This article was originally
don't do these things - we don't published on CSG's website.
leap to conclusions or take on new
projects - until we've completed Bobby Dishell is a Public Policy
the first step: trust. Trusting the senior and CSG President.

assault was confused with sexual
harassment and some people did
not even know what consent real-
ly meant; despite using the word
profusely.
There was an excruciatingly
painful lack of understanding
and no substantial amount of
research (if any) had been done
into the root cause of the issue.
In an attempt to depoliticize and
de-emotionalize sexual assault,
which by its very nature cannot
be depoliticized and de-emo-
tionalized, none of the balloon-
headed, moronic men overly
enthusiastic about "ending rape
on campus" had assessed their
role and space in a sexual assault
awareness campaign. There was
no self-awareness, no thought
of assessing their own privilege,
and no intention of criticiz-
ing their own role in rape cul-
ture. And there was especially
no mention of ideas that helped
other communities decrease vio-
lence.
Buzzwords such as "Twit-
ter campaigns," "campus cul-
ture," etc., were thrown around
at a dizzying pace with no real
substance attached. Represen-
tatives from the Athletic Depart-
ment made sure they ate up half
the time by talking about all the
great initiatives they were tak-
ing to combat sexual assault in,
I think, a desperate attempt to
stop anyone from bringing up
former Michigan kicker Brendan
Gibbons.
People were throwing around
ideas for petitions (you heard
right: petitions to end sexu-
al assault on campus). Bobby
jumped on this train of thought
and threw out the idea for hav-
ing a set goal of the amount of
signatures and perhaps have
a contest with Ohio State Uni-
versity to see who reaches the
goal the fastest. People appar-
ently missed the obvious irony
of using the very spirit of com-
petitive football culture that
enabled the mishandling of the
Brendan Gibbons case to com-
bat sexual assault. Even now,
the goal of the It's On Us cam-
paign at U-M is to get 10,000
signatures committing a stance
against sexual assaultL.
, That's right verybne We can
.ust throw:ont .ua ppr sprays
and start carrying around cop-
ies of this commitment/petition/
statement and stick it in the face
of our assailant next time we are
under threat of sexual assault!
The focal point of this cam-
paign is supposed to be an event
(yes, a singular event that will
thwart all rapists in town) that,
is titled ("tentatively," as Bobby
assured those of us who were
concerned) "Social Entrepre-
neurial Event with Focus on Sex-
ual Assault."
Yes. Think about that. Let that
truly sink in for a second. An
alternative title that was thrown
around: "Entrepreneurial Solu-
tions to Sexual Assault."
I have no idea what kind
of drug-induced psychedelic
dream leads someone to think
that entrepreneurship is the
answer to sexual assault. What
would that even mean? A group
discount on rape nail polish?
Free tampon daggers on the

Diag? University-sponsored
start-ups for other 'things that
women can buy in order to pro-
tect themselves from rapists
who have not yet read the peti-
tion?
At this point in the meet-,
ing, despite the sinking feeling
that all hope was lost, I raised
my hand to ask that everyone
truly reflect on their reasons
for being at the meeting and to
center the voices of survivors
and experts. I mentioned that to
truly create change, we needed
to separate our long-term goals
from the trendy aspects of the
campaign. Bobby jumped in as
soon as I finished speaking to.
say that we didn't have time for
it and we needed to move on,'
making it clear that the people
in the room do not have desire
to understand the problem and
think about what is at stake. This
petition battle with Ohio State
was so urgent that no one had
time to think twice about the
bodies and voices at the center of
this discussion.
As a survivor of rape on cam-
pus, I was thoroughly disgusted
as I left the meeting that day.

In the weeks following the
meeting, lots of heterosexual,
white, csgender men changed
their Facebook profile pictures
to include the It's On Us logo;
released videos on how sexual
assault on campus should totally
be'stopped, complete with com-
pelling background music and
random zoom-ins; and aggres-
sively shared blog posts (writ-
ten by themselves obviously).
Apparently, the karmic laws of
social media and the Internet
state that publicizing how in
support you are of a movement
is exactly the same as challeng-
ing your own privilege and status
as an oppressor in order to affect
real change. So, instead of doing
proper research, self-educating,
and assessing space and power
dynamics, these men were on
a social media self-promotion
campaign, intent on boosting
their own image, (for future
POTUS races, I'm sure).
A dinner with Mark Schlis-
sel was announced a few weeks
after the meeting and I had the
misfortune of attending that
event too.
Part 3: Dinner With Mark
Schlissel
The dinner took place this Sat-
urday and had "leaders on cam-
pus" to kick off the It's On Us
awareness campaign at U-M. In
keepig with the absolute shit-
show leading up to the event, the
dinner with Schlissel itself was
absolutely horrific.
Dinner consisted of President
Schlissel making a feeble attempt
to give a fuck about the issue. In
between munching on his chick-
en, he asked vague questions and
then changed the topic every few
minutes. For example, he asked
about the ties between mental ill-
ness, sexual assault, and how the
university was addressing all of
this. The room of 50 people had
10 minutes to quickly state their
opinions to him, classroom style
where those who wished to speak
raised their hand and spoke.
It was a joke. Most of the
people there talked just to hear
themselves talk and curry favor
with Schlissel; it was a sicken-
ingly masturbatory contest that I
hadapparently missed the memo
on Even at this point,:at an event
'-,,ith the presidentof the Univer-
sity about sexual assault, most
people had clearly not done any
research.
In fact, the president himself
had not done any homework.
Schlissel, I kid you not, started
the dinner out with a question
about what the university does
'well to address sexual assault.
The room was filled with a heavy
and awkward silence as head-
lines from the mishandling of
the Gibbons case rolled through
everyone's mind. Here's the
real kicker of the night: when
the Gibbons case actually was
brought up, Schlissel stated that
he had not really looked into it.
Right. The president of our
esteemed university, which is
under federal investigation for
gross violation and has been the
fodder of national media for a
few months, said, during a dinner
about sexual assault awareness,
that he hasn't really looked into
its most infamous incident of sex-

ual assault yet. Not a diplomatic
"No comment." Just a shameless
confession.
How is this acceptable? How
is he competent to lead our uni-
versity? When will sexual assault
become something that he takes
seriously?
And then,'in celebration of
our apparent efforts, we 'went
to a play about rape at a high
school that was one of worst-
,written, misogypistic, het-
eronormative atrocious plays
I've seen. There was absolute-
ly no trigger warning yet the
naked body of a rape survivor
was shown.' There was com-
plete disregard for any type of
intersectionality; it excluded
male survivors, homosexual
instances of assault, and had
no acknowledgement-of racial
dynamics. It neatly categorized
high school students into the
category of jocks (the rapists),
the cheerleaders (the stereo-
typically "catty" girls who bully
the survivor), the survivor and
her friend, and the punk emo
goth (the outcast voice of reason
during the play). The incompe-
tent playwright did not lend the

play the gravity, nuance or emo-
tion it required. Despite being
based on the Steubenville rape
case, there was absolutely no
consideration given to the priva-
cy, dignity and humanity of the
Steubenville rape survivor. This
disgusting play was proof of
how much damage is done when
people take on serious issues
without bothering to educate
themselves and do not take into
consideration the emotional and
social needs of the people who
are being impacted.
Part 4: Painful Realizations
This campaign so far is pain-
fully indicative of our leaders'
cluelessness and recklessness
regarding addressing sensitive
and dire issues. Our leaders do
not care about truly addressing
the issue at hand or centeringthe
voices of survivors and experts.
Social justice has become a trend
on this campus (and this nation)
and sexual assault awareness
is only the latest avatar of this
trend. Absolutely no one is
concerned with centering the
voices and experiences of those
affected by this issue. The ulti-
mate purpose of those seeking
to get involved is not to enact
real change, but the appearance
of change, the appearance of
effort, because this is the only
way to assuage the campus just
enough so nothing drastic hap-
pens. Dishell, Schlissel, and
most others in those events are
not concerned with learning the
mechanics of social justice as
much as they are attending glam-
orized events and appearing in
videos with their names in huge
letters that give them the credit
of caring without doing any of
the work.
For those of you who think
that this article is a piece of vit-
riol: you're right. I am a queer
brown woman and this cam-
pus has shown me no mercy;
now, I run out of mercy for it. I
previously clung onto wisps of
optimism when a leader prom-
ised some kind of change, half-
heartedly nodded when friends
assured me that the treatment
of this campus's minorities
stemmed from ignorance and not
cruelty, dismissed men's obvious
displays of sexism.> Nw, Pm out
rj d4stifications 'fetivi" idstitu-
tion's structural animosity and
its hegemony's lack of concern
for others. Professors have-
looked at me in the eye as 'they
insisted that the colonization,
enslavement and genocides that
occurred in the Indian subcon-
tinent were for the greater good;
administrators have told me as I
teared up after blatant displays
of sexism that I was at fault for
speaking up; I was raped numer-
ous times on this campus and
had absolutely nowhere to go to.
These are not isolated events;
this university is intricately
woven together and so are these
issues. And the tragic truth is
that this university does not give
a shit about anyone except its
powerful. It does not care for its
womyn, its minorities, its queer,
its anything-but-cisgender-
white-men. Our leaders' grand
speeches about the importance
of diversity and promises to take
action are all just that: hollow

sounds that vanish into thin air.
The leadership at the University
of Michigan is plagued with the
very systems that are the root
cause of the problems it faces. By
constantly giving white, hetero,
cisgender men power, it is active-
ly stifling the lived experience
of and continuing to take voice
away from everyone else.
I'm tired of having my voice
repeatedly stolen by rich, white,
heterosexual, cisgender men
like Dishell and Schlissel who
claim they care for political rea-
sons but have made it very evi-
dent that they do not. I am out
of tears, out of cookies to give
to privileged folk who some-
times behave like decent human
beings, and generally just out of
fucks to give.
Schlissel, Dishell, and other
"leaders and the best" who have
proven themselves to be incom-
petent, get your shit together. or
get out.
Sumana Palle is a Business
senior, founder of Shakti,
leader of the Women of Color
Collective, and e-board member
of What the F Magazine.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoipts should be 550-850 words.
Send the writer's full name and University affiliation. to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.
SUMANA PALLE|
Horrible leadership at the University

Part 1: Introduction
The It's On Us campaign is a
response to a national swell of
activism and protests in recent
months about universities' fail-
ures to address sexual assault.
The White House created this
campaign as a response and has
allowed universities to imple-
ment the campaign as they see fit
on their campus. At U-M, it has
meant that a small group of elite
white men with no clue what sex-
ual assault is, led by Central Stu-
dent Government President Bobby
Dishell have tasked themselves
with single handedly stopping
rape on campus from happen-
ing, seemingly under the illusion
that they are the hallowed chosen
ones that will lead us all out of the
darkness.
Part 2: The Meeting
Despite previous disastrous
dabbling in social justice on cam-
pus where Dishell was alleged-
lyexposed as slanderous, grossly
racist, and anti-Arab, he took it
upon himself to arrange for all
the logistics for the first meet-
ing, which was to gather major
student leaders on campus in one
room.
I had the misfortune of par-

ticipating in this first meeting.
Despite my past work on the
issue of sexual assault. I knew of
it only because a close friend had
been invited and extended an
invitation to me. And as soon as I
walked into the room, I realized
what a glitch my invitation had
been; I felt the all-too-familiar
sickening sensation of being one
of the very few people of color in
the room. In a room of about 40,
I was one of two students of color
and the only woman of color.'
It was painfully clear that only
people close to Bobby had been
invited and that there had been
absolutely no effort to include
anyone else on an issue that per-
vades all areas of campus. There
had been no outreach done to
activist and advocacy groups
that could have knowledgably
discussed how these issues were
impacting communities of color.
and queer people on campus; the
real travesty is that it obviously
had not even occurred to Dishell
to reach out.
Where was the representation
from Coalition of Queer People of
Color? The Black Student Union?
Anyone from the historically
Black, Latin@, Asian and South

Asian fraternities and sororities?
Did CSG not realize that sexual
assault happens to people who
are not white and straight? To
men?
The revoltingamount of obliv-
iousness and aloofness was a
cruel irony. Despite all the move-
ments and campaigns that had
occurred in the past few years to
combat that constant exclusion
of minorities and all the promis-
es of inclusion that had followed,
there was 'still no inclusion.
Our fearless leader, Dishell, and
therefore Central Student Gov-
ernment, missed, once again,,
that people 'are sick and tired of
being excluded from and forgot-
ten about in policy discussions
that impact their living spaces,'
learning conditions and general
safety.
To say that the meeting was
disheartening is a gross under-
statement. Bobby's first order of
business was to get people talk-
'ing. Which meantgetthe straight,
white, cisgender men in the room
with no ostensible direct connec-
tion to the issue talking, throwing
around "solutions," and mak-
ing assumptions without proper
education about the issue. Sexual

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily to get updates'on Daily content throughout the day.


6A - Friday, October 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

a


Obama: Elections to
focus on economy

In speech, President
promotes resurgence
in midterms
SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP)
- President Barack Obama is all
in with his economic pitch. The
American public is not. Over the
next 27 days, either the public
or the president is going to get
the message.
In a midterm campaign
strategy fraught with risk, the
White House is betting that
Obama's tight embrace of the
economic recovery and populist
proposals for gender pay
equity and a higher minimum
wage will galvanize his core
supporters - and persuade
fence-sitting independents
to help Democrats retain
narrow control of the Senate in
November.
Addressing young
entrepreneurs Thursday at a
startup center in California,
Obama highlighted his
economic record for the third
time in eight days.
"A lot of you entered into
the workforce during the
worst financial crisis and then
the worst recession since the
Great Depression," he told the
gathering of mostly millennials,
those born after 1980. "You are
coming out of this recession
with the best educated, most
diverse, most digitally fluent
generation in American
history."
While noting that he's not
on the ballot in this election,
Obama has become fond of
saying that his policies are at
stake. The line has prompted a
reflexive flinch from Democrats
who are trying to fend off a
concertedRepublican campaign
to link Democratic opponents to
the president.
For Democrats, the problem
is not Obama's message; it's
the pitchman. "The messenger
is not the most popular guy
on the planet right now," said
Democratic pollster Mark
Mellman.
Public opinion polls show

substantial support for Obama's
proposals to raise the minimum
wage, seek pay equity for
women and close corporate tax
loopholes. But on the economic
issues he's most associated with
- the fitful recovery from the
Great Recession and his health
care law - the American public
is not with him.
A September AP-GfK poll
found 40 percent approve
and 58 percent disapprove of
his handling of the economy,
and that 41 percent approve
and 58 percent disapprove of
his handling of health care.
Overall, Obama's national
approval ratings are 44 percent,
compared to 51 percent who
disapprove, according to the
latest numbers from Gallup.
That said, Obama does
have an economic story to tell.
Unemployment has dropped
fromahighof10percentin2009
to 5.9 percent last month. The
economy grew last quarter at a
better clip than many expected.
The stock market has rallied
to record highs. He inherited
a federal deficit of more than a
trillion dollars; the deficit has
been cut by more than half to
$486 billion.
But, to the frustration of the
White House, that message
hasn't gained much traction
against a headwind of nearly
stagnant wage growth.
"An awful lot of Americans,
they read in the paper that
the economy is growing, but
they haven't seen their own
paychecks advance, theyhaven't
seen their old opportunities
grow and they haven't seen
their own children get good
job offers," GOP pollster Whit
Ayres said.
Ayres recently conducted
a joint poll with Democratic
pollster Stan Greenberg for
NPR and discovered that in
states with closely contested
Senate races, both Republicans
and Democratic voters were
equally energized
"It's all about the
independents in those states,"
he said. "The independents are
going to be moved more than

anything else by the reality of
the economy they feel in their
daily lives. At least at this point,
far too fewhave felt a significant
recovery."
It's a point not lost on the
White House.
"Even though the economy
is growing, productivity is
growing, wages and income
have been flat," Obama said
Thursday. "And so the gains in
the economy, not just over the
last six years but really over
the last 20, havebmore sod more
been going to the top of the
economic pyramid."
As a result, Obama is also
pushing his proposals to raise
the minimum wage to $10.10
an hour, to ensure equal pay
for women, to overhaul the
immigration laws and provide
universal pre-school for
children as an effort to create
contrasts with Republicans
who have opposed those efforts.
"The president does believe
there is a clear choice for voters
across the country between
candidates who are supportive
of policies that will benefit the
middle class, and candidates
who are supportive of policies
that will benefit those at the top
in the hopes that the benefits
will trickle down to the middle
class," White House spokesman
Josh Earnest said.
On Thursday, Obama was
aiminghis pitchto youngpeople
born after 1980, an age group
that has been reluctant to vote
in nonpresidential contests.
Obama was to hold a town
hall at Cross Campus, a Santa
Monica, California, hub
for startup companies and
entrepreneurs, where he was
to highlight policies such as
college aid and health care that
officials say have especially
benefited members of the
millennial generation.
Thursday's speech is one.
of several White House
efforts to draw the attention
of demographic groups that
are crucial components of the
Democratic voting coalition,
including women, African-
Americans and Latinos.

JEFF ROBERSON/AP
People gatherfto remember Vonderrit D. Myers, Thursday in St. Louis. Police say Myers was shot Wednesday after he
opened fire ona white, off-duty officer, but Myers' parerts say he was unarmed.
Shooting in St. ouis
S pe

Another police
shooting of a Black
teenager reignites
outrage
ST. LOUIS (AP) - Two-
months after a Ferguson officer
killed Michael Brown, setting
offintensenational debate about
law enforcement treatment of
minorities, the shooting death
of another black 18-year-old by
police in nearby St. Louis has
reignited anger among activists
already planning weekendt
protests.
Police say Vonderrit D. Myers
was shot Wednesday after he
opened fire on a white, off-
duty officer, but Myers' parents
say he was unarmed. Some
activists and lawmakers say
Myers was targeted because
he was black and are asking
the Justice Department -
which has opened a civil rights
investigation into the death of
Brown, who was unarmed - to
investigate his shooting.
"This here was racial
profiling turned deadly," said;
state Sen. Jamilah .Nasheed, a
St. Louis Democrat.
The shooting happened as
activists and other protesters
from around the country
prepared for four days of rallies,
marches and protests over the
Brown shooting. Organizers say

the events, which start Friday
and include a march Saturday in
downtown St. Louis, have taken
on added urgency.
"This is a racial powder keg,"
said Jerryl Christmas, a St.
Louis attorney who was among
more than 20 black leaders
who joined Nasheed at a news
conference Thursday outside
police headquarters. "All this
is going to do is escalate the
situation."
Brown's Aug. 9 death spurred
weeks of unrest in Ferguson and
the rest of the St. Louis area. A
state grand jury is deciding
whether the officer who shot
him, Darren Wilson, will face
charges.
Police say Myers was both
armed and aggressive, using a
stolen 9 mm gun to shoot at the
officer.
Syreeta Myers said her son
was holding a sandwich, not a
gun. "Police lie. They lied about
Michael Brown, too," she told
The Associated Press by phone
Thursday.
About 200 people gathered
Thursday night for a quiet
candlelight remembrance at the
sight where Vonderrit Myers
was shot. Later, protesters shut
down a major street.
St. Louis Police Chief Sam
Dotson said the officer spotted
Myers and two other males
around 7:30 p.m. Wednesday
while working a security job'
and patrolling a neighborhood

near the Missouri Botanical
Gardens. Dotson said the
officer, who was off-duty but
wearing his uniform, became
suspicious when one of them
started to run.
He heard one of them say,
"No, that's just a security
officer," Dotson said.
When the officer made a
U-turn, all three ran and the
officer chased them - first in
his car and then on foot, Dotson
said.
During the chase, he got
into a physical altercation with
Myers, who ran upa hill, turned
and fired at the officer, the chief
said. The officer, who wasn't
hurt, shot back.
Ballistic evidence shows
Myers fired three shots before
his gun jammed, Dotson said.
Police said they recovered the
9 mm gun, which had been
reported stolen on Sept. 26.
The officer fired off17rounds.
Preliminary autopsy results
show a shot to the head killed
Myers, according to medical
examiner Dr. Michael Graham.
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch
reported that Graham said
Myers was shot six or seven
times in the lower extremities
and the fatal shot entered his
right cheek.
The 32-year-old officer, a six-
year veteran of the department
whose name was not released,
is on paid administrative leave
pending an investigation.

a s s i ie Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay~gmail.com
RELEASE DATE- Friday, October 10, 2014
HELP WANTEDSEVC
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Ed who waslthe 37 Up-and-comers 54 Took from the
1 Dressage gear longtime voice of with egos deck GREAT JOB OPPORTUNITY THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
5 Sound oftwaming Kraft Foods 39 Catcher behind a 55 Gull-like bird PT eveningstoclean banks inAnnArbor. organization, format. All Disciplines.
9 Repel, with "off 6 FaceTime device plate? 56 Pelvic bones Work within 10 miles from home. Must 734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
14 Member of a'60s 7 Needled? 42 Old Italian 57 Spot for ten-spots pass background check & drug screen.
quartet 8 Nissan model capital 58 Fast-spreading Download application @ www.aarocom-
15 Competitive 9 Duke ofAlbany, 44 Most supple Internet panies.com or call 586-759-3700
blade to Lear 47 1-Down, for one phenomenon
16 Projecting 10 Subj. with many 48 Profit 59 Nordegren who
window functions 49 Water catcher married Tiger
17L fciean 11 Indigenous 52 Enthusiastic Woods in 2004 Opportunties at our
nsfciednt 1a sen 531492 caravel 62 Flight board abbr. An Arbor t NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
acon 2Aoda suddenly A nAbr!NRHCMU -2Br.!1 etdesdRiverfront/Heat/Water/Parkint.t
goal? stopped car, say ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: Bakery-Cafes! Rv www.HRPAA.c ki !
20 Start of an optical 13 End of a threat S A R A H O K I E S P L S
illusion quip 18Rightoos T c U T E R N C A P R A L I P 5AND6BdrmCamposnsesfnr2l5-
22Agnus _BR otheshieg. 5 R A I N T E A S E R A L A 2016, check out Joyce Properties at
23 Film dog's first 21 Recordaway JA M E RAT T R I A D www.joycea2.com
name? 24 Squeezed
24 uip, part2 25 From now LYONGF0RO N C EH A A
31"A litte the 26 Spotlfor astud I 0 T E 5 T 0GA MES T HOUSES AVAILABLE MAY 2015
31"Iitete ptfr td BURMA ORCA ER C 8 Bdrms - 720 Arbor - $5560
mightieslJulius 27 Spring sound tBURM A 0RC 4 dm 2Ahr-56
fell": Hoais 28 Rivertothe M I A C A N I T R Y U S A 6Bdrms - 417 N. Thayer - $3900
32 Rocket retiredin Sevem S K I M R E P 0 0 A T E R B R E A Ds 4 Bdmsy-al Saoerg-s26M
2011 29 Saw N O T I M E BUSHEL -3eanspyaltiliies.dSomingsM-P10-
33 Cry for help 30 Relish H 0 W D Y D 0 S E G A Hourly Associates... 3 w 24 Hr notice required.
35"The Scream" 31 Flightlesszoo A C R E S M A C R 0 P R E Starting atup to $10perhour! Call 734-996-1991
artist bird SHE OREGONTRA I L
38 One ina cage 34 "Okey-doke!" T E C N O N E T M C M C A WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
40 Driveerratically 36"M*A*S*H"set O R K S I T E S E X T O L Come and learn more about a COM
41 Like the thing not piece xwordedltsr@asl.com 15/10/14 specialty concept with 734-332-6000
to do wreioCalcm 1104
43Zip 1 2 3a s e 7 a 9 1 a 13 unparalleled people and
45Org. with an quality products in a diverse
elephant in its r1 rs1r1career. We offer a career growth
I ,po 17i8a19 plan with an industry leader;
46Ouip, part3EN o
50 "No more seats 2 21 competitive benefits and pay.
letters For immediate consideration to
51 Cmmoftheqjoin our Ann Arbor
60Small songbird 24 2s 2s 27 28 2so bakery-cafes Y U R
61 Customers 31 32 as 3 please apply online:
83 Not showing
much is as s 37 as 39 4 PaneraBread.jjobs
64 Masseur's
selection BREAK!
85 Proect 4 sa
6 New beginnings
67 Stout grain 5 S1
68 Rip violently s2__54__________ AND READ THE
DOWN 0 01 62 DAILY DURING YOUR
1 USN rank
1 US mnk"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
2Sitarmaster 534 e F5aeFREE TIME
2Sitartr a 721 S. Forest "Fovresn Place"
3 Op. that includes 66 on 5s $1375 Limited Passes RemainingT
Venezuela 734-761-8000
4 Ridicule By JebBennett 10/10/14 primesh.com
2o4T14TribuneContAncy,LLC
. t

Same-sex couples
wed in Las Vegas

After ruling, several
partners marry in
legal ceremonies
LAS VEGAS (AP) - Gay
couples began getting married
Thursday in Las Vegas - the
self-proclaimed marriage capital
of the world - ending a dizzying
legal fight that had kept them
waiting for days.
Thomas Topovski cried as the
Clark County clerk announced
to cheers that marriage licenses
would finally be issued. He and
Jefferson Ruck, his partner of 14
years, returned Thursday for their
marriage license after standingin
line for hours the day before.
About 10 same-sex couples
were standing in line as the
announcement came shortly
after 5 p.m.
"It's amazing, this is it," said,
Theo Small as he stood next to
his-partner, Antioco Carillo, and
looked down at their marriage
license, the first issued in Las
Vegas.
"We're walking on clouds,"
Carillo said. "This is unreal."
State Sen. Kelvin Atkinson
wed Sherwood Howard shortly
after gay couples began receiving
marriage licenses. Atkinson,
during an emotional legislative
debate on same-sex unions last
year, stood before the chamber
and announced that he is gay.
A few feet from the crowd
that had gathered to witness
Atkinson and Howard's union on
the steps of the marriage license
bureau, Dave Parry married
Morgan Floyd under a tree just
outside the bureau's doors.
"Oh, my, gosh. It's done,"
Parry said, before embracing
Floyd.

"It's nice not to be a second
class citizen anymore," he said.
"It's been a long time."
About 430 miles north, Kristy
Best and Wednesday Smith
became the first same-sex couple
in the state to get a license at about
3 p.m. Thursday, said Elizabeth
Phelps, a clerk in the Carson City
marriage license office.
Best said in a telephone
interview that she and Smith
were surprised to get their
license when they showed up at
the Carson City .marriage office
with the $75 filing fee they
borrowed from Smith's mother.
"We went to see what would
happen, and they gave us the
license," Best said. "I feel
amazing. So happy. Lov e doesn't
discriminate, so why should we?"
"Nothing," Smith said,"stands
in the middle of true love."
Best and Smith have been
together almost 7 years, and
they plan to be married Saturday
with a gathering of family and
friends.
The hopes of gay couples
in Nevada had been in limbo
since the 9th Circuit ruled
Tuesday that gay couples' equal
protection rights were violated
by same-sex wedding bans in
Nevada and Idaho.
The ruling triggered a
Supreme Court memo that
left Idaho gay couples in tears
after they had gathered early at
courthouses hoping to marry. A
clarification hours later said the
ruling did not.apply to Nevada,
but clerks didn't budge.
The last Nevada challenge
was dropped early Thursday,
and the 9th Circuit Court of
Appeals again declared that
its ruling allowing same-sex
couples to marry in the state
was "in full force and effect."


Thy Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 10, 2014 - 7A

I The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October10, 2014- 7A

'Hey, Tina What'
'Burg
FOX animated
comedy returns with
musical episode
By ERIKA HARWOOD
SeniorArtsEditor
I love Tina Belcher. I often feel
like I am Tina Belcher. Like Tina,
my crotch occasionally itches, I
have an affinity
for boys' butts. B+
and would
betray my own Bob's
blood to be in
a musical of Burgers
"WorkingGirl." Season five
"Work Hard premiere
or Die Try-
ing, Girl," the Sundays at7:30pm
season five -FOX
premiere of
"Bob's Burg-
ers," isn't really about Tina, but
the Belcher's musically inclined
middle child, Gene. It's not that I
don't like Gene - Gene's fine. He's
the loud-mouthed, pop-culture
savvy brother I sometimes wish I
had - and voiced by Eugene Mir-
man to boot.
But I don't really love Gene - at
least not enough to get enthused
about entire episodes being devot-
ed to him. And not just any epi-
sode, amusical episode.
it shouldn't be the case, but
musical episodes - of any show,

ers'
be it animated or on
live, breathing people
as a cop out, because
reason, peoplelovewa
people sing sort of f
It's a guarantee for
shouldn't be guarant
actuality, they probal
ble the work and effo
age episode.Writings
weave a cohesive and
tive probably takes up
I realize that I'm wro
largelyhatemusicalel
largely because the on
vens" musical episod
to this day, onpoint).
"Work Hard" isn'
but two battling mus
Belchers argue with
girlfriend Courtney a:
in Principal Frond's
treated with flashba
the competition bet
idea for the schoolr
based on the movie'
and Courtney's (ba
movie "Working Girl"
father promises that i
is chosen Carly Simo
up on opening night.
but even the unlikeli
gesture is enough to se
on going with "W
The Musical," which
stocked with big hair,
pads.
Thanks to his
younger sister Loui
encouraged to take hi

reopens
ne with real, musical underground - literally -
- strike me in the school's boiler room where
for whatever he will put on a one-man guer-
atching other rilla performance the same time
funny songs. as "WorkingGirl"'s openingnight.
laughs that Despite the complete lack of
eed at all. In burgers (the entire episode is
bly take dou- restricted to the confines of Wag-
rt of an aver- staff), the gang is mostly all here.
ongs thatcan Lindasings in the joint "Die Hard/
funny narra- Working Girl" musical at the end,
a lot of time. the entire Pesto family is present,
ng, but I still from Jimmy Pesto to the twins,
pisodes (Isay and even Daryl (Aziz Ansari,
ie "Even Ste- "Parks and Recreation") shows up
e was, and is to help Gene out with his produc-
tion.
t about one, Gene is no Tina, but "Work
icals. As the Hard" is full of Gene quips and
Gene's ex- unhealthy albeit hilarious knowl-
nd her father edge of "Die Hard" specificities
office, we're that shine through his perfor-
cks detailing mance reminding you why he's a
ween Gene's valuable personality within the
musical (one Belcher clan in the first place.
"Die Hard") As for the musicals, the episode
sed on the doesn't end up being as much of a
). Courtney's musical episode as it is an episode
f her musical about musicals - musical adapta-
n will show tions of 1988 movies to be much
She doesn't, more specific. The songs do have
ihood of the their moments though, and intrue
ell the school "Bob's Burgers" fashion, they're as
orking Girl: off-beat and charming as always.
is rightfully Despite my preconceptions,
and shoulder "Work Hard" turned out and laid
down a solid foundation for a sea-
conniving son full of Belcher mischief and
se, Gene is unconventional yet endearing
s "Die Hard" antics.

COURTESY OF HANNIBAL BURESS
Buress is a cohost of 'The Eric Andre Show,' whose third season premieres in October.
Hannibal Buess talls

'Br
"I'
drink
Buren
"But
know
I lo
respe
broth
Un
how
I 1
But
knew
just s
no
in
mind
write
loud:

'oad City' star to beenj
forwa
erform at Royal mater
that :
a on Saturday scale.
On
ByAKSHAYSETH distin
ManagingArts Editor prese
show:
m a little foggy from has1
king last night," Hannibal gravir
ss said. trans
just Hannibal style.
that per fo
ve and Buress: it is:
'ct you, Comedy ballet
:er." chara
sure Camesado natur
to reply, Tour tellin
laughed. perke
inside I Saturday, "It'
and October11 mono
o there's audie
doubt Royal Oak Music have
anyone's Theatre the p
, 'll $29 go to
it out perfo:
I love I gett

TV L I V

'Hey! What?'Nothing, we're just really looking.'
'Vampire Diaries a
bark wihout any bite

you too, Hannibal.
In a phone interview with
The Michigan Daily, Buress -
a burgeoning stand-up who's
gone from that all-too-common
category of Just Another
Rising Comic to becoming an
unavoidable, brilliant mainstay
in today's comedy world -
spoke at length about breaking
into the limelight. He spent
nearly a decade honing his craft
on stage behind a mic, quickly
drawing attention for an often-
endearing brand of storytelling
that has seen him wearing a
jumpsuit plastered with giant
blow-ups of his own face
to railing against the racial
stereotypes overshadowed
by a good glass of apple
juice. Then after a stretch of
time behind the scenes, in
writers' rooms for "Saturday
Night Live" and "30 Rock,"
Buress has had one of those
years: regular appearances in
Comedy Central's acclaimed
"Broad City," a well-received
hour-long special in the form
of "Live From Chicago,"
capped off by a memorable
role in this summer's hit Seth
Rogen vehicle "Neighbors."
Now, the comedian is
bringing a slew of newly
written material along for the
Comedy Camisado Tour, which
stops by at the Royal Oak
Music Theatre on Saturday.
"This is my first ever big
theater run as a headliner, you
know? So I'm excited, man,"
he said. "This'll really be the
first time I get to just hit the
road and play for large, 800-
to-1000 seat audiences. My
following's as big as it's ever

eleme
- th
the a
elabor
it's ab
on a p
Th
be
camp
perfor
past,i
Aziz
Show
from
Furna
awkw
encoui
Arbor
hooku
Do
a
"It'
tweet
comp
post a
She s
endin
" he r
at he
guess
or so
all th
pictur
or a b
a nin
footba
"So
pic, t

right now so I'm looking 'I think I'm OK with you not
:rd to getting this following me anymore,' " he
ial out there and seeing laughed. "It's always funny
reaction on the larger when people see proof that
"1 something I talk about in my
e of the things that's stand-up actually happened,
guished Buress's stage because they're always like
nce at live comedy 'holy shit you weren't fucking
s over the past few years around, dude.'"
been his tendency to Buress explained how
tate toward an odd-yet- his writing process has
cendentally-energetic changed a little over the
In many of the recent years to incorporate material
rmances he's put on, unfolding around him. He
n't uncommon to see described his comedic style as
dancers or costumed more reactionary as opposed
cters interjecting at to pure exaggeration, a brand
al lulls in classical joke- of jokes which try to capture
g to keep audiences some of the strangeness he
d for the next punchline. sees everyday, as in the case
's fun to mix up the with the Ann Arbor's resident
tony of stand-up for the model/football assassin.
nces, or even myself, and Speaking of strange - "I
a chance to mess with respect the hell out of that
acing aspect of it all. I segue, man. Nice." Baress
a lot of Cirque-du-Soleil interjected - thelth esation
rmances in Vegas where turned to "The Eric Andre
to see all these different Show," which he's co-hosted
nts coming together with Andre on Adult Swim
ie music, the acting, since it first aired in 2012, the
thletic aspect," Buress season 3 premiere debuting
rated. "But ultimately, late in October. The 11-minute
out what it means to put "talk show" features both
'olished event." hosts conducting nonsensical
ough that event won't faux-interviews with
coming directly to celebrities (or celebrity
us this year, Buress has impersonators), eventually
rmed in Ann Arbor'in the cutting them together with
most recently alongside hilarious surrealist skits that
Ansari at the Comedy Andre writes, stars in and
case. In a famous bit usually edits himself.
his 2012 special "Animal "Eric shoots literally hours
ice," he describes an of material for every episode,"
ard Facebook-messaging Buress said. "It's crazy how
inter he had with an Ann much stuff he has. I can't give
r woman he wanted to away too many secrets, but it's
up with while in town. always a weird dynamic."
Like "Broad City," alot of the
show's acting requires a type
be of free-range improvisation
n twhich Buress feels is becoming
coinedian. extremely prevalent in a lot of
the filmed comedy projects he
You'll be has undertaken over the last
couple years. Currently, he's
niserable. in the process of developing
his own show - something he
can't yet discuss at length, but
which he promises will mine
s funny because she from the same vein of humor
ed at me the other day showcased in his stand-up.
laining about why I don't When asked what advice
ny real jokes on Twitter. he'd give aspiring college-age
aid something like 'I'm comedians, he paused fora few
g our friendship ... now,' seconds.
ecounted. "Then I looked "Don't try to be a comedian,"
r Facebook page and I Buress said. "There's no money
she's a wannabe model in it. You'll be miserable. All
mething? And there are the parts are taken. We don't
ese weird, just strange, need you."
es of her wering a bra He paused for another beat
ikini top while holding before laughing.
e millimeter gun to a "Invent a mobile app. Like
all." the Uber version of hiring
I screencapped that private jets," he said. "That'll
weeted it to her and said do it."

ByJORDYNKAY once-stable Elena is now taking
DailyArts Writer hallucinogenic witch herbs in
order to see Damon. Elena refus-
"The Vampire Diaries" is es to grieve and without Bonnie
entering its sixth season on the or Caroline, (Candice Accola,
CW Network and, like last year, "Juno") who's off on her hunt to
the ratings are find a spell to fix everything,
continuing Elena has no one to stop her from
to take a hit. taking this one-way train to crazy
Coming off of The town via witch drugs.
what could be In all honesty, "Diaries" 's sto-
its worst sea- Vampire ries are boring. The writers seem
son yet, "The Diaries to be killing off whomever will
Vampire Dia- make it easiest for them to toy
ries" had a lot Wednesdays with Elena's emotions without
to prove in this really taking into account the
week's pre- Season six rest of the story or the viewers.
miere episode. premiere While Damon is definitely the
Unfortunately, The CW right choice if this is their tactic,
it seems that it wouldn't hurt for them to let
the writers are sticking to old tac- someone in Mystic Falls be happy
tics and viewers shouldn't expect for longer than five minutes. With
to fall back in love with the series two of the main characters gone
that once had the vampire televi- (but not really gone, since we see
sion genre cornered. Bonnie and Damon at the end in
In the season premiere, all of some cottage), the plotline lacks
the vampires, werewolves and creativity.
few humans that are still left are Jeremy (Steven R. McQueen,
coming to terms with the death "Everwood") also refuses to
of both Damon (Ian Somerhalder, mourn Bonnie; like Elena, he
"Lost") and Bonnie (Kat Graham, is having trouble accepting her
"17 Again"). Elena (Nina Dobrev, death. Jeremy and Elena should
"The Perks of Being a Wallflow- have this grieving thing down to a
er"), who has lost more people on science with all the losses they've
the show than anyone else, has faced, but when it comes to the
decided to take the route of denial loves of their lives neither one of
when it comes to her grieving for them has figured it out yet.
Damon. Along the way, Elena also Stefan (Paul Wesley, "Fallen")
picked up a nice drug habit. The has run away, per usual, shacking

up with some unnamed female
character. This lacks any level of
interest, as it has become a rou-
tine that has been used again and
again. Instead of being there to
support the people around him,
he goes off on some mission to get
Damon back from the land of the
dead. And each time, he gives up
on the mission.
The biggest change this season
will be the return of Alaric (Mat-
thew Davis, "Legally Blonde"),
which was the high point of the
entire premiere. Finally, an adult
figure for these vampire teen-
agers to look to for advice has
returned. Alaric was a fan favor-
ite for many, and if anything, his
return gave the season premiere
hope for future episodes.
"The Vampire Diaries" was
the CW's attempt to capitalize on
the latest vampire craze. The first
four seasonswere compelling and
exciting, holdingviewer's interest
from week to week. But based on
the first episode of the new sea-
son, the writers have not looked
at the dwindling ratings and refo-
cused their energies on bringing
viewers back. It seems to be time
that the writers should begin to
wrap up the series and deliver
a payoff to their longtime fans.
In other words, a happy reunion
between Damon and Elena. If not,
it seems as if this could be the end
of "The Vampire Diaries."

DO YOU REGULARLY
ATTEND ART EXHIBITS OR
PLAYS ON CAMPUS? E-mail
jplyn@umich.edu
WANT TO WRITE ABOUT THEM? to request an
application.
JOIN THE MICHIGAN DAILY
COMMUNITY & CULTURE STAFF.
I

4


8A - Friday, October 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

.. _ , ,

EVENT RECAP
The Chance'Experiment'


'I'm not sure where my vagina is'
A Horror Story' so
good, you'ii freak,

By WILL GREENBERG
Daily News Editor
Chance the Rapper is in the
middle of what he calls "The
Social Experiment," a project of
new songs that emphasize his
band and choir that breaks away
from the typical ideas of the rap
genre. Here is the lab report from
the Wednesday night iteration of
the experiment.
Hypothesis: Rap loving
20-somethings will enjoy a more
musically-infused sound.
Materials: Eastern Michigan
University's basketball stadium,
large stage, intricate lighting and
sound systems, security guards,
Young & Sick, Sweater Beats,
Travi$ Scott, Chance the Rapper,
roughly 2,000 college students,
a handful of uber-excited"
high school students, alcohol,
marijuana, vaper pipes, giant
glow sticks and DJs who "aren't
here to mess around."
Procedure: 1) Set up stage,
lighting and sound systems
inside of basketball stadium. 2)
Administer alcohol, marijuana,
tobacco products to the college
students and record how they
react with security guards. 3)
Have a promoter throw glow
sticks from the stage. and ask
college students, "Are you ready
for Chance the Rapper?!" for 20
minutes of slightly drawn-out
hype time. 4) Bring artists onto
stage and observe.
Results: The most notable
observation of the evening
was the stark contrast in stage
presence, philosophy and overall
mood between Travi$ and
Chance.
Travi$, an up-and-comer out
of Chicago and recent addition
to the Good Music label, brought
plenty of energy to his set,
warning the crowd early on that
he likes to "rage, mob and sweat,"
at his shows. Travi$ himself was
fully committed, hopping from
either end of the stage through

his best known songs like "Upper
Echelon"and "Sin City,"hislyrics
entirely screamed amongst gasps
for ygen. It was a little crazy,
essentially mindless, but overall
pretty fun. Still, he had some
prety high expectations for a
Wednesday night.
A majority of his songs were
paused 30 seconds in so he
could admonish the audience for
not being loud enough, jumpy
enough, "turnt" enough, etc.
After about his fourth re-started
song, it was clear the crowd
would have settled for a solid
three minutes of continuous
music. Travi$ wrapped up his set
awkwardly after abruptly ending
"Don't Play."
And then there was the other
Chicago rapper.
It really was remarkable how
muchmoreexcitedthecrowdwas
to sing along to Chance's melodic
opening number, "Everybody's
Everything." Chance and The
Social Experiment band have
found the mid-point between
traditional musical proficiency
and 2014 concert explosiveness
aod it's hypnotizingto watch.
The first 20 minutes consisted
of the Acid Rap staples like
"Pusha Man" and "NaNa" before
moving into the new "Social
Experiment" project works,
currently being promoted via
Sound Cloud but not from any
official album. Chance took a
moment to explain the meaning
of the project and the audience's
role as guinea pigs for the group
to try their new work. The results
were truly spectacular.
Short of the rebranded
"Arthur"theme song,"Wonderful
Everyday," attendees knew
sporadic pieces of the other songs
like "Back Up in this Bitch." It
didn't matter, the place was fully
committed to everything Chance
was spitting.
Each new song featured
a deadly combination of
Chance's already exceptionally

written rhymes, a veteran-
level performance from the
band and noteworthy lighting
arrangement. Chance made sure
to highlight his trumpet player
in particular, fellow Chicago
native Nico Segal, who now runs
under the stage name Donnie
Trumpet. Segal is ashow himself,
demonstrating a soloing ability
and wind instrument stamina
beyond his years. As far as the
social experiment goes, these
millennials showed nothing but
love for a band that is essentially
a retooled and modernized jazz
ensemble.
Chance's rapping was crisp,
his dancing impressive and his
even his singing was good. While
not always perfectly pitched,
Chance sings fearlessly, leaning
into his falsetto and commanding
his melodies.
What made Chance's time on
stage so different than Travi$'
was that he didn't demand the
crowd get excited to see him, he
asked them to have fun with him.
The atmosphere was notably
more inclusive than most rap
shows you might see (think
Kanye's wheelchair debacle) and
this was best highlighted during
"That's Love" when Chance
literally stood at the edge of
the stage, pointed from person
to person saying, "I love you,
I love you, I love you." Were it
anyone else in the world, it would
have been a strange, awkward
mess of a stunt but there was a
unshakable sincerity in his words
that had the crowd calling back,
"we love you too."
Conclusion: It's clear that the
Wednesday night crowd found
enjoyment from the show, in
both the original mix tapes 10
Day and Acid Rap and the "Social
Experiment." What's less clear
is whether they even cared that
they saw a rebranded version of
Chance's sound or if it was just
Chance himself that they were
there to see. Probably the latter.

i

By CATHERINE SULPIZIO
Daily Arts Writer
Guys, "American Horror
Story" is officially back and
better than ever. For such a dark
show, it has
a real knack A
for bringing
glee to its fan American
base - but
horror lovers Horror Story
everywhere Season 4 premiere
should Wednesdays
rejoice over
"American at10 p.m.
Horror Story: FX
Freak Show,"
because it
looks to be the scariest season
yet.
Let me take a step back for a
second and put on my critic's
cap. Part of "American Horror
Story" 's flair for fear is that
it refuses to really take itself
seriously even as it ambitiously
barrels through six or seven
plot points per season. The
dizzying maze of storylines
tends to keep a viewer on edge
even if they don't all come to
fruition, and where some horror
maintains solemnity even as it
verges on parody, "American
Horror Story" swings from the
chandeliers. It holds no subject
sacrilegious - from school
shootings to Nazis to slavery,
"American Horror Story"
shocks equally by its daring to
really go there. Last season,
"AHS" overstepped itself with
a race-focused storyline that's
problem wasn't irreverence but
its premature disappearance by
end of the season; Murphy has
a tendency to blow full steam
ahead with some storylines then
mysteriously discard them for
reasonsunknown. The whirlpool
strategy undeniably succeeds in
keeping its fans coming though,
as last year's premiere peaked
with 5.54 million viewers.
However, there is a method
to Murphy's excessive madness.
"American Horror Story" really
knows how to scare: as much
as content drives fear, the
formal elements are integral in
heightening it. On Wednesday's
premiere episode, the camera
pounces from high fish-angle-
lens shots that make us feel like
a fly on the wall to shaky P..V.
shots of murder victims; it
cowers in the corner as villains
loom over us, the camera
careens through forests and
hallways with dizzying speed
- and it switches between all
of these shots too quickly, with
music a hair too loud, lighting a
shade too lurid (or blood red). In
short, "American Horror Story"

uses a lot of classic techniques ringleader, with a Marlene
to effectively induce horror. Dietrich wardrobe and a pinch
Narrative plot arcs can be of manipulation A la Blanche
sloppy or ridiculous sometimes, DuBois. With her GIF-able quips
but the technical tightness of and Instagram-worthy hat-
the show consistently grounds wear, it makes sense Lange is
it. the social media tour de force of
"Monsters Among Us," the "AHS." Mars is just a newspin of
first episode of "American the femme fatale Lange dazzles
Horror Story: Freak Show," as every season, but that's part of
is set in 1952 Jupiter, Florida the fun. "AHS" has assembled a
in a struggling freak show. core cast that we, if not exactly
Florida jokes aside, I was love, have built loyal ties with -
doubtful this would be a scary it's a wink to the fans and way
premise. "A homicidal clown?" of maintaining continuity in an
I laughed when I heard about anthology format.
the signature seasonal monster, The episode also introduces
alas, I believed myself immune Sarah Paulson ("Martha Marcy
to the scary clown trope. Forgive May Marlene") as Bette/Dot, a
me, Ryan Murphy, but I was so two-headed woman (or women,
wrong. Unlike other seasons' I'm not sure of the etiquette),
villains, "AHS" wastes no time which is yet another example
introducing the monster, who of the technical rigor "AHS" is
with the smart costuming and capable of. Lange usually pulls
makeup is insanely disturbing. the spotlight from Paulson,
For all its meticulous crafting who takes the more reserved
of fear, "AHS" knows there's characters, so I'm excited to see
something uncanny about her take up a little more room
simply seeing a monster in (literally) this season. Bearded
plain day - remember the last lady Ethel Darling (Kathy Bates,
minutes of the episode in "True "Misery") is wonderful and so
Detective" where we see Reggie is her son Jimmy (Evan Peters,
Ledoux stalking the plains with "Kick Ass") with lobster claw
his gas mask and machete? syndrome (ectrodactyly) -
It's a fear that wallops you in his condition pays the rent in
your primordial core, seeing the licentious way only Ryan
a creature so discordant with Murphy can dream up.
a familiar environment, yet As a side note, "American
threateningly at ease in it. We Horror Story" positively revels
relegate our fear of monsters in Catholic Guilt-tripping even
to their slow emergence from the most secular of us, with its
the shadows, but sometimes it's constant marriage of sex and
the clown traipsing through fear. Besides moonlighting as a
a pastoral picnic scene that David Bowie cover singer, Mars
delivers the panic. The camera's runs a side film production
wide lens works well here, it company whose business model
highlights the surreal tension relies heavily on date-rape drugs
between clown and landscape. and slut-shaming. Perhaps
this will be one of the moral
seeds Murphy loves to scatter
Revels in through every season, though
the obvious is the freak angle. If
Catholic Guilt- there's one major critique, it's the
superimposed morality Murphy
tripping even insists on less and less overtly
through the seasons, the karmic
the most secular. comeuppancecthat restores order
in the end. "Murder House" and
"Asylum" handled it perhaps
effectively, but "Coven" had
Regardless, if "AHS" is so some truly tasteless moments
confidently delivering this (though Anne Frank's cameo
powerhouse of a monster in in "Asylum" can't be excluded)
the first episode, I'm going to that weren't justified by
assume they have some even Murphy's . half-hearted
scarier tricks up their sleeve. The attempts to reconcile racism.
rest of the episode introduces us Regardless, "American Horror
to the ragtag world of "Freak Story: Freakshow" is a riveting
Show." Like the other seasons, first episode. Even after three
our protagonists dance the line seasons, "AHS" still retains a
between heroes and villains. talent for lassoing scare, social
Do we root for them or run critique and camp into one
from them? Jessica Lange ("The dazzling show.
Postman Always Rings Twice") - Jessica Lange hat count: 1
is back and more fabulous Dietrich-esque fedora 1 toque
than ever as Elsa Mars, circus hat with decorative plume.

EVENT PREVIEW
A Gershwin restored

A

By REBECCA GODWIN
DailyArts Writer
If you've never heard of George
Gershwin - and there aren't many
who haven't - you've no doubt

heard some
of his songs,
either in
movies or on
stage. He was
renowned for
his composing
and piano
playing
abilities. His
music crossed

SMTD
Gershwin
Performance
October 10, 8p.m.
Hill Auditorium
Free

genres, from
classical to folk to jazz and he wrote
songs for various media, from
Broadway to movies to operas.
Hewasbornin1898 inBrooklyn,
New York and started composing
songs for money atthe young age of
15. He went on to create hundreds
of original songs, some on his own
and some with his brother Ira,
for the next two decades. In early
1937, Gershwin's health began to
deteriorate, but it wasn't until July
that doctors discovered he was
suffering from a brain tumor. By
that point it was too late and he
passed away on July 11, 1937 at the
age of 38.
Even though he died young,
Gershwin left a musical legacy
that has yet to be forgotten by
family, fans, or fellow musicians.
Throughout his career, he played
many different pianos, but there
are only three known pianos in the
United States that he personally
owned. One is at the Songwriter's
Hall of Fame in New York City, the
second is at the Library of Congress
in Washington D.C. and the third
is now at the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance, where it has just
undergone a complete restoration
over the last year and a half.
The piano, a 1933 Model A
Steinway, resided in Gershwin's
New York apartment up until
the time of his death, and was
then passed on to various family
members, starting with his mother
and eventually ending with his
nephew Marc George Gershwin,
the man responsible for donating

the piano to the university.
"It arrived in April or June of
last year," said Mark Clague, an
Associate Professor of Musicology
and Director of Research in SMTD.
" $efore it got to us it had always
resided in a Gershwin apartment in
NewYork.'
The piano was donated shortly
after the Gershwin Initiative</a>
was started in 2013. The Initiative
is intended to be a partnership
between the Gershwin Family
and the University by allowing the
University complete access to the
Gershwin Archives. The archives in
turn will then be used to create the
George and Ira Gershwin Critical
Edition, which is the research
project at the core of the Initiative.
"A Critical Edition is sort of a
scholarly researched publication
whereyougoback and basicallyfind
every little scrap of paper having
anything to do with any aspect of
musical work," explained Clague.
"It could be for a literary work or
an opera or just a book of poetry,
and then you process that using
editorial judgment to come up with
the most reliable text possible of the
represented work."
The piano, which hadn't been
used, or used very infrequently,
since Gershwin's death, came to the
University in need of some critical
repairs if anyone wished to play it
again.
"We discovered that there was
a crack in the soundboard that was
irreparable because its particular
location crossed one of the bass
bridges of the instrument," Clague
explained. "So the soundboard
had to be replaced because the
soundboard is basically the natural
resonator of a piano ... and that
particular piece of wood had a crack
in it so it didn'tvibrate right."
Thanks in part to the Charles
H. Gershenson Piano Fund, which
provides the University with
the resources it needs to repair
its various Steinway pianos, the
instrument was sent away to be
fixed. It was sent to PianoCrafters,
Inc., a company located in
Plymouth, Mich., for meticulous
restoration under the supervision of
Assistant Professor Robert Grijalva,

who is a certified Steinway Concert
and Artist Division technician and
U-M Director of Piano Technology.
Over the years,it had suffered some
damage that needed to be addressed
in order to return it to full working
order.
Because some of the damage
was quite extensive, several of
the original pieces needed to be
replaced. The piano received a new
soundboard, strings, keyboard,
hammer and damper actions, but
the exterior was left unchanged.
While these parts did need to be
replaced, the originals were by no
meansgotten rid of.
"One thing we did preserve was
the keyboard,' Clague said. "The
keyboard has ivory keys, which
would be illegal today, butit will be
preserved as a historic document
about the way the instrument was
made and manufactured in the
1930s because this particular piano
is quite rare."
Now that the instrument is
finally finished, SMT&D will
be having a special dedication
ceremony to welcome it officially
to it's new home at the University.
Members of staff as well as several
students will perform a selection of
Gershwin melodies, with the piano,
of course, center stage.
Members of the campus
community as well as the Ann
Arbor community are encouraged
to attend the free concert, alongside
members of Gershwin's family.
Clague, while excited to hear the
piano after its lengthy repairs,
is more excited by the historical
significance of the event and what
the piano represents in the world of
music.
"George developed his own
unique voice and alot of his music,
with this combination of melody
and this 20th century mechanical
sound, was literally created in
conjunction with the instrument,"
Clague said. "It's not like you touch
it and George speaks to you, at least
not in any literal way, but I think it's
a kind of symbol of the partnership
between the University and George
Gershwin, but I also think it's
somethingthat will serve as asource
of inspiration for our students."

DISCOVER THE MOST RECENT ENTERTAINMENT NEWS


V V

PSU defense could
be too much for 'M'

By GREG GARNO
ManagingSports Editor
Michigan pass offense vs.
Penn State pass defense
The Wolverines have failed to
throw for more than 200 yards as
ateam this season, and against the
No. 21 pass defense in the country,
it doesn't look like they're going to
reach the mark this season.
As usual, junior wide receiver
Devin Funchess will be Michigan's
prime target, which should be easy
for the Nittany Lions to prepare
for. Sophomore tight end Jake Butt
hasn't caught enough ofthe targets
thrown his way, and redshirt
sophomore wide receiver Jehu
Chesson is coming off an ankle
injury against Rutgers.
Gardner won't just need one
of the best performances of his
season to make an impact in
passing; he's going to need one of
the best games of his career.
Edge: Penn State
Michigan rush offense vs.
Penn State rush defense
Penn State's defense is the
strength of its team, and the rush
defense has been at the heart of
that.
The Nittany Lions rank second
in the nation in rush defense,
having allowed 60.2 yards per
game. Their front seven, which
Brady Hoke calls "salty," is led by
linebacker Mike Hull - whose 53
total tackles are 30 more than the
next closest on his team.
Sophomore running back
Derrick Green was declared out for
the season with a broken clavicle
sustained agginst Rutgers. Unless
sophomore running back De'Veon
Smith can step up in his absence,
Michigan's offense should be
rendered moot Saturday.
Edge: Penn State
Penn State pass offense vs.
Michigan pass defense
Nittany Lions quarterback
Christian Hackenberg isn't
expected to be the surgeon who
picks apart Michigan's secondary,
but then again, neither was Nova.
Hackenberghasabettercorpsof
wide receivers to throw to, though,
highlighted by 6-foot-1 standout
Greg Lewis. The Wolverines'
starting cornerbacks - senior
Raymon Taylor and sophomore
Jourdan Lewis - are both 5-foot-
10 and haven't shownthey can play

bigger than their height.
In his second year as a starter,
the sophomore sits second in the
Big Ten in yards per game (295.4).
But he's completing just 57 percent
of his passes, having thrown six
interceptions.
But he should look just fine
against a secondary that allowed
more than 400 yards through the
air.
Edge: Penn State
Penn State rush offense vs.
Michigan rush defense
If there's one thing Michigan
continues to do well, it's stopping
the run. The Wolverines have
allowed only one team -
Minnesota - to rush for more than
100 yards ina game.
The Nittany Lions sit 13th out of
14 teams in the Big Ten in rushing
yards per game, with no true
starter in the backfield. Running
back Bill Belton tops his team with
189 yards this season. And the
offensive line lacks the experience
to pick up the slack.
Players like Bolden and Ryan
should excel at plugging holes in
this matchup.
Edge: Michigan
Special Teams
Michigan has put 10 men on the
field on two separate occasions
this season during punt or punt-
return coverage. It hasn't returned
a punt or kickoff for a touchdown.
Nor has it blocked a field goal. And
senior Matt Wile has made five of
nine field goals this season.
So regardless of kicker Sam
Ficken's l0-for-12 mark this season
and one blocked punt, Penn State
is better by default.
Edge: Penn State
Intangibles
The team is under the lights and
at home, and it has proven that
anything can happen under those
circumstances. If there were ever
a chance for Michigan to have a
breakout game, this would be it.
While Penn State has struggled
itself this season, including a
loss to Northwestern two weeks
ago, the Wolverines are going to
need a coaching effort beyond
what they've received this season
to capitalize on a squad lacking
depth.
Edge: Michigan
Prediction: Penn State 31,
Michigan 21

PAUL SHERMAN/daily
Fifth-year senior quarterback Devin Gardner scored two rushing touchdowns last week in Michigan's road loss to Rutgers.
Chance to stop spiral

By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan football has one last
shot to turn its season around, one
last shot to try and save a possible
coaching change and one last shot
to make a bowl game.
The Wolverines host Penn State
on Saturday in the program's third-
ever home night game. Under
the Lights I and II were met with
huge success, as Michigan beat
Notre Dame both times in front of
record-setting crowds. And with
road games against Michigan State
and Ohio State still looming on
the schedule, Michigan needs to
repeat those victories.
But the stakes are different
this time.
Last year, the Wolverines were
5-0 going into their matchup
with the Nittany Lions at Beaver
Stadium. After leading for most
of the game, Michigan lost in
devastating fashion in four
overtimes. Following the defeat,
the Wolverines finished 2-5,
including a blowout loss in- the
Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl.
The Penn State game was a
turning point for the Wolverines,
and this year's squad needs it to be
the same - just in its own favor.
But it won't be easy.

The Nittany Lions started off
the season winning four straight,
beforelosing29-6 to Northwestern
two weeks ago. Penn State hasn't
played at Michigan Stadium since
2009, so it will be a new trip for
most of the players and first-year
coach James Franklin.
"We are excited about the
opportunity," Franklin said
Tuesday during his weekly press
conference. "This will be my first
time going to Michigan. Looking
forward to that and experiencing
that." '
Quarterback Christian
Hackenberg leads the Nittany
Lions amidst struggles on the
offensive line. The sophomore
has the makings for a future NFL
quarterback with his size, arm
strength and accuracy, but has had
issues as of late behind suspect
pass protection.
After throwing four touchdown
passes in Penn State's first two
games, the 2013 Big Ten Freshman
of the Year has been held without
a score since the fourth quarter
against Akron on Sept. 6.
But coming off a bye week,
Hackenberg should beas explosive
as ever.
Michigan's secondary and pass
rush, which struggled mightily
against Rutgers last week, will

need to make quick changes if it
hopes to contain Hackenberg and
his two favorite targets, Geno
Lewis and DaeSean Hamilton.
"As far as Hackenberg, he's
good," said defensive coordinator
Greg Mattison during his Monday
press conference. "He's got a
great arm. He can make all the
passes. He's a football player. He's
a football player, and this will be a
big challenge."
Like Michigan, where Penn
State's offensive line falls short, its
defensive line excels. The Nittany
Lions' front seven is ranked
second in the country in rush
defense, but its defensive unit has
allowed six rushing touchdowns
by quarterbacks because of weak
linebacker play.
The Wolverines will need to
utilize Devin Gardner's mobility
to get into the end zone and keep
Penn State's defensive line on its
toes.
"They've got a very salty
front," Hoke said Tuesday
during the Big Ten's weekly
teleconference. "When they need
to bring pressure, they've been
able to do that and be successful."
So the offensive and defensive
lines are on notice: Michigan
needs this one, or the 2014 spiral
will continue.

4 FootballSaturday, October 10, 2014



w w w

t

R

,W-

lw

qw

IqW

w

2 1 otalaudy coe 021 FootballSaturday, October 10, 20143

EootballSaturday, October 10, 2014 1 3


