FOOTBALL SEATING: The controversial general admission policy has been jettisoned in favor of a revised attendance-based system. ~
CI ef iian OaiI

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 12, 2014

michigandaily.com

Students
draft race
& ethnicity
proposals

LILY ANiELL/da iy
History Prof. Victor Lieberman was surprised with the Golden Apple Award during his lecture on the Arab-Israeli Conflict Tuesday.
History prof award

Student-driven
Golden Apple
award given to
Victor Lieberman
By STEPHANIE SHENOUDA
Daily News Editor
It was business as usual in
History Prof. Victor Lieber-
man's Arab-Israeli Conflict

lecture on Tuesday afternoon
until an unfamiliar face asked
if he liked apples. Though the
question was more than a bit
out of place, the answer soon
came when a parade of students
entered the auditorium carrying
flowers, maize and blue balloons
and 24 gold-painted apples,
to congratulate Lieberman on
winning the 2014 Golden Apple
Award, which recognizes excel-
lence in teaching.
Lieberman was selected

based on nominations from stu-
dents, faculty and alumni who
felt his commitment to teaching
was impactful on their experi-
ence at the University. Along
with the distinction of being a
Golden Apple Award winner,
Lieberman will have the oppor-
tunity to address students and
colleagues at the Golden Apple
Award Ceremony on April 2 at
Rackham Auditorium at 6 p.m.
Dubbed "The Last Lecture," it is
an invitation to deviate from his

course material and speak as if it
were his last time at the podium.
After being confronted with
the outpouring of gratitude,
Lieberman appeared surprised
and almost speechless.
"I really enjoy teaching stu-
dents and interacting with stu-
dents, and it makes it that much
more enjoyable that you enjoy
it, too," he said in an interview
after the event. "I was really
surprised, for sure, but I'm very
See GOLDEN APPLE, Page 3A

After meetings with
administration,
group works to
change curriculum
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
As the #BBUM movement
gained traction at the University
and attention across the nation,
one student began working
behind the scenes to tackle diver-
sity from inside the classroom.
Public Policy junior Carly
Manes, an LSA representative on
the CSG Assembly and current
CSG presidential candidate for
FORUM, has met with University
administrators since October to
reform LSA's Race and Ethnicity
requirement, gathering a coali-
tion of student activists along the
way to promote the cause.

The group met Tuesday night
to draft an initial proposal for a
new "identity requirement" - its
official name is still in the works
- which the group's members
will present to the LSA Curricu-
lum Committee on March 18.
The proposal is two-pronged:
aiming to both expand the
breadth of classes that satisfy the
current R&E requirement as well
as implement the component into
the curriculum of all University
colleges.
"It would highlight and it
would focus on intersectional-
ity as the core component of the
educational model," Manes said.
"So, insuring that intersectional-
ity is highlighted in every class
that counts for this new require-
ment."
According to Manes, intersec-
tionality is meant to envelop a
number of identity-based themes
including sexuality, gender
See CURRICULUM, Page 3A


BUSINESS
Mark's Carts to
welcome new
Spanish cuisine

BRITAIN'S BITES

New cart inspired
by food from the
owner 's childhood
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
Daily StaffReporter
Mark's Carts, a food cart
courtyard located on Wash-
ington Street on April 14, will
welcome a new food cart called
Simply Spanish.
The new food cart will join
three other carts, which serve
Mexican, Indian and Asian
street food, and will specialize in
serving a variety of traditional,
authentic tapas.
Xavi Vitta, the owner and ven-
dor of the new cart, is originally
from Spain. After arriving in the
United States in June, Vitta rec-
ognized that authentic Spanish
cuisine tended to be served in
more formal restaurant settings.
He wanted to share his Spanish
culturewithAnnArborresidents
in a more accessible venue, one
that reminded him of home.
"Authentic Spanish food is
simple; the concept of a cart is
also simple and the cost is lower,"
Vitta said. "My goal is to share
Spanish culture based on food."

Tapas are small Spanish appe-
tizers, oftentimes paired with
beer or wine. Since January, the
Simply Spanish Facebook page
has been posting updates as well
as photos and descriptions of
potential menu items and tradi-
tional Spanish dishes. Vitta said
the menu items are based on
dishes he grew up with as a child.
He plans to include 10 to 12
varieties of tapas on the cart's
menu. In addition he plans to
offer paella - a traditional rice
dish from Valencia - pinchos -
small sandwiches - and two to
three desserts. He will introduce
specials as the season progresses.
"The selection I will offer we
ate at home or in the tascas of
Spain," Vitta wrote in an e-mail.
"The cart is designed around the
menu."
Vitta decided to pair tapas
with a food cart concept not
only to create a more comfort-
able atmosphere, but also to fos-
ter social interaction between
customers. Traditionally, tapas
are shared among a group of
people often seated at bars, and
constitute a more social style of
eating.
"Tapas are at the very heart
of Spanish lifestyle and culture,"
See CUISINE, Page 3A

OVRNMENT
DNC begins
project to up
college voter
registration
Initiative is part of
the party's strategy
for the midterms
ByALLANAAKHTAR
Daily StaffReporter
As Democratic strategists
begin gearing up for midterm
elections in the fall, they are
again planning to make young
voters a key component of their
strategy.
The Democratic National
Committee held a conference call
Tuesday for student newspaper
reporters at colleges and univer-
sities to highlight its new Voter
Expansion Project - an initiative
aimed at increasing student voter
turnout.
The project was initiated by
former President Bill Clinton
last month. In a video message
to DNC supporters, he explained
how the project would work to
counter voter identification laws
and other provisions that restrict
voting and voter registration.
During the conference call,
DNC Communications Direc-
tor Mo Elleithee said one of the
Democratic Party's most impor-
See VOTERS, Page 3A

TERESA MATHEW/Daily
A stall owner turns olives atlan antipasta stand at the Portebello Road Market in Notting Hill. Tosee more photos
of a photographer's London adventures, SEE PAGE 8B OF THE STATMENT.
CSG unanimously votes
to fund health progra-m
Michigan Health to Michigan Health Aid at Washtenaw County. Last Sep-
Tuesday night's meeting. The tember, Michigan Health Aid
Aid awarded fundS approved resolution will allo- served 32 patients at its first
cate $3,000 from the Legisla- free clinic in Ypsilanti, which
for free clinic tive Discretionary Account to CSG also contributed $3,000
Michigan Health Aid for an to.
By KRISTEN FEDOR upcoming free medical clinic Last year's clinic provided
Daily StaffReporter to be held in September. free walk-in medical check-
~ Michigan Health Aid is ups. The upcoming clinic will
The Central Student Gov- an organization dedicated to follow a format similar to last
ernment unanimously passed helping improve the health of year'seventbut willbe expand-
a resolution to allocate funds underprivileged residents of See CSG, Page 3A


WEATHER HI 20 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
TOMORROW [0:16 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAIY.COM
The Fashion Voyer: Clothing as an expensive tool
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS............2A ARTS...........................5A
Vol. CXXIV, No.80 SUDOKU....................2A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
()2014The Michigan Daily OPINION..... .....4A STATEMENT.................1B
michiigondoily.com


4 1 I

!


2A - Wednesday, March 12, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, March 12, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ear. 1251 734-418-4115 eat. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandailyceom

Jane Goodall talks chimps at Iowa

Jane Goodall, a renowned
anthropologist, spoke to Uni-
versity of Iowa students about
her research and the impor-
tance of following passions, The
Daily Iowan reported Monday.
Goodall is best known for her
work studying the social behav-
ior of chimpanzees in Gombe
Stream National Park in Tan-
zania. A graduate of Cambridge
University, she went on to be
named Dame Commander of
the Order of the British Empire
in 2004 and found the Jane
Goodall Institute, an organiza-
tion that funds research related
to chimpanzee habitat protec-
tion.
The talk was the largest

event of the year sponsored by
the university's guest lecturer
committee. Administrators had
to change the venue to Carver-
Hawkeye Arena to accommo-
date the thousands of students
planning to attend.
Goodall talked about her
work with chimpanzees and her
nonprofit organization devoted
to sustainability. By coming
to the university, she said she
hopes to inspire young people
to find what they are passionate
about before graduating.
"College students are about
to go out in the world, and it's
the last chance to try to reach
them if they haven't already
been reached," Goodall said.

Shengzhuang Tang, a lab technician for Michigan's
Nanotechnology Institato far Medicine and'
Biological Sciences, works na compound for a
drug Tuesday.

~~O1

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
LGBTQ parent Medical school
lecture info session

The Ride
BY MAX RADWIN
The Ride will move to
the larger, relocated Blake
Transit Center on March
17 in response to growing
ridership, which has
increased by more than 88
percent since the 1980s. In
2012, the city recorded a
record number of riders at
6.6 million.

Gibbons case
BY MATT SLOVIN
Through a Freedom of
Information Act request,
The Ann Arbor News
learned that the University
Office of Institutional Equity
requested photographs in
October 2013 fromthe police
investigation of the Gibbons
case.

Palestine banner removed
fromBarnard College
building
Barnard College administra-
tors ordered Columbia Univer-
sity's chapter of Students for
Justice in Palestine to remove
the banner they recently hung on
the front of Barnard Hall display-
ing the words "Stand for Justice,
Stand for Palestine" on Monday,
the Columbia Spectator reported.
The banner meant to advertise
the student organization's annual
Israeli Apartheid Week, a move-
ment designed to promote the'
voice of Palestinians calling for
freedom from Israeli influence.
-ALLANAAKHTAR
After a domestic dispute
this weekend, a 31-year-
old woman bit off her
boyfriend's ear, the New York
Daily News reported. The
Michigan woman allegedly
began violently attacking her
boyfriend after he entered
their bedroom.
Disordered eating is
prevalent on college
campuses, but few are
willing to talk about it. This
week's Statement takes a look
at the silence and stigma that
students who are suffering
from disordered eating face.
>o FOR MORE, SEE STATEMENT, 1B
Chimerix pharmacu-
tical company has
decided to give a sev-
en-year-old boy a drug that
could save his life, CNN
reported. The company was
initially hesitant because
it might interfere with the
drug's official launch date.

WHAT: A panel will exam-
ine the legal and public pol-
icy issues surrounding the
rights of LGBTQ parents.
WHO: School of Social
Work Office of Alumni
Relations
WHEN: 3p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
ar@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmai.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
tditorial Page
opinien@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

"The Act of
Obamacare SpringinA2 " e
BY MICHAEL CASEY BYSTATEMENT STAFF Killing"

WHAT: Join experts for
a "when, what and how"
discussion for the medical
school application process.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN:1 p.m. to 2 p.m.
WHERE: The Student
Activities Building
CORRECTIONS
*An article that appeared
in the March 11 edition of
The MichiganDaily, "CSG
judiciary examines Engi-
neeringelectrion issues"
listed Andrew Weisberg,
Brandon Barlog and Lukas
Garske as "UMEC"jus-
tices. They are Central
Student Judiciary justices.
" Please report any
errorinthe Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JennferCafas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandily.com
SENIOR NEWSEDITORS:IanDillingham,SamGringlas, WillGreenberg,RachelPrenack
anddStephanie be,,..da
A5"I"T5 OTnN000ITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis,Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
MichaelSugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang EditorialtPageEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karkd
Greg Garnoand
AlejandroZUiliga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
ENIR SPORTSEDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth Managing Arts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,ErikaHarwoodand
Alec Stern
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard,Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Patrick BarronandRubyWallau
ASSSTANT PHOTOEDITORS:Allison Farrand,TracyKo,TerraMolengraffandNicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasquezManagingDesignEditors c design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand Alicia Kovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAAZIE EITORS:MR yadwn andAmrutha Sivakumar
STATEMosENPOTOoEIOR:ooRuby Wa
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Nicholas Cruz
MarkOssolinskiand Meaghan
Thompson Managing copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ah ufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
AmalMuzaffar DigitalAccounts Manager
Doug Solomon university Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary WangNational Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan LohSpecialProjectsCoordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
studnsattensyo a ign O a saalalereeoarota ua ionlsoas aya
be prkedpat dtheMDa o 0y seafo borpfastemsatnd TnSessated.m alatePr1ss
Wintretem (January throagh Aprl) is'0105,0log(eptmnrtroughsApril)is $1WUnerityaffilate
be pepad. he ichgc an aly 'a a mmer f TeAcac eress ancd TheAssociated Collgae runs

Casey observes the
"messy" politics resulting
from Obamacare. In his
analysis, he acknowledges
that there has been a
decline in the number
of U.S. citizens who are
uninsured, but comes to the
conclusion that this cannot
be attributed to Obamacare.

The Statement Magazine
explores the top five reasons
to stay in Ann Arbor during
spring term. Highlights
include the summer festival
scene, time to explore the
town and easier classes.
Readmorefrom these
blogs at michigandaily.com

WHAT: See a screening of
this Academy Award nomi-
nee for Best Documentary
Feature.
WHO: Center for Southeast
Asian Studies
WHEN: 7 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Theater

Libya's western-backed
prime minister ousted

Move comes after try was rumbling - between
the central government and the
struggle between restive eastern half of the coun-
try, where many are demanding
Islamists and anti- greater autonomy, with each
side again backed by their own
Islamist factions militias.
On Tuesday, a powerful mili-
TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) - Lib- tia from the western city of Mis-
ya's parliament ousted West- rata clashed with a rival eastern
ern-backed prime minister Ali militia outside the central city
Zidan ina Tuesday vote, remov- of Sirte in heavy fighting, on a
ing the first democratically drive to take control of the oil
chosen leader who had strug- terminal of al-Sidra, further
gled for 15 months to stem the east along the coast.
country's spiraling descent into The eastern, pro-autonomy
chaos, with divisive political militia, headed by a command-
power struggles and rampant er named Ibrahim Jedran, has
militias out of the control of the controlled al-Sidra and other oil.
weak central government. facilities in the east for months
The government has been in defiance of the central gov-
paralyzed for months by ernment, shutting down exports
the power struggle between of the country's biggest revenue
Islamists in parliament try- earner. This week, Jedran's
ing to remove Zidan and anti- militia sought for the first time
Islamist political factions to export oil itself, with a North
- each side backedby rival mili- Korean-flagged tanker docked
tias. Zidan's removal came as at one of the ports it controls,
another fault line in the coun- al-Sidra.
--IIM

Pro-government militias
claimed Monday to have recap-
tured the tanker, a claim the
militia holding the port denies.
The status of the tanker has not
been independently confirmed,
but officials in the capital Tripo-
li have vowed to rally their forc-
es to retake not only al-Sidra,
but also the other facilities held
by Jedran's fighters - a move
that could spark wider fighting
with the east.
A group of pro-autonomy
leaders of eastern tribes issued
a statement Tuesday warning
that the clashes and the drive
to take back the oil facilities
could push them to increase
their demands to "separation"
for the eastern region, known
as Barqa. "We are not respon-
sible for any repercussions,"
they warned, saying they sup-
port Jedran's forces and its bid
to sell the oil.
From the other camp, Col.
Hassan Shaka claimed his forc-
es had taken Sirte and told the
LANA news agency his fighters
would continue east to retake
the oil terminals.
Zidan has appeared particu-
larly helpless in recent days in
trying to deal with the crisis
over the oil tanker. He con-
fessed to reporters on Saturday
that the nation's military does
not carry out his orders and
complained that "everyone is
working against the govern-
ment."
After the "no" vote carried
Tuesday vote of confidence,
parliament named the defense
minister, Abdullah al-Thinni, as
interim prime minister until a
replacement for Zidan is found.
Zidan was Libya's first
prime minister chosen by an
elected parliament after the
2011 revolt that removed and
killed longtime strongman
Moammar Gadhafi. Gadhafi's
42-year rule left Libya with
no strong state institutions.
Zidan has presided over a gov-
ernment that has little author-
ity and is frequently subjected
to humiliations.

MAYA ALLERUZZO/AP
Syrian wOmen wait with their children at the U.N. refugee agency's registration center in Zahleh, Lebanon.
Coflct i ra continues to
afect millions of children

UNICEF report
draws attention to
worsening plight
BEIRUT (AP) - The number
of Syrian children affected by
the civil war in their homeland
has doubled in the past year to
at least 5.5 million - more than
half the country's children -
with devastating effects on the
health, education and psycho-
logical well-being of an entire
generation, the United Nations
children's agency said Tuesday.
The conflict, which enters
its fourth year this month, has
unleashed massive suffering
across all segments of Syrian
society, but the impact on chil-
dren has been especially acute,
according to a new report by
UNICEF. Malnutrition and ill-
ness have stunted their growth;
a lack of learning opportunities
has derailed their education; and
the bloodytrauma of war has left
deep psychological scars.
"After three years of conflict
and turmoil, Syria is now one of
the most dangerous places on
earth to be a child," the agency
said. "In their thousands, chil-
dren have lost lives and limbs,
along with virtually every aspect
of their childhood. They have lost
classrooms and teachers, broth-
ers and sisters, friends, caregiv-
ers, homes and stability."

"Millions of young people risk More than 2 million of those
becoming, ineffect, alostgenera- who should be in classes remain
tion," UNICEF said. within Syria's borders, as educa-
Since the conflict began, thou- tion and health services collapse
sands of videos and photographs and classrooms are bombed or
of bloodied babies, lifeless chil- used as shelters and military bar-
dren and bombed out schools in racks. Another 300,000 Syrian
Syria have provided stark images children are out of school in Leb-
of the war's impact on children. anon, along with some 93,000 in
But in many ways, figures pro- Jordan, 78,000 in Turkey, 26,000
vide perhaps the clearest indica- in Iraq and 4,000 in Egypt, agen-
tion of how sweeping an effect cy officials said in Geneva.
the conflict has on their lives. Many are forced to grow up
UNICEF said that more than fast: One in 10 refugee children
10,000 children have been killed is now working, the agency esti-
in the violence, which would mates, while one in five Syrian
translate into the highest casu- girls in Jordan is forced into early
alty rates recorded in any recent marriage. Inside Syria, boys as
conflict in the region. of those young as 12 have been recruited
who have survived, thousands to help the rebels, some as fight-
have been wounded, lost their ers and others in a support role,
home and schools, and seen fam- the U.N. report said.
ily members and friends killed. Syria's conflict began in March
That trauma has left around 2 2011 with largelypeacefulprotests
million children in need of psy- against President Bashar Assad.
chological support or treatment, Facing a brutal government crack-
the agency said. down, protesters eventually took
Almost 3 million children are up arms and the country descend-
displaced inside Syria, while ed into a civil war.
another 1.2 million have fled the has killed more than 140,000
country and now live as refu- people so far.
gees in camps and overwhelmed On the ground, meanwhile,
neighboring communities where the fightinghas shown no sign of
clean water, food and other basic slowing down.
items are scarce. On Tuesday, three suicide
on the education front, UNI- bombers blew themselves up in
CEF said that nearly half of a local administration building
Syria's school-age children - 2.8 in the Kurdish town of Qamishli
million and counting - cannot in northeast Syria, killing at least
get an education because of the five people, state media and a
devastation and violence. Kurdish official said.

A

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Wednesday, March 12, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 12, 2014 - 3A

NEWSBRIEFS
DETROIT
General Motors
addresses recalls
General Motors' executives
and government regulators will
soon have to explain to Con-
gress why it took years to recall
1.6 million compact cars with a
known defect linked to 13 deaths.
And the Justice Department is
investigating whether GM broke
any laws with its slow response,
according to a person briefed on
the matter.
Members of two congressional
committees will likely ask why a
proposed fix to the problem was
never implemented and why GM
didn't immediately tell car own-
ers about the defect. Here's a
look at the developments so far
in the recall and what's ahead.
FORT BRAGG, N.C.
Army general tried
for sexual assault
The trial of an Army gen-
eral accused of sexual assault
moved into uncharted legal ter-
ritory Tuesday when the judge
dismissed the jury to allow the
defense time to hammer out a
new plea deal with the military.
While the highly unusual
decision gives Brig. Gen. Jef-
frey A. Sinclair a second chance
to negotiate the dismissal of the
most serious charges, he appears
certain to face an inglorious end
to a nearly 30-year career span-
ning service in three wars. His
lawyers said it could take weeks
to finalize an agreement.
Experts in military law said
Judge Col. James Pohl is seek-
ing a just and innovative solution
for a courtroom situation that
doesn't fit prior case law.
SIMFEROPOL Ukraine
Disputes over
annexation persist
As the campaign increased
for tension-filled Crimea to split
off fron Ukraine in a weekend
referendum and join Russia, the
region's parliament said Tues-
day that if voters approve the
move it would first declare itself
an independent state, a maneu-
ver that could de-escalate the
standoff between Moscow and
the West.
The move would give Moscow
the option of saying there is no
need for Crimea to become part
of Russia while keeping it firmly
within its sphere of influence.
The dispute between Moscow
and the West over Crimea is one
of the most severe geopolitical
crises in Europe since the end
of the Cold War. Russian forces
have secured control over the
peninsula, but Ukraine's gov-
ernment and Western nations
have denounced the referen-
dum as illegitimate and strongly
warned Russia against trying to
annex Crimea.

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia
Missing Malaysian
jet changed course
The missing Boeing 777 jetlin-
er changed course over the sea,
crossed Malaysia and reached
the Strait of Malacca - hundreds
of miles from its last position
recorded by civilian authorities,
Malaysian military officials said
Tuesday, citing military radar
data.
The development added con-
fusion and mystery into one of
most puzzling aviation inci-
dents of recent time, and it has
raised questions about why the
Malaysia Airlines flight appar-
ently was not transmitting sig-
nals detectable by civilian radar,
why its crew was silent about
the course change and why no
distress calls were sent after it
turned back.
Many experts have been
working on the assumption
there was a catastrophic event
on the flight - such as an explo-
sion, engine failure, terrorist
attack, extreme turbulence,
pilot error or even suicide.
The director of the CIA said in
Washington that he still would
not rule out terrorism.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

GOLDEN APPLE
From Page 1A
grateful. It makes a lot of the
hard work worthwhile and fur-
ther stimulates my interest in
teaching."
Though Lieberman teaches a
class about the Arab-Israeli con-
flict, his specialty is Southeast
Asian history. Lieberman said he
is unsure if he will deliver a lec-
ture regarding his own research
or one related to the Arab-Israeli
Conflict.
Business senior Jake Levey,
Golden Apple co-president, said
the committee had taken mea-
sures throughout the year to
increase student awareness of
the award. Their efforts resulted

in more than 600 nominations,
a record high inthe award's
24-year existence. After reading
every nomination, the commit-
tee narrowed the pool down to
10 professors before choosing
Lieberman.
Many of Lieberman's nomi-
nations were several para-
graphs long and recounted
qualities such as his ability to
"teach a difficult subject to a
sometimes difficult audience"
and remain unbiased, allowing
students to objectively form an
opinion regarding the topic for
themselves.
LSA senior Amalia Zimmer-
man, Golden Apple co-chair,
is currently in Lieberman's
Arab-Israeli Conflict class,
and said she relates to the

views expressed in the nomi-
nations.
"As a Jew growing up with a
lot of knowledge of the Israeli
side of things ... it was really
eye-opening to see things from
another unbiased perspec-
tive," Zimmerman said. "Peo-
ple of all backgrounds come
together and they're all pas-
sionate to learn because he's
passionate about teaching."
Levey said while the large
number of nominations made it
difficult to choose a winner, he
is glad students demonstrated
a passion for their teachers,
and is happy to see the Golden
Apple Award becoming a ves-
sel through which to honor
them and show what getting a
University education is about.

CUISINE up and running, Vitta hopes to ish restaurant also specializ-
expand his reach to eventually ing in tapas, is located at 216 E.
From Page 1A serve the wider Ann Arbor com- Washington Street. Sava Lel-
munity. caj, owner of Sava's and of Babo
Vitta said. "Tapas mean sociabil- However, the food cart may Market, both located near cam-
ity, friends and family." face competition in its vicinity, pus, opened the restaurant in
After the new business is Aventura, a more formal Span- November.

CSG
From Page 1A
ed to include internal medicine,
dental, pediatrics, gynecology,
psychology, ophthalmology, oto-
laryngology, gastroenterology,
urology and podiatry.
Several patients in the past
received serious diagnoses as a
result of the checkups, allowing
for preventative care. High blood
pressure related to diabetes and
suicidal thoughts were among
the cases discovered.
Business senior Matthew
Fernandez, finance chairman
of Michigan Health Aid, said
the clinics help bring attention
to health concerns of patients
who otherwise would have gone
unattended.
VOTERS
From Page 1A
tant ideals is making voting
accessible to all American citi-
zens.
"To have a stronger country
and astronger party, our country
does better and our party does
better when more people's voices
are heard," Elleithee said.
He went on to chastise the
Republican Party for what he
said was their insistence on
restricting voter behavior. He
said the Republican Party rec-
ognizes that they almost always
have a disadvantage when it
comes to the popular vote and
therefore attempt to restrict
voter turn out.
"Their recourse is to actu-
ally try to limit participation by
making it harder to vote. Any
group that tends to vote against
them, they throw out obstacles -
whether it be AfricarAmericans,
whether it be Latinas, whether
it's women, whether it's young
people or college students."
A representative from the Uni-
versity's chapter of the College
Republicans was unavailable for

"We can give them the help
and advice they need," he said.
"If it's something that requires
immediate medical attention,
at least we're there to be able to
bring them to a hospital."
LSA junior Annie Pidgeon,
representative and co-author of
the resolution, said the passing
of the resolution is important as
CSG is the main source of fund-
ing for the clinic.
Fernandez added that Michi-
gan Health Aid hopes to increase
funding from businesses and
other outside donors this year
and into the future. He said as
the organization expands, it will
be easier to get funding from
sources other than CSG.
"Now it will be much easier,
once we've gained the trust of
the community, to get more
comment Tuesday evening.
Pratt Wiley, DNC director of
voter protection and another
moderator on the conference
call, cited the recent North Caro-
linavoter lawpassed by a Repub-
lican legislature that prevents
college students from using their
school IDs as identification at the
polls.
He added that voter turnout -
especially among young people -
is vital for a thriving democracy.
"If there's one thing more so
than anything else that I want
you all to take away is that it
should be easy to vote," Wiley
said. "If you have any questions
we can answer your questions,
but no one should ever deny you
your voice and your right to be
heard."
In recent elections, young
people have been an important
part of the Democratic Party's
coalition. In 2012, 60 percent
of voters aged 18 to 29 voted for
President Barack Obama.
However, a Harvard Insti-
tute of Politics survey released
in December found that more
than 50 percent of polled young
people between the ages of 18
and 29 disapproved of Obama's

funding, to have more patients,
to have more doctors," he said.
Fernandez said the clinic will
be a way for the student body to
make a difference beyond cam-
pus.
"The student body has a lot of
potential to make an impact in
people's lives, and if you have the
opportunity to do so, you should
do whatever you can," Fernandez
said.
Pidgeon said students often
forget that Ann Arbor goes on
outside the campus community,
adding that upcoming clinic is
an important way to give back to
Ann Arbor.
"In helping everyone around
us, we end up helping ourselves
as well, because it's a stronger
community and it's a healthier
community," she said.
handling of key issues during his
second term.
In a December conference
call with Reuters, Trey Grayson,
director of the Institute of Poli-
tics at Harvard's John F. Ken-
nedy School of Government, said
the survey illustrates Obama's
declining support among young
voters.
"This isn't a problem for
Obama because he's not coming
up for election again," Grayson
said. "But it is a potential prob-
lem for any Democratic candi-
date seeking to mobilize young
Americans."
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) said it's crucial for young
people to vote in the upcoming
midterm elections.
"Going into the election year
and the president isn't on the bal-
lot, this is usually the year we see
a high level of drop-off particu-
larly from younger voters," Irwin
said. "As Democrats stand for
more of the values younger peo-
ple hold it's important to get the
voters out and let those voters
know that their ideas and values
are at stake even when the presi-
dent isn't on the ballot."

CURRICULUM She and members of her coali-
tion have met with deans from
From Page ]A multiple colleges, including the
Ross School of Business and the
expression, religion, documen- College of Engineering.
tation status and race. Business senior Shayla Scales,
This type of broad connec- a member of the Black Student
tion to modern issues is some- Union, has been one of the lead-
thing that Business and LSA ing advocates of curriculum
senior Sagar Lathia, LSA Stu- reform at the business school.
dent Government president, said She said intersectionality is
is lacking from the current R&E key for business students and
requirement. He added that is working to develop either
many students see R&E classes diversity-focused seminars or a
as nothing more than a require- Management and Organizations
ment, rather than as a valuable course concentrated on race and
facet of their learning experi- ethnicity. She is also working
ence. to have more corporate organi-
He said LSA-SG executives zations visit and speak to Ross
have worked for months with students about diversity in the
the LSA Executive Committee workplace.
- comprised of all the school's "I truly believe innovation
associate deans and numerous lies in the crevices of diversity,"
faculty members - to confront Scales said. "Making sure that
issues on an administrative level. we incorporate diversity in all
Currently, the LSA Cur- of our thinking and the way that
riculum Committee, which is we see the world will only lead to
responsible for approving all innovation."
changes to the undergradu- While changing curricula
ate college curriculum, leaves across all of the University's
class certification to professors, colleges is an important step
Lathia said. toward modernizing the cam-
"One of the negative conse- pus climate, McKinney said the
quences of this is that there is a additions would also require fre-
kind of disparity in classes that quent reevaluation. Currently, a
have the distribution versus class that is certified to satisfy
those that don't, but cover issues the R&E requirement is reexam-
in a similar lens," he said. ined every five years, which he
This disparity is one that said is not frequent enough.
Public Policy senior Donavan "Times have changed," McK-
McKinney, a member of Manes' inney said. "Things change
student coalition, said frustrates every single day. We think that
students of all disciplines. As it should be at least a two- to
a sophomore, McKinney took three-year process where class-
Political Science 324: African- es can be evaluated, and looked
American Politics and was sur- at to see if they fit the criteria of
prised to learn that the class did R&E."
not saisfyhis R&E requirement. Manes added that this pro-
"It wasn't labeled R&E, but all cess would be easier if the R&E
we did was talk about race and requirement were expanded to
ethnicity problems, and the bar- "identity," a more encompass-
riers Black people have to face in ing term that could also include
order to get to elected office," he Intergroup Relations courses.
said. "There are a lot of people "People come to Michigan
who are just really frustrated with all different experiences;
and really want to see classes all different communities, and
they have taken that touch on we want to ensure that people
the issues of race and ethnicity have the opportunity to expose
to be labeled as such." themselves to a newset of ideas,"
McKinney said the coalition's she said. "It is critical to have
vision is to eradicate this frus- that kind of education to ensure
tration by reevaluatingthe crite- that we are bettering ourselves
ria of classes that fulfill the R&E as students, bettering our cam-
requirement. pus climate, and being better
Lathia said it is necessary to people when we go out into the
put the responsibility of class workplace."
certification and distribution in While Lathia, who has also
the hands of students. He said been working to implement this
this change would allow the reform, is encouraged by Manes'
people taking classes to help goals and initiative, he said
develop requirements and a everyone involved must keep the
well-liked curriculum. process in perspective.
He added that student input "It's a really tough issue
could allow R&E-type classes bureaucratically to change such
to be tailored toward majors of an inner process, because if you
all kinds, rather than just those think about it, a change in dis-
pertaining to the humanities. tribution requirement for R&E
He added that as an Economics may trickle down and change all
major, he thought it would be distribution requirements," he
pertinent to have a course that said. "This isn't something that
examines poverty, inequality I think can be changed in one or
and labor through the scope of two meetings. It's something so
race and ethnicity. core to the College of LSA that
This kind of customization is it's gonna take some time to get
what Manes is striving to enact. a compromise."
ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
Come to
420 MAYNARD
on

FRIDAY, MARCH 14
to engage in a panel discussion about
its importance on campus.
.e n . SCHOOL OF NURSING
SCHOOL OF ,MEDICIN W UNIVERSITY of WASHINGTON
Earn your Master of Science in
C/in/cal In format/cs
& Patient-Centered Technologies
Designed for Working Professionals
o Full- Time or Part- Time Study
* Online Courses

Haitians file lawsuit over
deadly cholera outbreak

Disease resulted in
death of more than
8,000 people
NEW YORK (AP) - Nearly
1,500 Haitians filed a lawsuit
Tuesday seeking compensation
from the United Nations for
victims of a cholera outbreak
that health officials say has
killed more than 8,000 people
and sickened over 600,000 in
the impoverished Caribbean
nation.
Scientific studies have shown
that cholera was likely intro-
duced in Haiti by U.N. peace-
keepers from Nepal, where the
disease is endemic.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon rejected a previous
claim for compensation for
cholera victims, citing diplo-
matic immunitybutannounced
a $2.27 billion initiative to help
eradicate cholera in Haiti in
December 2012.
The lawsuit filed Tuesday in
Brooklyn federal court seeks
compensations for deaths and

illnesses and funding for clean
water in Haiti, which was dev-
astated by a 2010 earthquake.
The suit includes documents
which the plaintiffs say clearly
show that the U.N. waived its
immunity. It asks the court to
declare that the U.N. has no
immunity.
The documents include the
U.N.'s 2004 agreement on the
status of U.N. forces in Haiti
which is quoted as saying that
third-party claims for personal
injury, illness or death "arising
from or directly attributed to"
the agreement "shall be settled
by the United Nations ...and the
United Nations shall pay com-
pensation..."
The suit also cites a docu-
ment stating that the U.N.
General Assembly assumes
"liability for damage caused
by members of its forces in the
performance of their duties." It
says this document was adopted
several times by the 193-mem-
ber world body, and by the U.N.
Security Council, as the official
policy of the organization.
U.N. spokesman Stephane

Dujarric refused to comment on
the lawsuit or the issue of immu-
nity saying: "We're not going to
comment on any ongoing litiga-
tion concerning Haiti. The legal
issues are the legal issues, and
in parallel we continue to work
with the government of Haiti
on the issue of cholera eradica-
tion."
Human rights groups filed a
similar lawsuit in Manhattan
federal court in October blam-
ing the United Nations for the
cholera outbreak and seeking
compensation for victims. It
sought class-action status to
pursue relief for all victims of
the disease, which it said the
U.N. spread by contaminat-
ing Haiti's principal river with
cholera-infected human waste
beginning in October 2010.
U.S. State Department
spokesman Jen Psaki said Fri-
day that the U.S. Department
of Justice filed a statement to
the Manhattan court saying the
U.N., its peacekeeping force, the
secretary-general and the U.N.
peacekeeping chief "are immune
from suit ... in this case."

I

* Apply by May 1st
ClPCT, uw, edu
uwcipctguw~edu
(866) 937-7687
<" i4 C

S

A


4A - Wednesday, March 12, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, March 12, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Opening closed doors
University decisions should be made in the public sphere
n Feb. 18, the Michigan House of Representatives Oversight
Committee held a legislative hearing on the University's Board
of Regents' compliance with the Michigan Open Meetings Act of
1976. Herschel Fink, general counsel to The Detroit Free Press and several
other Gannett Media organizations, called the regents "serial abusers of the
Open Meetings Act," and cited the University's largely private selection of
University President-elect Mark Schlissel as a primary example. He also
called for a constitutional amendment that would expand the purview of
governmenttransparencylaws. Goingforward, theUniversityshould support
any amendment that expands the public's role in University decision-making.

Welcoming our digital fate

s an engineer, I spend a lot
of time thinking about the
digital future. I get excited
and sometimes a
little emotional
about robots.
I frequently
scan a variety
of Twitter feeds
and websites
for updates like
"NASA wants
your code to hunt JULIA
asteroids" and ZARINA
"scientists take
steps toward
fusion energy, but you can't use it
to power your DeLorean just yet."
When I go home to D.C., I make
a ritual trip to the Air and Space
Museum to ask the staff all the
questions about space systems and
satellites I've accumulated over the
past semester to which Google has
not returned satisfactory answers.
As a person, I spend a lot of
time thinking about my love-hate
relationship with the digital present.
I periodically delete my Facebook in
what is usually a misguided effort
to see the people I care about more
in "real life" and less through a
screen. I don't text very much.
Twitter is a weakness I hate to
love and love to hate, but I overuse
it shamelessly as a testing ground
for bad jokes and as a quick news
resource. I Snapchat. I Instagram.
I occasionally use Tumblr and
Tinder - but view my presence on
those sites as the clearest indicator
that an Internet intervention is
warranted. I curate my digital life
fairly carefully - not only because
being a college student comes with
endless reminders that your future
employers are apparently hunched
over a computer in a darkened room
as we speak, scouring every detail
of your personal life online - but
because as much as I hate to admit it,
I care about the wayI present myself
through what I post.
I don't think anyone would
find that statement particularly
surprising. Our generation has been
partially living, or at least existing,
online almost since we were born.
For better or worse, we are defining
a digital existence to be almost as
important and meaningful as an
existence in the physical world.
There is very little in our lives that
is not affected by technology: from
our education, to our entertainment,
to our personal relationships. We
date online and identify with movies

where a man falls in love with an
operating system. Our friends live in
other cities in person but live in our
phones in spirit. A vast and growing
expanse of information is collected
about us daily: what we buy at the
grocery store, what we tweet about,
where we travel, even who we call
and what we talk about, depending
on how interesting the NSA finds us.
The future of our digital existence
will be defined by what we do with
this data: how we process it into
information, how we interpret it and
use it to shape our lives both online
and offline. Big data is a ubiquitous
buzzword in business, research
and government. It describes
the massive volume, velocity and
variety of data that is collected daily
to track trends, target customers
and identify processes. In 2012, the
amount of this data stored exceeded
2.8 Zettabytes and is expected to
be nearly 50 times that by 2020.
The cumulative size of the centers
needed to store all of this data would
fill a two-lane highway stretching
from Tokyo to San Francisco.
The challenge now is not
gatheringthe data,butmakingsense
from the noise. Only 0.5 percent
of the data currently collected is
processed, tagged and catalogued
into what we can consider useful
information. Here at the University
of Michigan, researchers in the
EECS Department explore areas
like machine learning - the
technology behind what makes
your e-mail recognize spam as
spam and messages from your
boss as important, for example
- and robotics to design systems
that make information processing
and decision-making easier.
In the corporate world, IBM is
spearheading an initiative to put
Watson, their Jeopardy-winning
"cognitive system," to work in
practical applications. Humans are
inherently limited in the amount
of parallel processing we can do
and the amount of information we
can memorize. Both scientists and
CEOs are trying to answer questions
about the limitations of people and
machines alike. Will the doctors,
teachers and bankers of the future
be computers, or are there certain,
invaluable human characteristics
that can never be programmed or
executed by code?
In "A Super Sad True Love Story,"
a novel by Gary Shteyngart, the not
so distant future is portrayed as a
blurring of the lines between data

and life. People walk the streets
with their real life stats displayed
for strangers to interpret and
corporations to target. Billboards
change as they pass to show the
exact brand and product they are
most likely to buy. Strangers in a
bar decide who to talk to based
on the digital broadcasting of
their interests and others' ratings.
Privacy is not only obsolete, but
irrelevant. It's a distinctly invasive
existence, albeit a very efficient one.
Objectively, I think I'd like to know
my own stats: how many pizzas
I've consumed in my lifetime, how
many people think I'm insufferably
obnoxious, whether that man at
the coffee shop lists Ayn Rand as
one of his favorite authors, thereby
indicating that I should resolutely
not bother gathering up the courage
to ask him to dinner. Having all this
data compiled and processed would
take so much of the uncertainty and
guesswork out of life. I wonder if I
would be happier or just plain bored.
Recently in an interview
with The Guardian titled "Are
the robots about to rise?" Ray
Kurzweil, Google's new director
of engineering, expressed his
beliefs that the data processing
capabilities of artificial intelligence
will overtake human intelligence
in every capacity in the near future
and that computers will gain what
he describes as something a lot like
our concept of consciousness. Many
people dismiss these predictions
as improbable - computers still
struggle with many of the things
that define us as distinctly human
such as semantics, humor and
emotions - but reality is not far
off. Human behavior is still easily
distinguishable from that of
computers, but life and technology
are converging in medicine,
business, relationships and nearly
every other aspect of our society.
We have not thus far drawn a line
in the sand that we are unwilling to
cross. Will we ever, or do we value
the imperfections and inefficiencies
of the human experience too much?
Is there anything that humans can
do that computers will never be
able to do better? Is there anything
that makes us distinctly different?
Does it even matter? The future is
here and the possibilities are ready
to be shaped into reality. I, for one,
welcome the robots with open arms.
- Julia Zarina can be reached
at jumilton@umich.edu.

While public universities are allowed
a greater degree of autonomy than most
other governmental bodies under the state
Constitution, they are still bound by the Open
Meetings Act. The application of the act to
universities is somewhat unclear and has
been largely decided in Michigan's courts. In
selecting a public uiyiversity president, the
act requires that the students, faculty and
members of the public serve on a selection
committee, and that the final five candidates be
announced. However, inFederatedPublications,
Inc. v. Michigan State University Board of
Trustees, the State Supreme Court ruled that
university presidential searches do not need
to be public unless they're done at a public
meeting. The regents are able to skirt general
transparency' requirements by designating
meetings as a status other than public. A state
constitutional amendment is necessary to
eliminate this loophole and promote a culture
of accountability. As elected public servants,
the regents are accountable to the people they
serve.At these official public meetings,the only
practical option for members of the public to be
heardisduringapublic commentsegmentatthe
end of the meetings, in which speakers sign up
ahead of time and have five minutes to discuss
their topic of choice. Closed-door discussion

among the regents prior to the public meetings
renders them "perfunctory," according to Fink.
The Board of Regents has a history of abusing
the guidelines set upby the Open Meetings Act.
In 2010, the regents were sued by University
alum Robert Davis for not holding a public
meeting to discuss an NCAA investigation
into the University's football program. The
University settled the matter out of court, but
reportedly paid $5,380 in legal fees to Davis.
However, the settlement was not an admission
of guilt by the University. It is alarming that
the University is flaunting the spirit of the
act so soon after the lawsuit. By not including
students and the public in important decisions
and on the presidential search committee, the
University has again failed to respect our right
to governmental oversight.
Furthermore, the public - especially
students and faculty - should be given more
say in University decisions. While discourse
is allowed at the public meetings, there is
very little debate, discussion or disagreement,
as most proposals are already discussed and
settled behind closed doors. The Board of
Regents and all University governing bodies
need to be held accountable and incorporate
more public oversight into their decision-
making process.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria
Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul
Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
JESSE SELVIN, CJ. BIGGS AND JULIANA ROTH 1
Prioritizing clean energy at the U'


After a string of stunning home-court
performances, the Wolverines sit atop the
Big Ten basketball standings. On the heels
of these last few spectacular seasons with
Michigan Coach John Beilein, the University
has truly reestablished itself as an elite pro-
gram in college basketball. After all, we are
the "Leaders and Best," and we should feel
proud for this accomplishment. But, are we
always the leaders and best? When it comes
to the administration's renewable energy pol-
icy, we are actually far from the top.
The University of Michigan's energy
portfolio, which mostly derives from DTE's
coal-powered grid, is frankly abysmal. We're
left to wonder: where has our competitive
spirit gone? Ranked against the other Big Ten
schools, Michigan falls far behind the pack.
one of our closest competitors, Michigan
State, is currently at 8 percent renewable
energy with a goal to reach 15 percent by
2015, increasing to 40 percent by 2030. Ohio
State's electricity portfolio is 23 percent
wind energy. Northwestern recently climbed
to 37 percent. Michigan, on the other hand,
receives less than 4 percent of its energy from
renewables and has completely unsatisfactory
renewable energy goals.
Granted, the University does have a goal
to reduce 25 percent of its carbon emissions
by 2025. This step, however, is a far cry
from a comprehensive renewable energy
policy and seems paltry when compared to
the other efforts underway throughout all
of the Big Ten, let alone the nation's leading
universities. Students for Clean Energy, a
group dedicated to persuading Michigan to
make the switch to renewable energy, thinks
we can match - if not exceed - Michigan
State's goal, at the very least.
Since the launch of Planet Blue, a student
sustainability initiative on campus, the
administration's commitment to renewable

energy has stagnated. Students are left to
wonder why the administration has not
committed to increased renewable energy
investment when seemingly every other
Big Ten school has. SfCE met with several
times in the Fall 2012 term to talk about the
importance of a clean energy portfolio for
meeting their emissions goal, which cannot
be met by efficiency standards alone. It
was told the University had no interest in
setting such a goal. So, SfCE tried to get the
University's attention by helping the Divest
and Invest Campaign successfully raise
student awareness concerning renewables.
Still, nothing.
The fact of the matter is the University will
continue to be a hypocrite concerning sustain-
ability and renewable energy until it makes
an actually significant step. We can start by
buying Renewable Energy Credits from DTE,
like Northwestern does, or sign a long-term
renewable energy contract like Ohio State,
a power purchasing agreement, saving the
school one million dollars per year. These are
easy transitions to make and could lead to the
University saving a lot of money. Neverthe-
less, as of yet the University is still refusing to
take such a step. The University is failing to
see that its students are vehemently passion-
ate about committing to clean energy. That's
why Students for Clean Energy is launching
a new campaign to make Michigan's energy
portfolio more renewable than its Big Ten
peers, especially OSU and MSU. If we want
our University to live up to its own standard of
excellence, we need to strive for that in every-
thing - especially renewable energy. Until the
administration makes that change, we won't
really be the "Leaders and Best."
Jesse Selvin is an LSA junior,
C.J. Biggs is an LSA sophomore
and Juliana Roth is an junior.

JACOB KORNFELDI
Standi.
Not long ago, the weekend of
March 1, I got arrested. it was one
of the proudest moments of my life. I
went peacefully, telling the arresting
officer my name and waiting while
he secured my hands behind my
back with plastic, zip-tie handcuffs.
He led me to a line where I was told
to remember my number, "three
thirty-two." I was the 332nd person
arrested in front of the White House
last Sunday in an act of peaceful
civil disobedience to object to the
Keystone XL pipeline, which would
carry tar sands oil from Alberta
down to the Gulf Coast.
My day of protest began
more than eight hours earlier in
Georgetown University's Red
Square. I joined over 1,000 students
from across the country and began
a march to the White House in
an event we called XL Dissent.
We wanted to make it as clear as
possible to President Barack Obama
and Secretary of State John Kerry,
upon whose shoulders the Keystone
XL permit rests, that we do not
want this pipeline. This pipeline
is not in our national interest.
Moreover, this pipeline is not in the
interest of the people of color and
the impoverished people it would
disproportionately affect. We are
willing to lay our future on the line
to stop this pipeline.
We thronged through the streets
of Georgetown, leaving a black,
shining tarp on the steps of John
Kerry's house with the message,
"Don't tar your legacy, stop KXL."
From there we marched the rest of
the two miles through downtown
D.C. to Lafayette Square, directly
across the street from the White
House. Here we were addressed
by a series of speakers attesting
to the destructive potential of the
Keystone XL pipeline. One of the
speakers was Chris Wahmhoff,
a Michigan resident from
Kalamazoo, who held his fist high
in the air, displaying a chunk of
solidified tar sands oil he had pulled
out of the Kalamazoo River. It was
left over from a pipeline similar to
KXL that ruptured and polluted the

river four years ago. The damage
from the spill can still be seen
today, even after a multi-million-
dollar clean up. He was followed by
Jasmine Thomas, who spoke of the
impact tar sands would have on the
water resources of her Saik'uz First
Nation's land in British Columbia.
Next, a university student stood
up and reminded everyone of
Obama's promises to protect the
environment and our future. I
poured hours into volunteering
for the Obama campaign and
enthusiastically casted my vote for
him in the last election. If he allows
this pipeline he will no longer be a
symbol of hope and positive change
to me, but instead one of betrayal,
broken trust and a bleak future.
Finally, a call to action was given,
and our protest escalated.
Hundreds of students, some
brandishing zip ties, others clad in
oil-covered hazmat suits and one in
a Captain Planet costume, rushed
across the street to set up camp in
Obama's front yard. A 40-foot by
60-foot black tarp was rolled out
across the sidewalk and street to
symbolize an oil spill, and protes-
tors flung their bodies down on it to
represent the deaths Keystone XL
would bring through its impacts on
public health, including increased
incidence of asthma and cancer.
others, myself included, found a
spot along the iron fence surround-
ing the White House and fastened
our wrists to the metal.
While the police secured the area
and read us procedural warnings,
we chanted for climate justice and
called for Obama to reject the pipe-
line. Two hours later, they declared
that we were all under arrest and
began to handcuff people. At this
point, the cheering and singing only
got louder. As I watched the police
load my peers into paddy wagons,
I was sure we were doing the right
thing. Even as students preparing
to enter the workforce, the Key-
stone pipeline poses a far greater
threat to our future than an arrest
on our permanent record.
At the end of the day, 398 of

ng up for my future

us were arrested. Our reasons
were manifold. Some had at the
front of their mind the impact a
Keystone spill could have on the
massive aquifer that provides
water for cropland in the Midwest.
Many were standing up for the
communities like Port Arthur,
Texas, where people of color would
be disproportionately put at risk
for cancer as a consequence of the
emissions fromthe refineries. Some
people thought of the land they
were bullied into giving up across
the Midwest. Others did it to stop
the effect such an operation would
have on the climate. I did it with
the symbolic potential of Keystone
XL in mind. If Obama rejects the
permit it will send the message
that America can still be a leader
on environmental issues. That we
can, and will, take the necessary
steps to combat climate change, to
fight pollution and to build a clean
energy future, regardless of what
the fossil fuel industry has to say.
I realize that my action was one
taken from a place of privilege; I
had the resources to risk getting
arrested. I made the decision I felt
was most appropriate in my cir-
cumstance, though I acknowledge
it had its flaws. Our protest lacked
the voices of the underprivileged,
lacked the voices of the frontline
communities and relied on the
highly educated, who would likely
feel the tar sands pipeline's impact
the least. Even so, I wanted to help
in whatever capacity I could, so I
joined XL Dissent.
With this in mind, I was proud
when after six hours inthe cold rain,
I was cut down from the fence and
put into custody. I was proud that
I took action for a cause I believe
in. I was proud that our protest
would be covered by The New York
Times, The Washington Post and
the Chicago Tribune. And I was
proud as I was taken away from the
front steps of the White House in
handcuffs, knowing Obama might
finally hear my concern.
Jacob Kornfeld is an LSA sophomore.

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily to get updates on Daily content throughout the day.

0

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Wednesday, March 12, 2014 - 5A

Learning
to unplug
didn't have your typical enough, and I'm entitled to this
Spring Break this year. and that ... because I'msober.
While thousands of peo- And so, down to Austin I went,
ple my age flocked to the South to and I spent four days learning
sip on margaritas,bask in the sun how to unplug the game - how
and playhard, to unlearn what I have learned.
I was sipping Yoda would be proud.
on bottled One of the copious tools I
water, bask- gained from this experience cen-
ing in flu- ters on the work of Dr. Joe Dis-
rescent lights peza and a book he's written
and working called, "Breaking The Habit of
hard ... on BeingYourself:Howto Lose Your
myself CARLY Mind and Create a New One."
While it KEYES While it sounds like your typi-
would've cal self-help read, it couldn't be
been far less further from. In his book,Dispen-
emotionally and financially za discusses quantum physics,
stressful - and arguably a whole neuroscience, brain chemistry,
lot more fun - to go to the South biology and genetics, and he com-
by Southwest festival while in bines these concepts with spiri-
Austin, I was there to attend a tual practices to illuminate the
four-day workshop called "The possibility for human beings to
Inner Journey." change their realities and alter
When I shared my plans with their life trajectories.
people close to me, a few of them "Nerve cells that fire together,
inquired with concern: "Are you wire together," Dispenza writes,
thinkingaboutdrinking?" citing the Hebbian theory that
I'm not thinking about drink- explains the brain's neuroplastic
ing. I don't need to drink too capability. Essentially, we have
much in order to be miserable. the ability to rewire our brains
All I need to do is think too much. through spiritual practice.
Thinking can be a dangerous Let me clarify what I mean
pastime for someone who has a when I say spiritual practice,
mental disease. because I don't want to scare you
Addiction is baffling enough to away. I'm talking about medita-
those who haven't experienced tion.
it for themselves, but I'm going
to go ahead and toss in anoth-
er integral yen confusing facet Ic nth v
about the illness: Abstinence is
merely a pre-requisite for the
healing process. I'm an alcoholic, just one of
but my problem isn't alcohol; my anything.
problem is me.
The only reason I don't also
identify as a "drug addict" when
I talk about my addiction is I'm terrible at sitting still. I
because I never used drugs. But probably rearrange my position in
had I snorted a line of cocaine, my chair during a 90-minute class
injected heroin, or taken pills fifty times on average. I despise
during one of my booze-driven silence. I'm most comfortable
benders, I'd have been addicted. jaunting about campus with my
Guaranteed. I know I dodged a headphones on. But I've learned
bullet there. that life begins at the end of my
Because I canthavejust one of comfort zone, so here I venture
anything, this is where that con- bravely into the land of discom-
cept of abstinence gets confus- fort... the land of change.
ing. There's no such thing for me I'm only three days into this
as one cookie, one piece of gum, meditation program that accom-
one episode of House of Cards. panies Dispenza's book, which
Instead, I consume a bag of cook- utilizes soothing, whimsical
ies, I chew a pack of gum, and I background music and his soft,
plow through Season Two in one encouraging voice - training
sitting. wheels for those of you who also
These behaviors only wors- can't stand silence. In the first
ened after getting sober because week, the meditation lasts 24
- without alcohol - they minutes, and it climbs to 35 min-
morphed into compensatory utes in the second week, 48 min-
crutches. My life has been a lot utes in the third week, and 70
like that arcade game "Whac-A- minutes in the fourth week.
Mole." I hit one addiction on the Forget about 70 minutes. I
head, it recedes into its hole, and can't even comprehend that, yet.
then another one pops up in its Twenty-four?! I have to sit still,
place. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat. to do nothing, for 24 minutes? I
I used this metaphor when never realized how hard it is for
I was asked to share my story me to shut down, to turn off my
recently at a recovery meeting in brainand tojustbe, surrender and
downtown Detroit, and I received trust in something. And I never
a wonderful piece of feedback could have anticipated the feeling
from awise, seasoned man who'd that follows.
been sober for years. Is this feeling peace? Is it
"In the beginning, I played that serenity? Is it truth? I'm not sure

game, too," he said. "ButI had to what you'd call the product of
quit putting in the quarters, try- meditation, but for me, it's best
ing to win. Ijust had to unplugthe defined by what it's not. It's the
game." absence of what's typically echo-
This notion pierced my ing throughout my mind. It's the
thoughts, challenged my resolve, absence of anger. It's the absence
and it frightened me. of fear. It's the absence of pain,
"How free do you want to be?" shame and guilt.
The man asked me, rhetorically. And so I've realized that, for
I don't want to just be sub- 24 minutes, I've unplugged the
stance-free. I'll never rise above game. And next week, it'll be 35.
human, I realize, butI don't want
to justify my other harmful addic- Keyes is looking for inner
tive tendencies with the excuse peace. To join her, e-mail
that I'm sober, and so, that's cekmusic@umich.edu.
DAILY ARTS IS
BASICALLY A "SO
YOU THINK YOU CAN
WRITETH"COMPETITION.
PROVE YOURSELF.
Email jplyn@umich.edu to request an
application.

'U' MFA Thesis Exhibitions
to examine issues of identity

Students to
showcase their
works spanning
many mediums
By COSMOS PAPPAS
For the Daily
This week, the 2014 MFA The-
sis Exhibitions in the Penny
W. Stamps School of Art and
Design will
begin its run School of
through the Art and
first week of
April. Design
"It's one MFA
of the high-
lights of the Thesis
year for the Exhibitions
School of Art
and Design Various dates
and for our Robbins,
university Slusserand
community," Workgalleries
said Professor in Ann Arbor
David Chung,
director of Free
the MFA pro-
gram.
This year, nine graduate
students are exhibiting their
work, with pieces ranging

from documentary film (Peter
Leix's "Muscatawingh - Plains
Burnt Over") to painting
(Katie St. Clair's Wayside) to
live video projection and per-
formance art crossovers (Ann
Bartges's Holding Still).
Students from all areas of
the visual arts display their
work during this time, mark-
ing the end of a college career
and, for many of the program's
soon-to-be graduates, the
start of life as an artist.
In fact, when asked why
the program made the transi-
tion to being a two-year pro-
gram from three, Chung said
that many of the program's
students were artists who
lived off the profits from their
work prior to application. For
many of these artists, three
years is often an unmanage
able amount of time away from
the working world. They come
to the program to refine their
craft and learn how to navi-
gate the more difficult world
of institutional art including
residencies, grant applications
and exhibition proposals.
The MFA program, whose
alumni feature Guggenheim
fellows and residents at some
of the world's most renowned

artistic institutions, pro-
vides disciplined instruction
through experimentation with
different visual media and
subject matter. To crown this
rigorous training in the pro-
gram there are the annual the-
sis exhibitions.
Comparing it to the accom-
plishment of an MFA in Cre-
ative Writing who finishes a
book or a collection of short-
stories or poetry, Chung said,
"Think about it that way, since
the visual arts are a kind of
unknown territory for a lot of
people."
"The other important thing
is the interdisciplinary nature
of the program," Chung said.
As a requirement of the pro-
gram, students work alongside
an "outside cognate," a faculty
member from a department
outside of the School of Art
and Design, who acts as an
advisor. This is only one piece
of evidence of the program's
commitment to interdisciplin-
arity and social consciousness.
Many of this year's pieces are
concerned with issues of cul-
tural difference and identity.
"Parisa Ghaderi, who is
originally from Iran, is doing
a very interesting piece about

these two worlds trying to
connect and how communica-
tion is difficult. It's a really
beautiful piece that features
projections," Chung said.
Rolando Palacio, on the
other hand, is working inti-
mately with the immigrant
community of in Mexican
Town of Detroit to create a
series of documentary photo-
graphs that captures the mod-
ern immigrant experience in
the city - working alongside
faculty in the Department of
Anthropology to broach these
questions in his art.
These artists and others
will display their work at loca-
tions in both Ann Arbor and
Detroit, reinforcing both the
growing artistic community in
the city as well as Ann Arbor's
and Detroit's increasing cul-
tural and social interaction.
The MFA Program is attached
to the city through connec-
tions with exhibition spaces,
artists, community groups and
other schools.
"Our artists are addressing
things that are very immedi-
ate to them," Chung said.
A full list of the exhibits and
their dates can be viewed on
the school's website.

The very real dangers of virtual reality

BySTEVEN TWEEDIE
DailyArts Writer
Virtual reality as a cinematic
and gaming medium is still in its
infancy, but the VR industry is no
longer a desolate graveyard filled
with the ancient and cumber-
some technology failures of the
'80s and '90s. Instead, the wildly
hyped and inexpensive Oculus
Rift headset has pummeled its
way to the forefront of main-
stream virtual reality explora-
tion, managing to secure over $75
million in funding in the process
and all but securing a successful
consumer launch later this year.
The Rift is an immersive experi-
ence like none other, allowing
people wearing the headset to
gaze around their environments
as if they were truly there. You
can even take a trip up the wall of
the Night's Watch from "Game of
Thrones" if you want to - just ask
Arya Stark. Ifa traditional televi-
sion screen is a window frame into
another world, VR lets you chuck
that frame into the woodchipper
and climb right through. This is
an exciting, promising and down-
right futuristic tech development,
but it's also a double-edged blade
with all the promise to potentially
create a level of dystopic obses-
sion thatmakes the World of War-
craft guy from "South Park" look
tame.
People naturally gravitate
towards activities that offer a
certain level of escapism. Back
in 2009, when "Avatar" began its
"titanic" voyage toward becom-
ing the highest grossing movie of
all time, people felt this kind of
escape in the lush, vibrant forests
of the fantastical Pandora. Stun-
ning CGI and high fidelity 3D
filming offered a level of immer-
sion that began to blur the lines

When "next level shit" goes wrong.
between imagined environment
and reality. And as surreal as it
may sound, for some people, this
harsh disconnect from biolumi-
nescent jungle to cinema park-
ing lot actually caused feelings of
depression and suicide, prompt-
ing fan forums and a CNN arti-
cle discussing how to cope with
"Pandora being intangible." And
this was still just a film being pro-
jected on a cinema screen, with
entire audiences participating in
the experience - now imagine a
personal technology capable of
much higher caliber of immer-
sion, and you can see how the
Rift will prove a slippery slope for
those already prone to the addic-
tive qualities of modern media.
The reasonable counter-argu-
ment is that this will only be an
issue for those already addicted
to escapists media forms. Yes,
classically addictive games like
"Second Life" are getting the VR
treatment, and yes, it will soon
be possible to gaze around a cozy

concert venue watching your
favorite band practice, but will
we really start observing people
opting for a virtual girlfriend Isla
Joaquin Phoenix in "Her"?
The higher the fidelity of
the illusion, the tougher it will
become to unplug. Already, you
can experience what it would
be like to embody the other gen-
der, and adult entertainment
companies have wasted no time
designing stimulation devices to
accompany the Rift. And yes, it's
exactly what you think it is. Keep
in mind the Rift hasn't even offi-
cially hit shelves yet. And while
technology that wins favor with
the pornography industry usually
finds mainstream success, it will
soon become far easier for people
to become lost in fantasy, and
harder to disconnect. Suddenly,
the issues brought up by "Her"
don't seem so futuristic.
This is where simple aware-
ness of, and caution toward, VR
won't be enough. One day I'll be

immortalizing my Rift developer
unit as a collectible milestone in
technology's rapid advancement,
much like any collector' would
wish to save the first radio or
television. But amidst all the pos-
sibility and childlike glee at such
a futuristic experience, perhaps
a warning should accompany VR
headsets, similar to the way mas-
sively popular video games flash
an "All things in moderation"
quote across the loading screen
every once in a while.
Hard to hit the
off-switch.
Stronger and more spectacular
illusions are exciting, and escap-
ism certainly holds its own thera-
peutic benefits, but a firmer nod
in the direction of the off-switch
might not hurt either.

University of Illinois
Master of Science, Financial Engineeringp
College of EngineeringI College of Businessa
You Could Have a Future in Financial Engineering
APPLICATION DEADLINE:
APRIL 15th

A


6A - Wednesday, March 12, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

GA - Wednesday, March 12, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

'M' falls to Northwestern

Ulehla welcomes stiff tests

First-year varsity
program falls to
top-10 team
By AZALEA HINOJOSA
For theDaily
Frustrated shouts from the
sideline filled Oosterbaan Field
House Tuesday afternoon
as the Michigan women's
lacrosse team took on No. 8
Northwestern.
The Wolverines (0-5) began
the tough matchup sluggishly,
allowing
their MICHIGAN 6
opponents N'WESTERN 20
to score
four unanswered goals in
the first five minutes of play.
Those first few minutes were
indicative of how of the rest of
the game would play out, ending
with a 20-6 Northwestern win.
Though the Wildcats (4-2)
were in possession of the ball
for the majority of the first
half, the Wolverines managed
to break past midfield and take
eight shots on goal. Few of these
shots found the net.
Following the missed
attempts, the Wolverines called
the only timeout of the game as
the first half wound down. It
proved helpful when freshman
attacker Lauren Oberlander
finally landed a shot les than
three minutes later. I
The goal brought the score to
10-1, breaking Northwestern's
10-goal streak and serving as
motivation for thetwo Michigan
goals that followed, which were
scored by freshman midfielder
Anna Schueler and freshman
attacker Sophie duPhily.
But as the game went on, the
Wolverines' shouts were slowly
drowned out by the Wildcats!
cheers of their own.
Michigan only scored one of
the next nine goals, bringing
the score to an insurmountable
15-4.
"We need to realize that
when we get down on the field
we need to spread out more
and pass the ball," Oberlander
said. "Make sure that we're
getting open for our teammates,

especially since they were
double teaming us a lot."
Northwestern's aggressive
performance hindered the
Wolverines' offense, only
allowing it to take half as many
shots as the Wildcats.
Michigan regained some
momentum by scoring back-to-
back goals toward the end of the
second half.
The first goal was made by
duPhily, and the second was
sent flying in by freshman
midfielder Kim Coughlan,

top.
Much can be learned from
a challenging matchup like
this one, especially for a team
of freshmen going up against
Northwestern, a squad that
has won seven of the last nine
NCAA championships.
Michigan coach Jennifer
Ulehla agreed that a game
against a top opponent like the
Wildcats was an enormous task
to overcome.
"This is how we went into
it: Let's control what we can

Coach plans to
build program
through adversity
By MITCH BECKMAN
DailySports Writer
Striding out of the locker room
almost 30 minutes after the final
buzzerwentoffinherteam's20-6
loss to Northwestern, Michigan
women's lacrosse coach Jennifer
Ulehlahadher explanationready.

from every game it plays, win
or lose.
The Wolverines' first-year
coach understands that while it
is hard for her fledgling team to
compete with the nation's top
teams, in the long run it will be
beneficial for the program. In
its first five games, Michigan
(0-5) has already faced No. 5
Florida and No. 8 Northwestern
(4-2), a program that has won
seven of the last nine national
titles. While both have ended in
lopsided defeats, Ulehla knows

bringing the
score to 18-6.
But
Northwestern
responded
with two more
goals for the
final margin.
Freshman
goaltender
Allison Silber
in blocking seve
Wildcats still,
Wolverines' def
quick speed an

control, which
is ourselves,"
"W e're going to Ulehla said.
"Being ateam,
take our bumps communicating
and working
and bruises." hard when
we're going to
take our bumps
and bruises.
was successful "We got better from our
n shots, but the Florida experience and today.
dominated the Obviously the scoreboard
ense with their doesn't necessarily show it, but
d came out on I know it and they know it."

"Sorry I this will
took so long," improve her
Ulehla said. I felt we were program down
"This was the road.
a learning Working much In the
opportunity, Wolverines'
and I wanted better as a team." Tuesday
to use it." matchup with
Determined the Wildcats,
to use her Ulehla
team of freshmen as the stressedthe importance oftaking
building block for a nationally advantage of the opportunities
respected program, Ulehla before them, controlling what
wants to ensure that her young they can control and giving all
team can take something away the effort they can.

"Northwestern is an
incredibly talented team, so for
us to have that opportunity -
especially on defense, the way
they worked our defense - was
really a great chance for us to
get better," Ulehla said. "We're
making progress, it just takes
time. In our last game, we came
out real flat and were more or
less watching the other team
play as opposed to competing."
The offense, while only
scoring six goals, looked more
engaged and competitive than
it had since its home opener,
committing fewer unforced
turnovers than in previous
games and creating some wide-
open looks in transition. Several
posts and some acrobatic saves
by the Wildcats' goalie kept the
Wolverines from adding a few
more goals.
"One of the things
(Northwestern) isn't doing as
well this year is getting in and
getting balanced defensively,"
Ulehla said. "To just get the ball
and go hard was one of our goals."
Compared to her team's last.
game against Florida, which
ended 20-4, Ulehla saw some
improvement.
"It was similar in the score, but
different because I felt we were
working much better as a team.
I thought the effort was better,"
Ulehla said. "It's about getting a
young group moving forward."
While coaching a first-year
program comprised solely of
freshmen is a rare occurrence,
Ulehla has been through the
situation before. She was an
assistant coach for Florida in its
inaugural2008 season and stayed
there until 2010. The Gators have
since become one of the nation's
top programs, a rise she is hoping
to duplicate at Michigan.
"A lot of what we're going
through right now is what I
went through at Florida," Ulehla
said. "It's a good thing for me
because it keeps me grounded
and reminds me that we're
building - and we're building
a foundation this year and each
and every experience is a great
opportunity to get better. The
future is bright. This is gonna
be a tough year, but we're gonna
get better."

LUNA ANNA A YUdaly
Michigan women's lacrosse coach Jennifer Ulehla hopes that her team's tough schedule will lead to success in the future, as it did when she coached at Florida-.

-J1 Wolverines take
J EaldildsaygaCallh#734-418-4115
Email: dailydispiay@gmail.com
fourth im Classic

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Analogous 31 Two percent 44 Scary Wild West
1 Dpear gy 4Avanges awtong alternalie circles?
5 Dian osy 5 Runwayshapes 35 Skipped 47 Me, as needs
subjects 6 Bob _, first NBA 36 C-ration 48 Norwegian
9 Walking tall player tobe successor saint
14 Snoop (around) named MVP 37 Throws here and 49 "Won't do it'
15 Son of Leah and (1956) there 50 Plenty, in slang
Jacob 7 FEMA 39 Failsto 51 Bonneville Salt
16 One unlikelyto recommendation, understand Flats site
bring homethe maybe 40 Funk 52 Peacekeeping
bacon? 8 Storage structure 42 Musical scale acronym
17 Workon galleys 9 kesomeupres 4sequence 53 Bameon a
18 Works by conference 43 Produce a Canadian pump
Raphael and answers change in 54 Mgmt. degree
Michelangelo, 10 Go back (on)
e.g. 11 "A Summer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Signed Place"co-star
agreement Richard AREA FACT MAJOR
mailed by 12 Dessert eV S oNo AMA Z E
someone in conveyance FLAT B R 0KE a 0 B
prison? 13"Rizoli & Isles"
22 "... kissed the siren NOO K 11T A
killed thee": 19 More ridiculous HA G F L EETFOOTE
Othello 21iSpanish101 0 T F I S M
23 NYC-based wotd FLA OS ATA
insurance co. 241986 rock
24 Backs a fashion autobiography F GL I GHT TTAN ANT
venture? 25Windbreaker ALCOA TORN OSTE
31 Eyelid fabric RST ATM TEA
inflammations 26Cookas F L 0 A T A N I D E A L 5 L
32 osgwood, e.g. dumplings
3Socpar t 27One may be ALT EGAN NCA
34 Pottey oven 2roldover L T I N F L U T E 5D U E T
35SDrag throughthe 28 Weasel kin SMO0KIES TAKIN O GL E
mud 29 Patterned fabric K A
Gardenesbagful 30Wardof "CSI: E A S E D A W IE S H I M
38 Restuerof NY" xwordeditor@aol.com 03/1/d

HELP WANTED
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS - Children's
summer camp, Pocono Mountains,
Pennsylvania 6/21-8/17. If you love
children and want a caring, fun environ-
ment, we need Counselors, Instructors
and other staff for our summer camp.
Interviews on UMich campus March
21st. Select The Camp That Selects
The Best Staff! Call 1.215.944.3069 or
apply at www.campwaynegirls.com
TELLER - UNIVERSITY of Michi-
gan Credit Union, Ann Arbor. Are
you looking for full-time work for the
summer that will allow you to learn
new skills and help build your resume?
Consider joining the University of
Michigan Credit tnion sa Teller! Our
Branch Operations team is currently
looking for bright, professional and
friendly service minded students to join
us for teh summer. Full training pro-
vided. To apply email your resume to
careers@aumcu.org or visit umcu.org
for a full job description.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff'
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. wwwtheislandhouse.com

$400 OFF
First 10 rentals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1680.00. Great location,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$700-$1395, showings avail. M-F
t0am-3:3Opm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
GET UPTO
I Month Free
Select Units
Why Pay over $1,500 per Bed per
Year?
Save over $10,000 per Year by Leas-
ing at U. Towers. Prices starting at
$695.00
Vist us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann7Arbor, 541104
734-761-2680
*special can end at any time*
PMISI IS LEASING for 2014-2015.
Eff. 1,2, and 3 bdrr apts avail. in Cen-
tral Campus and downtown area. Con-
tact 734-665-5552. pmsiproperties.com
SECURE YOUR NEW home today,
right on S. U. / Central Campus. All
new luxury aparments come with the
BEST service, amenities, and all at
REASONABLE RATES.
www.The2ndFloorSU.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW LuxuryApartments,
Right on S.U./Central Campus
at REASONABLE RATES.
Contact us at 734-761-2680
www.The2ndFloorSU.com

By NATE CLARK and I both felt his swing was not
DailySports Writer his best today, he still finished
strong and that really helps the
I Love You, California. team."
The words are not only the Junior Noori Hyun also
title of California's state song, had a strong performance for
but they also describe the the Wolverines, finishing in a
sentiments of the Michigan three-way tie for eighth place
men's golf team after its trip to with a total score of 215, one
Chula Vista, Calif. under par. Hyun scored 70
The Wolverines were in third and 71 on the second and third
place after the first two rounds rounds, respectively, including
Monday at the Lamkin Grips a birdie on the 16th hole of the
San Diego Classic, and Michigan third round. Freshman Reed
coach Chris Whitten hoped his Hrynewich finished in a five-
team could take the tournament. way tie for 13th place with an
Even with a disappointing final overall score of 218, two over
round Tuesday, the Wolverines par. He shot 71 in the first round
finished fourth out of 13 teams. and 70 in the second.
Michigan finished with a team "Reed knows he has some
score of 871, or seven over par. things to work on," Whitten said.
Only USC, San Diego State and "But his swing was very good the
Wake Forest finished ahead of entire time and thathelped alot."
the Wolverines. All three of those Sophomore Andrew Yeager
teams are ranked in the top 50. finished in a three-way tie for
"The guys played with good 25th place with 222 strokes,
momentum and good energy and he was helped by a 71 in the
on the first day and we finished second round that featured an
off the round well," Whitten eagle on the second hole as well
said. "Even though the guys as six birdies.
were well prepared, the round The Wolverines have had no
(on Tuesday) was kind of flat shortage of travel this season,
all day. So while we'll call it a having been to Florida' and
solid tournament, we definitely Puerto Rico as well asCalifornia.
expected more from today. But However, Whitten believes the
that will motivate us going into travel has been good for his
our next match at Texas A&M." team - the warm weather has
Sophomore Chris O'Neill led allowed it to get regular playing
Michigan, finishing in a two- time and keep rhythm.
way tie for sixth place, out of 84 "We had a good spring break
golfers, with a total of 214 strokes, trip," Whitten said. "We got
or two under par. He finished the some quality work in at some
first round with just 69 strokes, great golf courses in California.
including six birdies. In the third The weather was absolutely
round - despite six bogeys - perfect during the match."
eagles on the eighth and 17th But all good things must come
holes, along with three birdies, to an end, and the Wolverines
brought his score to 71 strokes. must now leave their beloved
"Chris is one of the most California sunshine behind
consistent golfers on our team," and return to Michigan, where
Whitten said. "Even though he winter is still very much alive.


Odysseus
39 Irene of "Fame"
40 Gainesville is
about halfway
between itland
Jacksnille
41 Authoizetwo
bras'get-
tngether?
45 "Double Fantasy"
artist
46 Measurement
named forua bndy
part
47 Songwrter's
dram?
54 Res of passage
55SHeathrow
Snstings: Abbr.
56 Pointafinger at
57 Darkpurple
58 CharlieBrowncry
59 Title role for
Michael or Jude
60 New newts
61 "Off wthyou!"
DOWN
1 Job detail
2 Commotion

1 2 3 4 5 0 5 5 10 11 12 13
14 15 16
22 20 3
24 125 26 27 28 930
34 35 36 37
36 39 40
41 42 43 44
45 46
4J 48 49 50 51 52 53
54 5s5
56 57 58
59 60 61
RvDmAmikKaittr- - -

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
**LAST ONE** $1495 FOR THE
WHOLE APARTMENT at Forest
Glen. Price includes FREE HEAT, 1
parking spot and furniture. Call to tour
your new home today. 734-761-2680.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.

By YamAtn CnK Kanter
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, LLC

03/12/14


I

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 12, 2014 - 7A

'Starstruck' Dwyer makes official debut

Redshirt junior
records three saves
in front of sold-out
Yost Arena crowd
By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
Daily Sports Editor
Luke Dwyer knows that
he'll never start a game for the
Michigan hockey team.
The 5-foot-1O junior
goaltender redshirted, then
didn't play a single minute
his freshman or sophomore
seasons. He has seen other
netminders come into the
program and immediately
leapfrog him on the depth
chart. On his player profile
on MGoBlue.com, his career
highlights all say "to come."
Last weekend against
Michigan State, a highlight
finally came.
Up 6-1 with 3:32 remaining
in the game,
Michigan
assistant
coach Billy 61
Powers took
away Dwyer's would'v
clipboard,
which he had around
been usinga
to record sik n
faceoffs. Thei
unsuspecting
goaltender's
teammates and
the sold-out
crowd at Yost Ice Arena greeted
the surprise substitution with a
loud roar.
And for the final minutes, a
"starstruck" Dwyer stonewalled
the Spartans, making three
saves as the Wolverines rolled to
a 7-1 win.
On his first play, a draw

in Michigan's zone, Dwyer
sprawled out onto the ice to
corral a loose puck, laying face-
down on the ice with it clenched
in his glove. Later, with the
Wolverines on the power play,
he had to apologize to the
referee after covering a shot that
most goaltenders would have
left for a teammate.
"I didn't want to let anything
by, so I had to," Dwyer said after
the game, shakinginexcitement.
And when the final horn
sounded, his teammates poured
onto the ice in jubilation - not
because of the win, but because
of Dwyer.
"The team jumped off the
bench like they had won the
Stanley Cup," said Michigan
coach Red Berenson. "That's
what he means to the team."
Dwyer was never meant to be
a varsity athlete at Michigan.
Even Berenson admits as much.
The coach
knew of the
netminder in
fish I high school,
but the
e looked Wolverines
already
and let it had three
goaltenders
1 a t" on their roster
and had no
need for a
fourth. But
when a spot
opened up
for the 2011-12 campaign after
two graduations the previous
season, Berenson knew who to
call.
"We needed a goalie,"
Berenson said. "I'd heard of him
goingto the Cube with his goalie
equipment and just playing....
I'm really glad we connected

with him."
In his spare time, Dwyer had
been joining pickup games at
the Ann Arbor Ice Cube. When
the Michigan coaches came to
watch and offered the then-
freshman a spot on the team, he
jumped at the opportunity.
Until this season, the
goaltender had been comfortable
in his niche off the ice. Berenson
called Dwyer one of the team's
best leaders, though he had
never seen a moment of playing
time in exhibitions or otherwise.
"If he sees something he
doesn't like, he'll speak up,"
Berenson said. "He's not afraid
to act like a daptain."
His team noticed and
pleaded for Dwyer to play if the
Wolverines had a substantial
lead at the end of their Dec.
5, 2013 midseason exhibition
against the U.S. Under-18
National Team Development
Program. So the coach complied.
When the announcer called
Dwyer's name and he skated to
his spot in the crease, Michigan
held a comfortable 4-2 lead. Just
a couple of minutes remained.
His teammates pounded their
sticks against the ice and the
boards in anticipation of the
moment.
But that night offered no
storybook ending. The NTDP
scored twice in the final minute
of the third period and added
the winner in overtime. Dwyer
finished with three goals-
against and only one save in 5:31.
Afterward, the team blamed
itself for defensive breakdowns
while Dwyer was in net.
"He has been the hardest
worker here for two-and-a-half
years, and he has nothingto show
for it," said junior forward Alex
Guptill. "That's why everyone
was begging to get him in there
at the end, and I've got a sick

feeling in my st
for us to blow t
of that
remembers ev
moment, from
making his un
the bitter realit
"I was think
much," he said
overwhelmed b
Against M
Dwyer had ano
this time, he d
down.
This time, w

omach right now told him that they were making
hat lead for him." the substitution, Dwyer didn't
game, Dwyer have time to think about the
ery excruciating enormity of the situation. This
the anxiety of time, when he crouched in the
official debut to crease before play resumed, he
:y of having lost. didn't glance to see how many
ing a little bit too minutes remained.
I. "I was a little This time, he didn't even
y the moment." spend what little time it would
have taken to glance at the 5,800
*** pairs of eyes on him from the
bleachers.
lichigan State, "I wish I would've looked
ther chance. And around and let it sink in a bit,
idn't let anybody but I didn't really want to do
that at the time," Dwyer said. "I
then the coaches was just focused on not giving

anything up. ... I was too dumb
to look around and just relax.
I'm sure it would've been a cool
sight."
When the final horn sounded,
this time, there were no
melancholy pats on the helmet
or players volunteering to take
blame.
This time, he gave himself
something to show for his
dedication to Michigan: a
highlight.
Want more sports news?
CheckMchtganDat o ,for
coverage of every program

Michigan coach Red Berenson praised Luke Dwyer for his leadership, even though the goaltender rarely sees the ice.

A

A .5


8A - Wednesday, March 12, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Basketball bv the numbers

*1

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
It has been 108 days since
Michigan lost to Charlotte in
Puerto Rico - the days since
the men's basketball program
shed significant weight off its
bandwagon following a runner-
up performance in last year's
NCAA Tournament.
In the meantime, the
Wolverines turned their season
around. Aside from wins and
losses, isolated numbers rarely
tell the full story of a season, but
together, they help paint a more
complete picture.
42: Days outside the AP Top
25 poll.
Following a 10-point loss to
Duke, which came on the heels
of Michigan's stunningloss to the
49ers, the Wolverines dropped
out of the rankings on Dec. 9,
six weeks after debuting as the
nation's No. 7 team.
Less than two weeks later,
sophomore forward Mitch
McGary played his final
game and soon after, it was
announced that he would likely
sit out the remainder of the
regular season following back
surgery. Sophomore guard Nik
Stauskas had yet to emerge as
the team's clear go-to scorer
- a void left large by the NBA
departures of Trey Burke and
Tim Hardaway Jr.
It wasn't unreasonable at
the time to assume Michigan's
absence from the poll would last
the rest of the season, and the
Wolverines' NCAA Tournament
hopes were in serious question.
But Michigan's turnaround
jumpstarted with a Dec. 21 win
over Stanford in Brooklyn, the
first of a 10-game win streak that
would land the Wolverines back
in the poll Jan.20 after six weeks.
1.5, 9.9: The combined
production (points, rebounds)
from fifth-year senior Jordan
Morgan and redshirt junior

Jon Horford after McGary's
final game.
The numbers aren't eye-
popping, or hardly noteworthy,
for a pair's output. But for
Michigan's one-big man system,
they were enough to score the
Wolverines an outright Big Ten
title.
Had McGary stayed healthy
for the duration of the 2013-14
campaign, little would've been
asked of Morgan and Horford.
McGary's NCAA Tournament
run last year was enough to
earn him preseason All-America
honors, while the veteran
forwards combined to average
just 5.6 minutes in that span.
I But with McGary out, serious
questions emerged as to whether
Michigan's talented backcourt
and wings would be enough to
carry the team. Stauskas and
sophomore guard Caris LeVert
certainly did the brunt of the
work, but the near double-double
average from the Wolverines'
frontcourt was often more than
enough to produce wins.

12.0: Stauskas' points per
game in Michigan's seven
losses.
The Big Ten's consensus
Player of the Year finished
fourth in the league with 17.4
points per game. Though many
expected sophomore forward
Glenn Robinson III to carry the
Wolverines, it didn't take long
for Stauskas to assert himself
as Michigan's top weapon. But
throughout the season, especially
in an earlyFeburary stretch when
the Wolverines dropped three of
five games, it became clear that
they were only as good as their
best player.
On average, Stauskas' point
production dropped by more
than five in losses - in three of
those games, he failed to score
more than 10 points. Don't
expect things to be any different
come tournament time, as the
sophomore will certainly enter
the postseason with a chip
on his shoulder following his
performance in March and April
last year. Stauskas had a breakout
' -nnin+ -,hnwinv nani+t

Florida in the Elite Eight, but
was otherwise held completely
in check. In two games at the
Final Four, he made just one field
goal - a 3-pointer - for his only
points in Atlanta.
1.161: Michigan's points per
possession.
With two thirds of its
backcourt depleted thanks to
early departures to the NBA -
including the reigning consensus
National Player of the Year
in Burke, whose point-guard
replacement is a true freshman
- the Wolverines would've
had ample excuses should their
offensive efficiency have taken a
major dip.
Michigan's points per
possession did take a dip, but
not the expected one. After
finishing last season's regular
season ranked No. 3 in efficiency
at 1.130 points per possession,
the Wolverines fell to No. 4
this season, but the offense's
efficiency actually rose by
.031 points per possession - a
nnt+-nr+hv -arori

FOOTBALL TiCKETING
U' announces new
ticket, seating policy

By ALEJANDRO ZUI
Daily Sports Editor
General admission is n
Tuesday afternoon,
Student Government ann
a revamped policy for
seating at home football
In the new format, s
will be rewarded with
seats for their attenda
previous year.
Business senior P
Proppe, CSG presides
Public Policy junior
Dishell, CSG's vice pr
worked
closely with
the Athletic
Department "Th
on the
changes. The of
result, Proppe
said, is "the
best of both
worlds."
Under the new po
individual's accu
attendance points thisf
be the sole determinan
or her seat location i
Students will earn thre
for attending a gamea
collect three more if the
atleast30minutesbefore
That pattern will conti
the foreseeable futurE
seat location assigned
individual's points frc
previous year only.
This fall will be a tr
season, in which seats
assigned in the followin
Students who attended
five home games on,
2013 are deemed "Sup
and will sit closest to t
in order of seniority, an
who did not will be behi
based solely on seniority
The attendance
accumulated this seas
be tallied automaticall
tickets are scanned.
The new reserved ti

NIGA format will also allow students
to form seating groups of up to
100 people. This fall, a group
o more. will sit closest to the field if
Central they are all SuperFans and
ounced will otherwise be placed via
student seniority; in following years, it
games. will be determined by taking
tudents an average of the attendance
better points of the group members
nce the from the prior season.
Football season tickets this fall
Michael will cost $280 with a $15 service
it, and fee, matching prices from last
Bobby year. Both seasons feature seven
esident, home contests.
"This is
certainly a
policy that's
is is the best consistent
with what
)Oth worlds." students said
they wanted,"
Proppe said.
CSG and
the Athletic Department have
licy, an been meeting regularly since
mulated September 2013 to assess the
fall will now scrapped general admission
t of his policy. On-time attendance
n 2015. increased in 2013, according
e points to Proppe, but "the effect was
and can negligible" and "did not achieve
y arrive the Athletic Department's goals"
kickoff. ofhavingafull studentsection at
nue for kickoff.
e, with A survey conducted by CSG
via the released Oct. 16 revealed that
om the 76 percent of respondents
said they were opposed to
ansition general admission, with many
will be indicating their displeasure
.g order: at not being able to form
at least reserved groups to sit with
time in friends. Seventy-seven percent
erFans" indicated that they preferred
he field the policy in previous years, in
id those which seating was assigned and
nd them determined by credit hours.
Y. But Proppe believes the new
points policy will make students happy.
on will "Students are getting the
y when main things they wanted," he
said. "Some of the nightmare of
icketing general admission will be over."

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Sophomore guard Caris LeVert was voted second-team All-Big Ten by coaches and media. He is averaging 13.4 points.

I

A




THE VISUAL STATEMENT: AN ENGLISH MAJOR'S PILGRIMAGE
TERESA MATHEW TRAVELED TO LONDON AND
OXFORD FOR SPRING BREAK TO VISIT THE
LAND OF HER MOTHER TONGUE, SCONES,
IMPECCABLY DRESSED HUMANS AND THE
WORLD'S MOST FAMOUS BOY WIZARD.

Afternoon tea in Camellia's Tea House is a must for anyone who likes to feel fancy
*M Teresa wasn't quite sure what delicacies were in this shop (besides chives), but she was pretty sure she couldn't afford them. and eat cake (i.e. college students and your grandmother).

enjoying the sunshine and food carts.




Wedesay M rch12 214// .heStteen

Personal Statement: Diving into my insecurity
by Ruby Wallau

the writer's notebo
I've encountered slam poetry a
few times in the past few years -
more so in high school than now. I
was always in the audience, never
onstage. That's not to say I didn't
write poetry. I did, and do. I acted
in high school pretty often as well. I
didn't do musicals because I wasn't
a singer, but I always auditioned
for thefall play and did some of the
smaller productions and shows that
ourschool put on.
I considered myself both an actor
and a writer, but slam poetry never
crossed my mind as a medium of
interest. It never sat right with me.
Even while in the audience, I wasn't
sure how to feel, or how to make
sense of what I was experiencing.
Perhaps it's because slam poetry
is a synthesis of those two mediums
of art done poorly. It isn't literature,
and it really isn't theatre. The words
don't have to be good because they
can fall back on the performance
and the performance doesn't have
to be good because the words are-
there to distract you. You forget your
expectations and readjust them as
you go along.
I've gotten chills down my spine
from slam poetry. But those chills
were inauthentic. Is that possible to
have inauthentic emotions? I think
SO.
It's possible because the emotions
exist on the surface level of the art.
You get the same sensation you get
when watching a drippy romantic
comedy. It forgets to make you think

ok: not literature, not theatre by max radwin
cp

. I LLU S
and instead, you're left with feelings
that conform to what the perfor-
mance set out to make you feel at all
costs. It's like intentional fallacy, but
for your emotions. It's emotional fal-
lacy.
In the late 'SOs a poet named
Robert Lowell published a book of
poems called "Life Studies" that
began a movement of Confessional
poetry. Lowell wrote about his fam-
ily, his relationships and his history.
In short, he wrote personally. The
"I" wasn't a fictional speaker; it was
himself.
It's not so tidy and clean but -
after a storm of literary criticism -
it's said that there was a subsequent
Post- and Anti-Confessional move-
ment, which reconciled the narcis-
sism and inaccessibility that comes
with writing personally and Confes-
sionally.
But slam poetry exists outside of
these literary movements because it
isn't taught in a classroom. No one
reads a slam poem and critiques it.
They listen and if something con-
fuses on the first read-through then
it gets cut - it has to be ingested on
the first go-around because no one's
reading it, only listening. The poem

TRATIONS BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND
loses its depth. It stops being a poem
and becomes something baseless
altogether.
Lowell's poetry was shocking at
the time. Confessional poetry can
be pretty shocking. Think about
some of those darker poems by Syl-
via Plath. Slam Poetry has embraced
that full-on and hasn't letgo.
In fact, most slam poems I've
experienced have been about sexual
assault, rape, abuse, alcoholism or
depression - and always in an over-
the-top kind of way that seemed
to miss out on the opportunity to
explore the important elements of
those topics in favor of dramatic
delivery. Without fail, the speaker
always seems to say "fuck" or "cunt"
sometime during the performance,
and usually in a way that doesn't uti-
'lize the word beyond its shock value.
Is it unfair to generalize an entire
medium and deem it as structurally
flawed? I suppose. But if the ang-
sty, hyper-Confessionalism of Slam
Poetry that has strained all the com-
plexity from its product is not inher-
ent, then it is at least a trend - and
one that exists because its perform-
ers often defer to melodrama over
art.

It was a snowy night as I sat with
my grandparents, my mother, her boy-
friend and my younger brother at a
round booth in a dimly lit restaurant.
My grandmother smiled softly beside
me as I gently bumped my shoulders
against hers, wantingto feel her pres-
ence. She is light, her spirit buoyed by
unabashed kindness, but I often fear
she sacrifices too much of her con-
fidence for the happiness of others.
She offered my mother a taste of her
risotto, the same dish that sat in front
of me. My mother laughed and said no,
she shouldn't eat so many carbs if she
wantedto stay skinny. Mygrandmoth-
er said nothing.
My skirt suddenly felt too tight to
hold in my round tummy and my face
too chubby to make eye contact with
anyone at the table. I set my fork down
and let false claims of fullness spill off
of mylips. The sweet red wine and self-
consciousness soaked into my skin as I
watched my mother incthe candlelight.
My arms are like thick logs compared
to her twigs. I have always been a
round heavy tree standing next to her
brittle fluttering leaves. As we left the
restaurant, I shimmied into my coat,
letting it swallow me. I've learned to
relish in the way winter hides me.
I was born in a place surrounded
by the ocean, but I grew afraid of the
beach.
I'm not afraid of seeing a silver fin
peeking out of the deep blue, or the
purple jellyfish that have stung me
before, or even being crushed by the
pounding waves that once covered my
skin with bruises when I ran through
them carelessly. I am afraid of the
beach because the thought of donning
a bathingsuit makes my heartrace and
my body cringe.
There is a photo of me when I was
five wearing a blue bikini with little
pink flowers and eating a peanut butter
and jelly sandwich on the beach. My
hair was dirty blonde, curly and wild.
My skin was sun-kissed and under-
neath my knotted hair was a sandy
scalp. It is the last documentation of
me eating without shame and the last
time I wore a bikini. Each summer, my
cousins and I would pretend we were
mermaids as we splashed and laughed
in Lake Michigan. Now, I spend every
summer coming up with new excuses
for why I would rather sit in the sand
with a book wearing shorts and a tank
top than swim with them.
Weight transformed into a number
that I couldn't stop thiinki about. In
the fourti .ral'. a friend ilhisperedt

peeking out from the shirt of the chub- to tip-toe downstairs to our pantry and no longer felt like an uncontrollable
by girl sitting in front of us, "I bet she sneak yogurt pretzels or a cup of ice force in my life. I had accomplished
weighs over ahundred pounds."I something that I had been try-
line at the grocery store, between mug to do unsuccessfully for
the candy bars and comicbooks, I years. But it didn't transform
would read the headlines ofgossip my body; it just changed my
tabloids speculating about celeb perception of it. The heavy
rity weight gain. I began to see pounds of fat I felt on my body
weight everywhere. were only heavy to me. When I
When I returned to my child looked in the mirror, my body
hood home one summer in mid wasn't all that different, but
dle school, I discovered that m awkward round shapes that I
best friend, who had always had had hated before began to feel
a round face and fleshy arms that like curves I could enjoy.
mirrored my own, had become I wore a bathing suit for the
so thin that I could wrap a single first time in years the sum-
arm around her waist. It felt like mer before my freshman year
a betrayal. Her cheeks were sharp of college. It was at a murky
and her thickest feature were the campground lake, mosquitos
chunky braces on her teeth. I had nipped at my legs and sticky
only become rounder during our humidity coated my skin. Clad
time apart. in a pinstriped one-piece, I
My father handed me the shiny self-consciously wrapped my
blue "South Beach Diet" book and arms around my middle. My
told me that we would do it togeth friend grabbed me by the waist
er. He bought a bag of sugarless and tossed me into the water. I
mints and said that if we ate only screamed and dove head first
those and vegetables for a week, PHOTO COURTESY OF RUBY WALLAU into the insecurity that had
we could lose 10 pounds. The small scared me for so long. He swam
book felt heavy inmy hands aslI tucked cream back to my room. after me as my head brokecthe surface.
it away in my closet. Later that after- During senior year, I finally dug up It felt like I was floating, weightless,
noon, he bought my brother a cheese- that blue glossy "South Beach Diet" even though my feet could touch the
burger from McDonalds. I desperately book from where it was hidden in my rockybottom.
wanted to lose the weight. Every bite closet. I learned to eat only vegetables A couple of days ago, as I waded
of food I swallowed came with three and meat for weeks and would wake across the Diag through the slush on
bites of shame. I would eat as little as up an extra hour earlier to run on the my way to class, I overheard the girls
possible in front of my parents, instead treadmill before class. When I lost ten in front of me worrying about Spring
waitinguntil the late hours of the night pounds, it transformed me. My weight Break. "I've really let myself go," one

said. The other agreed, chastising her-
self for unhealthy eatinghabits and not
going to the gym enough. They began
to devise a plan to get bikini-ready in
less than three weeks. I wanted to roll
my eyes and brush off their words as
superficial, but I couldn't because I
knew that I have had nearly the exact
same conversations with my own
friends. I am afraid to ever calculate
how many hours I've spent in my short
lifetime thinking about losing weight,
counting calories and googling crash
diets. I once read that women moni-
tor their bodies once every30 seconds.
We each devise a system to mask our
own flaws, learning how to wear our
clothes, howto foldourlegsorrest our
hips to project the thinnest versions of
ourselves.
Body image will probably always
be an internal struggle for me. There
are still days when I obsess about the
numbers on the scale or spend all day
hating myself for binging on Nutella
the night before. But I'mready to fight
this battle. I am tired of apologizing for
eating. It exhausts me that when I sit
at a table with my friends, I expect to
hear myself or them make a joke at our
own expense. Body hate has become AM
a normative behavior in our society. It
is a habit that I try to fight everyday.
Even though sometimes Ihate the per-
son in my reflection and the curves I
don't recognize, Iam learning that it's
alright to also love the person I find
there.too.

COVER BY AMY MACKENS & RUBY WALLAU

LESSONS I1
ON PURPOSE:I NoNE
FROM THE FROG, THE DUNG BEETLE, AND J
A special presentation by Victor J Strecher, PhD, MPH,
Professor and Director for Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship, U-M School of I
Thursday, March 13, 3:00-4:00 pm
Rackham Auditorium
No charge for attendance-Open to the public
In this presentation, long-held assumptions and beliefs about health, motivation,
reconsidered. Dr. Strecher will demonstrate a platform of multimedia strategies di
people make quantum, meaningful, and fully engaged changes in their
lives, which can positively impact both physical and mental health.
This lecture is presented as part of the U-M Depression on College (ampuses
(onference. No registration is reQuired to attend Dr. Strecher's presentation.


6B WednesdayMarch12 2014 // The Statement
Oedipus and drugs: The history of psychoanalysis in Ann Arbor
by John Bohn

Remember those cartoon Zoloft commer-
cials? A sad white blob mopes around, but, pre-
sumably having taken Zoloft midway through
the commercial, is bouncing around happily in
the end. Abilify, Cymbalta, Prozac. Before the
era of Netflix, I remember being bombarded
with pharmaceutical ads on cable television.
In fact, the pharmaceutical industry spent $27
billion for drug promotions in 2012 alone. Since
the 1980s, the growth of pharmaceuticals has
had a significant impact on clinical practices
and psychiatry units around the world. The
turn to medicine is so common nowadays that
it may come as a surprise to know that other
forms of engaging with mental health are still
available.
One of the known alternatives is psycho-
analysis - often referred to as psychodynamic
psychotherapy, or a more comprehensive psy-
chotherapy. However, the basic assumptions
made in the one-paragraph explanations in
Psychology 101 textbooks and the quick jokes
made about Austrian psychologistcand credited
founder ofPsychoanalysis Sigmund Freud don't
detail the ways in which psychoanalysis can be
valued and beneficialto out mental health.
Caricatures and accusations surrounding
psychoanalysishold some truth in thehistory of
psychoanalysis, reflecting many of the cultural
values of the 20th century society in which it
emerged. However, since its inception, Freud's
successors have taken his groundwork in new,
progressive directions. Feminist psychoana-
lysts Luce Irigaray, Helene Cixous and Julia
Kristeva, during the '70s and '80s, challenged
the psychoanalytic interpretation of women's
psychology, updating the discipline for the
demands of a Second Wave feminist audience.
The rather mocking way in which some
handle psychoanalysis obscures both these
progressive developments, as well as the rich
history the discipline has had in Ann Arbor.
Walking down Washington Street, one may
see a signthat reads "Michigan Psychoanalytic
Institute" and assume it to be the relic of some
fortunately forgotten past.Yet AnnArbor offers
a vibrant community of analysts and scholars
who employ psychoanalysis in their work and
everyday lives, and who see its potential for
understanding human relations and seek to
push back against some of the numerous mis-
conceptions that have emerged during its cen-
tury-long history.
In the 1970s, psychoanalytic practitioners
worked side-by-side their nascent biomedical
partners at the University's Psychiatric depart-
ment. Analysts, like University alum Jean-Paul
Pegeron, a practicing psychoanalyst in the Ann
Arbor area, were trained in both disciplines
during their residency at the University.
"There was no question at the time, at least
in that particular setting, that the two could not
be compatible,"Pegeron said.
In a psychiatric ward where both biomedical
and psychoanalytic disciplines are used, the cli-
nician would determine when medication was
necessary and when long-term psychoanalytic
therapy may be better suited. Pegeron, a certi-

fied prescriber, often provides consultation to
other psychoanalysts in making this decision.
"There's obviously a gray zone," Pegeron
said. "In the less severe cases, you often find
some underlyingemotional issues, maybe some
traumatic experiences and losses which would
kind of tip you off to a more emotional issue."
Pegeron said that though there is a whole
range of depressive symptoms thatcan be diag-
nosed, the issue might be more biological, in
which case it cannot be treated solely through

These factors can be so habitual or common-
place in the life of the patient that they become
difficult to determine where they are and why
they are at play. Examinations of childhood
experiences and past relations, along with pres-
ent issues, work toward uncovering the hidden
ways in which patients' past experiences affect
their present. At the same time, the analyst
seeks to prevent their own sentiments from
influencingthe patients'understanding oftheir
issues.
"It's been said by
an analyst recently,
one who is espe-
cially articulate, that
Freud's greatest dis-
covery was of a new
form of human relat-
edness," Shulman
said. "It is a unique
form of human rela-
tionship that allows
an unfolding of the
self through this
process."
As ideal as the
process sounds,
psychoanalysis has
found difficulties
retaining credibility
in the public eye. In
recent years, a lack
of exposure to the
RUBY WALLAU/Daily process has been
the result of pressure
from insurance companies.
"Most insurances don't cover psychoanaly-
sis," Pegeron said. "They will cover psychother-
apy, usually with a limited number of sessions
even though they claim it's unlimited. And
what they use is medical necessity. In other
words, you have to show that the person is still
having enough disturbances that they require
continued therapy."
The psychoanalytic process, however, never
has a set trajectory. While four to five sessions
a week is typical, patients are free to choose
their ownpace and gradually build momentum.
Even the conclusion of sessions comes from the
patient.
"People begin to talk about, and become
able to think of their psychoanalysis ending,
when they feel that enough of the difficulties
they started with have been resolved and can
be looked back on, and that they can reflect
enough on their own about all that they have
learned about themselves to carry on alone,"
Shulman said.
Pharmaceuticals, however, provide a quick
fix with fewer costs for insurance companies.
Additionally, in the University setting, the
capacity of pharmaceuticals to be tested on
hundreds of subjects with immediate results
makes conducting research simpler than in the
case oflong-term therapies. As a result, the con-
venience of medication has led to fewer practi-
tioners such as Pegeron, who seekto bridge the
two disciplines.

While psychology departments in the
United States have seen a decline in practicing
psychoanalysts, University students can still
gain exposure to the ideas of Freud through a
variety of courses taught in LSA and seminars
and conferences held at the Michigan Psycho-
analytic Institute. Tomoko Masuzawa, profes-
sor of comparative literature and history, and
Andreas Gailus, associate chair and professor
of Germanic languages, have offered such an
opportunitycto varying degrees of success.
"I tend to have a number of classes that
include some Freud texts," Gailus said. "The
first thing people will tell you is, well clearly
isn't he wrong? They always assume that (psy-
choanalysis) has somehow been completely
superseded and that it's now entirely clear that
everything Freud has to say is wrong."
"I usually, as a beginning, say sexuality or
sex in Freud isn't what you think," Masuzawa
said of the way she overcomes many student's
initial mindset.
For Gailus, starting with a work by Freud
on a topic outside sexuality is a rule of thumb.
Mourning and Melancholia, Freud's essay on
depression, has proven to be a popular read
amongstudents.
"(Students) find (the essay) fascinating and
they realize that (Freud) has a way of bringing
into relief the landscape of experience," Gailus
said.
Even in such a negative environment, stu-
dents continue to find many concepts in psy-
choanalysis useful.
Rackham student Shannon Winston, who
founded the University's psychoanalysis read-
ing group, uses Freud's approach to imagina-
tion in her work. Freud, in "The Interpretation
of Dreams," examines the ways in which the
imagination creates associations between
objects that aren't necessarily connected by
ideas, butrather by simpler qualities like shapes
or color. For Winston, this approach becomes a
new way of reading works such as "The Igua-
na" by Italian author Anna Maria Ortese.
"In Ortese's 'The Iguana,' I chart the color
turquoise in its different manifestations," Win-
ston said. "Inthe beginning of her novel, Ortese
mentions the beautiful turquoise of the Medi-
terranean. Then the narrative invokes stones
and the Iguana of the same color. What I'm
tracing are visual and perceptual networks of
color throughout the narrative, which reveal
perceptual resonances with the Sea."
As Freud famously wrote in "Three Theo-
ries of Sexuality," the only abnormal person is
a psychologically normal person. As one in 10
adult Americans suffer from depression today,
according to the Center for Disease Control,
Freud's claim seems to be corroborated. With
the prevalence of depression in many people's
lives, one must wonder what the consequences
are for a culture that largely resorts to one way,
namely medication, in dealing with mental
health and the interior landscape of the mind.
To see the full version, go to
michigandaily.com

the thought bubble

thefashion voyeur: clothing as an expressive tool
BY ADRIENNE ROBERTS

This semester, I'm in an
English class that also counts
as creative expression credit.
This is probably one of the
only classes where you get a
mix of English majors - who
often dress in clothing that
could only be categorized
as "hipster" - and everyone
else, often students in Greek
Life who, well, don't wear
ripped tights, purposefully
ugly sweaters and mom
jeans.
What is interesting is
that this class is filled with
seniors, yet the students
in Greek Life still wear
their letters on sweatshirts,
t-shirts, etc. Add on rain
boots, yoga pants and light
wash jeans for men, and
you have yourself a classic
"Greek Life" look. We often

PHOTO BY RUBY WALLAU

"If I could do anything in the world, I would go out to Borneo tomorrow
and I would just research orangutans and live in the forest, tent everything;
if I could get a hammock it would be perfect. I could sleep up in the trees
with (the orangutans). That would be a dream job, the best thing of my
entire life."
- MEGAN SKRZYPEK, LSA Freshman

hear that freshman year
is the year when students
are making very conscious
efforts to form their own
identities in college through
their appearance - they
wear too much makeup, they
put on pants to go to class
(which seniors would argue
is "trying too hard"), and
they're basically walking
advertisements for whatever
club or group they joined at
Festifall.
I am not so sure if that
theory holds up, though. I
think students use clothing
more than they imagine as
a tool to express who they
are and what they stand for
- even seniors who say they
barely make it out of bed
each morning in time for
class.
On Saturday, air
traffic control lost
track of a plane
traveling from
Malaysia to Beijing
carrying 239
passengers. The
day was spent with
rescue and search
operations to find
missing passengers
over the South
China Sea.

ILLUSTRATION BY MAGGIE MILLER

psychoanalytic therapy.
"Their clock is set a bit lower than most
people, so they might be in therapy for a while
but nothing changes," Pegeron added. "So that
would be an example of why you need to think
about medication; lift enough of the mood and
symptoms that their life hasn't changed yet, so
then they can make use of therapy."
In media, these therapy sessions have
the stereotypical image of the patient lying
on a reclined couch lamenting about their life
while a silent analyst looks on indifferently.
But whatever experiences Woody Allen may
have had, the practitioners of Ann Arbor paint
a differentpicture.
"The invitation we make to our patients
is this: to speak as freely as they can about
whatever comes into their minds," University
alum Michael Shulman, faculty member of
the Michigan Psychoanalytic Institute, said.
"Thoughts may occur that they're not sure they
can or would like to say, but we ask them to do
their best to speak them anyway."
"What psychoanalysts do when we think
we have something useful to say to help our
patients speak more freely about what is
inside," Shulman added. "But there is much
more quiet and listening that develops than in
ordinary conversation."
Through this dialogue, both analyst and
patient seek to understand the unconscious
determining factors that may lead to recurring
problems in relationships and everyday life.

trending

DMITRY LOVETSKY-
Sochi isn't bidding adieu to athletics just
yet. Amid the political crisis in Ukraine only
300 miles away, Russian soil will host 45
countries to compete for 72 gold medals over
10 days.

------------------- ---

-- - - -------- - -- -- ----- - -- - - ------ - --

J

soCHISZABADos cOM
After winning her second gold medal as a
member of the Canadian women's hockey
team in Sochi, Szabados signed with the
men's team Columbus Cottonmouth for the
rest of the season.
--g

In 2024, Mars
might be ready to
welcome its first
set of permanent
human settlers.
Over 200,000
astronauts have
applied to be the
first to take a one-
way trip to Mars
and restart human
life. Training will
begin next year.
- - -Qiiiiiii


46 -~rc 12, 204/ h -ttm

Wednesday, 5B

L SA senior Kylie Miller is a resident
advisor, a member of the Ballroom
Dance Team and has a supportive
group of friends. Miller also suffers from dis-
ordered eating. She has spent up to two dozen
nights sitting in the bathroom for hours at a
time, battling with herself, deciding whether
or not to purge after a binge.
Jenna, an LSA freshman, who asked not to
be identified with her last name, doesn't have
a group of friends in Ann Arbor. She's quiet,
and spends most of her time getting ahead on
homework. Jenna has suffered from anorexia
since she was 14 years old. She currently seeks
the support of a nutritionist and a therapist
twice a week.
I met both students after they performed
at the Body Monologues, a free event hosted
by University Health Service and Body-Peace
Corps once a year that provides a platform
for members of the University community to
share their experiences with their bodies and
the way they view them.
On the evening of Feb. 4, Mendelssohn
Theater, which seats more than 600 people,
was almost at capacity. For two hours, stu-
dents and people in the University commu-
nity shared their experiences with being
bullied about their weight in school, obsessive
thoughts about food, self-harm, abuse and
more. Some performances were humorous,
others raw and emotional. All of the perfor-
mances, however, displayed vulnerability and
openness on the part of speakers, with many
noting that this was their first time sharing
their personal experiences with anyone. The
audience's response ranged from cheers to
gasps to shared tears in the bathroom after
the performance. The diversity of experienc-
es and reactions were vast, but what united
them was the noticeable effect they had on
everyone in attendance. Audience members
and performers alike covered their mouths
in horror at some stories while others elicited
laughter.
Miller hid her struggles with her weight
and eating habits from her family and friends
until the Body Monologues, when she decid-
ed to publicly share her story. For Jenna, the
Monologues was also her first time admitting
to anyone besides her family that she has suf-
fered from anorexia for upward of four years.
When exploring the climate of eating dis-
orders at the University, there seems to be a
disconnect between the silent dialogue on
those who suffer from eating disorders, com-
pared to the open environment of the Body
Monologues. According to a 2010 survey of
college counselors and other professionals by
the Eating Disorders Recovery Center, there
are numerous reasons why college students
suffering from disordered eating do not seek
treatment. About 28 percent were embar-
rassed to ask for professional help, 48 percent
did not know they had an eating disorder,
and 82 percent were simply unwilling to find
treatment.
This prompts the question: Why are some
students brave enough to get up on stage and
discuss their struggles on eating with an
audience of strangers, but aren't comfortable
enough to tell their friends and seek out treat-
ment?

Just college or cause for concern?
According to an article on MiTalk, an online
mental health resource for 'U' students, an
estimated 25 to 31 percent of students on the
University of Michigan's campus suffer from
disordered eating, which encompasses a wide
range of abnormal eating patterns - such as
over-exercising to compensate for eating too
much, or feeling guilty when eating.
When Miller started college in the fall
of 2010, she was worried about gaining the
Freshman 15, the myth of first-year weight
gain. She started counting every calorie that
went into her body. This habit quickly evolved
into an obsession.
She lost 20 pounds during freshman year,
and her new social network only knew "Kylie-
minus-20-pounds," she said.
"They didn't see me as a cow, like kids in
high school did. But I still thought of myself
as that," Miller said. "There was this weird
disjunction. Even though they were super
supportive in a lot of ways, I didn't talk about
all the really negative self-thoughts."
Miller's friends were also concerned with
eating healthy, too. But this isn't always the
case, especially in college when eating hab-
its are largely determined by social situa-
tions and sobriety level, Andrea Lawson, the
assistant director of Clinical Services at the
Counseling and Psychological Services and
the coordinator of Eating and Body Image
Concerns, said.
"A lot of challenges surrounding college
students' mental health are discerning what's
an issue and what's cultural, or what's part of
a typical student's life," Lawson said.
For some students, eating an entire pizza at
2 a.m. on a Saturday is normal behavior. Binge
eating disorder is characterized by uncontrol-
lable and excessive eating without a purge,
often leading to being overweight or obesity.
Lawson said those in her profession are cur-
rently seeing many people with binge-eating
disorder, which affects men just as frequently
as it does women.
According to a 2012 survey of 10,000
University of Michigan students, about 20
percent of both men and women are bing-
ing once a week or more.
For people like Miller, who suffers from
a wide range of disordered eating habits,
binge eating results in overwhelming feel-
ings of guilt and self-hatred, prompting
her to turn to purging - forced vomiting.
"One time I ate a whole medium pizza,
and after eating only salads and fruit, you
feel terrible." Miller then described how,
following a binge, she would then contem-
plate for an hour or more whether or not
she should purge.
"For the most part, I've been able to
control it more than I know a lot of people
who struggle with it. I would battle with
myself internally. 'Do it, no, don't do it. Do
it.' Sometimes one would win, sometimes
the other would win," Miller said.
Nearly 10 percent of female students at
the University purge in some way.
"Because (the way I view my body) is an
internal problem, it won't change until I
change it. Things won't actually change

for me until I can change them myself. It's a
cycle of negative self-thought," Miller said.
External factors, such as friends' eating
habits and triggering comments, caused Miller
to internalize her problems with body image
and eating habits.
"My family is amazing and I have a group
of super supportive friends, which I think has
made my experience easier in a lot of ways.
But because it's an internal problem, it won't
change until I change it," she said.
Lawson said she increasingly sees eating dis-
orders that don't fit neatly within the criteria
for anorexia or bulimia. Students who exhibit
symptoms may not be entirely consistent with
defined thresholds of disorders.
In effect, this means that students can have
difficulty recognizing and categorizing their
symptoms, making it even more difficult to seek
help.
A complicated battle
Jenna, on the other hand, cannot identify
specific reasons why she might have developed
an eating disorder at age 14. During the sum-
mer before her sophomore year of high school,
she restricted her diet to fruits and yogurt, and
never once binged or purged.
Her parents took her to rehab and she was
told she would never eat another meal alone
again. The summer before she began college,
she was at her highest weight and excited to
begin her time at college. But, she noted that
being at the University has had a negative effect
on her struggle with anorexia.
Jenna, too, was nervous about the Freshman
15, and small portions in the cafeteria added
stress to the equation.
"If I would go up to get more, (people work-
ing in the cafeteria) would look at me funny and
I would think they were judging me," she said.
Jenna doesn't feel like she's found a group or
community here. Perceived judgment and feel-
ings of isolation dominate her thoughts. Her
family has suggested taking time off of school
to recover.

"College is not the best when you're strug-
gling with anything. I get pretty lonely which
brings on depression, which brings on bad eat-
ing. It all goes downhill from there."
Jenna is addicted to not eating. She also suf-
fers from anxiety and depression, taking 10
pills everyday to fight various forms of mental
illnesses - not uncommon for those struggling
with an eating disorder. According to a Uni-
versity Study of Habits, Attitudes, and Percep-
tions around Eating survey conducted in 2012,
29 percent of women and 27 percent of men at
the University who screen positive for an eat-
ing disorder also screen positive for depression.
Additionally, 49 percent of women and 31 per-
cent of men who screen positive for an eating
disorder also screen positive for anxiety. This
makes discussing - and treating - eating dis-
orders very difficult.
"With the eating disorder came depression
and anxiety, so it goes from fighting one thing
to fighting many (things), which isn't easy,"
Jenna said. "When my depression is the worst,
my eating is the worst."
While focusing on treating one illness, she
feels like all other challenges have to go on the
back-burner. "You can't really fight everything
at once."
Jenna is a self-described perfectionist who
spends most of her time doing her homework
weeks ahead of time.
According to Lawson, this is a trait often
reflected in students at competitive universi-
ties. "Perfectionism is something we see in
students with eating disorders but that's also
something we see with students all around
the University of Michigan," says Lawson.
"There's quite a bit of perfectionism going on,
and I think there's specific attention to social
settings and dynamics when students eat with
other people."
Perfectionism is considered a marker of
genetic risk factors for susceptibility to an eat-
ing disorder. Personality traits and mental ill-
nesses such as anxiety and depression can make
it difficult for these students to even articulate
what they're experiencing, let alone seek help.

A (silent) campus conununity
For many incoming students at the University,
fears about gaining the Freshman 15 dominate
their thoughts.
Upon arrival to the University, Jena felt this
pressure immediately. "I was really scared about
the Freshman 15 and everyone makes comments
(about calories) when they're in the dining hall,"
she said.
A majority of females - and about 30 percent
of males - come to the University worried about
gaining the Freshman 15, according to the 2012
U-SHAPE survey.
This can oftenlead into extreme calorie count-
ing, a behavior which is amplified in the dining
hall setting. After all, the University of Michi-
gan Student Life and Housing posts all nutrition
labels online, as well as listing them on paper at
the dining hall. This can be both enabling and
helpful for students watching their weight.
For Miller, calorie counts were helpful when
she was dieting. "Depending on the cycle I was
in, calorie countingwasgreat. I could see exactly
what I was putting in my body," she said.
However, they were also a terrifying remind-
er of exactly how many calories she was putting
into her body when she binged.
"Mentally it's tough, it's like 'What did you
just do, you ate 3,000 calories in one sitting?"'
Miller said.
Julie Stocks, a dietitian atthe Nutrition Clinic
at University Health Service, echoed this senti-
ment.
"When it comes from a disordered eating lens,
(calorie counts) are a very bad thing," Stocks
said. "I think in and of itself it's harmless, it just
depends what lens youlook at it through. It's our
obligation to keep awareness high, to keep those
lens opens."
Universities like Harvard College removed
index cards detailing nutritional information
in their dining halls after students and parents
raised concerns that clearly-displayed calorie
counts could cause or worsen eating disorders.
The calorie counts are still displayed in kiosks in
the dining halls and online.

What Jenna found surprising at the Universi-
ty of Michigan is the lack of conversation around
the topic. "I wish the University thought more
about what they were doing when they put nutri-
tional facts out there or made their portion sizes
really small. I wish they were more considerate.
(Eating disorders) are not talked about. It could
honestly just incorporate a healthy eating pre-
sentation into orientation."
Body-Peace Corps, a student group on cam-
pus, is currently attempting to combat the wall
of silence around eating disorders. According
to group leaders, the Body-Peace Corps' mis-
sion is to build a community where people can
discuss their body issues, free from stigma and
discrimination. The group offers peer-facilitated
workshops for residence halls and living com-
munities, and also hosts campus events to raise
awareness.
But even LSA sophomore Brianna Mayer,
Body-Peace Corps executive board member,
acknowledges that the group faces limitations.
"A lot of our events will attract people who
have experiences (with eating disorders) and
know what we're talking about," Mayer said.
"We're having a hard time reaching out to the
general student body that may not have any
knowledge of these issues whatsoever. So I
think the University, Body-Peace Corps, and
other groups need to find a way to reach the gen-
eral student body."
Accordingto the U-SHAPE survey, 51 percent
of students at the University know at least one
student who has eating or body image problems.
The Body Monologues is, in a way, a step
toward recovery for many students. Miller
found telling their story to their friends, family,
and alarge audience, tobe a beneficialundertak-
ing.
"I worked through a lot of things as I wrote
my monologue. It was a cathartic experience for
me to come up with the piece," Miller said.
By sharing their internal experiences on eat-
ing with the audience, Body Monologues per-
formers conveyed their vulnerability. This kind
of shared vulnerability is, perhaps, the start of a
much needed, campus-wide conversation.


