Ann Arbor, Michigan Wednesday, September17, 2014 michigandaily.com
TAILGATE TUESDAYS CRIME
'U'reviews
emergency
procedures
after alert
~ ~Following false ciate professor of communication
-I rstudies, said faculty approach
LUNA ANNA ARHEY/Daily alarm last week the possibility of a gunman or
Microbiology lab technician Constance Bahr and Medical School student Matt Foley participate in one of the games offered at the MHealthy Tailgate/ ' similar threats with preventative
MTelthsTalgaeosmilrntreaslwth revntaiv
Tuesday on alls Mall professorsevalute measures, not combative ones.
When he was in his office before
STUDENT GOVERNMENT preparedness class Wednesday and received a
message about the situation in
l i eBy MAX RADWIN the Chemistry Building, Camp-
PhzO (Uligr Daily StaffReporter bell said all he could do was pay
closer attention to his e-mail to
R eso utio pro estspolThough last Wednesday's get further nstruction from cam-
emergency alert notifying stu- pus security, and to respond to
"l dents that someone was armed queries from his students about
lin en n nOin the Chemistry Buildingturned whetherthere would be class.
Ve IO. c ./ "out to be a false alarm, the event The reported gunman turned
raised questions regarding the out to be a Navy ROTC student
University's preparedness for in street clothes who was trans-
Proposal also looks to stand in solidarity with the Ferguson residents protested by chokehold of an older Black situations in which the lives of porting a rubber model of a prac-
people of Ferguson, Mo. against racist and violent police actions. man, Eric Garner and just a week students, faculty and staff are in tice gun out of its case, which is
at police brutality police brutality. The proposal, penned by after Los Angeles police beat to danger. against protocol.
The shooting of Michael Rackham student Rae Scevers, death for 10 minutes 37-year-old Some professors felt that they But if Campbell had been
on college campuses Brown in Ferguson on Aug. 9 has a Rackham Graduate School Latino parent Omar Abrego," the were adequately prepared for the teaching a class when a shooter or
sparked widespread controversy representative, noted other resolution read. situation Wednesday and for sim- similar threat presented itself, he
By TANAZ AHMED and continued national coverage, examples of police brutality to The legislation also discussed ilar emergencies that might occur said he wasn't sure what he would
Daily StaffReporter Darren Wilson, a white Fergu- illustrate the prevalence of vio- the impact of police brutality in the future. But others had res- do.
son police officer, shot and killed lent police procedures. on college campuses across the ervations. "We haven't really had specific
At its weekly meeting Tues- Brown, a Black teenager who "The killing of Michael Brown country. It noted an incident Scott Campbell, the Constance sessions or workshops where we
day, Central Student Govern- was allegedly unarmed. In the came less than a month after the at the University of California, F. and Arnold C. Pohsaprofessor of get together for specific training
ment introduced a resolution weeks following the shooting, brutal New York Police killings See FERGUSON, Page 3A telecommunications and an asso- See EMERGENCY, Page 3A
ANN ARBOR ACADEMICS
Schuissel talks Global survey
places'U' as
town-gowntop public
partnership institution
University President ship between Ann Arbor and the QS World Rankings
University. ranked Michigan 23rd
aims to have open "There is a friction but I thinkr e c n

some of it is more misunderstand- among all universities
communication with ing than friction," Schlissel said.
"We're not here to be predatory By STEPHANIE SHENOUDA
city'sleaders land owners; we have tons of Daily News Editor
land."
land."LUNA ANNA ARCHEY/Daily
ByEMMA KERR The University owns an esti- State Rep. Adam Zemke (D-Ann Arbor) speaks during the Washtenaw County Medical Society Forum at the The University maintained its
Daily StaffReporter mated 1,719.2 acres of prop- Ann Arbor City Club Tuesday. title as the top U.S. public univer-
erty within the city limits of sity as determined by the QS World
As University President Mark Ann Arbor, which has a total of U Ma Rankings.. The same list ranked the
Schlissel settles in on campus 18,272.6 acres according to the o 1jfle d ica l S o c ietUniversity as 23rd among all higher
and in Ann Arbor, he brings with city's environmental coordinator. i1education institutions, moving down
him a new perspective on how the This estimate does not include the , , one spot from last year.
University should interact with University's recent purchase of Since 2004, the QS World Rank-
the city. the Edwards Brothers property, o stS o p e I p fJ liicia nl S ings have evaluated universities
In an. interview with The but does include property owned around the world on the basis of
Michigan Daily, Schlissel said he by the University for water. While academic reputation, employer repu-
views Ann Arbor as an asset and the University currently owns State and national night at the Ann Arbor City of its legislative committee. tation, student to faculty ratio, cita-
an ideal location for the Universi- approximately 9.4 percent of Ann Club featuring individuals Candidates for the State tions per faculty and the proportion
ty. But he is also aware of the ten- Arbor land, Schlissel said he does candidates present running for state and nation- House, State Senate and U.S. of international faculty and students.
sion that has existed in past years not expect any large land pur- , al level political seats in the Congress attended the event, The University was among14 other
between the city and the school, chases in the near future. campaign platforms upcoming November election. including State Reps. Gretch- U.S. institutions - most of them pri-
aggravated by the University's "The University is in a great Each candidate gave a pre- en Driskell (D-Saline), Jeff vate schools - to crack the top 30.
land purchases, which results ina position because we already have By STEPHANIE sentation followed by an audi- Irwin (D-Ann Arbor) and The QS rankings come just one
loss of propertytaxes for the city. tons of land, and I don't think we DILWORTH ence Q&A, moderated by Dr. Adam Zemke (D-Ann Arbor), week after the University ranked
He said he hopes to see future really have to acquire significant Daily StaffReporter Jim Mitchiner, an emergency State Senate candidate John 29th in this year's U.S. News and
town-gown interactions char- amounts of land to do all of the physician at St. Joseph Mercy Hochstetler (R), State Sen. World Reportsurvey of the nation's
acterized by "transparency and growth that we can afford for The Washtenaw County Ann Arbor Hospital. He is Rebekah Warren (D-Ann top colleges, falling one spot since
open communication" to prevent quite some time," he said. Medical Society hosted an also a member of the WCMS Arbor), and U.S. congressio- the 2014rankings. By their estima-
the deterioration of the relation- See TOWN-GOWN, Page 3A all-candidate forum Tuesday Executive Council and chair See POLITICIANS, Page 3A See SURVEY, Page 3A


WEATHER HI: 63 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Your idea is worthless, your skills aren't
TOMORROW LO: 3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No.138
©2014The Michigan Daily
michigondoily.com

N EW S .........................2A A RTS ....... ......... ...... 5A
SUDOKU....................2A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
OPINION.....................4A STATEMENT..........,......1B

p


2A - Wednesday, September 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

2A - Wednesday, September17, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

At MOd tgar BAY..
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com dougsolo@michigandaily.com

D IA G DANCE

GQING GeREEN(ER) h
M S' tike sales mak history

Michigan State University's
2014 football season ticket sales
are the second-highest in school
history, The State News reported
Monday.
In total, 61,931 season tick-
et packages were sold, which
makes up 83 percent of Spartan
Stadium's capacity.
MSU season ticket sales
increased 7 percent this year
after the football team won the
Big Ten Championship and the
Rose Bowl last season.
The 61,931 season ticket pack-
ages total includes 14,000 stu-
dent-season packages.
Indiana University buys
commercial drone

Taehee Hwang, assistant pro-
fessor of geography at Indiana
University, bought a commercial
drone he calls Phantom II, The
Indiana Daily Student reported
Monday.
Hwang said he wants to use
the drone to survey forests.
The drone is.capable of taking
pictures of land and conduct-
ing detailed analyses of its sur-
roundings.
Hwang told The Indiana Daily
Student the drone will help him
give an analysis of an area, rath-
er than just an image.
Ridesharing services to be
reconsidered in Austin
Austin City Councilmember

LUNA ANNA ARCHEY/Daily
LSA sophomore Stuart Inahuazo along with other
brothers of Lambda Theta Phi perform their salute
on the Diag Tuesday.

CAMPUS EVENTS& NOTES
Bitcoin in A2 LGBTQ film Animal Club Consulting info
WHAT: Digital currency screening mass meeting session
anthsaiouaa iil b talri"

Chris Riley announced his plan
to push for the legalizations of
ridesharing services such as
Uber and Lyft, The Daily Texan
reported Monday.
Riley said he wants to take
advantage of this opportunity
and work with ridesharingrcom-
panies to make their service
legal and available.
To operate legally, rideshar-
ing companies need to operate
under transportation services.
The Austin Police Depart-
ment has been issuing citations
and impounding ridesharing
drivers' cars for not having a
proper permit.
-JACK T URMAN
THREE THINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
Travel company Bru-
vion Travel will pro-
vide clients with social
media assistants, ABC News
reported yesterday. These
assistants will take photos of
travelers at scenic spots dur-
ing their vacation and upload
the photos to social media.
The Statement maga-
zine investigates the
University's progress
in outer space research,
changing scientific culture
and the development of LSA
theme semesters.
FOR MORE, SEESTATEMENT, PAGE1B
NASA released data
that showed this
August was the warm-
est the planet had since
records began in 1881, The
Huffington Post reported
on Sept. 15. The data shows
that this has been a series of
record-breaking months.

entnusiasts wi ne taming
Bitcoin in the city and
beyond, including where to
place a new Skyhook ATM.
WHO: Cryptocurrency
Club
WHEN: Today from 6p.m.
to 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
League, 3rd Floor, Room A

WHAT: "Gen Silent," a 2010
documentary, concerns
LGBTQ senior citizens
who are forced in later life
to present themselves as
straight.
WHO: Queer Social Work
Alliance
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m.

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Correctinns
corrections@ichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmaii.com
Online Sales
ontineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaiy.com
Letters tn the Editor
tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
PhotographySection
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

WHAT: This first meeting
will highlight future Animal
Club activities.
WHO: Student Animals and
Society Institute
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Parker Room

WHAT: The Boston
Consulting Group is hosting
a presentation to discuss
the company and their
recruitment process.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 6:30
p.m. to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Palmer Commons

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas ManagingNewsEditor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS:IanDillingham,SamGringlas,WillGreenberg,RachelPremack
andStephanie Shenu
A"SITAN"NES nEDITORS: Allan Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang EditorialPagetEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Matthew Seligman and David Harris
Greg Gamo and
Alejandro Zdfliga ManagingsportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENR POSEDInE OR:MaxoCohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Lev Facher, Rajat Khare, Jake
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynth and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth ManagingArts Editors ale@michigandaily.om
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo,Natalie Gadbois,Erika Harwood and
ASS nSNT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard,Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul ShermandMagingrPhotoE yos pbhoto@michigandaily.com
SEOsOTOs DIoORS:lsonFrndeand RbrWallau
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:KatherinePekela,Virginia Lozano,
James Cofer, McKenzieBerezin,and NicholasWilliams
Carolyn Gearit and
Gabriela Vasquez ManagingsDesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand Alicia Kovacheck
CarlinalDuan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENTPHOTOEDITOR RubyWala
Mark Ossolinskiand Meaghan
Thompson Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandAlishaQiu
AustenHufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaiy.com
VIDEOAEITORSDPala rieBrich ndJiamies Resier-Wels
BUSINESS STAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classified Manager
SimonneiKapadia Local Accounts Manager
Lotus An National Accounts Manager
Olivia Ones Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily (SSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fal and winter tems by
students at the University of Michigan One copy is available free of chiarge to al readers. Addiona copies may
bepickedupatthe Dalysoficefor$s 2.Subscriptions frfalterm,startinginSeptemberviaU.s. malares$10.
Witerterm (anuaythrough Aheil) is $115,yerong (Spemberthrough Aprl) s0$95. Unisityhaffits
ar *uo a rduced ubsirate Oos ssriptionsIor r ubsctshsh
be repd Th Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Coegiate Press.

4
I

Mingle and Armenian- Birding for Earthfest 2014
match event American talk Conservation WHAT: This event aims

WHAT: The Innovation
in Action team is hosting
an opportunity for
entrepreneurial-minded
students and community
members to network and
meet with current team
members.
WHO: SchoolofPublic Health
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m.
to 7 p.m.
WHERE: SPARK Central,
330 E. Liberty, lower level

WHAT: Artist in Residence
Eric Bogosian - best known
for his Pulitzer Prize-
winnig performance in the
play Talk Radio - will give
a lecture on the evolution
of his life as an artist and
Armenian American.
WHO: Armenian Studies
Program
WHEN: Today from 6:30
p.m. to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art

WHAT: Tom Funke, the
conservation director
for Michigan Audubon,
is teachingstudents how
they can contribute to bird
conservation.
WHO: Matthaei Botanical
Gardens and Nichols Arbo-
retum
WHEN: Today from 7:30
p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Matthaei Botani-
cal Gardens

to engage and educate
University students, faculty
and staff on sustainabilty.
WHO: Public Health
Sustainability Initiative
WHEN: Today from 10 a.m.
to 2 p.m.
WHERE: The Diag
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.con.

Top general says US ground Obama calls Ebola outbreak
troops may be sent to Iraq a threat to global security

If airstrikes fail,
new measures may
be taken against
Islamic State
WASHINGTON (AP) - Amer-
ican ground troops may be need-
ed to battle Islamic State forces
in the Middle East if President
Barack Obama's current strategy
fails, the nation's top military
officer said Tuesday as Congress
plunged into an election-year
debate of Obama's plan to expand
airstrikes and train Syrian reb-
els.
A White House spokes-
man said quickly the president
"will not" send ground forces
into combat, but Gen. Martin
Dempsey said Obama had per-
sonally told him to come back on
a "case by case basis" if the mili-
tary situation changed.
"To be clear, if we reach the

point wher
ers shoul
troops on a
ISIL target
that to the
the chairm
of Staff, de
the Senate
mittee. He
tants by an
Pressed
Levin, D-
chairman,
said if Obat
isn't enoug
"go back t
make a r
may includ
forces."
Dempsey
scored the
many lawr
moves thr:
on authori
implement
announced
Tuesday, ti
expanded

*UE0

e I believe our advis- carrying out two airstrikes
d accompany Iraqi northwest of Irbil and three
ttacks against specific southwest of Baghdad.
ts, I will recommend Democrats in Washington
president," Dempsey, spoke of a fear that the United
an of the Joint Chiefs State might inevitably become
clared in testimony to dragged into yet another ground
Armed Services Com- war on the heels of Afghanistan
referred to the mili- and Iraq. "We must ... ask our-
alternative name. selves if we can truly, 'vet' these
later by Sen. Carl rebel groups beyond their known.
-Mich., the panel's affiliations, and ensure we are
the four-star general not arming the next extrem-
ma's current approach ist threat to the region and the
h to prevail, he might world," said Rep. Pete Visclosky,
to the president and D-Ind.
ecommendation that The same question came up
le the use of ground at the Senate hearing, and Hagel
said the U.S. will monitor closely
y's testimony under- to ensure that weapons don't fall
dilemma confronting into the wrong hands. "We have
makers as the House come a long way" in our ability
ough its own debate to vet the moderate opposition,
zing the Pentagon to and the U.S. has learned a lot as
the policy Obama it has funneled non-lethal aid to
last week. In Iraq on the rebels, Dempsey said.
he U.S. continued its House Republicans said
military campaign, they worried that Obama was
responding tepidly to the cur-
rent threat by terrorists who
have overrun large sections of
Iraq and Syria and beheaded
two American journalists. "If it's
important enough to fight, it's
important enough to win," said
Rep. Jack Kingston, R-Ga., one
3 5 4 of the first lawmakers to address
the subject in several hours of
scheduled debate.
A vote was expected in the
House on Wednesday, and in
the Senate within days. In the
Senate, Republican leader Mitch
5 6 McConnell announced he would
support the measure and Demo-
2 cratic leader Harry Reid pre-
dicted bipartisan approval. The
timetable was remarkably rapid
by congressional standards, the
result of a strong desire by law-
6 makers in both parties to adjourn
quickly and return home to cam-
paign for re-election.
Only seven weeks before vot-
7 ers go to the polls, most Republi-
cans had little stomach to oppose
Obama on a matter of national
security, particularly when polls,
suggest he has the support of
large segments of the public.

President pushes
for action as health
crisis continues
ATLANTA (AP) - Calling the
Ebola outbreak in West Africa a
threat to world security, Presi-
dent Barack Obama on Tues-
day broadly expanded the U.S.
response by ordering thousands
of troops to the region along
with an aggressive effort to train
health care workers and build
treatment centers.
He called on other countries
to quickly supply more helpers,
supplies and money.
"If the outbreak is not stopped
now, we could be looking at hun-
dreds of thousands of people
affected, with profound eco-
nomic, political and security
implications for all of us," Obama
declared after briefings at the
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
Obama acted under pressure
from regional leaders and inter-
national aid organizations who
pleaded for a heightened U.S.
role in confronting the deadly
virus, especially in the hardest-
hit countries of Liberia, Sierra
Leone and Guinea. At least 2,400
people have died, with Liberia
bearingthe brunt.
The president described
people dying in the streets and
health care systems near col-
lapse from this latest outbreak.
"In West Africa, Ebola is now
an epidemic," Obama said. "It's .
spiraling out of control, it is get-
ting worse."
At the same time, he offered
assurances that the chances
of an outbreak in the U.S. are
"extremely low."
The stepped-up U.S. response
includes sending 3,000 troops
to the region, including med-
ics and corpsmen for treatment
and training, engineers to help
build treatment facilities and
logistics specialists to assist in
patient transportation. Troops
would not provide direct care
to Ebola patients, White House

spokesman Josh Earnest said. A
substantial number will be sta-
tioned at an intermediate base in
Senegal, with others at locations
in Liberia, he said.
Obama also announced that
Maj. Gen. Darryl Williams, head
of U.S. Army Africa, will head a
military command center based
in Liberia.
The - announcement came
the same day the World Health
Organization warned that the
number of West African Ebola
cases could begin doubling every
three weeks and that the crisis
could end up costing nearly $1
billion to contain.
Joanne Liu, president of Doc-
tors Without Borders, said the
global response was falling short.
"The window of opportunity to
contain this outbreak is closing,"
Liu told a meeting Tuesdayat the
United Nations in Geneva.
Dr. Margaret Chan, director-
general of the WHO, welcomed
Obama's announcement, call-
ing the U.S. offer "precisely
the kind of transformational
change we need to get a grip on
the outbreak and begin to turn
it around."
Nearly 5,000 people have
become ill from Ebola in Libe-
ria, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Nige-
ria and Senegal since it was first
recognized in March. WHO
says it anticipates the figure
could rise to more than 20,000.
Obama described task ahead
as "daunting" but said what
gives him hope is that "the world
knows how to fight this disease."
With the addition of mili-
tary personnel, administration
officials said that the new U.S.
initiatives aim to:
-Train as many as 500
health care workers a week.
-Erect 17 heath care facili-
ties in Liberia of 100 beds each.
-Set up a joint command
headquartered in Monrovia,
Liberia, to coordinate U.S. and
international relief efforts.
-Provide home health care
kits to hundreds of thousands,
including 50,000 that the U.S.
Agency for International Devel-

opment will deliver to Liberia
this week.
-Carry out a home- and
community-based campaign to
train local populations on han-
dling exposed patients.
Meanwhile, a Senate panel
held a hearing on the outbreak
in Washington. Expected to
testify were Dr. Anthony Fauci
director of the National Insti-
tute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, and Dr. Kent Brantly,
an American physician who
contracted Ebola while work-
ing in Liberia but recovered
after treatment with an experi-
mental drug. Obama met with
Brantly at the White House on
Tuesday before departing for
Atlanta.
At the hearing, Sen. Tom
Harkin, D-Iowa, declared,
"This outbreak has spread in
ways that are potentially cata-
strophic for the world."
Sen. Lamar Alexander,
R-Tenn., said urgent action
was needed. "We must take the
dangerous, deadly threat of the
Ebola epidemic as seriously as
we take ISIS," he said, referring
to the extremist group in Syria
and Iraq.
Separately, House Speaker
John Boehner, R-Ohio, said,
"Frankly, I'm a bit surprised
the administration hasn't acted
more quickly to address what
is a serious threat, not just to
Africa but to others across the
world." He predicted action "in
the coming weeks" by the exec-
utive and legislative branches
of government "to look at how
do we best contain this very
horrible disease."
Obama administration
officials said money for the
stepped-up effort to combat the
disease would come from $500
million in overseas contingency
operations, such as the war in
Afghanistan, that the Pentagon
already has asked Congress to
redirect to carry out humani-
tarian efforts in Iraq and in
West Africa. Officials said it
would take about two weeks to
get U.S. forces on the ground.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 17; 2014 - 3A


North Campus
UM Hospital

E. HURON ST.

HILL ST.
The
Big House

. y
IA
UM Golf
Course

EMERGENCY
From Page 1A
on this," he said, though he noted
that such meetings could have
occurred while he was on leave.
"If there's a gun in my
classroom - I will be honest -
I don't know what I would do,"
Campbell said. "I think it would
be gut instincts."
University Police told The
Michigan Daily last week that
community outreach volunteers
in the police department and
hospital security conduct pre-
sentations and training sessions
upon request for student groups
and departments. These presen-
tations address issues of personal
safety and how to respond to an
active shooter situation.
Campbell said faculty
members spend more time
discussing preventative
measures. Including what to
look for in students presenting
abnormal behavior that could
hint at future violence.
"Whenthe shootinghappened
at Virginia Tech, that got us
talking about how we handled
ourselves," he said. "In our
department meetings, we will
talk about who to keep an eye out
for or if we have a student that is
giving off red flags or is seeming
troubled."
Political Science Prof. Nicho-
las Valentino was teaching his
Mass Media and Political Behav-
ior course in the Chemistry
Building during the incident last
Wednesday and said he felt that
his students handled the situa-
tion well. One student in ROTC
told students to lie down in the
aisles and cover their heads

while the professor stood and
blocked the door.
Fabian Neuner, Valentino's
graduate student instructor, said
GSIs typically do not receive spe-
cific instructions during teacher
training about this type of situa-
tion. He said GSIs might discuss
protocol in "breakout sessions
every now and then" and the GSI
handbook mentions emergency
situations.
Despite this, Neuner said he
thought the class handled the
situation well. Most of what to
do, he said, was common sense.
"The only concern that I had
is that I would have liked for the
campus police to come around
and reassure everybody about
what had happened," Valentino
said. "I take it that they tried to
do that but they didn't for our
room - but that may have just
been an oversight."
He added: "We were actu-
ally very worried about what
was happening outside the class-
room. There was no way to know
if there was a false alarm or not."
University Police said com-
munication during an emergency
must occur on multiple platforms
to ensure everyone has an oppor-
tunity to be informed.
An emergency alert is acti-
vated when a police commander
determines that there is animmi-
nent threat requiring people to
take safety measures, as well as
confirmation of that threat. Con-
firmation may come in the form
of 911 calls or firsthand observa-
tions by a security officer.
E-mail is not always the fast-
est way of communicating a
threat to students, University
Police said. There may be fire-
walls or risks that the message

might not go through, especial-
ly in the morning when e-mail
traffic is much greater. Some
reported Wednesday that they
received the e-mail saying the
threat was a false alarm before
they received the initial e-mail
that first announced the threat.
In addition to e-mail mes-
sages, students can register their
phone numbers online with Uni-
versity Police to receive crime
alerts via text message or phone
call. University Police also have
their own Twitter feed, and
buildings with digital signage
read off crime alerts as well.
"The primary thing in these
incidents is getting emergency
responders to the scene to be able
to mitigate the threat, and then
the alerts are companion pieces
to inform people of what's going
on," University Police said.
University Police believe their
system works effectively. Eight
emergency alerts have been
issued in 2014 - two were tests
and four were weather-relat-
ed. The two other alerts were
Wednesday's and another that
was issued last Friday. Universi-
ty Police said they didn't receive
any feedback regarding problems
the University experienced in
receiving them.
In the case of the rubber gun,
Naval ROTC Captain Joseph
Evans said the program is work-
ing with University Police to
reinforce its policy with a new
set of more stringent procedures.
"We are very apologetic and
we are very aware that there are
real threats out there," Evans
said. "We cannot afford for peo-
ple to not to know who the good
guys are and who the bad guys
are."

BY et' tld ftr.! Y EAJ



TOWN-GOWN
From Page 1A
While Schlissel is new to town,
Councilmember Christopher Tay-
lor (D-Ward 3), who has spent the
last six years on City Council and
is currently Ann Arbor's Demo-
cratic nominee for mayor, said
he looks forward to bringing his
years of experience to the table
when addressing University-city
relations.
"I think that having a fiew
president and a new mayor is an
excellent opportunity to increase
communication and I am delight-
ed to hear President Schlissel
emphasize that and I certainly
echo that," Taylor said. "I know
he's still learning about Ann
Arbor and the community and
that he is very excited to do so."
Taylor said he intends to fully
convey the city's perspective on
the University's expansion and
purchasing of land following the
general election on Nov. 4. For
his part, Schlissel said he hopes
FERGUSON
From Page 1A
Berkeley on Nov. 9, 2011 when
Berkeley police "attacked and
brutalized peaceful student dem-
onstration," the resolution said.
During the meeting, amend-
ments were offered regarding
the language of the legislation,
including making it more inclu-
sive and representative of more
minorities.
Clarifications on the content of

to become an active member of
the city and to be viewed as a resi-
dent, constituent and colleague of
the mayor.
Both the University and the
city are public entities, meaning
they receive funding from the
state at large, but they each serve
two very different groups of the
Ann Arbor community with dis-
tinct missions and needs.
Jim Kosteva, the University's
director of community relations,
said despite the occasionally con-
flicting functions of each entity,
the economic and cultural ben-
efits the University provides for
Ann Arbor outweigh any negative
impact the on the city.
"On occasion, our efforts to
serve the public at the University
will generate a conflict with what
the city sees at its mission to serve
the community's general public,"
Kosteva said. "Consistently our
efforts and our hope is that the
activities that the University does
undertake end up having a net
overall positive impact."
Schlissel also addressed issues

beyond taking land off the city's
tax rolls, including "student
noise, dropping red plastic cups
and scoreboards that flash." Resi-
dents regularly file complaints
in relation to student partying,
game day activities and general
disruption in residential areas.
University and city officials feel
they are tasked with responding
to the needs of students and resi-
dents, which often appear to be in
opposition.
"We have to talk through these
issues andbe respectfulofthe fact
that it's a town with a lot of people
living here who aren't members of
the University," Schlissel said. "I
know that the University brings
huge economic advantages and
cultural advantages to the com-
munity, and the community as I
said becomes a wonderful place
for us to recruit students and fac-
ulty to, so I think we just need to
be respectful of one another."
Daily News Editor Sam Gring-
las and Daily News Reporter
Claire Bryan contributed to this
report.

SURVEY
From Page 1A
tion, the University was the
fourth-best public institution,
trailing the University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley; the University
of California, Los Angeles and
the University of Virginia. Their

rankings are based on similar
criteria, focusing on undergradu-
ate academic reputation, faculty
resources, selectivity, alumni
giving and financial resources.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily Sept. 8 about
the U.S. News rankings, Univer-
sity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald
said ranking systems like these

are not the only factor that pro-
spective students should use to
consider their future college
choice.
"What's good for one student
is not necessarily the best place
for the next student," Fitzgerald
said. "There's just no number one
school for everybody, no matter
what the rankings say."



the proposal were also discussed
during the meeting.
"When you say any efforts to
militarize the Ann Arbor and U
of M campus police, I think that
might need to be more specific.
Are we saying that we are maybe
opposing them getting taser
guns?" asked Engineering senior
Andy Modell, Engineering repre-
sentative.
The student assembly also
voted to pass resolutions regard-
ing the People's Climate March -
a climate and sustainability event

in New York City - and a resolu-
tion focused on expanding CSG's
presence outside of the Michigan
Union by holding meetings in
other University Unions across
campus.
The proposal to stand in soli-
darity with the people of Fer-
guson against police brutality
was referred to the resolutions
committee. The legislation will
be reviewed by the committee
and then the assembly will vote
on the proposal in the following
meeting.

POLICIANS
From Page 1A
nal candidates Terry Bowman
(R) and Debbie Dingell (D).
The candidates were each
given the opportunity to discuss
the priorities of their campaigns
and express their opinions on
pertinent issues, particularly
Michigan Senate Bill 2. This leg-
islation would enable advanced
practice registered nurses to
examine patients and prescribe
medication without the signa-
ture of a physician.
Most candidates did not take
a firm position for or against the
bill and many stated they did not
yet have the information neces-
sary to make an informed deci-
sion. However, Warren voiced
her her support of the bill.
In terms of his own goals for
his district, Zemke said greater
efforts must be made to attract
and retain people in Michigan.
He mentioned friends of his who
are moving away from the state
due to Michigan's social policies.
"They are feeling that Michi-
gan's not welcoming to every-
one," Zemke said. "So that is a
big part of the reason that I ran
for legislature. Talent attraction
and retention is our number one
issue economically. If you can't
have highly educated talent in all
shapes and forms then you don't
have a sustainable economy."
Zemke added that his cam-
paign is focused on improving
education funding.
"We already have excellent
higher education in Michigan,"

he said. "We need affordable
higher education' in Michigan,'
which it's not."
Lastly, Zemke emphasized the
need for and his previous work
on transit options such as a com-
muter rail in Michigan and the
need to work beyond partisan
divides, especially through the
Michigan House Appropriations
Committee, which he sits on.
Bowman, president and
founder of Union Conservatives
and has worked for 18 years at the
Ford Rawsonville Plant in Ypsi-
lanti, is competing against Deb-
bie Dingell, chair of the Wayne
State University Board of Gov-
ernors, for the seat being vacated
by Rep. John Dingell (D-12).
This seat is without an incum-
bent for the first time since 1955,
when Dingell was first elected to
Congress.
Bowman also criticized the
Affordable Care Act, which
he said took power away from
employees and gave it to employ-
ers.
"I'm telling (union members)
that what Obamacare has done
is give your employers the big-
gest bargaining chip imaginable
when your contracts expired,
because the company can hold
all the cards then against your
unions," Bowman said.
Bowman added that people in
the 12th district have expressed
frustration with what they see as
the negative consequences of the
ACA, including some people los-
ing their longtime doctors.
"It has not kept its promises,"
Bowman-said. "People in the
district are telling me that their

premiums are increasing and
their deductibles are going up.
(The ACA is) not sustainable in
a middle-income household and
that is a shame."
His opponent, Debbie Dingell,
emphasized the need for biparti-
sanship in government. As Rep.
Dingell's wife, she said she has
hostedbipartisan dinners so that
House and Senate members of
both parties could developbetter
working relationships.
"We've got to stop fighting.
We've got to work across the
aisle," Debbie Dingell said. "I
think the American people are
tired of partisan bickering in
Washington. They want to see
us work together to find solu-
tions."
While the WCMS Executive
Council has hosted this speaker
series for nearly 40 years, last
year was the first in which the
group transitioned its forum
from one dominated by a medi-
cal focus to a discussion of issues
of interest to the general elector-
ate. These general sessions are
held four times per year, with
candidates invited to two of the
events.
Event organizer Belinda
Chandler, WCMS executive
director, said she wanted to add
more variety to the sessions that
were originally dominated by
medical questions and answers.
"We are trying to open it up
more. It used to be just doctors
that would come and it was all
medical topics," Chandler said.
"We would like to have people
come, ask questions and give us
input for topics."

fMinnesota cities to take part
in pilot for high-risk areas

Program aims to
minimize impact of
extremists' threats
to the United States
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -
The cities of Minneapolis and
St. Paul will participate in a
Department of Justice pilot
program designed to engage
at-risk communities and stop
extremists from recruiting
Americans to join terror orga-
nizations overseas, U.S. Attor-
ney Andy Luger said Tuesday.
Luger, who announced the
Twin Cities' participation in an
interview with The Associated
Press, said the program will
bring more national expertise
and resources to address ter-
ror recruiting in Minnesota to
"build what we hope will be a
model for the rest of the coun-

try."
The goals, he said, are to
engage the community and
build trust to put a stop to
recruiting. Two other cit-
ies will also participate in the
pilots, announced a day earlier
by Attorney General Eric Hold-
er. Those cities have not been
publicly named.
Authorities in Minnesota are
investigating how a handful of
people were recruited to travel
to Syria and take up arms with
militants. At least one Minne-
sota man has died, and some
families fear their daughters
have also gone overseas to take
up the cause. Several Somalis
have been subpoenaed to testi-
fy before a federal grand jury -
some as recently as last week.
Luger said it would be hard
to quantify whether Minnesota
is seeing more recruiting than
other areas, but he said the
state's large Somali population

is a natural target for recruit-
ers.
"The Somali community
here deserves to live in peace
and security and what is hap-
pening with a small number of
people within their community
is disturbing to them," he said.
"So we in the federal govern-
ment owe it to our community
leaders, our religious leaders,
to make every effort to help
them combat this."
The pilot program - which
brings together prosecutors,
religious leaders, local law
enforcement and community
representatives - is a natu-
ral for Minnesota, which has
already been held up as an
international example for its
efforts in reaching out to at-
risk communities. Outreach
efforts have been a focus for
law enforcement since more
than 22 men began traveling
to Somalia to join the terror


group al-Shabab years ago.
Luger has already partici-
pated in regular dinners with
imams, one-on-one meetings
with community leaders and
quarterly discussions with
security officials. He said the
pilot brings several new ele-
ments to the table.
Among them, his office now
has access to national and
international experts on radi-
calism and recruiting, and can
use them to help community
members put together pub-
lic service announcements or
other messages - perhaps with
the help of the music industry
or Hollywood - to counter
extremist views that kids may
see on social media.

TWITTER (MICHIGANDAILY

Redefine your Future
Choose your country and program.
peacecorps.gov/openings
It only takes an hour to apply!
Campus Office: 734.647.2182 or peace.corps@umich.edu

4

r
i-.


;,
r

Page 4A Wednesday, September 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily -- michigandailycom 40

Page 4A -Wednesday, September17, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

o Mihigan, aly
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F R OM T HE D AILY
"es means Ves
New policy and legislation can prevent future sexual assaults
exual assaults on college campuses have become a growing
concern as 78 colleges and universities - including our own
campus - are under Title IX investigation. States are trying
to remedy the problem by implementing legislation to prevent sexual
assault and support survivors. In particular, the California state
government has shifted the language regarding consent from "no means
no" to "yes means yes," and requires certain guidelines for survivor
support and awareness. Given the surge of sexual assault cases, the state
of Michigan and the University should review their current policies
on sexual assault and implement elements of California's legislation in
order to create a safer campus environments across the state.

Diversity divide

To jog all our beach- and beer-
fried brains and brief the
freshmen and others now
joining us: The
Diversity Debate
is not resolved.
Summer
vacation may
have paused
last year's
heated emotions YARDAIN
and tempered AMRON
discussions, but
we still have
much work to do. All of us.
The quick synopsis goes like
this: In November, students of
the Black Student Union, freshly
incited by a racist "Hood Ratchet"-
themed frat party, organized a
Twitter campaign dubbed #BBUM
- Being Black at the University
of Michigan. It went viral, and
three months later, after more BSU
protests, sit-ins and meetings with
the administration, our University
was typified in a front page New
York Times article headlined,
"Colorblind Notions Aside,
Colleges Grapple With Racial
Tension."
I reported on the first BSU
protest for The Michigan Daily
(back on MLK Day), and the scene
is seared in my memory: About 15
Black students on the steps of Hill
Auditorium - faces discontent but
determined, voices exasperated
but forceful - making deep-rooted
demands of the administration
before a small crowd of mostly
every-other-color spectators
snapping cellphone pics with
flippant flash.
On one level, this bisected
protestor-spectator dynamic
makes total sense: The BSU's
primary concern (and justifiably so)
is Black Student Welfare; and while
idealists might wish otherwise, we
often care most about problems
related to our own identities.
But on a more complex level,
the spectator sofa that much
of the student body and I have
cozied onto is inexcusable: 2014
is not 1968. Today, the fight is not
against segregation, nor solely for
Black Student Welfare, but for all-

encompassing "Diversity," as our
University frames it (and as most
other colleges and universities do,
for that matter). The word is big,
vague, wondrous and sure feels
far away, but two things about
the Diversity problem are certain:
We're all implicated in the problem
and we each can do something about
it today.
First, We (the administration,
faculty and students) should cease
our paralyzing obsession with
minority enrollment numbers.
Black student enrollment has been
stuck at around 5 percent for years,
and the 2006 ban on affirmative
action, which is partly to blame for
the abysmal number, was upheld
by the U.S. Supreme Court just this
year.Reversingthebanand boosting
minority enrollment would surely
improve the landscape, but it would
be a Band-Aid on a wound as deep
as the Middle Passage.
We should stop muddling the
concepts of Affirmative Action and
Diversity. Racial Diversity is semi-
superficial, and I've yet to hear of a
statistical formula proven to create
Diversity. Real Diversity is more
personal, more interpersonal, more
challenging, than cold numbers. It
demands we change ourselves and
consciously rethink and relearn the
ways we perceive, act and interact
with each other across all color and
cultural borders.
I'm confident the large majority
of us want Real Diversity, which is
noble. I just don't see enough of us
confronting the problem.
Take my own pale ass: Most of
my friends are white - check; a
majority are probably middle-class
- check; and yeah, a lot of them
are Jewish - check. We all do it
to an extent - surround ourselves
with people like us, that look, think
and like like us - and that's more
than OK.
But is it taboo to say that I
want the opposite of our blatantly
segregated Greek Life System?
That I want my pool of friends to
be Muslim, Black, poor, White, gay,
Asian, disabled, Hindu, Hispanic,
transgender, rich and everything
in between, so that our distinct

cauldrons of ideas and experiences
can bubble, blend and congeal into
wonderful new creations? Race is
just one piece of the cake.
That's why the racial archipelago
we call our University community
deeply troubles me.
Take the Trotter Multicultural
Center, which I visited a few weeks
ago to interview new director
Jackie Simpson.
First established in 1971 fresh
off the Civil Rights Movement, the
"Trotter House" was originally
'envisioned as a safe space for Black
students. But a decade later Trotter
rebranded as a "Multicultural
Center," to both distance itself from
segregational undertones that are
no longer socially acceptable, and
attempt an all-student inclusionary
approach. But more than 30 years
later, Simpson admitted that a
"disconnect" between the Center's
new multicultural mission and
historical Black haven mission,
persists. "Some students just don't
believe Trotter is a place for them,"
Simpson said.
But there's also good news,
and we should thank the BSU for
catalyzing much of this.
First, we now have Michigan
in Color, the Daily's new space
for students of color to express
their identities.
And thanks to another BSU
demand, plans to move Trotter to
a more centrally located lot are
already in motion, and monthly
public focus groups will be
offered by the University through
November to gather students'
opinions about what a new Trotter
should be.
Simpson and I agreed that who
shows up to those focus groups will
be telling. If it's just Black students,
Trotter will likely remain a Black
haven. But if it's all colors, cultures,
identities, and "standing room
only," as Simpson and Ihope, we will
have seized a golden opportunity
to create a multicultural haven for
Diversity. The first focus group will
meet on Sep. 25. I'll be there.
- Yardain Amron can be
reached at amron@umich.edu.

PassedinthestateSenateinAugust,California
State Bill 967 will require all post-secondary
institutions that receive state-financed student
aid in California to redefine consent within
their sexual assault policies. The core message
that the state is trying to spread is that giving
consent means a person has verbally consented
to sexual activity and has the full ability to
do so - which requires that they must not be
inebriated or under the influence of a substance
that alters the decision-making process. The
bill is unique in that it ties state aid to colleges'
and universities' sexual assault policies, forcing
school administrators to update their policies
in order to continue receiving funding. Not only
does this bill safeguard students' safety, but it
goes on to require that schools have effective
systems in place to address the issues of sexual
assault that do arise. Other provisions in the
bill require colleges and universities to create
comprehensive prevention programs and
survivor-centered sexual assault policies that
ensure colleges help sexual assault survivors
seek medical care, counseling, legal assistance
or any other service requested.
Unfortunately, the Michigan state legislature
has yetto implement asimilar policyor consider
analogous legislation. Furthermore, the state
doesn't clearly define anything regarding
consent. Definingconsentisimperative, asdoing
so gives the judicial system a clear and defined
way to deal with such cases. About 60 percent
of rape cases go unreported, indicating that the

majority of offenders receive no punishment.
It's crucial that the University act proactively
by implementing policies and strengthening
resources available to survivors. One way to do
so is by hiring a sexual assault nurse examiner at
University Health Service, atrained professional
who has the proper experience and knowledge
to help survivors. Currently, the only SANEs in
Ann Arbor are at the University Hospital and St.
Joseph Mercy Hospital. The University should
offer a SANE during normal business hours to
ensure a continuation of the healing process for.
survivors. The University should also continue
its sexual health and assault education of
students past freshman year. The Relationship
Remix program required of new students
educates students on proper sexual conduct,
including defining consent, but it only reaches
students in their freshman year. Continuing
the conversation and education on campus
is important for raising awareness of and
preventing sexual assault, and can be done easily
through methods such as reminding students at
athletic events or flyering on the Diag.
Both the state of Michigan and the
Universityshould implementlegislation similar
to California's "Yes Means Yes" legislation. Not
only does this legislation change the language
of consent, but it also enforces support for
survivors and awareness through funding. In
order to make a lasting change in preventing
sexual assault, it is essential to create a culture
of awareness.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, David Harris, Rachel John, Nivedita Karki,
Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Victoria Noble, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu,
Meher Walia, Mary Kate Winn, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe

4

I

MARS HARMON V
A Rick's night gone wrong
Welcome week quickly fades to a blurred common for a woman to be sexually assaulted
reel of cheesy snapshots as August transitions on the streets of a dark city, even Ann'Arbor,
to September: dresses and sandals, warm where there have been many reported and
laughter, red cups, porch hangouts and unreported sexual assaults. However, despite
extended coffee dates. For some of my friends our pleas to grab our abandoned friend, the
and me, this also meant using the warm air and guard boys persisted that we could not re-enter.
free time to dance a weeknight away at the (in) A minute or two into our confrontation with
famous Rick's American Cafe. the guard boys, another boy who had been in
On our way we picked up some friends, the club that night ran up to the door and asked
and as the night unfolded we danced and if he could run in to grabhis debitcard - he was
hugged bodies with familiar faces, jovial and immediately re-admitted. This made us fume
intoxicated, celebrating life as 21-year-old with rage. I wondered aloud,"Isapiece ofplastic
University kids. Friends came and went, kissing so much more important than a PERSON??"
our cheeks as they scampered out the door. As The boy countered: "It's a debit card."
the night came to its organic closure, I was left Frustrated by our decision to fight back,
with my two girlfriends - one of whom was off one of the guards sassily told us that we could
talking to someone near the bar. "take it up with the manager" if we wanted
Marching through the club to the dance to re-enter. His tone suggested that we would
floor with one friend's hand in mine, my friend make a fool of ourselves asking, because the
stopped to yell at a boy we had just passed. manager would never let us in.
Red and flustered, she explained to me that he After more futile attempts to reason with
grabbed her ass as we walked by. Unnerved by the boys, we approached the manager of the
aggressive male attention, we walked quickly club who was talking to some policemen on the
toward the exit so she could take a deep breath sidewalk, and because he was a fair man - or
outside. As soon as we exited the doors, we maybe because the cops were watching - he
realized that we had left our last lingering immediately required his guard boys to let us in
girlfriend in the club, intoxicated and alone, to retrieve our friend.
without trusted bodies to walk her home. That night I felt like a victim. I felt complete-
Immediately we turned back to the two ly powerless as a woman trying to protect my
boys guarding the doors and asked if we could girlfriends. These buff white boys at the door
quickly run in and grab our friend who had could have easily stopped me had I tried to fight
been left alone in the basement of Rick's. They my way through them to my friend. They were
denied our access explaining that they were no in control of her safety, of my power and of my
longer offering admission to the club, and that ability to follow my overwhelmingly strong
they were trying to get people out at this hour instincts to retrieve and protect my friend.
of the night. It seems like every day I read articles in
We were completely taken aback. Our friend the paper about the movement to create
was alone in a dark club full of aggressive men, justice for rape victims on campuses, to
and we were raised with the attitude that you launch movements to teach men not to assault
never leave a girlfriend alone. We were taught women. I get UHS alerts regularly about the
that we could leave our male friends alone if latest woman assaulted on the street at night.
they like. Women are constantly told to watch I console friends about their traumatizing
our drinks, carry mace, wear nail polish to test experiences and build rage-filled calluses for
our drinks for roofies, learn self-defense, never the continuing subjugation of women in our
walk home alone, not trust strangers and not get contemporary society. We need to learn. We
too drunk. need to fight. We need to protect our women.
We persisted and continued to argue that we She was left to fend for herself. A boy's
would just be a moment; we had to retrieve our credit card was quickly retrieved. Hey, it was
female friend who was alone in a packed club important. It was his debit card.

The lady with the dog

This is how you tell the true
story of the dead dog in
the suitcase:
"So, this
girl a friend of
mine met in
New York over
the summer -"
You begin
that way, even
though it isn't q
strictly factual. AVERY
This friend of DIUBALDO
yours never
met the girl,
though she did
once meet this girl's cousin at an
art gallery opening. But you can't
say so; your listener has played
childhood games of Telephone and
is dubious of any story with more
than two degrees of separation
between its source and its teller.
"... this girl, she knew this wealthy
couple in Midtown, and they offered
to pay her to apartment-sit for them
while they went away for a week on
business in Chicago -"
Any city will do, but Chicago
is best.
"... and to take care of their dog
while they were away. But the dog,
they said, was old, andsick, and in the
event that it die during their trip, she
had been provided with the number
of their personal veterinarian.
"So, she takes the job. About
three days in, she comes back to the
apartment to spend another night,
and the dog is dead."
No surprise.
"She calls the vet, but they're
closed, and she waits 'til morning.
She calls again, and the vet says that
of course he'll take care of the body,
but he can't pick it up himself. She
has to go to his office, in the Upper
East Side, and make the delivery
personally. But she doesn't have
a car, so her only option is to take
the subway."
Notice the implication that she

spent the night in the apartment
with the dead dog; these grim
details are what keep the story
humming in the listener's ear long
after the telling has ended.
"She takes the dog and stuffs it
into a suitcase."
Take a moment to encourage the
listener to perform his own imagi-
native detective work in determin-
ing both the size of the suitcase
and the breed of the dog. I picture
a Border Collie crammed into a
briefcase, the kind a lawyer might
carry, with the tail curled around
the inside edges to make room. But
most people seem to assume it's a
Black Lab, zipped into one of those
travel suitcases with wheels.
"She's on the subway, early in the
morning, on an empty car. After
a while, a guy in a suit gets on and
sits across from her, and they ride
in silence."
It really is best if you have him in
a suit.
"Eventually
he strikes up a
casual conver- But the tr
sation: where -
she's from, made of pc
where she'sn -i-o
going, that kind nor is1i on
of thing. Finally that thi
he asks, what's
in the suitcase? story d
They're still _
alone on this
subway car, and she doesn't want to
say a dead dog, for obvious reasons.
So, she panics, and says the first
thing out of her mouth, which is, for
some reason, 'computer parts.'
"'Computer parts?' the guy
says, as the train is pulling into the
station. 'That's right,' the girl says.
'That's interesting,' he replies, and
just as the doors open, he punches
her in the face, he grabs the bag,
he runs onto the platform, the
doors close, and the train takes
off, with her in it, standing there,

empty-handed."
And that's it. That's the end of
the story. Here you can say "and
that's the end of the story," but it
won't stop your listener from asking,
"What happened then?" and "Was
she OK?" and "Why didn't she just
take a taxi?" You could answer
these questions. But it would be a
disservice, I think, to the tale you've
told. It's best to answer, truthfully,
that you don't know, that there the
story ends, its characters obscured
by the fog of history.
The listener must wonder alone
in the moments and days to follow,
turning the events over in her head,
and then relate them aloud to others,
making her own sense of them,
becoming the storyteller herself. The
particulars change with each telling,
as they have changed: The apartment
in Midtown becomes a house in the
suburbs; the lonely morning subway
car now departs at night. But the
truth is not made of particulars,
nor is it on
particulars that
uth is not this "true" story
depends. Only a
ariculars, few images must
remain constant,
partiul.. r shrouded and
S "true" striking-sharp as
the stalagmites
epends. rising up from
the dark mouth
of a cave: a girl,
standing motionless on a train car,
her nose just beginning to trickle
with blood; a veterinarian waiting on
a client who no longer needsto arrive,
who will never arrive; a thief in a
suit with his thumbs on the latches
of a suitcase, bent-over and coiled,
expecting riches.
Special thanks to Taylor Norton, a
friend of mine who, perhaps, met this
girl in New York over the summer--
- Avery DiUbaldo can be
reached at diubaldo@umich.edu.

I"c
l
e

and had no one to walk home with. My friend
explained to the male guards that it is all too

Maris Harmon is an LSA senior.

A

p


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 17, 2014 - 5A

0 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 17, 2014 -

EVENT PREVIEW
Pussy Riot to speak
at Michigan Theater

Russian protest
group to participate
 in Penny Stamps
Lecture Series
By GILLIAN JAKAB
Daily Community & Culture Editor
Patriarch Gundyay believes
in Putin / Would be better, the
bastard, ifhe believed in God!/ The
Virgin's belt
won't "Punk Prayer"
replace
political Penny Stamps
gatherings / Lecture Series
The eternal pussy Riot/Zona Prava
Virgin Mary
is with us in Thursday Septembe
ourprotests! 18, 5:10 pm
These The Michigan Theater
are some of
the lyrics Free
from Pussy
Riot's "Punk Prayer," performed
by five masked faces in Cathedral
of Christ the Savior in Moscow
in March 2012. They criticize,
among other things, the lack of
separation between the Russian
Orthodox Church and Putin's
increasingly totalitarian govern-
ment. The Pussy Riot members
brought their message of rights
for Russia's marginalized -
women, LGBTQ, youth - up from
Moscow's underground scene and
into view of the world. But they
did so at a price.
Nadezhda (Nadya) Tolo-
konnikova and Maria (Masha)
Alyokhina, two of Pussy Riot's
members, were among those
arrested for the performance
and were sentenced to two years
of prison on charges of "hooli-
ganism" and disrupting public
order with a religious hate crime.
Amnesty International and many
other human rights organizations
decried the prosecution as sup-
pression of free speech and politi-
cally motivated. The women's
trial and imprisonment under
harsh conditions gained inter-
national attention and an out-
pouring of sympathy from artists
around the world.
Vigilance and pressure from
the international community may
have contributed to the Pussy Riot
members' early release in Decem-
ber 2013, though some said it was
because the expiration of their
terms would have coincided with
the Winter Olympics in Russia.
Having endured the horrors of
Russia's prisons and legal system,
Masha and Nadya have founded
Zona Prava (Justice Zone), a
prisoner's rights NGO that offers
advocacy and aid to prisoners, and
MediaZona, a media forum that
reports on issues of prisons and

legal systems worldwide. :
The rockers-turned-revolution-
aries are publicizing their experi-
ences and aims in aworld tour that
includes a stop in Ann Arbor. This
Thursdayeveninginthe Michigan
Theater, University organizations
The Penny Stamps Distinguished
Speaker Series and the Weiser
Center for Emerging Democracies
are co-presenting the Pussy Riot/
Zona Prava members' lecture
"Punk Prayer."
In curating the Stamps series,
Chrisstina Hamilton - direc-
tor of visitor's programs at the
Penny Stamps School of Art and
Design - tries to choose speakers
that reflect the issues of concerns
and interest on campus and in the
classroom. The lineup is created
via nominations from throughout
the University, but the particular
invitation to Pussy Riot and Zona
Prava members Nadezhda Tolo-
konnikova and Maria Alyokhina,
was a whim of Hamilton's own.
Hamilton was in New York this
past spring when the two Pussy
Riot members gave a public inter-
view on Randall's Island orga-
nized by London's Frieze Festival.
The interview was conducted in a
room that allowed only 100 seats
and left many disgruntled femi-
nist punk enthusiasts on the outs.
"When Iwasthere, I saidto the
organizers: please put me intouch
with them because I actually
have a 1,700 seat theater," Ham-
ilton said. "Obviously they want
to speak to people about what
they're doing; I can give them a
much more public voice and venue
in order to do that."
The Michigan Theater is an
icon in a city steeped in the his-
tory of political activism and
influential artist communities.
Though the scale and methods
of protest at the University have
shifted since the 1960s, students
today grapple with issues of iden-
tity through publications such as
The Michigan Daily's "Michigan
in Color" series and "What the
F," and voice their passions for
social, economic and political
justice locally and globally. Pussy
Riot's words, their credibility
rooted in deeds, will find a warm
reception here.
"Russia's in the news con-
stantly right now," Hamilton
said. "The fact that these young
women were able to stand up to
Putin, be in prison, and ... have
garnered this international
attention, gives them a lot of
power."
Masha and Nadya are harness-
ing this power to shed light on
the oppression of feminist and
LGBTQ communities in Russia,
the consequences of dissent, and
the brutal Russian penal system.
"A lot of the people who are

going to come obviously know
something of the story of what's
happened to them up to this
point, but I think it will be very
excited to hear about what their
plans are now that they've cap-
tured the world stage, what are
they goingto do with it?"
Though they are rock stars on
the metaphorical stage of world
politics and media, they will not
be performing in the musical
sense on the stage of the Michi-
gan Theater. Right before coming
to Ann Arbor, Pussy Riot joined
many punk bands at Riot Fest
Chicago, not on the lineup to play
a concert, but to give a panel dis-
cussion.
"They won't actually be per-
forming," Hamilton said. "I asked
them about it when we were dis-
cussingthe whole thing and their
response was: they don't perform
they're activists. They would
perform if there were a reason to,
as they have done."
"I'm looking at it mre as
the context of the moment that
they're performing in, which in
some ways makes it more punk
rock than any punk rock," she
added.
In the field of performance
studies, some scholars would
disagree with this distinction
and tend to define performance
as a public practice, analyzing
"performances" spanning the
spectrum from religious rituals
to Shakespeare on a proscenium
stage. Though Pussy Riot did
not achieve its fame by merit of
their music and performance art,
the group's genre of conceptual
art amplifies and articulates its
political message.
In their interview on the Col-
bert Report, Nadya and Masha
say they've come to America to
"look at American prisons, to talk
to human rights activists, and
to learn from their experience."
They explain that it presents
a middle ground between the
inhumane prison system in Rus-
sia and the mostly pleasant con-
ditions of the prisons they visited
in the Netherlands. On campus,
Nadya and Masha will get to
learn more about the American
prison system when they meet
with Lisa Greco, the Prison Cre-
ative Arts (PCAP) events coor-
dinator and Washtenaw County
Youth Center Director, as well as
Carol Morris, a local artist who
works with women in prison and
youth in detention and treatment.
They willitour the facility and dis-
cuss the work of PCAP.
"Performing" or not, the only
way to experience the power of
Pussy Riot is live, and this Thurs-
day's Penny Stamps lecture is one
of a select few opportunities in
the U.S. to do so.

COURTESY OF OPRAH
Oprah poses for a picture with fans outside of the Palace in Auburn Hills.
Opral hosts weee
eveunt in Auburn H ills

By EMILY BODDEN
Daily Arts Writer
LastFriday,Ifoundmyselfstuck
in afternoon traffic and swearing
loudly while driving to "Oprah's
'Live Your Best Life' Weekend" at
the Palace ofAuburn Hillswith my
mom. I had gotten distracted after
my only Friday class and left cam-
pus an hour later than I intended.
My mom had already called, tell-
ing me in a sharp tone to hurry
up. I wasnot overly enthused to be
there, and after we finally arrived
at the Palace (and paid a steep
$15 for parking), I trailed after
my speed-walking mom to the
entrance of O Town.
Every attendee was sent a QR
code connected to their names,
seat numbers and e-mail address-
es. Once the code was scanned,
the information was transferred
to a wristband you wore for the
entire weekend. As we visited the
sponsor booths and participated
in activities, staffmemberstapped
our wristbands, allowing them to
instantly transmit pictures, cou-
pons and information sent to our
email. The technology and helped
optimize the attendee interactions
all weekend - an ingenious way
to facilitate engagement in real
time. Additionally, the wristbands
were programmed to flash various
LED colors throughout the event,
including when the DJ started an
arena-wide dance party, and when
SoulCycle held a 15-minute arena-
wide workout. Very, very cool.
To fit into the Oprah-loving
demographic, I wore my best
"momfit." A momfit is exactly
what it sounds like, any outfit that
you could easily imagine at a local
PTO meeting. Surprisingly, my
assumptions were a bit off. The

crowd at the event did consist pri- One group of note were the women
marily of middle-aged women, but who tailgated in the parking lot
many older and younger women with mimosas at 7 a.m the second
were in attendance as well. Over morning. Oprah read their tweet
the course of the two days, several on the screens, gave them a shout
jokes were made at the expense of out for their enthusiasm and then
the small number of male signifi- actually joined them in the parking
cant others in attendance. lot for lunch.
Oprah is intelligent, funny and A message of female empow-
warm in person. Along with what erment was woven through the
I loosely estimated as 9,000 other entire event and the speakers
people in attendance, I felt like I were chosen by the positivity of
could easily become Oprah's new their messages. Elizabeth Gilbert
best friend. Evenfrom the top bal- (author of the New York Times
cony (my mom evidently does not bestseller "Eat Pray Love") went
love me enough to buy me $500 on an extended rant about how
floor seats), I could tell that O is the fact that epics are male-cen-
caring and genuine, with a unique tered is bullshit - women are
ability to empathize and connect worthy of starring in epics, too.
with her audience. Author and motivational speaker
Iyanla Vanzant was fabulous
while explaining how we need to
A com munity learn to be honest in examining
our life stories and be proactive
striving for self- about not feeling like, or speak-
ing like, victims. The resound-
accepancelife ing message was that women are
stronger, more capable and more
empowerment. deserving of self-love than they
usually give themselves credit
for. And throughout everything,
Oprah continued to promote her
It was an overwhelmingly message that "you can."
friendly crowd, and the women Aside from the incred-
in attendance seemed to bond ible speakers, this community
freely with those around them. of thousands of women striv-
The event had a hashtag, #LifeY- ing for self-acceptance, mental
ouWantDET, that was aggregated and physical betterment and
on a mobile app, and chosen tweets life empowerment was -incred-
and pictureswere projected on the ible. Oprah has built an empire
screens in the arena. Let me be the because she understands the
first to say that I was surprised not importance of making every-
only that so many middle-aged one feel like they are heard,
women have Twitter accounts, they matter, and they are a part
but that so many middle-aged of something bigger than them-
women seem proficient using said selves - even the grumpy college
accounts - my mom was positively kid tryingto blend into the crowd
giddy after a picture she made me with her momfit. Sadly, however,
tweet flashed on the arena screens. no one won a car.

Potential in 'Red Band'

FOX's newest show
centers around
terminally-ill teens
By EMILY BODDEN
DailyArts Writer
"Skeptical" may be an under-
statement for how I felt going into
FOX's newest show, "Red Band
Society." Rid-
ing the wave
from summer
hit "The Fault Red Band
in Our Stars," Society
"Red Band
Society" cen- Wednesdays
ters around at 9 p.m
terminally-ill FOX
teens who live
in a hospi-
tal during long-term treatment.
According to the show's produc-
ers, the series is reminiscent of
cult-classic "The Breakfast Club,"
following kids at pivotal points
in their lives who create unique
bonds in an unlikely place.
The decision to use Charlie
(Griffin Gluck, "Private Practice"),
a young boy in a coma, as the nar-
rator is an interesting choice,
though not entirely convincing in
the premiere. While it's definitely

a bold decision by the producers,
having a narrator in and of itself
seems outdated, as it was a key
technique used in '90s sitcoms.
With time, however, the perspec-
tive of an omniscient narrator in
a story with so many intertwining
plots may provide more fluid sto-
rytelling. But the producers will
need to utilize his position with
certainty and decisiveness early
on in the show.
"Red Band Society" 's com-
mitment to delivering inspira-
tional moments is reminiscent of
the once great, early seasons of
FOX's "Glee." The series negoti-
ates the line between sweet and
cheesy with finesse, and even
when it uses Coldplay as the
background music for a montage
of touching moments, it did not
come off as cloying. That is say-
ing something. The attachment
to characters and the effective
editing allows viewers to over-
look such a cliched music choice.
With Octavia Spencer ("The
Help") starring as Nurse Jackson
(or as her coffee cup proclaims,
"Scary Bitch"), coupled with the
producing power of Steven Spiel-
berg's Amblin Television, "Red
Band Society" is full of promise.
Or at the very least, the star pres-
ence gives weight to the series.

While some moments pro-
duced actual laughs, some of the
one-liners in the first episode
elicit groans. But as is common
with many new shows, the first
few episodes are about finding
chemistry and working out the
kinks. With a show trying to
strike a balance between being
sincere and entertaining, this
may take some time. But if the
series can continue to channel
"Glee" in its prime, a hit could be
born.
With new episodes, "Red Band
Society" will hopefully continue
to look at the idea of the "true
self." In a monologue, Leo (Char-
lie Rowe, "Pirate Radio") talks
about how sickness makes you
even more yourself than before.
This idea of body detachment
from soul and personality is not
one often touched on by main-
stream television. The concept
of self over physical body has the
potential to contrast with the
many image-based messages that
American society is bombarded
with.
"Red Band Society" revisits alot
of elements from proven hitshows,
but if it remains true to its original
components, there lies tremen-
dous potential for a touching yet
entertaining show.

Do you need an outlet for your ardent
opinions on popular culture?
JOIN THE FILTER, THE DAILY ARTS BLOG.
E-mail jplyn@umich.edu to request an application.
h Get 3 Free Bagels with any purchasej

I

when you bring in this coupon!
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
.'*1 Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY

BAGELS
----"*-.

BarryB agels
WestgateS hopping cent
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor,h
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybag

er
MI 48103
tels.com
Expires: October 15th, 2014

L----------------

4


6A - Wednesday, September 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

6A - Wednesday, September17, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

A subtle mutiny.
An outsider's guide
to country music

I

METAL BLADE
Long hurr, don't curr.
Cannibal Corpse's new
'Domain' a brutal ride

ByJOSHFRAZIER
DailyArts Writer
I grew up hating country
music for no real reason. I was
raised on a steady diet of clas-
sic rock, and as I grew older, I
began to love the wordplay of
hip hop and the experimental
nature of alternative music.
When I came to the University,
I gained a greater appreciation
for the primal nature of stadi-
um-ready EDM, and my expo-
sure to people from different
backgrounds has led me to love
just about all types of music.
Except for country.
This summer, I moved down
south to Fayetteville, Arkansas,
where loving country music is
as natural as breathing air. My
experience there has led me to
at least begrudgingly tolerate
country music, and to come to
like (and even love) a few songs.
Here is an outsider's guide
to learning to love country
music - based on the music you
already like:
Classic Rock
Essential Song: "Springsteen"
- Eric Church
Fans of guitar-based
rock'n'roll should make a rela-
tively easy transition to a coun-
try radio station. Established
acts like Lynyrd Skynyrd and
Neil Young clearly influence
many current southern musi-

cians. Blues-influenced guitar
licks and tales of Americana
are prevalent throughout pop-
ular acts like Joe Nichols, Eric
Church and George Strait.
Pop
Essential Song: "Play It Again"
- Luke Bryan
Several mainstream country
musicians have crossed-over to
Top 40 chart in recent years.
Taylor Swift and Carrie Under-
wood are two female vocalists
who have become undeniable
superstars. Florida Georgia
Line's "Cruise" featured a half-
sung, half-rapped style and a
Nelly guest verse. The lines
are blurred between these
two seemingly very different
genres due to the feel-good,
party nature of many songs,
and the ensuing fan-base made
up of teenage girls.
Rap
Essential Song: "Praying
Man" - Big K.R.I.T. and B.B.
King
Southern rappers like Lud-
acris, Yelawolf and Big K.R.I.T.
have touted their country roots
for years, priding themselves
on their unique Southern heri-
tage. Seminal rap artists like
UGK, Scarface and Three 6
Mafia have instantly recog-
nizable voices influenced by
Southern drawls. Rap fans may
not find a lot to like in modern

country hits but should enjoy
the thumping basslines of blues
legends. The go-to track is.the
highlight of Big K.R.I.T.'s 2012
debut, Live from the Under-
ground, which marries South-
ern blues rock and lyrical hip
hop on "Praying Man," featur-
ing the legendary B.B. King.
EDM
Essential Song: "Drunk on a
Plane" - Dierks Bentley
Contemporary country radio
hits often feature up-tempo,
danceable beats, but many of
these songs are derided by clas-
sical country fans and objective
listeners alike as shameless
attempts to cash in on a popu-
lar trend. Dance music fans
should embrace the rhythmic
nature of country hits, which
often experiment with uncon-
ventional time schemes. The
stereotypical, party-driven
nature that influences many
popular electronic songs is
prevalent in many country hits.
Beer and women are two of the
most common tropes found
in country music, and there is
no better example of that than
Dierks Bentley's riotous ode to
drinking, "Drunk on a Plane."
And for electronic music pur-
ists who can't tolerate music
made with guitars, banjos and
fiddles, well, at least coun-
try makes for good pre-game
music.

ByKEN SELANDER
DailyArts Writer
Cannibal Corpse's 13th stu-
dio album, A Skeletal Domain,
combines brutality, evil, pure
genius and
more evil.
Upon listen-
ing to the A Skeletal
record for the
first time, I Domain
felt that more Cannibal
work went
into creat- orpse
ing diabolical Metal Blade
titles for each
track than the
lyrics of the songs themselves,
but upon a second listening I
discovered I was dead wrong
and brain-dead.
As I listened to the first few
songs on A Skeletal Domain, I
began to feel there was a dis-
tinct possibility that someone
might barge into my room while
I was lost amidst the music,
not paying attention to my sur-
roundings and brutally murder
me with a chainsaw. Nowhere
on the record did this seem like
more of a reality then on the
third track, "Kill or Become,"
which includes thoughtful lyr-
ics like "Fire up the chainsaw /
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
INTERNSHIPS
INTERN WANTED FOR Birmingham
law office for 1-2 years. Mustthave at
least BA or BS with strong grades/com-
puter skills. Paid Position. Email resume
& tscrptto: michlawofficeq4gmail.com
HAVE YOU
PURCHASED
THE
FOOTBALL'
BOOK
YET?

Cut their fucking heads off."
Musically speaking, "Kill or
Become" starts off slowly, but
quickly gains pace. The track
consists of simple riffs that are
made more complex by the ran-
dom notes chosen in between
mute-note strums. A very
metallic-sounding twang on
each note via the low B-string
from the bass guitar drives
the song behind the screams
of their lead vocalist, George
"Corpsegrinder" Fisher.
A bouncy, growling bass riff
also guides the chorus on the
album's first song, "High Veloc-
ity Impact Spatter." The track
sets a tone of despair and evil
for the rest of the record, with
an eerie 40-second intro that
forces the listener to imagine
moving at a high velocity, soon
to become impact spatter. The
initial noise is then cut off by
blast beats from the beast that is
their drummer, Paul Mazurkie-
wicz, and hard chuggingby lead
guitarist Patrick O'Brien.
"Vector of Cruelty" is a fan-
tastic example of Cannibal
Corpse's overall approach to
music. While some metal bands
decide to use more intricate,
complex guitar solos and riffs
to match grueling blast beats,
Cannibal Corpse decides to
go for a purely angry sound
with mute-note strumming for
almost the entirety of the song,
with a 10 to 30 second burst of
fast notes to compose "Vector of
Cruelty's" solo. This way, they
can much more easily focus on
being angry and evil without
having to worry about trying to
make their music too difficult
to play.
"Vector of Cruelty" might
be the most typical Canni-
bal Corpse song on A Skeletal
Domain, but "Funeral Crema-
tion" is the record's best track.
Mazurkiewicz flaunts his stam-
ina by holding a constant blast
beat on the bass drum for nearly
the entire song, with slower
beats on the crash and snare to
offset the rapidity of the bass
drum beats.
"Funeral Cremation's" main
falter lies in the fact that its solo
is no longer than 30 seconds.
Overall, Cannibal Corpse's
sound would be significantly
improved if the brief guitar solo
was extended. This would fur-
ther prove O'Brien's skills and
thoughtfulness in his ability
to play something other than
chugging, and simultaneously
give the listener a longer break
to recover from Corpsegrind-
er's mind-melting grunts.
Many writers criticize death

metal for lacking variety. To
some extent, I agree: Corpseg-
rinder's screams on A Skeletal
Domain are highly monotonous.
Consistencyin screaming might
please some listeners, but it also
makes the songs less interest-
ing. Instead of constant soul-
crushing, low pitch grunts,
Corpsegrinder could expand
his screaming range to higher
screams so as to provide more
emotional ties for listeners.
Aside from the monotone
screams,A SkeletalDomain eas-
ily separates itself from other
death-metal albums. "A Skel-
etal Domain" and "Headlong
into Carnage," for example, are
the fourth and fifth tracks of
the record, but pose a beauti-
ful juxtaposition. The vocals in
"Headlong into Carnage" are
more distained and hateful, and
express concern for the mas-
sive amounts of blood and guts
spurting out everywhere. Con-
versely, the screams in "Skel-
etal Domain" are more evil and
sinful, providing imagery of
people dying rather than what
their remains might look like.
If you haven't already
impaled yourself with the larg-
est knife in your kitchen before
the final song of the album,
then "Hollowed Bodies" is
sure to be the final nail in your
forehead. The song begs the
listener for an answer to the
question "will the truth ever
be told," to which most prob-
ably answer "I have no idea;
that's the only vaguely audible
line in the song." While this
may be true, I think "Hollowed
Bodies" offers far more insight
than merely lyrics about dead
bodies: it offers a window into
the expression of a tortured
being's soul. The song paints
a portrait of the human condi-
tion, making it so much more
than the surface screams about
blood and guts.
At the conclusion of A Skel-
etal Domain, the record still
leaves many questions unan-
swered for listeners; "Who
were the parents who allowed
'Cannibal Corpse' to practice
in their garage and/or base-
ment?," "Who would pay money
for this CD?" and many more.
Despite the unanswered
questions, this masterpiece of
an album surely will go down
in history as one of the more
memorable death metal albums
... of this month. I'm sure the
many lasting cover bands of
Cannibal Corpse in the future
will be inclined to add at least
a few tracks from this album to
their set.

Los Angel
Edi
ACROSS
1 Expensive
5 GUM rival
10 Conference with
UVAsandtUNC
13 Guthrie at
Woodstock
14" Unchained":
2212 Tarantino
film
15 Arctic explorer
John
16 *Butcher's
appliance
18 Not just some
19 Square peg,
socially speaking
20 Sharp-eyed
hunter
22 Timeforfools?
24 *Prankster's
ballson
28 Ridethe wind
29 Lip applications
30 Perons
31 Ready tobe
driven
33 "Cagney and_":
'80scop show
35 Newspaperfiller
36 Fruit thatcan be
the sore of the
starts ofthe
answers to
starred clues
38"No more details,
please!"
41 "Right?!"
42 Ruined, as
hopes
44 Picture on a
screen
47 Fastfood
package deal
49 Sock part
50 *Allowance for
the caetedia
52 "A Change Is
Gonna Come"
singer/songwriter
Sam
53 Catch on the
range
54 Timeto attack
56 Bass brew
57 *Monet work
63 Pewter
component
64 Sings like Rudy
Vallee
65 Biblical reformer
66 Hazardous curve
67 More than
anpopular
998 Stadta hand

1#
itl

es Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
ted by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
DOWN 38Formulate a 48 Manually
1 Amateur radio possible 51 Freeloader CAMPUS PARKING $70/MONTH,
operator explanation 52 Put one over on near U of M bus. 734-418-2050 or
2 Fury 39 Oerly compliant 55' "Master's info@828greene.com
3 Nice duds 40 Doing nothang Voice"
4 Start the wrong 41 Cartoonist's 58 Nest egg item,
way? supply forshort
5 'The Sing of 43 Called oat 59 Aaction unit _______________
Hiawatharibe 44 Behind-schedule 90 Mystery master
7 Openated i. comment 61 Piece corps,
7Yui s 45 Viagraaltemative briefly?
reedamaging 46 "Full House" 62 Hoedown
insecttwins participant ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
10 Catherine's home AU Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
11 "C hope to he ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: ! www.HRPAA.com !
fromyou" BRER PATSY S S T S
12 People peoyle A o N E A L 0 H A O L E O WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
14Dr.swithGrammys L I N N 0 R A D L A N D COM
17 Salon suspply
21 "Abot ": Hugh S K A T E G U A RD E T T A 734-332-6000
Granttflm AS C.A P E.A T M E ________
22Omanlocale L A P A Z A N G R Y I
23Fishing spot F A Q S I C E M A N R 0 I _ .__ _ __ _. _
25' e my O S U G E T B A C K A M P
pleasure
26 Eliot Ness, e.g. W I I U 5 C R I D T Y P E
27Pre-euroIberian L A T K A A L C 0 A
coin E LM ER M IR E S
29 Rodeo horse P A G E W H I T E G L O V E THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
32 Comic strip cry S L O P 0 I L E D E EN organization, format. All Disciplines.
4Greekvowel P NEA734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
37 Ring-tailed S P OT KN E AD N ER D
scavenger,to T ODO S O R R Y D R Y S
Crockett xwordeditor@aol.com 09/17/14 HELPWANTED
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 14 11 12
16 17 18
19 20 1 AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
STAFF MEMBERS needed for local ele-
22 23 24 25 26 27 mentary school. 2:30-6:00pm 2-4 days a
28 29 1 3o week. Reliable transportation required.
Email Rose rhacker@emerson-school.org
35 as a7 a39 TUTOR NEEDED
for l-on-1 tutoring for math and sciences
41 4 43 call 734-434-1228



DON'T BE
WEAK.

50 51 52
53 54 55
56 57 58 59 60 61 62
6a 5e4t
@2 ribune Content Agency, LLC

DO THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE.

4

SUBSTITUTEAND POSSIBLE part-
timeworkavailableatanAnnArborchild
carecenter.Experienceinchildcareisre-
qired. CoxtactNauocy at orosex-
zweig(a stpuulaoourbor.org

FOLLOW US
@MICHIGANDAILY

I

A


fi-

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 17, 2014 -- 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September17, 2014- 7A

Michigan blanked,
early goal decisive

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Freshman corner Jabrill Peppers was targeted by Miami (Ohio) on Saturday, but he impressed in his first game back since suffering an ankle injury in week one.
Frosh fcs Kycnriuin

By WESLEY ROMAN
For theDaily
Less than a week after
conceding a late equalizer in
a draw with Maryland, the
Michigan men's soccer team was
unable to
get one of BGSU 1
its own as MICHIGAN 0
it suffered
a disappointing 1-0 defeat to
Bowling Green on Tuesday night
at the U-M Soccer Stadium.
The decisive goal came early,
in the 17th minute, at a time when
the Wolverines appeared to be
bossing the game. After another
Michigan attack broke down,
Bowling Green midfielder Joe
Sullivan found a bit of space on
the edge of the 18-yard box and
slid anenticingballto forward Pat
Flynn, who delivered a composed
finish into the far corner to give
the Falcons a 1-0 lead.
For the most part, the
Wolverines enjoyed the lion's
share of possession, and the ball
seemed to spend most of the time
intheirattackingthird.Butonthe
whole, the incisive attacking play
that everyone envisioned was
lacking, despite the switch this
season to the 4-3-3 formation.
The home team undeniably
created the majority of the
chances, but again and again its
attackers could not finish. Still, it
was hard for the hosts not to feel
like they deserved atleast apoint.
While this midweek fixture
did come at an awkward time for
the Wolverines - in betweentwo
important conference matches -
Michigan coach Chaka Daley was
unwilling to use the timing as an
excuse..Rather, he stressed that
his team's performance didn't
necessarily deserve the result.
"I think we carried a lot of
the game," Daley said. "(We)

certainly were, I think,
unfortunate to get ourselves
this result."
Realizing that they would
not be on the ball too much,
the Falcons seemed more than
content to sit back defensively.
But while the Wolverines
struggled to create good chances,
Bowling Green had great success
hitting on the counterattack.
Despite conceding early,
the Wolverines continued
to dominate possession.
Throughout the first half, they
found success on the wings.
Junior winger William Mellors-
Blair was particularly influential
on the left side by utilizing his
pace to beat defenders, but too
often his searching crosses found
the opposing orange shirts.
Despite numerous
unsuccessful crosses, Michigan
didn't appear to have too many
other ideas of how to unlock
the stingy Falcon defense. The
visitors frequently packed the
box with numbers, which gave
the Wolverines all kinds of
difficulties.Daleytriednumerous
substitutions - including the
collegiate debut of freshman
forward Nate Kohl - but the
creative play that his team so
desperately needed was nowhere
to be found.
Michigan survived a scare just
before the halftime whistle when
freshman goalie Evan Louro
tipped a dangerous header over
the bar to keep the deficit at one.
The second half proved to be
a near carbon copy of the first, as
Michigan once again. controlled
the possession but was unable to
find the equalizer.
"It's one game, one loss," a
visibly frustrated Daley said.
"At the end of the day we've got
to pick ourselves up and go to
work again."

Peppers most
hyped, but Cole
and Mone earning
significant time
By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Since fall camp started in
August, both the media and
the fans have been clamoring
for - a look at freshman
cornerback Jabrill Peppers.
A- top-three prospect out of
high school, comparisons to
Charles Woodson were placed
on Peppers' shoulders by the
legendary cornerback himself
before Peppers even stepped
foot onto the field.
So when the starters were
announced Saturday against
Miami (Ohio), Peppers
unsurprisingly received one
of the loudest cheers from the
Big House crowd. And yet, he's
just one of four true freshmen
receiving significant playing
time months out of high school.
Left tackle Mason Cole has
started at the offensive line's
most important position in
all three games, protecting
fifth-year quarterback Devin
Gardner's blind side.
Against Appalachian State, he
became the first true freshman
to start a season opener at left
tackle and just the sixth to start
any game on the line in program
history.-
"I've been very impressed
with Mason since he first came
in," junior center Jack Miller
said Monday. "The poise he
has for an 18-year-old kid
playing offensive line is pretty
remarkable. He's got maybe
the best attribution to have in

an offensive lineman, which Mone received the second-most
is being consistent, play in and reps after Glasgow.
play out." Mone made his presence
It's often said that an felt in South Bend, with the
offensive lineman does his job most memorable play coming
when you don't hear his name. in the third quarter when he
And with Cole, that has often was left unblocked and got to
been the case. After giving up a quarterback Everett Golson,
sack against the Mountaineers forcing him to make a bad throw
in week one, Cole has kept that fell incomplete.
Gardner's jersey clean. He was "Coach Mattison always
one of the few highlights in compares me to (Baltimore
the Wolverines' shutout loss Ravens nose tackle) Haloti
to Notre Dame, and aside from Ngata when he was my age,"
getting beaten once against the Mone said. "I have to keep that
RedHawks, Cole has continued up ... (but) I have to work on my
to shine. moves to get there."
Opposite Cole is defensive The fourth true freshman
tackle Bryan Mone, who has seeing time this season is wide
surprised many in his surge up receiver Freddy Canteen. After
the depth chart. In arguably a strong spring camp, Canteen
Michigan's strongest unit, received the praise of his
Mone has found early playing coaches and quarterbacks, buta
time on the defensive line. poor showing during fall camp
"(Mone) has a great attitude led to limited snaps against
and (is) a great talent," said Appalachian State.
defensive coordinator Greg Hoke said in his postgame
Mattison. conference
"The sky's after the
the limit for "The k 'the Miami game
him. You don't that Canteen
think he's the limitf ( n made strides
youngest of all f back to where
of them. You don't think he was in
"And he's the spring.
another one he's the youngest." Through
that every day three games,
gets a little Canteen has
better and two receptions
it's not big for - for five yards.
him. I have a feeling (Utah) is And of course there's
going to be a big ballgame for Peppers, the crown jewel of
him." Hoke's freshman class. He
Inthe seasonopener,theUtah started as the team's nickel
native was second on the depth corner against Appalachian
chart at his position, splitting State and Miami, only missing
reps with junior Ondre Pipkins, the Notre Dame game because
but the latter received most of of injury. And his instinct and
the snaps behind starter Ryan uncanny athleticism has given
Glasgow. However, Mattison him- the opportunity to play
shuffled the playing time up with the starters on the outside,
against the Fighting Irish, and moving starting cornerback

Blake Countess at nickel on
select plays.
"I thought Jabrill held up
pretty well," Hoke said of
Peppers' performance at corner
against the RedHawks. "I think
it's a learning process every
time he goes out.
"Every time he plays, he'll
get better. He's very instinctive,
which is a plus."
Hoke has excelled at
recruiting and bringing in
highly ranked classes.
And given Michigan's
lackluster start to 2014, how the
trust freshmen progress could
play a major role in returning
the program back to the
national conversation.

Gae 2lydb
GmspaebyPeppers. He has been
nursing an ankle inury.

4.43
Canteen's listed 40-yard dash time in
seconds.

TUNA ANNA ARCHLY/Saily
IfWilliam Mellors-Blair was one of Michigan's bright spots in Tuesday's loss.

MEN' S SOCER
SMellors-Blair impresses in loss

By FREDDY KASTEN
Daily Sports Writer
Despite losing 1-0 to Bowling
Green on Tuesday, not all was
amiss for the Michigan men's
soccer team. In a game full of
missed opportunities, junior
forward William Mellors-Blair
had a strong game, contributing
four crosses and generating
the Wolverines' best scoring
chance.
In the 11th minute of the
contest, Mellors-Blair sparked
the offensive attack. After
obtaining the ball on the right
wing from fifth-year senior
midfielder Tyler Arnone,
Mellors-Blair crossed it into the
box to redshirt junior midfielder
Colin McAtee. However, the
chance was squashed by Falcons'
goalkeeper Nick Landsberger,
who fisted the ball out.
Due to a Michigan defensive
lapse, Bowling Green (0-0
Mid-American Conference,
5-1 overall) scored in the 16th
minute off the footofsophomore
forward Pat Flynn, who struck
the ball nicely to beat freshman
goalkeeper Evan Louro.
"We worked on the
commitment level," Daley said.
"I think they scored against the

run of it for sure. They had one
chance, one goal."
Mellors-Blair once again
commenced the attack in the
20th minute from the right side.
He received the ball, finessed
around a defender and then put
an efficient cross into the box,
setting up McAtee with a prime
scoring opportunity. But, McAtee
wasn't able to finish, heading
the ball just over the crossbar in
between two defenders.
Just three minutes later,
Mellors-Blair struck for a third
time, hitting the ball off the
side of the net while one-on-
one with Landsberger. The
speedy forward didn't need any
help as he produced his own
chance in space and chipped
the ball to himself around a
Falcon defender. But once again,
Landsberger made a great play,
cutting down the angle well.
Mellors-Blair was the focal
point of the Wolverines' last
offensive chance of the first
half in the 40th minute, too.
Off a through ball from junior
forward James Murphy in
the attacking half, Mellors-
Blair was chased down by two
Bowling Green defenders on the
left side of the field. Not wanting
to waste the opportunity, he

shook them off with a fake shot,
producing an audible gasp from
the crowd. History repeated
itself, though, as the two
Michigan forwards in the box
weren't able to connect and the
cross went wide for a Bowling
Green goal kick.
Because of all of the
Wolverines' (0-0-1 Big Ten,
1-3-1 overall) squandered
opportunities in the match's
first 45 minutes, Daley wanted
his squad to convert on more
chances and be more offensive.
The second half didn't include
any goals, even though Michigan
controlled possession for most
of the final 45. Mellors-Blair
attempted to make one last
promising run for Michigan in
the 75th minute, but it wound
up amounting to nothing. He
crossed the ball into the box
for Arnone, who took one step
in and fired it off of a Falcon
defender, ricocheting out of play.
"We really didn't have
enough in us to stick one away,"
Daley said. "College soccer is
certainly a challenge with a lot
of parity, but it's not the end
of the season. We have to pick
ourselves up and go to work
again tomorrow. There's still
plenty to play for."

I


8A - Wednesday, September 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaify.com 4

8A - Wednesday, September17, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

U

A

4

4

4

4

4

I

.

I I

+


w~ ~

I

W, 9

V1i

83

SPACE
From Page 5B
said the pool of scientists seeking
funds has increased steadily over the
last30years, while research funding
hasremained essentially stagnant.
"When I started in the U.S. about
30 years ago, the funding (accep-
tance) rate was about 1-in-2 or 1-in-
3," Gombosi said. "Today it's 1-in-8,
1-in-10, so it's much more difficult to
getfunding."
Gombosi added the trend over
the past several decades has been
to shift research dollars away from
universities. For years, there was
an unspoken agreement that NASA
would build the spacecraft and rely
on the universities for instruments,
but as funding becomes tighter,+
NASAhaselected to keep more proj-
r. ectsin-house to save money..
The funding shortfalls contribute
to a cyclical decline in the research
enterprise as it becomes harder for
new researchers to get the needed
funding and experience. While the
SPRL has not seen any decline in
the number of students, mostprofes-
sors acknowledge that the focus has
shifted, for better or worse.
Thenextgeneration
The 1960s saw a maior transfor-

the country. In addition to unprec-
edented levels of scientific funding
at universities,both the primary and
secondary education systems were
overhauled to prepare as many stu-
dents as possible for careers in scien-
tific fields.
During their education, Fisk and
many of his colleagues were witness
to the seminal events in U.S. space
exploration. However, the current
generation of young space science
graduate and undergraduate train-
ees were several decades from birth
the last time a man walked on the
moon.
Yet students continue to pursue
space sciences. More graduate stu-
dents are working in the lab now
than during the 1950s and '60s, and
they are coming from all over the
nation and the world.
"Space research in general and
the visuals that go with it are still a
stimulus for those who want to go
into science and engineering," Fisk
said.
At the SPRL, Ruf, the director of
the Space Physics Research Lab, said
he has observed significant changes
in the students entering the field
over his 25 years of teaching experi-
ence.

A researcher at the Space Physics Research Lab tests a satellite prototype using a vacuum chamber and other instruments.

ing to the University used to enter.
with a base set of mechanical skills,
whereas current applicants more
often have developed skills in com-
puter programming.
Tinkering projects, such as car
tune-ups, ham radios and model
airplanes, were valuable in teaching
students basic skills that were appli-
cable once they reached a laboratory
setting.
"It's still necessary," Ruf said.
"When you build real stuff you've
got to get your hands on itand you've
got to know how to use tools."
Today, screws and soldering irons
have been replaced with laptops and
smartphones. Ruf said several of his
students played around with cod-
ing smartphone apps in high school,
building skills in computer sci-
ence that can sometimes be helpful
around the lab. But he said the "shift
in culture" has also forced him to
change his teaching methods.
"Almost none of them know how
to use a screwdriver," Ruf said.
The beginning ofthe end, orjust
the beginning?
In 2012, the NASA's Mars Sci-
ence Laboratory successfully landed
Curiosity, a unmanned scientific
rover, on the surface of Mars to per-
form a slew of experiments, in part
to determine potential for human
settlement of the planet and con-
tinue the search for life in the solar.
system.
The mission is estimated to cost
about $2.5 billion. If manned explo-
ration and settlement of the planet
was ever pursued, the cost wouldbe
significantly higher - potentially $1

trillion, according to Gombosi.
But scientists - ever the pragma-
tists when concerned with funding
cuts - will continue to support such
efforts as long as the government
keeps funding them.
"That's the kind of stuff that
catches public attention and some-
times we scientists prostitute our-
selves by jumping on things which
sell, butit gets you into trouble," said
Engineering Professor Emeritus
Andrew Nagy.
While a manned Mars mission
may fulfill the human desire to
explore, Nagy said there are plenty
of unanswered questions in the field
that could be accomplished for less
money.
"A lot of stuff that we want to do
can't be done," Nagy said. "Things
are getting more expensive. The
easy things have been done. There's
a lot of research that one wants to do
... there's no resources to do it."
Nagy also noted that some dis-
coveries, such as the transistor, were
invented through research that
emphasized "science for the sake of
science," asserting that researchers
not lose sight of the possibility for
real discovery.
But on the other side of the SPRL,
it appears that pragmatism might
be the decision maker, at least for
the time being. In 2012, Ruf - along
with two other University research-
ers - wereawarded $151.7 million to
fund the Cyclone Globaf Navigation
Satellite System - eight satellites
that, when launched into orbit, will
assist in the process of forecasting
and monitoring hurricanes.
"These days there's a lot more
emphasis on practical, useful types

of space science and less on answer-
ing the big questions just for the sake
of answering them," Ruf said.
"I think it's a good thing to
spend significant money on trying
to understand what makes the uni-
verse tick - those are important
questions,"he added."Buttthey don't
practically improve the day-to-day
quality of life of anybody other than
the scientistsworking on them."
With advances in smartphones
and miniaturization of electronic
components, Ruf said space sci-
entists have started to explore the
idea of smaller satellites. Instead of
launchinga single $2 billion satellite
each year, researchers are attempt-
ing to build a series of smaller $5 to
$50 billion dollar satellitesthatcould
be launched by a smaller institution,
such as a university, which histori-
cally have not played a large role in
the development and constructionof
entire space systems.
The CGNSS could provide more
accurate weather data, and in gen-
eral provide "more science per dol-
lar," according to Ru. At present, it
appears policymakers areinsupport
of this pragmatic approach, giving
Rufconfidencethathisresearchwill
continue for the foreseeable future.
But he also recognized that
research funding is ultimately dic-
tated by public opinion, which is
always subject to change.
"I thinkthere's apnood in general
in Washingtonthat they're trying to
focusscienceresearchfundstonmore
practical things," Ruf said. "This is
where the emphasis is going these
days. But who knows, maybe it will
swingback five or10years froUMnow
and I'lbe scrabbling for funding"

k
4_

F
Ni
WR
at
0.
m
W



V w V V V

0

w

V

q'.


.w

W,

w

Wednesday, September17, 2014 7B
Personal Statement: Life's too 'short'


Pinching pennies: Reign in your spending by amrutha sivakumar

By Michael Sugerman

When was the las
said, "Lunch is on me?
knew what you were g:
self into?
Budgeting isn't roc
but it sure is math.I
something about math
too time-consuming
place in most of our
Many of us struggle t'
faction with the way w
ing money, and coi
tuition and rent, theA
ball into heart-wren
bills and empty bank a
Here's the deal: yc
upset aboutsomething
pletely in your contro
full authority on the
decisions you make.
Like any project, th
is research. Track yo
for a month - either b
a spreadsheet or a s
application - and calc
your cash seems tof

t time you The Ultimate Lifetime Money to understand whether being in a
"and really Plan," authors Elizabeth Warren static balance is even an option.
ettingyour- - now a Democratic senator from Chances are, it's not. I spend sig-
Massachusetts - and Amelia nificantly more during Spring
ket science, Warren Tyagi propose a bud-
And there's geting method that involves
that seems dividing all your spending
to have a into wants, savings and needs.
schedules. According to their vision of
o find satis- the ideal budget, no more
ie're spend- than 50 percent of net income
upled with should be spent on needs, 30
woes snow- percent on wants and at least
ching Visa 20 percent on savings.
ccounts. What? Savings?
ou can't be Yes, savings. A 2013 study
that's com- by Demos found that the
1. You have average family's burden of
purchasing $53,000 in student debt can
lead to an average of $208,000
he first step loss in wealth over a lifetime, ILLUSTRATIONS BY MEGAN MULHOLLANI
ur pennies calculated in present day val-
y notebook, ues. Assuming that the inter-
smartphone est rate for a direct unsubsidized Break on travel expenses, food
ulate where loans is approximately 5 percent, and gifts and the beginning of
fly. Catego- that would be like paying off the each semester on textbooks and
$208,000 in lost income with supplies than during other parts
approximately $2,660 of loans of the year. When I'm traveling
every month for 10 years. home for the holidays, the spend-
That's over $31,000 paid in inggets cut in halfsince mom and
student loans every year by dad foot the food bills.
a family - a little less than a Zero-Based Budgeting, tradi-
third of the average American tionally used in the public and
family's income and over half corporate sectors, might just be
of the average starting income the solution. Rather than setting
of a University of Michigan a fixed amount each semester to
undergraduate engineering be used on food-related expens-
graduate. es, Zero-Based Budgeting would
OK. Breathe. have you look at that total amount
It's not all bad news. If you of income you're projected to have
include savings into your in the month, and then allocating
semester budget, you can cut your money accordingly.
illy up your down on the expenses you'll have It's simple: Keep aside at least
self to see to incur several years down the 20 percent for savings; and bal-
Lng even on road. It will also mentally prepare ance out your wants and your
a positive you for when remunerating stu- needs. Look at your spending
t or losing dent loans becomes a significant history to predict what you'll be
statement. part of your paycheck. spending, and be realistic with
ally under- Warren and Tyagi envision the your needs.
ey goes and perfect budget as a balance. But Sometimes it really does feel
the first step to creating a budget- like cash has feet. But it's just
(our Worth: ing method that works for you is paper, after all.

D

r"
0
C
N
2 '
W
K''
D
0
C
r

rize your costs and ta
income. Check your:
whether you're breaki
your income, making
gain in your accoun
money with each bank
Take some time to re
stand where your mon
what you spend it on.
In their book, "All Y

On my 16th birthday checkup,
my pediatrician told me that I
was done growing.
When I was younger, my goal
was to be 5-foot-6, and accord-
ing to my calculations via a fancy
algorithm in National Geograph-
ic Kids magazine when I was
around 8 years old (I'd later real-
ize I was just averaging my par-
ents' heights), this wasn't terribly
unrealistic.
I had always been pretty short
- and as a result, I had periodi-
callyundergone different kinds of
growth tests to ensure that I was
on track.
There had been bone ages -
X-rays that track the fusion of
bones and subsequently, where in
the growth process a patient is.
My testosterone and growth hor-
mone levels were checked when I
was 14 and they both came back
fine.
So when I learned that I'd be
5 feet 2 inches for the rest of my
life, I was disappointed but not
entirely surprised. By that point,
I was used to being short. Did
it sometimes prevent me from
reaching top shelves? Sure. But
otherwise, I was (and am) pret-
ty confident. Height wasn't an
object.
What made me upset, then,
was what the doctor said in

response to that news: "I'm
sorry." He apologized to me, as if
my final measurement was some
type of pitiable misfortune. And I
hated it.
Two summers ago, I - in my
patchy-bearded, 17-year-old
prime - was offered a kids menu
at a restaurant in Hawaii.Angling
my uneven scruff into the sun-
light, I looked up at the waitress,
and in the lowest baritone regis-
ter I could muster, asked for the
regular menu. Embarrassed, she
apologized and hurried off.
Four months ago, I was in the
middle of an intramural basket-
ball game, guarding a guy off
an inbound who was drastically
taller than me. As I hopped up to
try and block him from making
a pass, he scoffed at me: "C'mon
man, you're too short for that."
This July, as an intern for The
Hollywood Reporter, I was sent
to cover the premiere of Let's Be
Cops. While on the red carpet, I
interviewed the film's director,
screenwriters and stars. I was
stunned at just how tall they all
were. One actor, James D'Arcy
(who played the film's villain,
Mossi) is 6-foot-3. As I inter-
viewed him, I held my record-
er nearly at full length above
my head, to get the best qual-
ity of audio for his responses. He

seemed amused, and I couldn't
blame him.
While visiting a friend this
summer, her younger brother
Being short is no
an issue; it's notI
challenge; it's no
a disease; it's no
something to be
"sorry" about.
came out to say hello. He's enter-
ing the third grade, and doesn't
really have a verbal filter yet.
He asked me, "You're really 19?
Aren't you small to be 19? I'm
almost as tall as you are!"
Yes, I stand proudly at 5 feet
and 2 inches, maybe 3 inches with
the right combination of shoes
and posture - and naturally,
short jokes come with the terri-
tory. I've gotten them for as long
as I can remember.

Aside from the more recent
stories above, this one guy who
I knew in elementary school -
with whom I've kept in touch
because we attend the same
temple back home - has
historically made it a point
to greet me by observ-
t ing, "Wow, you're still that
short."
a Here's the thing: I have
been short for my entire
t life, but I have never felt
small.
t The dictionary clari-
fies that to be small is to be
"less than normal or usual,"
or "not great in strength
or power." I've always
been concerned about
that, because I don't-want
my height to limit me -: to
make me something weak
or lesser.
I'm someone who believes
that self-confidence is just that:
derived from the self. So, a long
time ago, I decided that I didn't
care about being short. But it's
still something about which I've
harbored a great deal of insecu-
rity.
I know, it sounds shallow. But
we live in a world where like,
"Sorry shorties, tall dudes have
their pick of the dating pool,"
exist in mainstream media;

where the phrase "bigger is bet-
ter" is universally known; where
voters see politicians as "better
suited for leadership."
I recently asked a few friends
to describe me honestly, in
one word. Responses included
"thoughtful," "energetic," "dedi-
cated," "loyal" and "unfalter-
ing." Notice that not one of those
adjectives hint at stature.
What I'm asking you to under-
stand here is that I do not person-
ally feel hindered by my height as
much as I feel that society tells
me I should.
And that's why, so often, I'm
angry about height. Some people
call it being "vertically chal-
lenged," as if it's more sensitive.
But why should sensitivity be
necessary? Being short is not an
issue; it's not a challenge; it's not
a disease; it's not something to be
"sorry" about.
It's just another trait. There's
no denying that being short has
contributed to my development,
to my personality and to the way'"
I see the world (both literally and
figuratively).
That said, it does not define me
as a person - not any more than
the color of my eyes. At the end of
the day, I really don't mind being
short. In fact, the view's pretty
good from down here.

COVER BY RUBY WALLAU


a

w

v

wVq

V3 ' - - 1,

How theme semesters are shaping the way you learn
by Tanaz Ahmed

For more than 20 years, theme semesters
have played an integral part in anchoring the
LSA curriculum. Through theme semesters,
LSA works to provide courses and events
related to a specific topic each term.
Though they were first implemented in the
1980s, theme semesters became more estab-
lished in the '90s under former LSA Dean
Edie Goldenberg. Faculty and administration
recognized the potential of theme semesters
to foster thought-provoking conversations on
campus and in the broader Ann Arbor com-
munity, said Marjorie Horton,
the assistant dean for under-
graduate education.
"The purpose of theme
semesters is to involve the
community in learning
ow.pbout, thinking about a com-
plex subject matter together
and from many different per-
spectives," she explained.
Topics that are relevant on
campus and but also have a
national impact are chosen.
Brown v. the Board of Educa-
tion was elected as a theme in
winter 2004 during the 50th
anniversary of the landmark
case. Past theme semesters
have also included "India in
the World," "Understanding
"kace," and "Genders, Bodies,
Borders."
The subject matter for
each semester is carefully
chosen. Preliminary propos-
als from departments, fac-
ulty and staff are expected to
be brief, two-page documents with an expla-
nation of the theme, lists of potential col-
laborating departments or programs, ways
to involve students, proposed courses and
community events. After the preliminary
proposals are returned with feedback, a full
proposal is developed.
The theme for Fall 2014 is "Sport in the
University." The recent media focus on col-
legiate athletics coupled with the passion for
sports on Ann Arbor's campus makes "Sport
in the University" a timely subject, Anne
Curzan, professor of English Language and
Literature, said.
"We thought it would be fun and inter-
esting to capitalize on the widespread and
often passionate interest in sport on cam-
pus," wrote Curzan, who is spearheading
this semester's theme, in an e-mail interview.
"We wanted to highlight the ways in which
Wsport intersects with questions and research
we pursue across a wide range of disciplines
at the University, from psychology to physics
to literature to engineering, from race to gen-
der to economics to medicine."
Goce a theme is selected, the dean's
office provides a large portion of the finan-
cial resources needed to plan events and

programs. According to Evans Young, LSA
assistant dean for undergraduate education,
the office provides approximately $25,000
to $30,000 to the steering committee, com-
prised of faculty and staff, in charge of orga-
nizing the theme semester.
Specific LSA departments with an interest
in the specific theme semester provide addi-
tional funding. Occasionally, other Univer-
sity schools and colleges, such as the School
of Art and Design or the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance will also contribute to the
funding if the theme is relevant to their cur-

ment (PitE). John Knott, a current profes-
sor emeritus in the English department, was
able to further pursue his interests in litera-
ture and the environment while a part of the
'98 theme semester steering committee. He
was later one of the key figures in imple-
menting PitE.
Knott is not the only professor who
has been given the opportunity to further
explore his or her research interests and pas-
sions through theme semesters.
For Scott Ellsworth, a lecturer in the
Department of Afroamerican and African

To kick off the semester, "Sport in the Uni-
versity" hosted a panel titled "Game Plan:
Achieving Success at Michigan and Beyond."
Michigan Basketball Coach John Beilein and
Women's Gymnastics Coach Bev Plocki -
along with Phil Deloria, LSA associate dean
of undergraduate edtication, University pro-
fessors Rob Sellers, professor of Psychology,
and Robin Queen, chair of the Linguistics
department - were panel speakers.
Other events include a concert held in
honor of the "Star Spangled Banner," a His-
tory of Women's Athletics gal-
lery exhibit at the University
of Michigan in Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library and a performance
of "Good Kids" by the Sexual
Assault Prevention & Awareness
Center (SAPAC) at the Arthur
Miller Theatre. Lectures given by
speakers Philip Veliz, a professor
at the Institute for Research on
Women and Gender, and Univer-
sity alum Tarkington Newman,
will take place as well.
There will also be screen-
ings of films. "A League of Their
Own" will be shown on Sept. 21
with an introduction given by
Carol Hutchins, women's softball
coach.
"Afghan Muscles" and "A City
of Fire: The Story of '68 Detroit
Tigers" will be screened on Sept.
26 and Oct. 1, respectively. "Play-
ing Unfair: The Media Image of
the Female Athlete" and "Mira-
cle" are some of the films which
will also be shown.
While LSA junior Ayesha Mehrotra said
she found theme semester courses to be
unadvertised to students who did not seem
to belong to a department sponsoring these
courses, other students who had taken past
theme semester courses or attended related
events were intrigued by the selected topics.
"I did notfeel like I was an expert in any
of these topics before but I'm always look-
ing for opportunities to learn more about
my culture," said LSA junior Sunny Dharod,
explaining why he was motivated to enroll
in two theme semester courses as part of the
"India in the World" semester last winter.
LSA senior Loritta Chan became a part of
the student advisory board for "India in the
World" and took a theme semester course
because she felt as though they enriched hers
and other students' learning experiences.
"The diversified learning approach which
theme semester courses offer fosters a stu-
dent's interest in the subject," she added. "It
gives students room to explore the multiple
facets of Indian culture not taught in class,
such as music or the arts. When one draws
links between such events and issues taught
in class, the course becomes much more
dynamic, applicable and closer to real life."

' ' on the record
"The customer is highly overrated. Steve Jobs, the
foremost entrepreneur of our generation, consistently
believed he knew more than the customer did."
- VINAY GUPTA,founder of two companies and CEO of
outsourcing relationship management company Janeeva, at
Entrepalooza this week.
"If they're truly fans, they'll believe in these kids and
what they've done and the hard work they've put in. If
they're not, they won't."
- BRADY HOKE,Football coach
"In some ways, jokes are like a language. They're like a
way that people communicate with other people who
have a good sense of humor. In some ways, my shows
are kind of like a series of inside jokes between me and
the audience."
- Comedian MIKE BIRBIGLIA inan interview with The Daily
about his upcomingperformance at Michigan.

r, , .I%- U . -v, ... - ~
"...You need that drive. But at the same time, the study of (vocal performance) kind of
legitimizes it in a way. Because a lot of people think, 'You're a voice major; that's so cool. You
just sing.' Well, it's more than that. The whole point of the (vocal performance) art is to make
it look effortless ... Even though there are the hours and hours of study and practice that
go behind it. It's neat for me to be in that world now. To come from a place where this was
something I once did for fun, and now it's like, this is my life."

-SMT&D senior DAN KINTZMAN

M pM

Alibaba Group Holding
td., the Chinese
: e-commerce giant, will
begin trading shares of its
stock on Friday in New
York. Currently, shares
are to be priced from
$66-68 per piece and
could raise $21.8 billion
for the firm.
.com

riculums. There have also been instances
where themes have been funded by orga-
nizations outside of the University - such
as from the Ford Motor Company for the
"Detroit 300" semester.
The English Department and Physics
Department are some of the other depart-
ments contributing to this semester'sbudget.
The money goes toward the multitude of
events organized for theme semesters aswell
as staff support. Events - most of which are
open to the general public - usually include
speakers, movies, panels, performances,
concerts, student essay and video contests.
Over the years, theme semesters have
made a significant impact on academics at
the University.
For instance, in the Fall of 2012, the
"Translations" semester led to the creation
of the translations minor under the Com-
parative Literature Department. Although
housed under the Comparative Literature
Department, the minor stays true to its
theme semester roots through its interdisci-
plinary approach.
The Environmental Semester, the theme
in Winter of 1998, was a catalyst in creating
the University's Program in the Environ-

Studies, this semester's theme, "Sport in the
University" is the perfect opportunity for
him to incorporate the teachings from his
book, "The Secret Game: A Basketball Story
in Black and White" into a class on race and
basketball in America.
"There's a core group of faculty that
works on sports from various disciplines but
don't often get a chance to talk with one and
another, so I'm hoping this theme semester
helps us get to know one and another better
and share research," said Santiago Colas, an
associate professor of comparative litera-
ture, who is also teaching a course of global
sports cultures this fall.
For Tyran Steward, a lecturer in the His-
tory Department, this year's theme semester
gives him the opportunity to teach a subject
that is generally disregarded in American
academia.
"The reality is that many of the themes to
be pursued, such as sport, have been under-
studied by scholars and/or undervalued in
our classrooms despite their popularity in
mainstream American life or their need for
greater intellectual scrutiny," wrote Stew-
ard, who is teaching two courses related to
"Sport in the University" this semester.

On Monday, Netflixbegan rolling out its
online product in France. The question
remains: will the company will be able to
compete against Europe's uneasiness toward
U.S. giants? NBCNE

J

I

This Thursday, the University's board
of regents will vote on whether to
approve $18.7 million renovations to the
Intramural Sports Building.
'"""

F

NASA awarded
Boeing a $4.2
billion contract
and SpaceX
a $2.4 billion
contract to test
space taxis
that would
eventually
transport U.S.
astronauts into
outer space.
MOMO

_



I

w w

w

,w I

7?

-w

as

K14 /' he tatme B

ike many kids growing up
in the 1960s, Christopher
Ruf wanted to be an astro-
nt.His room was covered
in posters of'U.. astronauts. Models
of the spacecraft from Projects Mer-
cury, Gemini and Apollo lined his
- shelves.
On the afternoon of July 20,1969,
he listened to the radio broadcast
A NEW ER A IN as Apollo 11 touched down safely on

from a bygone era.
Covering the walls of each cinder-
block corridor are faded black and
white photos - cenes of students
huddled around miniature rockets or
typing away on now-outdated com-
puter consoles. They are glimpses of an
era quickly fading from memory as the
SPRL copes with the changing scien-
tific priorities.

For Fisk and his fellow research-
ers, this call to arms was a blank check
allowing them an unparalleled level of
scientific freedom. As control of space
became a matter of national security,
scientists were encouraged to take
risks without fear offundingshortages.
Universities alsoreapedtherewards,
as NASA began funding research labs
across the nation. For institutions that
were willing to cooperate with NASA,

of specialized infrastructure, designed
to allow researchers to prototype and
test instrumentation to be placed on
satellites.
Shaker tables simulate the violent
forces placed on items during launch
into orbit. Specialized vacuum cham-
bers subject instruments to the harsh
environment they will experience in
space. Clean rooms prevent even a
single dust particle from entering, and

the Space Physics Research Lab. His
second-floor corner office overlooks
the ongoing expansions across the
other engineering departments, the
medical campus and various other
nearby labs.
The SPRL has undergone several
expansions since its construction at
the height of the Space Race - a peri-
od of rapid scientific innovation span-
ning from the mid-1950s to early-1970s
that saw the two Cold War super-
powers - the U.S. and the Soviet
Union - battle for supremacy in all
matters of space research and
exploration. However, the
building's key character-
istics have remained
largely intact - in
many ways a
time cap-
sule

I tuhe lastuyears, NASA has been
targeted by policymakers looking to
cut spending, resulting in an essen-
tially stagnant budget. Beyond finan-
cial concerns, the U.S. space program
has suffered from a shift in the culture
value of scientific discovery.
"I was 14 when Sputnik went up -
it was 1957," said Lennard Fisk, the
Thomas M. Donahue Distinguished
University Professor of Space Science,
sittingin his office in the SPRL.
"You almost had to be alive then to
know the impact that had on science
education and scientific careers in that
time. There was quite a fervor in the
country over the fact that the Soviets
had launched the first satellite."
In a very real sense, Fisk has been
part of the space programs since the
beginning. After a decades-long career
- during which he served as the asso-
ciate administrator for space science
and applications at NASA, vice presi-
dent for research and financial affairs
at the University of New Hampshire
and, most recently, as president of the
international Committee on Space
Research, amongnumerous other posi-
tions - Fisk has experienced the full
spectrum of U.S. space research poli-
cies and priorities.
Like many of the 400,000 scien-
tists, machinists, engineers and crew
who worked for the U.S. Apollo pro-
gram at its peak in the late 1960s, Fisk
was motivated by a sense of national
urgency generated after the Soviet
Union successfully launched the first
manmade space satellite - Sputnik -
in 1957.
"It very much alarmed people that
somehow Communist society was
beating us in technological ability -
the country went ballistic on the sub-
ject," said Fisk.
In 1958, Congress passed the
National Aeronautics and Space Act
"to provide for research into problems
of flight within and outside the earth's
atmosphere, and for other purposes,"
accordingto the original text.

The University entered the space
science field in the late 1940s through
two departments.
Following the capture of hundreds
of V-2.rockets from the Germans at the
end ofWWII, two University research-
ers were awarded grants from the Air
Force to develop and mount scien-
tific instruments to be launched into
the upper atmosphere - marking the
beginning of the University's commit-
ment to space sciences.
William Dow served as the founder
and original director of the SPRL,
which grew out of the electrical engi-
neering department. In a parallel
effort, Emerson Conlon founded the
High Altitude Engineering Laboratory
out of the aeronautical engineering
department.
Eachlab employed unique approach-
es to study similar atmospheric phe-
nomenon, leading to competition
between scientists within the college.
Around 1950, when Les Jones and Nel-
son Spencer took over at the HAEL and
SPRL, respectively, the two labs were
already locked in their own pseudo
space race.
"(They) were almost enemies of each
other, both competing to make Michi-
gan a star in the space program," said
Engineering Prof. George Carignan,
who served as director of the SPRL
from 1962 to1984.
The two labs functioned in tan-
dem until Jones stepped down in 1968
due to a battle with leukemia. After
that, Cargnan said the HAEL slowly
decayed while the SPRL flourished.
By 1964, the University was granted
federal funds to build a new home for
the SPRL. The facility, still located at
its originallocation on Hayward Street,
was one of the University's first facili-
ties on the fledgling North Campus
- set apart from other departments
to ensure the security of its projects,
many of which were highly classified
at the time.
Today, the lab still houses an array

Over the course of the manned
space program, eight astronauts were
University alums. Notably, the entire
crew of the Apollo 15 lunar mission -
James Irwin, David Scott and Alfred
Worden - were University graduates.
Despite its historical roots in space
research and exploration, the Uni-
versity has been subject to the same
challenges facing all facets of the U.S.
space research enterprise, which could
result in lasting damage to the infra-
structure so carefully built up over the
last five decades.
Down the drain
"There are no bold initiatives," Fisk
said. "We stpped beingbold in 1972."
Two high-profile shuttle disasters
- Challenger and Columbia - and the
exorbitant cost of the International
Space Station - estimated at about
$150 billion to date - have led to the
deterioration of public support for
space research in recent years. Both
the shuttle program and the space
station have received criticism from
members of the scientific community.
Combined with the effects of the
federal sequestration, NASA's pro-
posed $17.5 billion budget - .05 per-
cent of the federal budget - for 2015
represents a one percent decrease
from members of the previous year,
a serious blow to universities that
rely heavily on those funds for their
research efforts.
In comparison, 4.5 percent of the
1966 federal budget - which would
today amount to $167 billion - was
allocated to NASA. Today, it's less than
0.5 percent.
After the last Apollo moon mission
in 1972, NASA began the process of
downsizing its workforce from about
30,000 civil servants to fewer than
20,000, according to Fisk. In simple
terms, the administration ran out of
things to do after reaching the moon,
and the country shifted its focus to
other priorities, such as the Vietnam

War.
"It didn't have a mission," Fisk said.
"It kept looking for a mission. When
the President says, 'Go to the moon and
bring them back in ten years,' you have
a very clear mission."
As the skilled workforce was forced
to find jobs in other industries, they
took with them the knowledge nec-
essary to maintain NASA's advanced
space programs.

"There's a huge loss of capability,"
said Fisk. "No one can build the Saturn
V today, we lost the keys."
Even among the scientific commu-
nity, there is a push to move away from
manned spaceflight. While the Apollo
moon missions were a key national
interest, many prominent researchers,
including Fisk, question the need for
continued use of the shuttle and Inter-
national Space Station. In terms

ofscientifievalue, mostspace research-
ers agree that unmanned crafts deliver
a greater 'bang for the buck.
Engineering Prof. Tamas Gombosi,
who researches planetary weather
and heliospheric physics, said NASA
and the space research community has
always wanted to do more research
than there are funds available. He said
the pool of scientists seeking funds has
See SPACE, Page 8B


