~be4£ic ian 0a1imctanal~
ONE-HI) N1)1 LDT\ TWENTY-OLiR YEA )S 01 EDO1IA , FRlEEDOM
Ann Arbor, Michigan Monday, September 15, 2014 michgandaly com
ATHLETICS
Despite drop
in sales, new
ticket policy
commended
Ticketing system The changed policy features an '-
"attendance-driven reserved seat-
that rewards loyal ing plan." In this plan, students are PalSchrem
assigned seats based on the number RYAN REISS/Daily
fans receives positive of points they have earned through Tyler Paxton discusses his experince with his startup at the Entrepalooza Symposium festival in the Michigan League Friday.
game attendance during the previous
reviews from students season.
For the 2014 season, teats were
By MAYA KALMAN determined through a combination of
Daily StaffReporter class year and attendance intan effort
to be fair to upperclassmen. For the
With two home games completed 2015 season, however, seats will be
in the 2014 football season, student determined solely based on atten-
opinion regarding this season's new dance points from 2014.te
ticketing policy is positive, with This restructuring comes at a
many hoping that it remains the same time when the Athletic Department
in the coming years. is struggling to attract a historically Panels discuss "How many of you want to unique panel sessions. To cap half-day symposium, which
The University's new student foot- dedicated student fan base to this startbusinesses?" the day's events, "Lunch and was hosted in the Michigan
ball seating policy, which changed season's games. Early estimates from creativity in the Dozens of hands shot up. Learn" gathered University League.
the way in which seats are assigned, the department predicted 8,000 But the listeners' hands didn't students and area CEOs, com- Nkem Nwankwo, co-pres-
was developed in an effort to enhance fewer student packages being sold in workplace budge for the next question: pany founders and leaders of ident of the Entrepreneur &
the environment in Michigan Sta- 2014 compared to 2013 - a 40-per- "How many of you know how entrepreneurship activity at Venture Club, which helped
dium by encouraging attendance and cent drop in student purchases. By RACHEL PREMACK to start it?" the University. organize Entrepalooza, said
early arrival to games in response to Michigan Stadium's streak of Daily NewsEditor How to start a business and Venture capitalists, lawyers, the symposium offered a space
low attendance at kickoff. The new 252 straight games with more than earn that coveted title of "inno- startup founders, members of for business students like him-
plan also intends to improve the stu- 100,000 fans in attendance was An MBA student in a bright vator" was the central topic the University's entrepreneur- self to see how they can enter
dent experience by making it easier put in jeopardy Saturday, with an yellow button-down smiled as of the Entrepalooza Sympo- ial community and those from the startup world without an
for students to sit with their friends announced crowd of102,824that was he asked an audience of busi- sium Friday, which included the Michigan business com- engineering background. He
at games. See TICKETS, Page 2A ness and engineering students, a keynote address and three munity spoke and attended the See INNOVATION, Page 2A
ACADEMICS D IAG JAMS ANN ARBOR
Pharmacy A City Council to
discuss increase in
de an talks ,
da taxicab metering
rese archApproval slated Reo"tio:"Councito
r award a construton
to raise flag drop contract to E.T. MacKenzie
prc yCompany
financingpriceby$7 The Council will discuss if
q a By JACK TURMAN it wants to grant a $355,900
Daily Staff Reporter construction contract to E.T.
New leader recounts MacKenzie Company for the
diffiltiesndrAt their meeting Monday, Liberty Street, Harvard Place
the Ann Arbor City Coun- and Arlington Boulevard
testing and overcoming RJSYWALLAD/ally cil will discuss resolutions Sanitary Sewer Extensions
LSA sophomore Jacob Sigman preforms with San Cristobal at Stamp Nations Welcome to Michigan concert at the regarding taxicab meter rates, Project.
corporate hurdles Diag Saturday. Read more about the event at michigandaily.com. construction contracts and a If the contract is awarded,
zoning ordinance. E.T. MacKenzie Company

By JOEL GOLDSTEIN will install sanitary sewers
Daily Staff Reporter LECTURE SERIES Resolution: Council votes at Arlington Boulevard and
to deregulate taxicab rates Harvard Place beginning
Pharmacy Dean James Dalton . in late September, with the
spoke at the Rackham Amphitheatre M =IiAc~J11 Jprie ceThe Ann Arbor Taxicab estimated completion date in
Friday, addressing the College of Board met Aug. 28 to con- mid-November. Installation
Pharmacy Graduate Student Organi- " " sider a resolution that would of a sanitary sewer for Lib-
zation on the process of taking a new w th t i b a l ' P i Pri I( I o Xderegulate taxicab rates by erty Street will commence
drug from a research lab to a patient. establishing a high, maximum in the spring of 2015 and be
The College of Pharmacy Gradu- meter rate. The Board voted completed by late May or
ate Student Organization was cre- Speaker gives career ogy as part of the school's alumni and discussed students' individ- unanimously for the Council early June.
ated this year to increase dialogue speaker series. ual career ambitions. to discuss a $7 increase of the The project will be funded
between departments of the college, advice to graduate Sponsored by the school's Shelagh Saenz, director of flag drop, which is currently by the Sewage Disposal Sys-
During his presentation, Dalton, Career Development Office, career services at the Public at $3, and a $2.50-per-mile tem Fund's capital budget.
who became dean of the college on students the talk also gave students with Health School, said the alumni increase.
Sept. 1, spoke of the hurdles he faced career advice, and used an inter- speaker series seeks to expose The goal of this resolution Resolution: Council to
trying to take his drug from labs at ByANASTASSIOS active format to engage students. current students to different is to allow each taxicab com- rezone South Main Street
the University of Tennessee and Ohio ADAMOPOULOS Joseph, who graduated in 2011 sectors of the public health field pany more freedom in estab-
State University to the American DailyStaffReporter with a master's degree from by providing stories of different lishing and advertising its The Council will vote on
patent offices and the FDA. He the School of Public Health, career paths and unique experi- own rates. If this resolution an ordinance to rezone the
describedhisexperienceswithgetting University alum Aley Joseph answered questions regarding ences. passes, the deregulation will Downtown Core Base District
funding for research as well as the spoke to Public Health stu- the study of epidemiology in Joseph,whoworksattheCali- go into effect on Oct. 6. - currently a high-density
See PHARMACY, Page 2A dents Friday about epidemiol- Native American reservations See EPIDEMIOLOGY, Page 2A See METERING, Page 2A


WEATHER HI: 65 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Several arrests made before football game Saturday
TOMORROW L 41 news@michigandaily.com and letus know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEW S .........................2A OPINION .................. 4A
Vol, CXXIV, No.126 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS .........A......5A
©2St4TheMichiganDaily ARTS........ .....3A SPORTSMONDAY..........1B
michiyavdailycam


2A -- Monday, September 15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, September 15, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Pic MOdO=gaailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41a-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@mirhigandailyceem dougsolo@michigandailycem

24 PERCENT?
Students reject tuition increase

41years ago this week
(Sept.14,1973)
The University's Student Gov-
ernment Council modified the
demands of their strike against
a record 24-percent tuition
increase.
In addition to requesting that
the tuition increase be over-
turned, the SGC added demands
pertaining to all "needy" stu-
dents receiving financial aid, and
the maintenance of the Univer-
sity's 1970 promise to increase
minority enrollment to 10 per-
cent.
Student Action Committee
member Collin McCoy said the
demands stemmed from con-
cerns that if the tuition increase

were overturned, financial aid
and minority support would
receive cuts instead.
29 years ago thisweek
(Sept.20,1985)
The University's Board of
Regents unanimously decided to
divest $4.5 million from compa-
nies operating in South Africa.
The decision came in the wake
of the University's decision two
years earlier to divest $45 mil-
lion from the same group of com-
panies, which represented 90
percent of its investments in the
area at the time. The decision left
the University with $500,000 in
South Africa-related holdings,
which the regents said it planned


to use to challenge a court ruling
upholding a 1982 state law that
required public universities to
divest.
10years ago this week
(Sept. 16,2004)
A dead crow discovered a week
earlier at Observatory Street
and East Medical Center Drive
was found to be infected with
West Nile virus. The crow was
the eighth animal discovered
in Washtenaw County infected
with the virus, though it was the
first to be discovered on campus
and the second to be discovered
within Ann Arbor city limits.
- SHOHAM GEVA

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydiplay@gsaitcom
Online Sales
ontineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to thetEditor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classif ied Sales
classified@miiandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

N

a

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
LSA sophomore Julie Katsnelson chalksfor the impron
club The Aughts Sunday outside the Dana Building.


TICKETS
From Page 1A
considerably smaller than the sta-
dium's official capacity of 109,901.
Public Policy senior Bobby
Dishell, Central Student Govern-
ment president, worked closely
with the Athletic Department to
develop the new seating policy. He
said he is optimistic that the change
in policy will continue to benefit
students, and he has observed that
the student section is already more
full before kickoff as a result.
"The feedback we've received
has been overwhelmingly posi-
tive," Dishell said. "When we sur-
veyed students, the number one
thing that students wanted was to
be able to sit with their friends, and
I think you can see in the student
attendance numbers that that's
been reflected."
Students have expressed posi-
tive opinions about the new policy,
noting that it allows them the free-
dom to sit with friends by creating
seating groups and reward those
who are dedicated to attending
games.
"I feel.like they're trying to give
more loyal fans higher priority,
so for people who came to more
games last year, I guess, it would
make sense to feel that they think
the team's more important," said
Engineering sophomore Jake
Sprintz.
Engineering sophomore Grey-
son Schultz echoed this apprecia-
tion of fairness.
"If you didn't go to really any
games last year then I don't know
how important it would be for you
to get good seats this year," he said.
This change in policy comes on

the heels of the 2013 season's policy
change, which abolished the previ-
ous seniority-based system and
enacted a first-come, first-served
system.
Many students felt last year's
policy was unfair to upperclass-
men. LSA senior Elizabeth Swaynie
bought season tickets starting her
freshman year with the hope that
she would be in front by her senior
year.
"I knew back then that if I
bought season tickets every year
and I had put in my time I'd get to
the front row," Swaynie said. "I felt
bad for the juniors who had worked
so hard in buying these tickets and
spending so much money on the
athletic program and then just
kind of getting the short end of the
deal."
Nevertheless, Swaynie said
she believes there has been too
much change and that the Athletic
Department should pick one policy
and stick to it. LSA junior Saman-
tha Tinsley agreed that policy has
been too unstable.
"I think it makes it really con-
fusing because they've changed it
every year since I've been here,"
Tinsley said. "This is my third year
here, and you kind of never know if
they're going to stick to it for next
year."
The Athletic Department and
CSG will be monitoring student
opinion of the new system's enact-
ment. Their goal is to continue to
improve the experience of attend-
ing football games.
"Looking forward, the numbers
show that this has really been posi-
tive for most students and we look
forward to surveying students to
continue to improve this and to see
where we can keep getting better,"
Dishell said.

van said. "What I take away from it is
INNOVATION that it's a great company, you're a great
From Page 1A person and everyone there is great, but
you're part of one machine.Is that what
you want to do? And that's not what I
said networking was also central to the want to do. I wanted to have control. I
event. wanted to make my own thing. I like
"We want to get people networking making stuff."
with different skillsets of the Michi- The other entrepreneurs said they
gan community," Nwankwo said. "We did not feel at ease with corporate life-
want them to meet these people who style.
have already done it, get their experi- Engineering alum Danny Ellis
ences and really absorb their knowl- founded Ann Arbor-based SkySpecs,
edge." a company that builds "flying robots."
The Business School, EVC and Sam- He said he even rejected two coveted
uel Zell & Robert H. Lurie Institute for job positions, including one at SpaceX,
Entrepreneurial Studies sponsored the to found his company.
event. It follows the organizations' and "I still don't regret that decision one
the University's push to widen their bit," Ellis said. "Working in something
entrepreneurial footprint. that you are this passionate about is a
University alum Rob Pelinka deliv- much better experience than sitting
ered the keynote address. A former in a cubicle being told what to do, and
basketball player, Pelinka was a mem- waiting three months to make a deci-
ber of three NCAA Final Four teams sion because you've got to wait for the
as a Business undergraduate. He went hierarchy to make a decision."
on to earn a J.D. from the Law School He added: "My recommendation
and founded Landmark Sports Agency, is to try it. You've got nothing to lose.
based in Los Angeles. So you have to live in student housing
Pelinka emphasized hard work and for another couple years? You'll get
connections, invoking anecdotes from the high paycheck someday; you don't
working with a certain very famous need it right away."
client of his - Kobe Bryant. After his Across the hall, more-seasoned
speech, he spoke to interested stu- entrepreneurs discussed their careers
dents. as innovators. Their advice was con-
One panel topic explored business trye tthe norm.
creation as a young adult. Four busi- "The customer is highly overrat-
ness founders - late-20-something ed," said Vinay Gupta, founder of two
men in business casual clothes - dis- companies and CEO of outsourcing
cussed their experiences as budding relationship management company
entrepreneurs. Janeeva, amid laughter. "Steve Jobs,
The impetus for founding their the foremost entrepreneur of our gen-
companies often came from everyday eration, consistently believed he knew
instances. Business alum Tyler Pax- more than the customer did."
ton founded Are You a Human, which Nancy Gilby, director of entrepre-
validates that a user is not a robot by, neurship at the School of Information,
for instance, telling a user to drop an countered that Jobs didn't write off the
iPhone or Android into a shopping bag customer's needs, but rather gathered
rather than presenting CAPTCHA. A them through non-traditional means.
co-worker of Paxton, then a consultant, "He was an incredible introvert but
came into their cubicle one day, com- a keen observer of watching people
plaining of his failure to buy Hannah use technology," Gilby said. "There's a
Montana tickets. Ticket scalpers using right way to learn about the world of
robots bought up all the tickets, and your customers. You need to under-
Paxton thought there must be a better stand how they perceive the world,
wayto ensurethatrobotsweren'tusing how they use tools and then you'll
services made for humans. really understand and see their prob-
One facet of Are You a Human sur- lems."
veys the user's mouse movements. Another non-traditional perspec-
"We found out that we could build tive came from Doug Cass, co-found-
this cool system of monitoring the way er of toy companies Kahootz Toys
people interact with a website and and Giddy Up. He said the light bulb
could decide whether it was a person moment of getting a new idea is unim-
or an automated bot," Paxton said. portant; one must instead deliberate
The panelists also discussed what about the execution.
it was like in the early years of their "The key is buildinga foundation of
startups, making little money as their people, a vision," Cass said. "You gotta
former classmates earned six-figure look at finding the right people and
salaries in office jobs. While Business building your team."
alum Cavan Canavan was founding One of the tenderfoot innovators
Focus, a fitness wearable company, he echoed this notion.
turned off Facebook to ignore photo "At the end of the day, you can have a
albums of his friends' European adven- great idea, but that idea is worth noth-
tures. Canavan also had to forget about ing until you've been at it for a few
his internship experiences at Apple to years," Paxton said. "It just takes a long
get his company off the ground. time until you have something that's of
"It was a great internship," Cana- value."

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
Jennifer Calfas ManagingNews Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENtORNEWSEDITORS: IangDillingham, Sam Gringlas, WillGreenberg,Rachel Premack
and Sephanie Shenoda
ASTANT NWS EDTORS Allan AkhtarNealaBn kws anki, CaiBra, Shoham
Geva, AmblsKaroub,tEmma KerrThoas Mcnien, i let,, Micel a rmane,,x
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial PagetEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: MatthewSeligman andDavid Harris
Greg Garno and
AleandroZdfiga ManagingSportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Lev FacherR, jt Khare, Jake
Lourim and JeremySummitt
ASSISTATSP s TeS EJ kI10S:MaxButman, MinhDoan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufmaen,,Eri Lno, Jae Lurim ad Jn~asoRu insei
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaiy.com
AkshaySeth Managing ArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.com
NIOR ARTSEDITORS:GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,ErikaHarwood and
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll,Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Shernan Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENsIOPOEDIsRS Allinarranad Ruby Walau
ASSISTATPHOEOEDTORS: thernePekela,VngiaLano,
JamesColler,McKenzieBerezinandNicholas Williams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabiela VasqezMnagingsignEditeos deign@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDTORS: AmyMaksandAlii Kovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau-
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMaAens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingcopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SNIOR COPYsInORS:Mariam Sheikh andDavidsNae
Aasten Hafford Onlise tdito kn ahufford@michigandaily.com
VIDEO EDITORS Paula Friedrich and James Reslier-Wells
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: BrianneJohnson
BUSINESSSTAFI
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classified Manager
Simonne Kapadia LocalAccountsManager
Lotus An NationalAccounts Manager
Olivia Jones Production Managers
Nolan Loh specialProjects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian FinanceManager
The Mitigan Daly (JSSN 0745-97) is published Monday through Friday during the fa and winter terms by
stud"theUiertofM''igan.Onopy'is'' " aila"efof'h' getoallreaders. Additional copies may
be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for fall term, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110.
Winter term (anuary through Aprl)is $115,syearIng(SeptembersthroughsApril s19.University affsiates
are subj"ctto'a'd"cd"ubsciptio'rae.O-campussbsceiptionsfors"a'ltmre" 535. Su"scripionsmust
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

4


METERING
From Page 1A
residential, commercial and
office zone - to the Downtown
Interface Base District, which
would limit usage to medium
density residential and mixed-
used buildings. The proposed
rezoning is an. effort to expand
the downtown district in Ann
Arbor. The ordinance originated
in June but has been pushed
to every subsequent Council

meeting.
The City Planning Commission
believes that this rezoning will
align with adjacent zones and
the surrounding land uses, plac-
ing restriction on building height
and size to better conform with
nearby structures.
The architect and owner of 425
S. Main St., a property that will
be affected by this decision, are
both in opposition to this ordi-
nance. Councilmembers Sabra
Briere (D-Ward 1) and Chuck
Warpehoski (D-Ward 5) support
the ordinance.

EPIDEMIOLOGY
From Page 1A
fornia Tribal Epidemiol-
ogy Center, discussed the
role of such centers in the
United States from her
own perspective - one
that doesn't necessarily
represent that of the orga-
nization. Most centers are
.part of the Indian Health
Service and assist Ameri-
can Indian and Alaska
Native tribes by advocat-
ing for tribalhealth, work-
ing to prevent diseases
and buildingpublic health
initiatives within their
respective communities.
"The idea is actually to
give tribal people control
of their health care servic-
es ... it was really meant to
be in the direction of more
sovereignty," Joseph said.
of TECs.
She also discussed sev-
eral problems that TECs
and the IHS face, which
range from underfunding
to issues with data gath-
ering and interpretation.
Surveys often underrep-
resent populations and
race misclassification is
an often occurrence. TECs
use linkage studies to try
to correct for this error.
"Thinking about the

day in the life of the TEC
epidemiologists, it's all
really about data access,
availability and interpre-
tation," shesaid.
When she spoke to the
students about their post-
University plans, she gave
them suggestions as to
how to best ensure that
those planshbecomereality.
She said it is impor-
tant to lay out a long-term
plan based on a student's
individual interests and
to then structure class
schedules that allow them
to develop skills for suc-
cess in that particular
occupation.
"The reality is, from
the perspective of a hiring
committee, what they are
looking for is somebody
who can hit the ground
running, needs minimal
training," Joseph said.
Twelve Public Health
students attended the lec-
ture, consisting of both
first- and second-year
master's students.
"I came for the career
advice,"said Public Health
student Karin Dove. "I
thought it was inter-
esting to hear how she
approached taking classes
here or what classes she
thought were important
or what skills were impor-
tant to learn."

*winu


PHARMACY
From Page lA
challenges in working with
large corporations and
regulators.
For more than 10years, Dalton
worked to put Enobosarm on
the market, a drug that helps
patients build back muscle lost
from cancer treatments and
other muscle wasting diseases.
He said 50 to 80 percent of
cancer patients have a degree of
muscle wasting and because of
age-related sarcopenia, muscle
loss due to old age.
Another critical part of
the process of creating new
medicines is financing. Dalton's
company, GTx was taken

public and partnered with two
larger corporations, Johnson
& Johnson and Merck. Dalton
said that a University can help
a scientist getting an initial
patent, but financial support
from an institution can run out
quickly.
GTx raised $70 million on the
stock market and received close
to $1 million from its corporate
partnerships. However, it had
a massive research budget that
was often over $40 million a
year. Bringing a new drug to
the market usually costs near $1
billion and Dalton stressed that
outgoing Pharmacy students
should look at the stability of
any company they are may work
for.
Dalton explained the
regulatory challenges that

he faced while developing
Enobosarm. The drug initially
failed two FDA trials and one by
a European regulatory agency.
Eventually, Dalton and his
company discovered that the
failed trials were not due to a
lack of efficacy of the drug, but
due to the fact that some patients
in the trial were on harsher
regimens of chemotherapy and
were weaker because of it.
The talk was not only a case
study in drug development,
but also offered career. advice
session for young pharmacists.
Dalton told students to keep
their training broad early in
their careers and to be ready
to work for many companies.
He added that it's important
for young pharmacists to take
chances.

"It's a high risk, high reward
enterprise," Dalton said.
Dalton was the inaugural
speaker at the lecture, which
the College of Pharmacy
Graduate Student Organization
plans on holding annually. The
College of Pharmacy houses
several departments which have
been criticized for not always
working together cohesively.
One goal of the lecture is to
unite the research focuses
of the school with the more
commercially-focused units.
"Some of the students in
the research world don't
really understand pharmacy
and drug development and
the downstream patient
population," said Daniel Hertz,
a faculty member at the College
of Pharmacy.

i

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 15, 2014.- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Monday, September iS, 2014 - 3A

FILM COLUMN
Characters
in editing

TV REVIEW
John Oliver shines in new role
on HBO's "Last Week Tonight"

T he word "frenetic"
is thrown around a
lot whenever movie
reviews or any other form of
popular, easily-digestible film
commentary
portions
out sound
bites to
discuss that
commonly
under-
acknowl-
edged sliver AKSHAY
of movie SETH
magic called
editing. And
for good reason. The process of
cutting together a film, by nature
of its methodology alone, is con-
ceived with an understanding that
the end product, whatever it may
be, will remain as invisible as it
is intangible - cloaked beneath
infinitely more palpable layers of
photography, acting, music, direc-
tion - to invoke the sense that
viewers are experiencing a natural
sequence of events unfold in front
of them organically.
Sowhen critics see extended
instances of cross cutting,jump
cutting, montage or whatever the
shit else Vin Diesel is doing in
"xXx," the easiest targets to stab
your finger at and say "There. That
right there. That's what editing
is supposed to look like" become
all these in-your-face, "frenetic"
moments which can have incredi-
blevalue inbringinganotherwise
flatrealityasense of dimension
- but are far from being the only
examples of a craft that, at its best,
forms the most basic framework
of the bridge between audience
and film.
Then to get a better idea of
what's truly possible at the hands
of an imaginative editor, we have
to look at those pictures that strive
to constrain our view: force us
to examine events that, yes, may
stillbe tied to a singular narrative,
but are isolated enough to stick
with their leads' psyches. In other
terms, the editor shouldn't have
to sift through hours of footage of
Vinny D jumpingoff a building,
engaging in multiple midair gun
fights with 50 Russian hitmen
before back flipping into a Lam-
borghini - only for it to accelerate
off another building.
Instead, the films that can real-
ly showcase the nuanced control
of the cutting room are character
studies which live, stand within
their ability to leave the camera
behind a character's shoulders
to let us see the frame through
their eyes, or their face within the
frame. So usually, the editing in
such projects becomes inherently
more meaningful than just piecing
together different angles of some-
one cartwheeling motorcycles
over a Walmart because more
often than not, you're playing with
shots of an actor's facial expres-
sions - you know, that stuff you
call actual acting?
Even the shards of action in
these films, as jarring or visceral
as they may be, are woven around
little bits of character exposition,
little glimmers of dialogue that
prop together an entire, holistic
experience. In Scorsese's "Raging
Bull," widely considered one of the
most effectively edited features of
all time, there's a crucial scene in
which Jake LaMotta has his final
bout with Sugar Ray Robinson,
this time without the help of his

now estranged brother, Joey. The
fight itself is fervently cut into a
shuddering mess of fists colliding
with face, blood spurting out of
foreheads, camera flashes explod-
ing like white bombs.
Then, around two and a half
minutes in - after LaMotta is
finished being pummeled into a
pulpy afterthought - the edit-
ing crescendos before coming
to a near standstill. As LaMotta
leans forward, arms tangled in
the ropes, we cut to his brother
leaning backward in his couch:
distant, defeated and at home.
Scorsese and his longtime editor,
Thelma Schoonmaker, have liter-
ally slowed down time, adding
weight in those crucial moments
leading up to LaMotta stumbling
over toward Robinson and saying
"you never got me down, Ray."
The editing in this scene, styl-
ized and brazen, would have fallen
flat without those transitions in

texture. And more importantly,
the little morsels Scersese is try-
ing to give us about his visibly
disturbed protagonist. The action
sits in stark contrast with one
of the film's final clips, in which
LaMotta, after being thrown into
prison, punches the brick walls of
his cage in futile rebellion. There's
no cutting here.
No fancy transitions tied to the
thwaps of fists landing on flesh.
No fiery light bulb flares or explo-
sions of splattering gore. Just
LaMotta. Isolated inineffective-
ness, nothingto do with his fists,
both sides of the empty frame
washed in darkness. The inac-
tion speaks volumes about what
Scorsese is trying to tell us about
this character -useless masculin-
ity, once feeding into the violence
that afforded him freedom to hate,
beat the people who loved him,
now alltaken away.
Two more recent movies in
which the editing plays an integral
part in formulating or informing
our opinions on troubled pro-
tagonists are "Black Swan" and
"Frank,"bothbuilt aroundhonest
explorationsofmentalillness. In
"Black Swan," Natalie Portman
portrays Nina, a paranoid schizo-
phrenic consumed by the need to
embody an evil Black Swan, sensu-
al and polarized, for an upcoming
ballet recital. The role, along with
the movie in its entirety, digs deep
into this idea of duality. Working
off the mirrors in every corner of
the framethecameraremains
fixed behind Portman, anchored
around that bravura, Academy
Award-winningperformance. And
though much ofthe credit goes to
the film's cinematography, with its
constant propensity at teasing out
"pop shots" - slights of camera
frequently used in the horror genre
to create "cheap"scares,it's the
subtle editingthat really engineers
theshock.
In this case, "pop shots" were
usuallyjust director Darren
Aronofsky sneaking in errant
images of Portman in one ofthe set
piece's many mirrors, so in effect,
the audience would be watching
Nina put on makeup until sud-
denly,her reflection would take on
alife of its own. There's nothing
really creative about this brand
of visual trickery: simple CGI to
superimpose something in a place
where it's not supposed to be.
Which is why all those staggered
cuts that follow, each focused on
a different mirror angle, are so
essential in conveying horror, that
sense of"wait, did that really just
happen?"
More so than simple shock
value, the editing in the film puts
us in Nina's lense of subjectivity.
Every actress in the cast has been
made up and costumed to look
like Natalie Portman - brunette,
tapered down eyebrows and a
wiry frame. So all the frequent
cuts between Portman's face to
those of female cast members -
there are many - further stress
the motifs of dissimulation and
transformation that Aronofsky
is so keen to highlight and link
with hallucination: abyproduct of
schizophrenia.
In "Frank,"the editing layout
is simpler, but similar in the sense
that it attempts to let viewers expe-
rience mental illness subjectively.
The film starts with a cutting
pattern similar to one you'd see
in a visual comedy - fast-paced

jumps that bounce between differ-
ent sight-based gags ("Hey look!
Clara just threw a bottle at him!
[cut] Hey look! It hit landed on his
head!") until director Lenny Abra-
hamson delves deeper into his
characters' depression. The jumps
slow down and by the end, are
almost entirely replaced by inac-
tive pans and tilts of the camera.
It's this "single character cut-
ting,"though outwardly invisible,
that makes these films click the
way they do - putting viewers
not just in the same frame of mind
as the protagonist, but the same
frame of vision and time. Which
isn't the same as cartwheeling
over a Walmart in a motorcycle.
But I'd rather take a glimpse
through Natalie Portman's eyes
any day.
Seth is cartwheeling over a
Walmart onsa motorcycle. To join
him, e-mail akse@umich.edu.

By ALEX INTNER
DailyArts Writer
The late night space has
been undergoing huge change
recently. Jimmy Fallon took the
reins over at
"The Tonight
Show," Ste-
phen Colbert Last Week
is replacing
David Let- Tonight
terman and with John
Larry Wilm-
ore is tak- O e
ing Colbert's Sundays at 11 p.m.
place in the HBO
post-"Daily
Show" times-
lot. All of those stories got a lot
of press earlier in the year, but
during the summer, another
story took the lead: John Oliver
starting his own show at HBO.
Coming off his summer stint in
the hosting chair for "The Daily
Show," HBO snatched him from
a correspondent role on that
show and gave him his own on
Sundays. After a few months it's
clear that the move has paid off in
dividends for everyone involved.
"Last Week Tonight with John
Oliver" has quickly become the
best and one of the most impor-
tant shows in that space, even
surpassingthe show he left.
The idea of a news satire show
isn't new ("The Daily Show"
has been around for well over a
decade at this point). However,
John Oliver is doing things with
the format that haven't been
done so far because of the inher-
ent limitations of commercial
networks. He's willing to spend

HBO

Funny, bespectacled Brit schools us on U.S. and world news topics.

upwards of 20 minutes (which
happens to be the length of an
entire episode of his Comedy
Central counterparts) on a story
if it supplies him with enough
material.
What I love about the show
is how he uses it as a platform
to bring issues that aren't being
covered on the news. In his first
episode, he spent a lot of time
covering the Indian election. A
couple of weeks ago, he spent 15
minutes talking about the preda-
tory nature of the payday loans
industry and the corruption
that's stopping the government
from regulating it. Not only does
he take the time to bash FIFA
or the militarization of police
in Ferguson, he spends time on

the smaller stories too. Airing involved in the FCC's actions
weekly allows him to go more surrounding the issue. He also
in depth and gain a broader per- enticed the trolls of the internet
spective on important stories to go comment on the site and
like these. stop the agency's current action
The best example of what he to allow an "internet fast-lane"
can do with a story is the piece in a brilliant "call to arms."
he did in June on Net Neutral- That call to action worked,
ity, which is an issue that gets crashing the FCC's website the
only limited attention on tra- next day. What thatgoes to show
ditional news networks. These is people are starting to pay
13 minutes of television take an attention to what John Oliver is
extremely complex issue and doing on thisashow. If you haven't
provides a summary that, even been watching it, you should be.
if it's biased, gives the viewer It's doing exactly what news sat-
who may have never heard of the ire should: pointing out impor-
issue an understanding of what's tant issues and making great
happening. On top of that, it's jokes around it. He's taking his
also hysterically funny, mining new platform and not only cre-
some very intelligent humor by ating hysterically funny televi-
pointing out all the corruption sion, but important television.


Page 4A - Monday, September 15, 2014

;F t i l

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

_

R~t idhigan 4aly
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
ERICA WATSON | VI WPOINT
Let's talk about money

The oppression ofpoverty, part 2

As I sit here as a super senior at the Uni-
versity, I reflect on the statistic that says only
4 percent of the incoming class of freshmen
will be considered low socioeconomic status.
Socioeconomic status is defined by income,
household size and other contributing vari-
ables. Low SES is defined as having a parent
who makes less than $50,000 a year and who
has less than a bachelors degree. For those
of you who are harder hit by actual numbers
than percentages, this means about 256 of the
estimated 6,251 incoming students.
I wonder if these students know what they
are actually signing up for?
As someone who comes from a single-
father household, who on a good year makes
between $25-30,000 a year and was lucky to
get his high school degree despite his severe
dyslexia and a mom who dropped out of high
school at the age of 16, Ilam no stranger to what
it means to be "working class" or "low SES,"
or on days where I'm particularly frustrated
"dirt poor." According to public record here
at the University, less than 1 percent of all
students here come from the same financial
and educational background that I do.
Because of this, college has been a completely
different experience for me than it has for
many of my peers. For many, coming here was
the first time they ever had to deal with things
on their own. For me, I hadbeen working since
I was old enough to do so and helping to pay
rent since I was 16 years old. For me, college
was freeing because it meant I had less to take
care of, not more.
Once I got here, I quickly realized I was
different. During my first few years here, I had
a hard time making friends. Besides having a
hard time finding people who were like me that
I could connect with, my options for friends
were limited in ways that other students didn't
seem to face. I couldn't even fathom joining
Greek life because the dues, not to mention the
clothes required, were way out of my budget.
Instead I worked to help pay for college, which
left less time to join extracurriculars, which
for many is where they find their close friends.
Even the ones that I had considered joining
were way out of my budget. Joining Ski Club or
Alternative Spring Break was never an option
for me.
Even with the friends I did make, I was hard-
pressed to keep up. I couldn't afford eating
out or going to concerts or other things that
people often did. This left me with the choice
of either lying to cover up the fact that I didn't
have money or being a killjoy who made others
change their plansbecause of me.
As time went on, I saw more and more how
little people had to think about money, and it
made it hard for me to connect. When people
found out that I was here on practically a full
scholarship, they would often bemoan how
they weren't "given the same opportunity."
And tell me "how lucky I was." They clearly
never stopped to think about what situation I
was coming fromto get such support.
Over my four years of college, I have worked
anywhere from two to four jobs at a time,
everything from nannyingto catering, to psych
studies and theater jobs, some weeks working
more than full time while still going to 15-17
credits of classes. I have loaned money to both
of my parents to buy cars when theirs broke
down and helped both my parents pay bills and
rent so they weren't evicted or went without
heat or water. I have helped provide my little
sister with school clothes, winter coats and the
ability to have a cell phone, and lent my older
sister money to pay her bills. The list goes on
and on, and the tally is in the thousands.
It can be incredibly hard to focus on school
when you're worried about whether or not your
family will have a place to live next month or
if your siblings are getting what they need. It's
even harder when you have to miss class to

help take care of family crises that frequently
pop up. I don't want my professors to pity me
or treat me differently, so I often don't tell
them the truth. However, there are only so
many excuses you can come up with that sound
feasible in a semester.
As a theater student, I am constantly
reminded that I am behind. I have never seen
a Broadway show, never been to New York
and was never taken to plays as a kid. I have
nothing to contribute when these things come
up in class and never know how to tell people
this in the theater school without having them
look at me like I have a third arm sprouting
from my forehead..
Making space for me to be myself has been
incredibly hard on this campus. Money is
something we aren't supposed to talk about,
and since most people here have lot of it, it's
not even something they have to think about.
Because SES is often invisible, people assume
that simply because I have a nice backpack, an
iPhone - and most likely especially due to my
white skin - that I don't struggle with money.
We're all in college; we've all "made it," so
everything is great, right?
College for me was always something I felt
guilt and pressure for. My degree will never,
never just be for me. It's for everyone in my
family, who never got the opportunity or will
need help with the money that I will earn
with my degree and for my little sister, who
hopefully one day won't have to navigate the
confusing maze of financial aid, taxes and
logistics alone like I did. It's something that is
so new and scary as a first generation student
with no one to turn to for help.
As I reflect back on my struggles with
money here on this campus, I can't help
but worry about those students who are
coming in, not knowing what they are
getting themselves into. We are all, told
that Michigan will be "diverse." You'll meet
people from all walks of life, and for a while,
I truly believed that. While we may be here,
because there are so few of us, it can be hard
to find a community you belong to; a group
of people who understand you when you tell
them you're broke, because you not only paid
your own rent but your family's too. Finding
people who won't pity you, who won't ask
stupid questions and tell you how much
luckier you are than them to have a full ride
(not that this isn't an incredible gift that I am
thankful for every day).
To those incoming students who are
already here and struggling, I have only this
to offer: Being here will be hard. You will deal
with things that others can't even imagine:
Stresses, rage-filled tears, fear and panic that
others won't understand. As hard as it is to
believe, remember that you are not alone. You
will have to seek out people who are like you.
The more I started being honest and telling
people my story, the more I was able to find
others like me. Especially with something
like SES, you really have to commit to
searching, because it's not always visible
or easily guessed. Yes, this meant sharing
my stories and truths that sometimes made
people uncomfortable and sometimes made
them treat me differently, but it eventually
led to finding some of the best and closest
friends I've ever had, who really truly get it.
It's with the help of these friends that I have
made it through these four years here. They
have helped me cope, helped me find humor in
the insanity and stress and have made it possi-
ble to receive this degree and even go on to grad
school, where things will likely only get harder.
For those of you who haven't found this support
yet, please, please keep looking. If we don't sup-
port each other, who will?
Erica Watson is a School of Music,
Theatre & Dance senior.

t was fourth grade when my
mom sat me on our living room
couch to talk. I set my feet on
the edge of our
dilapidated cof-
fee table as she
said that we
couldn't pay our
"house bill" this
month. I saw the
fear in her eyes
and I immedi- MICHAEL
ately felt a surge SCHRAMM
of anxiety racing
through my stom-
ach. I was confused, and my anxiety
sparked a nervousness that caused
the room to spin.
"What's going to happen to us?"
I asked, as she proceeded to define a
mortgage and what "being late" on
a payment meant. The lump in my
stomach grew, and I started crying. I
felt terrified that our family's simple
home would be taken away. The
remainder of the night was spent
watching TV As I tried to escape into
the worlds in front of me, the lump in
my stomach was a constant reminder
that things were bad.
The next day at school I felt the
lump asI tried to live like nothing was
wrong, but no matter how hardI tried
I could always sense the fear coursing
through my body. I had no one to talk
to, I didn't know how to seek help.
Though I was so young, I could clearly
feel my social withdrawal from my
peers asIdrifted into my mind's fear.
I wish that my fourth grade
experience was an isolated incident,
but the financial problems only
worsened. As I got older, I became a
sponge, absorbing the stress coming
from the relentless bills pouring
into our home. My body was in a
constant hurricane season, and
consequentially I was always on alert
for the next crippling whirlwind to
twist me into knots.
Luckily, as I got older, I began
channeling my fear into a source
to improve my academic and social
lives - things that I could control.
Unfortunately, many children
suffering from parents' financial
strain never find ways to cope with
their anxiety. Instead, the stress
manifests itself in mood-altering

and antisocial behaviors. helps you visualize opportunities
Impoverished children and outside of your own circumstances.
teenagers are more likely to suffer Furthermore, it's imperative that
from depression. This could have these children have emotional
multiple explanations. Similar to my support for their constant stress.
experience, it could be a product of Now, let's make one thing clear:
continuous, incomingstress. It could I'm not trying to criticize parents as
also come from children's parents, the cause of impoverished children's
who are more likely to be depressed stress. These parents are trying
when suffering financially. The their hardest - oftentimes working
depression of a parent can often extra hours to support their families.
spur depression in a child, causing They're also more likely to suffer
an unhealthy cycle. from depression, and since only 6.2
The combination of financial percent of married-couple families
stress and depression can have seri- live in poverty, there's a good chance
ous consequences in children.A child the parent is trying to raise a child
who experiences common symptoms primarily on their own.
of depression including pessimism, We must recognize these
guilt and helplessness could really hindrances and stressors in the
struggle to overcome these issues lives of children who grow up in
given the seemingly endless parental low socioeconomic status homes.
struggle to pay bills. Other common We need to train teachers to
depression symptoms include diffi- identify children with behavior
culty concentrating and remember- indicating that they're suffering. I'm
ing details. Plus, a child chronically highlighting teachers since children
stressed by financial difficulties has spend so much time with them. If I
reduced cognition and memory and could have talked about my problems
impaired attention. These problems with another adult, I'm rather
would make it difficult for a child to certain that I could have developed
succeed in school, and given the link coping mechanisms and ways to
between education and income, a relieve stressyears earlier than I did.
financially burdened child's depres- But teachers aren't the only people
sion and stress who need to
could prolong help. As the
financial stress famous saying
into adulthood. Ibecame a sponge, goes, "It takes a
Alongside absorbing the stress village to raise
depression, chil- a child." As a
dren in finan- Coming from the society we must
cially burdened . be more attuned
households are relentless bills pouring to recognizing
also more likely into our home a child who
to exhibit anti- demonstrates
social behavior, signs of
which includes struggling, and
"bullying, being cruel, breaking we must be willing to lend a listening
things, cheating or telling lies." ear and an empathetic heart. These
Once children begin develop- lessons must also be ingrained in
ing this behavior, they struggle to our youth. I can vouch that an act as
break these habits in lieu of healthy simple as listening to a friend's pain
socializing skills. can provide more relief than the
These antisocial behaviors can listener can comprehend.
hinder a child's ability to develop We must make impoverished
strong peer networks, something children feel more supported. We
they desperately need. From cannot allow them to slip through
personal experience, it's hard the cracks.
to visualize breaking the cycles
and stresses of poverty without -Michael Schramm can be
a positive support system that reached at mschramm@umich.edu.

A difference for one

4

Through the Residential Col-
lege at the University, I
was given the opportunity
to work with

Latin@ students
at the nearby
Huron High
School this past
semester. When
Teresa Sanchez-
Snell, the Span-
ish Language
Internship Pro-
gram director,
sat down with
me, she said I

OMA"
MAHMOOD

should take on the most challenging
role. I would work with high school
students, helping them learn mate-
rial they were struggling with.
The first day I walked in, the
relieved English as a Second Lan-
guage teacher assigned me to more
than 10 Spanish-speaking students
who wereontheverge offailingtheir
classes. "Thank God you're here,"
said Mrs. Smith, introducing me to
her charges as they ate lunch. "These
are the worststudents in the school,"
she told me in a grandmotherly voice,
even as the whole class was privy to
her criticisms. The students looked
to me with innocent fascination, the
girls giggling as they first glanced at
me andthen away, the boys giving me
sidelong glances of disdain.
Mrs. Smith told me there was a
"desperate need" for translators, and
to help as many students as I could.
I ruffled through the schedules she
had given me. There was Oscar,
who was failing algebra. There was
Natalia, who was failing biology.
There was Mario, who was failing
history. There was David, who was
failing geography. Overwhelmed
as I was, I marched over to Oscar's
algebra class. I waited for some time
before understanding he had no
intention of showing up. So I turned
the page to the next schedule and
moved on to the next student. It was
the routine I would learn over the
next many weeks, as I understood,
to my grief, that many of these kids
simply didn't go to class.
It was then that I turned the page
to Pablo. The first class I had with
him was algebra with Mrs. Brown.
She was teaching operations with
exponentsthatFriday.AsIwalkedin,
an excited kid - whom I presumed
to be Pablo - turned around and
walked up to me. He pulled up a

chair next to me and sat down with
notebook and pencil in hand, almost
as if showing his new friend off to
the class.
I tepidly began to ask him how
he was doing, in English, explaining
that Mrs. Brown had said he direly
needed help. He had an innocent
aura about him, an innocent voice,
though not devoid of tomfoolery.
He was on the shorter side and
skinny. He kept his hair simple,
though I would find it one Friday
dyed pink down the middle for a fun
stunt. He answered my questions
earnestly. I was reluctant at first to
speak Spanish, because I thought it
would put Pablo off. I had feared the
kids wouldn't want to expose any
incompetency in English in front of
their classmates. Yet as I proceeded
to ease a couple words of Spanish into
our conversation, his eyes lit up.
"Hablas espanol?"
I smiled. "Porsupuestotlo hablo."
I didn't want to be imposing, so
I then explained to Pablo that he
would be my Spanish teacher for the
coming months, and I would help
him with his
schoolwork. It
was an alliance Still, it -WO
that never tired.
Pablo became a rich of me
little brother to
me, as much as have saves
one can become much as I t
a little brother
over weekly he taught
sessions. I found
that Pablo, far
from shying
away from Spanish, preferred his
language. Pablo was as dedicated
a student as I could find in that
classroom, language "barrier"
be damned. Teaching him was
rewarding not in the least for the
Spanish immersion we shared. I was
able to teach algebra in total Spanish
to a kid who was genuinelycurious.
One day I would teach him to factor
perfect-square trinomials, and
another day to classify polynomials.
He confided in me that he didn't
understand things until I explained
them to him. Once I explained them,
thingsbecame easy. By the end of our
term together, Pablo had progressed
so well that Mrs. Schneider called his
father and congratulated him.
Still, it would be a bit rich of me to
claim to have saved Pablo. As much
as I taught him, he taught me more.

We in Ann Arbor are always looking
to volunteer, but a volunteerism
is a slippery slope to elitism. Our
yearning to help others takes us to far
corners of the world, and sometimes
to new Facebook profile pictures.
And still sometimes we change in
more ways than that. We must train
ourselves to become aware of our
privilege, painfully aware of it. I
could not help but wonder where any
of those ESL kids might have been
had they been raised the way I had,
given such an extravagant education
that it would be painful to share it
here. I come away feeling guilty for
having so much and for daring to
think that I am paying my dues, and
in no other moment does a life of
poverty seem as appealing.
A person's heart can also become
heavy upon realizing that one's efforts
are but a drop in the ocean. I was
overwhelmed at Huron. The kids
there confided in me about drugs,
skipping school and about how their
teacherswere "racists." They were far
gone, and as much as I sought to help
them, they came to associate me with
the same teach-
ers they hated.
uld be a bit I could not help
them all, and by
to claim to the end, I had
decided to take
d Pablo. As Pablo under my
:aught him, wing and do my
me more. I'm reminded
of a favorite
poster of mine
that hung in the
principal's office of my Montessori
school. Underneath a picture of
stormy skies and waves of gray
crashing upon an endless beach was
an anecdote that I remember fondly.
A lone little boy was walking along
a beach, picking up starfish that had
washed ashore and throwing them
back into the oceanbefore they dried
up. A man walked up to the boy
and told him that his work made no
difference. There were thousands
of dying starfish, and he would only
ever reach a fraction. The boy picked
up another starfish and turned to the
man as he was throwing it back into
the water.
"True," he said, "but it makes all
the difference for this one."
-Omar Mahmood can be
reached at syedom@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, David Harris, Rachel John, Nivedita Karki,
Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald;
Victoria Noble, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu,
Meher Walia, Mary Kate Winn, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoints
should be 550-850 words. Send the writer's full name and
University affiliation to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 15, 2015 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, September15, 2015 - 5A

FOX SEARCHLIGHT
Epic moments in photobombing history.
andolfini's last

"... fully functioning, alive, stimulating adult dudeship."
'Trip to Italy'explores
friendship, sex, Venice

role in 'The

Dennis Lehane's
script and Tom
Hardy impress
By CONRAD FOREMAN
Daily Arts Writer
While adaptation from book
to film has been a cornerstone
of the industry since its incep-
tion, rarely do
the releases B
of said book
and film coin- The Drop
cide. To drop
book and State Theater
film so close- and Quality16
ly together Fox Searchlight
could only be
accomplished
by a film
titled, well, "The Drop."
Many films have depicted
money laundering operations
from the perspective of crime
bosses. "The Drop" explores
the business from the estab-
lishment's point-of-view. Bob
(Tom Hardy, "Inception") and
Marv (James Gandolfini, "Get
Shorty") are cousins who run a
bar together in a rough neigh-
borhood of Brooklyn. Formerly
two of the top players i .the
local crime world, nearly t0
years before they were rubbed
out by bigger fish. Present day,
as Bob befriends a dog-loving
lady, Marv plans his revenge on

the world; a storm of threaten-
ing circumstances culminate
on Super Bowl Sunday, the big-
gest drop of the year.
Though somewhat under
the mainstream radar, "The
Drop" comes from well-prac-
ticed hands: both the novel
and screenplay were writ-
ten by Dennis Lehane, whose
works "Mystic River," "Gone
Baby Gone" and "Shutter
Island" have all been adapted
into successful films; in addi-
tion Lehane also wrote three
episodes of famed HBO series
"The Wire."
In stark contrast to the three
aforementioned adaptations,
directed by Clint Eastwood,
Ben Affleck and Martin Scors-
ese respectively, at the helm of
"The Drop" is Michael R. Ros-
kam, a Belgian director with
only one previous feature film
under his belt. Roskam's style
doesn't leap off the screen, but
his use of motifs, reflection and
a few moments of creative edit-
ing testify to his nascent talent.
The film marks an opportu-
nity for one last go-round with
James Gandolfini, who died in
June 2013. Though certainly
no stranger to the crime genre,
his character'sefatist, atti-
tude and desperate persona
in "The Drop" distinguishes
him from Tony Soprano, the
role for which Gandolfini can't
be forgotten. His last isn't his

Drop'
greatest or most memorable
performance, but he delivers
with raw "go-fuck-yourself-
ness" that perfectly character-
izes the middle-aged tough guy
who's had life step on him a few
too many times.
Despite an abundance of
pitbull puppy cuteness, "The
Drop" drops the ball just
before crossing the thresh-
old of exceptionality. A longer
runtime would create more
depth for the film's meddling-
police-officer-storyline, and
though clearly the filmmakers
wanted to hold back details in
order to illustrate Bob's myste-
rious nature, more meat to his
character's profile would help
engage the audience.
Of course, the most popular
reason one might-see this film
will probably be Tom Hardy,
the leading man. On the map
for hard-hitting roles like an
MMA fighter in "Warrior" and
as Bane in "The Dark Knight
Rises," Hardy's performance
is much subtler in "The Drop,"
though at times even more
ruthless. The stoic Hardy beau-
tifully captures fear and pain
in a person whose toughness
defines his persona. Hardy
uncovers the fine distinction
between cruel and cold, and
toes the line between them,
showing that nice men aren't
always-good men, and bad men
can be righteous.

Coogan and Brydon of humankind: one comprised
of improvisational marathons,
redefine the movie partly to distract from confessing
they truly know shit about gas-
bromance , tronomy. They, especially Bry-
don, seamlessly shift in and out
By ANDREW MCCLURE of Michael Caine/Robert de Niro
Daily Arts Writer impressions like Robin Williams
did - and it's fucking money.
When English film hyphen- - Like any good Western Europe
ate Michael Winterbottom vacation, the trip is not complete
decided to make a sequel to without sex. Not just penetra-
his 2011 suc- tive sex, but the evolving idea of
cess, "The A- sex as a 40+ year old adult male.
Trip," I don't "They just look right through
think he shot The Trip us," Coogan says of the count-
for original- less younger, prettier women
ity but rather to Italy they encounter. But seconds
to continue The Michigan after this depressing moment,
a compelling Theater the two are back to what they
discourse. IFC deem more important than sex:
Sure, like its emoting. As it turns out, conve-
predecessor, niently, their theatrical synergy
"The Trip to Italy" is funda- attracts gorgeous women along
mentally two blokes eating and the way. Even with the foreign
impersonating more-success- ladies, the film doesn't feel like a
ful people, but that's like say- trip at all. It feels like two goof-
ing Kanye just does words over balls unapologetically having
sounds. The film reminds us to more fun than you without seek-
be foolish, to be vulnerable, to be ing validation ... while in Venice.
loud and to be friends. Not unlike It would be dumb to call the
Noah Baumbach's "Frances Ha," onscreen duo a performance.
"Italy" makes you want what the That would imply concrete plan-
onscreen friends so effortlessly ning, something they dismiss
share: fun. entirely. Nor is their bond a
Steve Coogan ("Philomena") "bromance" in the Judd Apatow
and Rob Brydon (TV's " Would sense. That would imply empty
I Lie to You?") play themselves dialogue and drugs to crutch
asked to compile restaurant for said empty dialogue. Coogan
reviews in the otherworldly and Brydon share something
beauty of Italy. Business as usual older, more refined, something
at the dinner table for the pair is for which all men should strive:
anything but usual for the rest a fully functioning, alive, stimu-

lating adult dudeship.
Maybe your dad has it,
friend's dad, boss - an intimate
dudeship teeming with opinion,
drama, laughter, melancholy.
There's something unusual and
unusually attractive about the
Coogan-Brydon vulnerability
that I think our generation of
guys have effectively lost. How
many guys can a guy call when
he has a miserable day? Right.
In brief, "Italy" is now official-
ly required viewing for dudes
whose friendships would fizzle
without booze, weed or coke.
Don't get me wrong, Ital-
ian terrain is even more jaw-
dropping when set to fucking
opera music, but any techni-
cal achievement (see: scenic
lensing, montage-like cuts to
the kitchen food preparation)
doesn't trump the mindshare of
the duo's talking. It compels you
to stay abreast on pop culture,
read history on Lord Byron,
try improv and look deranged
without caring what a stranger
thinks.
Men don't have enough
films about men proactively
occupying the boredom of life
with life itself. Coogan and
Brydon prevail across the board
from fun-o-meter to romance
by being confident weirdos
because weirdos have brass
balls for not blending in in
the first place. The film dares
you to explore your funny and
unfunny weirdness ... and have
more interesting friends.

FILM NOTEBOOK
Alexis Bledel:
Far from trope
MY 'Manic Pixie always plot-driving, but the
details of her life are dramati-
Dream Girl Who tally exposited with intent to
matter, in and of themselves,
isn't mine because she matters, in and of
herself.
ByNOAH COHEN When Jesse comes back for
DailyArts Writer Winnie in "Tuck Everlasting,"
he finds her in her grave, not as
Kimberly Alexis Bledel an immortal teenager. She lived
plays roles that make you and lived happily, unafraid
love her, roles that place her of dying off-screen, and cer-
in a certain romantic lime- tainly not pathetically waiting
light. From speed-talking, for Jesse. Bledel played, not
book-inhaling Rory Gilmore the treasure of a romance that
("Gilmore Girls") to brave, wouldn't ultimately make her
wide-eyed Winnie ("Tuck happy, but a woman who lived
Everlasting") to sketchbook- and died a woman's life, a life
toting sweetheart Lena that the immortal Jesse did not
("Sisterhood of the Travel- get a lead role in.
ing Pants"), Bledel occupies a When Rory dates Dean, Jess
happy medium among female and Logan "Gilmore Girls," we
romantic leads: she loves and experience those relationships
is loved but is taken by her from her eyes. Her schooling
own choice; she makes her own remains central among her pri-
choices. orities. Her journalism career
The boys who come for her remains central among her pri-
are of the ilk to overwhelm orities. And even if you didn't
- soulful, with untamed hair agree with her and her moth-
and sentiment. But Bledel isn't ers' choices in the end, there's
overwhelmed. She is whelmed. no doubt who the movie was
She is an even-handed, point- really about.
scoring player on the field of So when I say Alexis Bledel
love, not a catalyst for others' is my Manic Pixie Dream Girl,
life-affirming adventures, nor a please don't scoff at her for
salve for someone else's heart- being reduced to a trope or an
break. She is protagonist, hear object of affection, and please
her roar. And she remains so in don't scoff at me for referring
"The Kate Logan Affair" and to her with the sentimental
"Post Grad," and even in her possessive that's the vice of my
minor roles in "Sin City" and brood. She's a Manic Pixie with
"Mad Men." or without boys like me loving
To me, she justifies the her. She and other so-called
Manic Pixie Dream Girl trope Manic Pixie Dream Girls will
as something that isn't mini- go ahead and live their lives,
mizing or confining. Her Manic on and off-screen, regardless
Pixie is something of a hero. of their brooding, sentimental
The Bledel Manic Pixie isn't following.

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3Every cloud's 40 Mohawk-sporting 53 Cakeserving
1 Story silverfeature? actor 54 Likethe idiomatic,
5 Gaugeon adash 4Sommesummer 41 Biennialgames beaver
9 Lowest opera 5 Soft mineral gp. 55 Civil rightsorg.
noe 6g"Ab hme!" 44Advanced college 56Online dialogue
14 Landedonthe 7Whatyoupay course 58__contendere:
runway 8 Half a guy-gal 46 "Golly" tcour plea
15 Sunbum soother argament Catscoat 59L erworking
1e Staringasquad 9 Inanie 49 Like cptied tools
17 Window material 10Had dinner nouns 60 Down Under
19Beautyattheball 11 ForDummies 50 Legendary greeting
20 Frenchp end bokstoresedu c io football coach 63 _ got it!
21 Raptre 12 Reda dprite Knute 65 Direcor Reiner
23 Marshland event
24 L endaryskater 13 Harbinger ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Henie 18 Drive and reverse
26"If itonlycould be" 22Stockholm'sland: PONT I G T O R S V P
28 'Te Ahr. IP DEMON tTAL
Atobiographyof 25Layinthe1965 0 0 L V A L E
AliceB.Toklas" sitcompilot
author episode"The T B I CEP I N L A
3Indian or Ladyinlthe Bottle" E A 0 M E L E T
Chinese,e.g. 27Pottfr c S P I L B A T H I m A T
35Nametaggreeting 29"_bettertohave 0 R N 0 T R A I N G A U G E
36Hiaain Tedn a S E E N T O L E T B R I M
42Imitated 30 Howhalf-shell T E L E METER A L E R T
43Imagesona clamsareeaten X E R O X E S S W E L L S
desktop 3Eel,asshi bars D A G A MA L P S
4Bride's belved 3 Land in la mer OMAN SAT'
47 Onecomingin 33Silentagreement
frmlthebllpen 36eKnight'stile W I N 0 a L I N DI A L L E Y
51 Tighbone 37Cubesinabuckett N Ct 0 B O T T M L I N E
52 Feel around in the 38 Wheels on the L E E R U I Z M A S T E R
dark links xwordeditor@aot.com 09/15114
5t N.C. State's
conference 2 3 4 s 7 8 10 11 12 13
57 Early
metalworking
prind
61 Hush-hush fed. 17 1a 1s
org. 20 21 22 23
62 Cenrally
manag store 2a 25 2 27
group
E losives aon 28 29 10 31 32 55
66Metamorphosis
stage 34 35
67Scatlegend
Fitzgerald 55 37 38 39 40 ai a2
68 u a 43 a4 45a 4
time ..."
eatSpak an as as 5
7 Optmistic
71 Brew found in 12 - a 54
increasing
qua isointhe 55 56 57 585 s 50 t
endsof 17-,28-,
47-ands64. 62 en 4 s
Across
DOWN es no 71
1 Spanish
aptizems
2Toas mission By5:s Rentali/5/4
en201aTinecontentAgency,LLC091514

Call: #734-418-4115
RESERVED PARKING AVAIL.t! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
929 Greene St. $70/mo. 734-418-2050 ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
info828greene.com . www.HRPAA.com 1
WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
'~1I~jT~UT OM
CHILDCARE 734-332-6000
HAVE YOU
SUBSTITUTEANDPOSSIBLEpart-
timeworkavailableatanAnnArborchild
quited. Contact Nancy at nrosen- PU C A E
caecente Eperienceinchidcareosr-
zweig@stpau lannarbor. org
og THE
_________= FOOTBALL
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE, BOOK
otganization, formal All Disciplines
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net YET?

AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
STAFF MEMBERS needed for local ele-
mtary school. 2:30-6:00pm 2-4 days
week. Reliable ta spotton reuird
Email Roserhackeraemerson-school.org
TUTOR NEEDED
for I-on-I tutoring for math and sciences
call 734-434-1228
I INTERNSHIPS
INTERN WANTED FORBirmingham
law office for 1-2years. Muslhave at
leastBA orBS with srongrades/com-
puter skills. Paid Position. Email resume
&transcriptto: michlawoffice@gmail.com

DO THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE.


erflsem...

6A - Monday, September 15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


4
4

q

A


r

and ugly from
Saturday's win

routs Miami
By MAX COHEN The turnovers allowed the
Daily Sports Editor RedHawks' inept offense a
chance to compete. As seen

are misleading

Sloppiness, first-
half struggles
concerning
By ALEJANDRO ZOIfJGA
ManagingSports Editor
Statistically, the Michigan
football team dominated Miami
(Ohio) on Saturday afternoon,
scoring 17 unanswered points
in the second half to roll to a
34-10 win.
But not everything was a
positive for the Wolverines,
which held just a seven-point
lead at halftime against a Mid-
American Conference team that
hasn't won since Oct.27, 2012.
The Daily looks at the good,
bad and ugly from Michigan's
win.
The good
Last week, the Wolverines'
run defense held Notre Dame
to just 54 yards. Against the
RedHawks, the unit did even
better, stifling Miami to the
tune of 33 yards on 24 attempts.
In the second half, the
RedHawks couldn't score as
Michigan eventually pulled

away for the comfortable win.
In fact, save for one 43-yard
possession in the second half,
Miami didn't have a drive
longer than 27 yards.
In total, the RedHawks
managed just 198 yards to the
Wolverines' 460.
Offensively, sophomore
tight end Jake Butt enjoyed
a successful afternoon in his
first start since tearing his
anterior cruciate ligament in
February. Butt caught three
passes for 59 yards and a
touchdown, but those numbers
don't show everything. on
the score, Michigan perfectly
executed a fake screen, and
Butt exploded downfield
unmarked. And for his first
reception, the sophomore
ripped an inaccurate pass
away from a Miami defender,
helping the Wolverines avoid
another turnover.
Sophomore running back
Derrick Green demanded the
ball from his coaches, and he
rewarded them by amassing137
yards on 22 carries and adding
a pair of touchdowns. Though
he's perhaps the least-elusive
See CONCERNING, Page 2B

After three weeks, numerous
questions remain about the
football team. Here are five
things we learned after the
defeat of the RedHawks.
1.Theturnoverswon'tcutit:
Through three games,
Michigan has committed seven
turnovers. Michigan coach
Brady Hoke said after Saturday's
game that the number concerns
him. Saturday, the Wolverines'
three second-quarter turnovers
singlehandedly allowed Miami
stay in the game.
The RedHawks' offense was
inept all afternoon, scoring only
when Michigan gifted it the
opportunity. Fifth-year senior
quarterback Devin Gardner's
fourth interception of the season
gave Miami a short field, leading
to a field goal which cut the lead
to 10-3.
When the Wolverines failed
to cover a pooch kick after the
field goal, the RedHawks scored
their only touchdown, taking
advantage of excellent field
position.

against Notre Dame, the
turnovers won't cut it against
better competition.
2. The offense is going
Green:
For the first two games of
the season, sophomore running
backs De'Veon Smith and
Derrick Green more or less split
carries, with Green receiving
slightly more. That changed
against Miami, when the offense
relied heavily upon Green.
Saturday, Green scampered for
137 yards and two touchdowns
on 22 carries. It was his second
career 100-yard rushing
performance and his first multi-
touchdown game.
Most importantly for the
Wolverines, Green wanted the
ball in his hands when it mattered
most, and he delivered. After
the RedHawks tied the game
at 10 in the second quarter, the
sophomore told coaches to give
him the ball, and they obliged.
Gardner handed off to Green on
four consecutive plays to cap the
See FIVE THINGS, Page 28

The final score read
34-10, but, as usual,
numbers never quite
tell the entire story.
The record books showa
win, but,
as usual,
a football
game
is often
more than
just a' W'
or an' L.'
The
reality is ALEJANDRO
this: At ZfJ*IGA
halftime
Saturday,
the Wolverines led a school
from Ohio, 17-10. Normally,
that would be great. The
problem? This wasn't that
Ohio team. This was Miami,
the Mid-American Conference
program that hadn't beaten
any opponent since Oct. 27,
2012, a span of 18 straight
games.
So the Michigan fans, the
102,824 who had chosen to
spend their Saturdays at the
Big House, began to boo.
Loudly.
And who could blame them?

The problem was Michigan
looked entirely too nonchalant
while leading a four-minute
drive at the end of the second
quarter, and after a timeout on
4th-and-1, the Wolverines were
flagged for an inexplicable
delay of game.
The problem was Michigan
had committed three turn-
overs in the first half. Fifth-
year senior quarterback Devin
Gardner had overthrown his
receiver for an interception,
Amara Darboh had fumbled
after a long reception, and
the return team had seemed
entirely dumbfounded by a
pooch kickoff.
The problem was the offen-
sive line had looked suspect
and that Michigan's tailbacks
had only rushed for 90 yards -
again, facinga RedHawks team
that had allowed 42 points to
Marshall.
The problem was Michigan
had paid Miami $1.1million for
the privilege of coming to the
Big House and being featured
in front of a large television
and in-person audience, and
the Wolverines were letting
See BOOING, Page 2B


TRUE MICHIGAN FANS
Brady Hoke said true fans would
support his team. So can fans question
his performance then?
SportsMonday Column, Page 2B

NICK OF TIME
A last-second goal powered the
Michigan women's soccer team to an
upset win over No. 9 Wisconsin.
Page 3B


2B - September 15, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

2B - September15, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

SPORTSMONDAY COLMN

Who are Michigan's true fans?

It wasn't even three
into the 2014 season
Brady
Hoke had
to be asked
about fan
reaction.
The
program
with all
of the
tradition, GREG
the one GARN
that you're
constantly
reminded of, didn't win
Not only did Michigan 1
it was also embarrassed
Notre Dame.
So fans did what fans
and they went online to
Hoke's firing, they discu
it on campus and entere
extensive discussions at
who could replace the cc
who hadn't even been fii
Which is why, after h
failed to
win, Brady
Hoke had to Cif
answer to the 1
criticism he f
was receiving
from fans all
over.
Instead, he t
dug himself
into a hole.
"If they're
truly fans, they'll believ
these kids and what the
done and the hard work
put in," Hoke said Mond
afternoon. "If they're no
won't."
But what does it meai

weeks "truly" be a Michigan fan?
n when What do true Michigan fans say
when their team is shut out for
the first time since 1984?
True fans must be thrilled
with ateam that hadto fend
off a program with an 18-game
losing streak.
Surely they must be pleased
with a coaching staff that
couldn't get a play off on a
4th-and-1 against Miami (Ohio).
o A true fan must've been
smiling at the lack of energy
on Saturday after the team
enough. was said to have practiced
ose, but with vigor all week, after a
31-0 by humiliating loss in South Bend
motivated them.
do, He or she should see
call for no problem in a fifth-year
issed senior quarterback who has
d thrown four interceptions in
bout three games, even after his
oach teammates said he looked more
red. confident.
e had True fans will be happy
to shell out
thousands of
they're truly dollars to see a
t t team struggle
ans, they'll through a
schedule in
believe in which maybe
a handful of
hese kids." teams are
likely to make
a bowl game.
No, of
v in course fans don't want to see
y've that, because the true fans
they've Brady Hoke is calling out do
lay care.
at, they There's Lauren Kettle
and Alex Herzog, students
n to who tailgate with the rest of

their friends, but were upset
watchingtheir favorite team
lose last week. They were still
out there Saturday, block 'M'
stickers on their cheeks.
And Lisa Neitzer, who has
come to games for more than 40
years, and was "disappointed"
when she watched the
Wolverines fall apart last
weekend or struggle last season.
Now, she goes to every game,
home or away. She was still at
the parking lot of Ann Arbor
Pioneer High School outside
her RV decorated with pictures
of wolverines and Michigan
Stadium, getting ready to attend
another game.
There's Ben Tupler, who
"understands where (Hoke)
comes from" when he calls out
fans. But that doesn't mean he
liked it any more than the next
fan. Still, he was out nearly five
hours before kickoff to prepare
for Saturday's game.
There are students walking
from a frat house to the Big
House who say the team was
a step down last year, because
they know what the program's
expectations and history are.
They still wear their maize
shirts or blue leggings, even as
they complain.
So true Michigan fans
still show up to games. More
than 102,000 of them did.on
Saturday. But when you play for
a team that is defined by how
successful it has been, even the
most devoted fans will have
doubts.
After Hoke realized that
he had only upset an already

I

frustrated fanbase more, he
tried to dig himself out. On
Wednesday, he said he was
looking forward to playing "in
front of the greatest fans." He
said Thursday that he was "was
a little misquoted, obviously,"
because he's "fortunate and
lucky to have the people we
have who love Michigan
football."
He wasn't misquoted; there
were dozens of recorders on

him. But it's a long season, and
he had to say something sooner
rather than later.
On Saturday, he made a
concerted effort to answer the
first question he was asked in
part by thanking his fans.
"We've got great fans," Hoke
said then. "They've got high
expectations like we do."
So if Brady Hoke can call
out everyone's fanhood for
his program then, don't fans

get a chance to call out his
performance as a coach?
Of course they do. It's
three weeks into the season,
and Michigan's most devoted
are faced with the prospect
his team may not live up to
expectations.
Again.
Garno can be reached
at ggarno@umich.edu or
on Twitter: @GGarno.

q
q


DAYS UNTIL THE DAILY BEATS THE STATE NEWS: 39
ATHLETES CURRENTLY NURSING INJURIES:

"WE DON'T TALK ABOUT INJURIES."


FIVE THINGS
From Page 1B
drive, which ended with
Green running for a one-yard
touchdown. He gained 47 yards
on those four carries.
The timeliness and success
of Green's carries shows that
he is closer to being Michigan's
featured back, and his eagerness
doesn't hurt, either.
3. Darboh has finally
arrived:
Entering his redshirt
sophomore season, wide
receiver Amara Darboh didn't
have any career receptions. In
the season's first two games, he
had three, a positive sign after
missing last season with a foot
injury.
But with junior wide receiver
Devin Funchess sidelined with
an injury, Darboh became a

relied-upon member of the
offense for the first time. He
made six catches for 88 yards,
including his first career
touchdown, a 17-yard reception
in the first quarter.
Aside from his fumble early in
the second quarter, Darboh was
consistently a bright spot for
Michigan.
4. This team is flawed, but
the run defense isn't:
For the second consecutive
game, Michigan's run defense
significantly limited its
opponent. The RedHawks
managed just 33 rushing yards
on 24 attempts, while Notre
Dame mustered 54 yards on 31
attempts last weekend.
Miami's longest run in the
game Saturday was eight yards,
demonstrating once again that
Michigan's defense is solid up
the middle, allowing opponents
little running room.

5. Bold prediction:
Michigan willioseat least five
games this season:
The Wolverines will likely be
favored in the rest of the games
on their schedule with the
exceptions of Michigan State
and Ohio State. But if Michigan
plays the way it did Saturday, it
will end up losing more than just
those games.
With turnovers aplenty and
the offensive line looking shaky
in pass protection, there are
other teams on the schedule that
will trouble the Wolverines.
If the Wolverines continue to
play like they have in the past
two weeks, Michigan will lose
at least two of its games against
Penn State, Rutgers and Utah in
addition to falling against the
Spartans and the Buckeyes.
As it stands right now, the
Wolverines are at least a five-
loss football team.

6
6

l

CONCERNING
From Page 1B
back on Michigan's depth
chart, once he turned north-
south, he gashed Miami.
And we'd be remiss not to
include Matt Wile in this section
after less-than-favorable reviews
the first two weeks. He was
perfect on field goals.
The bad
Fifth-year senior quarterback
Devin Gardner had a decentnight
on paper, finishing 13-of-20 for
184 yards and two touchdowns.
But he was also skittish in the
pocket, struggled with accuracy
and would've had more than one
interception if not for drops by
the RedHawks and Butt's strong
reception.

Some of that stemmed from
Michigan's offensive line, which
broke down at times. Wolverine
tailbacks had just two negative
rushes,though,so that's certainly
an improvement.
Finally, the attendance dipped
dangerously close to the 100,000
mark, and patches of empty seats
were visible around the stadium.
The announced 102,824 was the
lowest total since Sept. 9,1995.
The ugly
Michigan's four-minute drive
at the end of the first half was a
downright disaster.
Check out this sequence: The
Wolverines began the series by
running five plays - four runs
and a pass, spanning more than
two minutes - to get into Miami
territory. On 3rd-and-7, Gardner
threw complete for six yards, the

Wolverines lined up for a quick
snap on fourth down, and the
RedHawks called timeout.
Then Michigan was flagged
for delay of game coming out of
the break, and coach Brady Hoke
sent out the punt team. Amidst
a chorus of boos, senior Will
Hagerup sent his kick booming
into the end zone for a touchback.
Earlier in the half, the
Wolverines had looked entirely
unprepared for a Miami pooch
kickoff, resulting in a turnover.
Returner Justice Hayes could
have called fair catch, but he
didn't, and Wyatt Shallman was
eventually tagged for a fumble.
That was one of Michigan's
three penalties in the first half,
a sloppy performance that could
have been much more disastrous
if not for the quality of the
opponent.

0


BOOING
From Page 1B
the RedHawks spoil the party.
The problem was it was Sept.
13, 2014, yet Michigan's play was
reminiscent of the Akron game in
2013 or the Toledo game in 2008.
And, of course, the problem was
that the Wolverines had suffered
a 31-point embarrassment last
week to a fierce rival, and it didn't
look like they were responding
very well to it at all.
So yes, Michigan fans, it was
OK to boo. When face value on a
ticket is $70, you havea right to
be critical. When a historically
successful program suddenly
looks middling in a horrible
Big Ten, you have a right to be
frustrated.

It's not fair to jeer at the
players, which happened when
Will Hagerup's punt from the
42-yard line sailed into the
end zone with 52 seconds left
before halftime. They're unpaid
amateurs and students, after all.
Hagerup and Gardner are just 22
years old, and you'd better believe
they're aware of their flaws
without thousands of people
shouting in disapproval.
But enduring disdain
should come included in the
six- and seven-figure salaries,
respectively, of Dave Brandon
and Brady Hoke.
And Hoke heard your
condemnation.
"We have great fans," the
coach said after the game when
asked about the boos. "They have
high expectations, like we do."

So yes, the box score says
Michigan outgained Miami, 460-
198. It shows that the RedHawks
managed just eight first downs,
and 33 rushing yards, and punted
seven times, and ran 17 fewer
offensive plays and were 2-of-12
on third downs.
Per the box score, the
Wolverines were flat-out
dominant.
You don't need to be a coach to
know they weren't. All you had to
do was look at the halftime score:
17-10, with Miami receiving to
start the third quarter.
As Hoke said, if you're a
Michigan fan, it's normal to
expect more.
Zdtiga can be reached
at azs@umich.edu and on
Twitter @ByAZuniga.

0


September 15, 2014 - 3B

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom September15, 2014 - 38

'M' stuns Badgers in last second

By MITCH BECKMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The clock showed :01 left as
the ball found the back ofthe net.
The Michigan women's soccer
team had stormed the field,
jubilantly
celebrating WISCONSIN 1
what it MICHIGAN 2
believed
to be the winning goal while
the referees sat huddled in the
corner, discussing the call.
The season is young, but the
Wolverines have already packed
a full season's worth of drama
into it.
Following their controversial
2-1overtimewinoverMinnesota
on Friday night, the Wolverines
upended No. 9 Wisconsin on
Sunday afternoon, 2-1, scoring
with only one second left in
regulation.
For the second straight game,
a free kick and an errant whistle
decided the ending. Freshman
forward Taylor Temko fired
a free kick toward the goal as
time wound down, but it was
deflected away. However, the
ball found its way to the foot
of sophomore defender Bailey
 Haydock, who volleyed a cross
that was redirected into the goal
by redshirt freshman forward
Ani Sarkisian.
For a moment, it seemed
like the perfect ending for the
Wolverines
(5-2). However,
the side judge gc
had his flag It Wc
aloft, signaling £4.
offside. While aflL
the team was
herded back to
the bench, the
referees conferred, eventually
waiving the offsides call and
upholding the goal.
Both teams realigned for the
last second of play, but it was a
mere formality. Michigan had
won, its first victory over a top-
10 team in 11 years.
"We worked too hard not
to get a win out of this game,"

Michigan drops
pair in Ore gon

TERESA MATHEW/Daily
Redshirt freshman AnISarkisian scored with only one second remaining in Sunday's game to give Michigan the win.

Sarkisian said. "It was a big
mish-mosh in the box and Bailey
sent it across and I finished. It
was a great pass."
Wisconsin entered the game
undefeated and the clear favorite,
but the Wolverines never played
like the
underdog.
The Badgers
as juSt (7-1) couldn't
get behind
3.Stie. the Michigan
_back line and
were forced
to play on the
periphery in Michigan's half of
the field, often resorting to long
shots or driving down the wing.
The tight defense paid
dividends for the Wolverines
offensively. Despite a lack of
offensive possession in the first
half, Michigan had multiple
strong counterattacks stem from
smart, responsible defense.

"The whole team played really
good defensively," said Michigan
coach Greg Ryan. "Wisconsin
never had those clear-cut
chances behind our line. They
had the ball a lot, but we didn't
give away many chances. It was
just fantastic."
After several minutes of
Badger possession early, the
Wolverines capitalized on a
counter. Finding space down
the sideline, junior forward
Corinne Harris launched a
cross that was headed on goal by
junior forward Nicky Waldeck.
Wisconsin's keeper made the
save, but Sarkisian beat her
defender to the net and knocked
in the waiting rebound.
Michigan's only glaring
defensive mistake came with 10
minutesleftinthe firsthalf.Abad
pass and turnover left Haydock
in poor position, leading to her
taking a yellow card just inside

the box. Wisconsin converted
the penalty kick and evened the
game, but the play seemed to
wake up the Michigan offense
again.
In the second half, the
team that was unranked was
indistinguishable from one in
the top 10. The Wolverines went
stride for stride and shot for shot
with the Badgers, with both teams
having opportunities to score.
The performance gives
Michiganahugeconfidenceboost
early in the season and proves to
the rest of the conference that itis
aviable threat.
"We said at halftime, whether
we win or lose, let's go out there
and just play," Ryan said. "We
hung around long enough to give
us a chance to win, and it gives
us a real confidence. It's not a
soft nonconference win - we go
into the next games saying we
have a shot against anybody."

W(
fi
blov
A qu
volley
the B
might
excelle
Wit
20 kill
record
in Fr
Wolve
runnin
Pacific
Un
numbe
victori
perfor
State<
to win
Wolve
17-25,
They
No. 18
match
19-25,.
Mic
it live:
which
victor'
but w
weeke
and i
Saturd
match
with]
Caroli
"I
thoug
we 1
very
defens
said
Michit
coach
unacce
a gy
and e
succes
poor le
The
had
Wolve
in the
.346 f
Michi,
to ke
were i
until e
they w
run. D
with,
could
dropp
Stru
Pac-12
have I
the W
outsta
playin
the ut
Friday
"(O
runni
be eff
unfort
that w
on the
becau
pretty

lverines fall in Michigan allowed 10
Oregon State service aces and
ve sets Friday, committed 17 errors, spoiling
a match in which several
wn out Saturday players set or matched career
highs. Junior outside hitter
ByJACOBGASE Ally Davis, playing her third
Daily Sports Writer match' of the season after
returning from injury, led the
nick glance at the Michigan offense with 33 kills over the
ball team's statistics from weekend. Freshman opposite
ig Ten/Pac-12 Challenge hitter Katherine Mahlke and
suggest that it put on an freshman defensive specialist/
mt performance. outside hitter Caroline Knop
h four players exceeding also reached career-high kill
s this weekend and three totals on Friday, with 20 and 14,
ing double-doubles respectively.
iday's match alone, the "Offensively, we were flowing
rines' offense was nearly pretty well," Davis said. "The
ag on all cylinders in the connection between the setters
Northwest. and the hitters - we did a good
ortunately for them, the job with that. But obviously there
rs didn't translate into are other areas of the game that
es. Michigan's stellar we need to work on.You can'tjust
mance against Oregon win with purely offense."
on Friday wasn't enough Playing with a very fluid
a five-set slugfest, as the lineup and using numerous
rines dropped the match substitutions, the Wolverines
25-21, 22-25, 25-22, 13-15. still seemed to be searching for
fared even worse against the best way to use their young
Oregon, losing Saturday's players. Rosen tried something
in straight sets (17-25, new at the setter position this
25-27). weekend, still trying to fill the
higan (3-4) proved that void leftbysenior co-captainLexi
s and dies by its defense, Dannemiller, who is sidelined
held its own in a strong with mononucleosis. Junior
y over Duke last week Carly Warner, the only setter
as overwhelmed both this Michigan had used this season,
nd found
n last herself
lay's rotating
North "Ithought we with
redshirt
na. played very poor freshman
Cindy Zhou
ht defense, and that's againt
played oregon.
epOr unacceptable." Zhou
e,"made her
collegiate
gan debut by
Mark Rosen, "and that's picking up 10 assists in the loss.
ptable. We can't go into "We're still trying to find
a against a good team the answer there," Rosen said.
xpect we're going to be "We started trying some other
sful playing defense at a system things to try to create a
mvel." better lineup that will allow us
Ducks(8-0) in particular to compete defensively.sWe've
their way with the got to figure out that ytem
rines. They never trailed for us to be offensively and
first two sets, hitting defensively minded with the
or the entire match as same lineup."
gan's defenders struggled Finding the correct lineup
ep up. The Wolverines to balance offense and defense
unable to create a rally seemed to be Michigan'sabiggest
ary in the third set, when challenge this weekend.
went on a match-best 5-0 Knop, perhaps the team'sabest
espite reaching set point example of the dual mindset
a 24-23 lead, Michigan Rosen preaches, showed the
n't put Oregon away and ability of a defensive-minded
ed the set and match. player to contribute on offense
aggling against one of the on Friday. But standing only
's biggest powers might 5-foot-8, she had a tough time
been understandable, but with the physical front line of
olverines also wasted an the Ducks on Saturday.
nding offensive effort by Rosen has emphasized that
g subpar defense against Knop and her teammates can
nranked Beavers (7-1) on find more success when they
y. blend the perfect balance of
n Friday) we were contrasting styles.
ng a very solid offense to While the team knows a
ective," Rosen said. "It's 3-4 record leaves something
unate and disappointing to be desired, the Wolverines
e lost the game basically showed that they seem content
defensive side of things, to use their losses as learning
se on offense, we did some experiences until they find the
nice things." equilibrium that eludes them.

Wolverines ram VCU, stretch streak

By JUSTIN MEYER
Daily Sports Writer
Before the Michigan field
hockey team stepped onto Ocker
Field on Sunday for a matchup
with a woefully overwhelmed
VCU team, the message was
clear: score
early and VCU 1
often. MICHIGAN 9
With
nine goals on 16 shots in a 9-1
victory, the Wolverines didn't
disappoint.
Redshirt freshman forward
Carly Bennett racked up a goal
and two assists, while sopho-
mores Courtney Enge, a forward,
and Sina Lampe, a midfielder,
both posted their first career
multi-goal games.
"One of the things we were
going to stress for this game was
to finish and for the forwards to
get their sticks down near the
goal for those long shots across
the circle," Bennett said. "Today,
like five of the goals were tips.
I think we really nailed that
today."
Lampe's first goal, which put
Michigan (4-2) ahead 3-0, was
the highlight of the game. Enge
flung a pass to the left side of the
circle, which Lampe corralled
as she fought off a defender
before hesitating and spinning
to her backhand. The move gave
her just enough space to fire a
shot past VCU goalie Kendall
Clifton's right shoulder and into
the upper corner of the cage.
Nine different Michigan play-
ers recorded a point in the game,
and by the time the second half
rolled around, the starters were
pulled and the Wolverines'
reserves were taking the field.
Two days after needing two
penalty corners to put away
Providence, Michigan looked
fluid on offense and strong on
the back line. Freshman goalie
Sam Swenson got the starting
nod again, and she too posted a
strong performance, extending
her shutout streak to 225 min-
utes before exiting the game at
the half for redshirt sophomore
Chris Lueb.
The Rams couldn't gener-
ate even a glimmer of offense in

the first half, failing to threaten
on either of their two corners.
The showing from Michigan's
senior-laden back line continued
its string of elite performances
on defense.
The offensive explosion,
though, felt like a sort of final
piece in the difficult transition
the Wolverines have made from
the beginning of the season,
when they were blown out by No.
1 North Carolina and dropped an
overtime heartbreaker to No. 10
Wake Forest.
After pouring on goal after
goal against VCU (2-4), Michi-
gan is hopingto finally put those
offensive concerns to rest.
The production from the Wol-
verines' young players was par-
ticularly good news for a team
that is relying on underclass-
men on the front line. Fresh-
man forward Veerle Lubbers,
still adjusting to collegiate field
hockey and life away from her
home in Amsterdam, netted the
first goal of her career.
"Veerle plays like an upper-
classman," said Michigan coach

Marcia Pankratz. "She's a real-
ly solid player. I think all (the
underclassmen) contribute and
are contributing well."
Among the underclassmen
poised for breakout years on
offense, Bennett has distanced
herself, starting five of the Wol-
verines' six games after red-
shirting last season.
"Over the summer, I just kind
of told myself I need to forget
about what it felt like to be a red-
shirt and just come in and do my
thing," Bennett said. "It's tough,
you work your ass off in practice,
and there's kind of no expecta-
tion there. You knowyou'll never
get in no matter what. I think a
lot of that energy was pent up, so
I got to let some of that out this
year."
Lampe, who calls Germany
home, also figures to see a sig-
nificant increase in playing time
this year after struggling with
the transition at times last sea-
son.
"My sophomore season is a lot
different, because my freshman
season I was really homesick,"

she said. "Now I know everyone
really well and I feel more con-
fident about playing, because
I know the style of American
hockey now. It's a lot faster, it's
a lot of running and fighting.
American hockey players are
really jacked.'
The midfielder shows flashes
of skill but can sometimesbe less
effective in the face of a more
physical game. But Lampe said
her goal for the season is to score
more, and she'll certainly have
an opportunity to do that for
Michigan this year.
The only question left unan-
swered by the Wolverines after
running by VCU is whether the
victory will translate to success
against better competition.
"What was good about today
was that we had some players
who were banged up, so we got
a chance for them to rest," Pan-
kratz said. "We got the chance
to see some players in other
positions, to get some experi-
ence, because we're going to
need them next weekend. Those
things were really positive."

Sophomore Courtney Enge recorded her first career multi-goal game as Michigan blasted VCU, 9-ion Sunday afternoon.


4B - Monday, September 15, 2014

Spo rs

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Green demands ball, delivers

By MAX COHEN
Daily SportsEditor
It appeared as though the
game was teeteringon the brink.
Miami (Ohio) tied the score at 10
with 9:14 to play in the first half,
and Michigan football fans were
beginning to fret.
Saturday's game was shaping
up to be yet another disaster for
the Wolverines. Last year, there
was Akron, which came into the
Big House and would have won
if not for a last-second goal-line
stand for the Wolverines. Last
week, there was Notre Dame,
serving Michigan a humiliating
31-0 loss.
Now, the RedHawks, ateam in
the midst of what was an18-game
losingstreak, posed a threat.
On the sideline, sophomore
Wolverines running back
Derrick Green wasn't concerned.
Michigan needed a score, and he
wanted the ball.
"I told the coaches, 'Give it to
me, and I'm gonna get the job
done, I'm gonna get in the end
zone,'" Green said. "So they fed
it to me, and I got the job done."
The drive played out exactly
like Green envisioned. He
didn't get the ball on the first
play, a 26-yard pass from fifth-
year senior quarterback Devin
Gardner to redshirt junior
Amara Darboh. Nor did he earn
a carry on the second, when
Gardner was sacked. But after
that, it was all Green.
He took handoffs from
Gardner on four consecutive
plays, capping the six-play,
66-yard drive with a one-yard
touchdown run. After he started
the game slowly, Green's 47
yards on the drive jolted the
Wolverines out of their rut.
Going into the game, Green
said he didn't know he would
receive the vast majority of the
carries. But Michigan's coaching
staff rode Green all afternoon,
resulting in his second career
100-yard performance and first

THE MICHIGAN
DAILY TOP-1O POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with
first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place
votes receiving nine, and so on.
1. FLORIDA STATE: We don't know
what Jameis Winston did on his bye
week.
2. OREGON: The Ducks successfully
forded the river while the Cowboys got
dysentery.
3.OKLAHOMA: Are you from
Tennessee? Because the Sooners just
defeated you.
4. ALABAMA: Nick Saban has never
taken a nap.*
*No data supports this.

4

Sophomore Derrick Green asked his coaches for more carries, and he helped Michigan to its victory over the RedHawks.

career two-touchdown game.
He finished with 137 yards on 22
carries compared to Smith's 44
yards on nine carries.
In the first two games, the
allotment of carries was split
more evenly with sophomore
De'Veon Smith. This week,
Green began to display signs
of being the team's featured
running back. When the team
needed a score, he wanted the
ball in his hands, and coaches
obliged. He wouldn't have it any
other way.
"As a running back, you want
to keep getting fed," Green said.
"The more you keep getting fed,
your energy just keeps going up
and up. They were just feeding
me, and I felt good, and I got the
job done."
Michigan employed a similar
strategy in the fourth quarter.

Leading 28-14 with 14:48 to play,
the Wolverines gained possession
on their own 32-yard line. The
drive was a chance to put the
upset bid to rest, and Michigan
once again turned to Green.
Hetookfourstraighthandoffs,
rattling off runs of seven, eight,
17 and one yard. Gardner threw
the ball to sophomore tight end
Jake Butt on the next play, but
then the offense went right back
to Green.
He gained five yards on
his next two carries before a
Gardner scramble placed the
Wolverines on the 12-yard line.
Then his running back finished
it off, sprintingto the left for the
touchdown that put the result
out of reach.
Green finished the drive with
50 yards on seven carries.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke

said the reliance on Green was
partially based upon his week in
practice, which the coach said
was one of the running back's
best since arriving at Michigan.
After coming in as a highly
rated recruit, Green struggled
for much of last season behind a
porous offensive line, but he has
shown marked improvements
thisseason.AgainstAppalachian
State,he scampered for170yards,
and he showed his capabilities
once again in Saturday's game.
Afterward, Green credited
improved vision and improved
blocking, saying he saw more
holes and hit them with a higher
success rate than he did last
season. He demanded the ball,
so he got the ball.
Partly because of his
demands, Miami's losing streak
is now 19 games.

AT

S. AUBURN: While the Tigers had the
week off, Cam Newton had his hands
full with former Auburnteammate
Nick Fairley.
6. TEXAS A&M: Johnny Football went
0-for-i inhis NFL debut. Oh, and the
Aggies beat Rice.
7. BAYLOR: The Bearsbeat Buffalo.
Buffalo, Buffalo, Buffalo, Buffalo.
8. LSU: Les Miles once agreed to
be Michigan's football coach. #TBT
#MCM
9. OLE MISS: "Rebel, Rebel, how could
they know? Hot tramp, I love you so."
- David Bowie
10. SOUTH CAROLINA: In a game of
inches, the Cocks slippedby theDawgs
by the tightest of margins.

q

4

S


The Deily football writers do their
best to predict, against the spread,
what happens in the 2014 football
season. Each week we select a guest
picker to go against the experts.
Miami(Ohio)vs. Michigan(-34)
Wyomingvs. No. 2 Oregon (-44)
Southern Miss. vs. No.3 Alabama (-49)
Tennessee vs.No.4Oklahoma (-21)
No. 6 Georgia (-7) vs. No. 24 South Carolina
No.8Baylor (-38) vs. Buffalo
No.9 USC -7) vs. Boston College
UL Monroe vs. No.10LSU (-31)
Purdue vs.No.11Notre Dame (-28)
No.12 UCLA (-8) vs. Texas
LA-Lafayette vs. No.14Ole Miss(-28)
Armyvs. No.15 Stanford (-29)
No.16 Arizona State(-6) vsColorado
East Carolina vs. No.17 Va. Tech (-10)
UC Fvs. No.20 Missourl(-10)
No. 21 Louisville (-7) vs. Virginia
Kent State at No. 22 Ohio State (-32)
Nus..t..anav25RYL (R

Greg Alejandro
Garno Z1%liga

Alexa
Dettelbach

4

Max
Cohen

Bobby
Dishell, CSG
President

4

vregon
Southern Miss
Tennessee
Georgia
Baylor
Boston College
LSU
Notre Dame
UCLA
Ofe Miss
Stanford
Arizona State
Va. Tech
UCF
Louisville
Ohio State
RYII

wyoming
Southern Miss
Tennessee
Georgia
Baylor
USC
LSU
Notre Dame
UCLA
Ole Miss
Stanford
Arizona State
Va. Tech
Missouri
Louisville
Ohio State
avt,

Oregon
Southern Miss
Oklahoma
Georgia
Baylor
USC
LSU
Purdue
UCLA
Ole Miss
Stanford
Arizona State
Va. Tech
Missourl
Louisville
Kent State
BYU

Urgo
Southern Miss
Tennessee
Georgia
Baylor
USC
LSU
Notre Dame
UCLA
Ole Miss
Stanford
Arizona State
Va Tech
Missouri
Virginia
Kent State
BYU

Uregon
Southern Miss
Oklahoma
Georgia
Baylor
USC
LSU
Purdue
UCLA
Ole Miss
Army
Arizona State
Va. Tech
Missouri
Virginia
Kent State
BYU

4

A

THE ROBERTS COURT
AND THE CONSTITUTION:
A REPORTER'S REFLECTIONS


4

a


