CIE ffiE1)i6fl 0aIj
(INI a l1 \,ll ) \\N I1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, March 13, 2014

michigandaily.com

Abortion
law to have
little effect
on 'U' plans

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
LSA junior DeVante Rollins and LSA senior Susie Robinson, UROP peer advisors, talk to LSA freshman Richard Wu about research opportunities at the Major/
Minor Expo in the Michigan Union Wednesday.
M ors ar dr sstudent

Measure prohibits
abortion coverage
in most new
healthcare plans
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan's controversial new
abortion insurance law will go
into effect Friday, but students
and faculty with healthcare
plans provided through the Uni-
versity should not see a change
in their coverage.
The law, which was passed
late last year, prohibits health-
care plans purchased after
Thursday in Michigan from
covering abortions. Some indi-
viduals, specifically those who
are fully insured through an
employer or enrolling organi-
zation, will have an option to
purchase a rider - an additional

costto their insurance - to have
abortion coverage.
The domestic and interna-
tional student health insurance
the University provides through
Aetna qualify as fully insured
plans, which means that to con-
tinue coverage under this law,
the University would have to
add on that additional rider.
But, since the law only applies
to new enrollments, students
will not see any change until
August, when the University
must renew its plan.
In a statement Wednesday
afternoon, Aetna Spokeswom-
an Cynthia Michener said the
effect of the law on the Univer-
sity's student insurance plans
will not be clear until then.
"It's too early to know,"
Michener wrote. "We will dis-
cuss the University of Michi-
gan's plan options during the
renewal process."
However, Laurie Burchett,
See HEALTHCARE, Page 3A

Pi
an

rograms large their interests.
Staff from the Newnan LSA
d small look for Academic Advising Center
hosted the Major/Minor Expo,
new recruits - held in the Michigan Union
ballroom - to give students the
ByAMIA DAVIS opportunity to meet with facul-
DailyStaffReporter ty, staff and advisers from vari-
ous concentrations and discuss
Wednesday afternoon, potential interests.
ided students paused their The Newnan Advising Center
c hair pulling to explore consists of general LSA academ-
najors and minors that fit ic advisers who help students

choose courses, career paths
and alternative choices to the
plans they make. They also cer-
tify students' graduations and
assist them with academic dif-
ficulties.
All LSA majors and minors
were represented at the expo-
sition. Several programs from
outside LSA also attended,
including those from the Ross
School of Business, the School
of Education and the School of

Social Work.
Erin Trame, department
advising coordinator for Newn-
an Advising Center, said the
expo was a chance for all LSA
departments to come together
in one location. It also gave all
students - freshman to senior,
LSA or non-LSA - a chance to
talk to major advisers and set up
advising appointments.
"It makes it much easier
See EXPO, Page 3A

On
undec
frantic
new n


CAMPUS LIFE
Administration
and IFC plan
for St. Patrick's

STICK 'EM UP

Groups encourage
students to 'stay
in the blue' on the
alcohol-heavyholiday
By ARIANA ASSAF
Daily Staff Reporter
This St. Patrick's Day week-
end, green beer may very well
replace green tea as the breakfast
drink of choice. However, the
University also has a lineup of
non-alcoholic activities for stu-
dents.
Wolverine Wellness, Beyond
the Diag, the Center for Cam-
pus Involvement and the Dean
of Students Laura Blake Jones
worked together to give stu-
dents alternative activities for St.
Patrick's Day that don't involve
alcohol. Joy Pehlke, University
Health Service health educa-
tor and Sarah Daniels, assistant
dean of students, were part of the
effort that created events such as
the Sober Skate and Shamrock It.
Pehlke said that programs
are similar to UMix - including
food, movies and games to draw
crowds. She said she encourages
students to keep up-to-date with

activities on the Dean of Stu-
dents' website.
For example, green donuts and
water will be handed out at oppo-
site ends of the Diag on Monday
for students on their way to class
or on their way to celebrate St.
Patrick's Day at local establish-
ments.
"History here on campus will
tell you that some students will
go out first thing in the morning
as soon as the bars open because
there are some places around
here that do morning specials,"
Daniels said.
Pelkhe said students who go
out - especially over the week-
end - tend to drink in excess. She
listed strategies such as keeping
track of drinks, pacing oneself
and eating throughout the day to
avoid sickness or injuries.
"One of the unique problems
of St. Patrick's Day weekend is
that people drink during day and
at night, so often that's different
than what people normally do,"
Pehlke said.
Although in years past the
holiday has also brought warm-
er weather, the forecast for this
weekend is chilly. Both Daniels
and Pehlke said that this adds to
the risk, as being intoxicated may
See ST. PATRICK, Page 3A

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily
Art & Design senior Carisa Bledsoe performs "Off the Wall" at Links Hall in Chicago Feb.15. See Page 48 in today's
B-Side for more.
POLIKCY
Cse may lead to same-
sex mrig ealization

ANN ARBOR
Candidates
prepare for
K judicial
election
As two judges retire,
competitive race
ahead for numerous
contenders
ByEMMA KERR
Daily StaffReporter
As Washtenaw County judges
Nancy Wheeler and Donald Shel-
ton prepare to step down from
their posts in January, the race to
fill their positions is heating up.
The judicial election will have
its primary on Aug. 5 followed
by the general election on Nov.
4. Candidates running so far
include Jane Bassett, Tamara
Garwood, Constance Jones,
Julia Owdziej and Tracy Van den
Bergh, all of whom are compet-
ing for Wheeler's seat, and Vero-
nique Liem, Patrick Conlin and
Michael Woodyard are vying for
Shelton's seat.
Wheeler's successor will be
responsible for family law, pro-
bate cases and ensuring that
claims to an estate of a deceased
person are properly recognized.
There is also a potential for
change in the docket over the fol-
See ELECTION, Page 3A

State considers
arguments in
adoption controversy
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan could be the next
state to legalize same-sex mar-
riage upon the review of recent
case hearings by a federal

judge.
Last Friday concluded a
series of arguments regarding
the legality of same-sex mar-
riage in the state of Michigan
and the validity of a 2004 pro-
posal that banned the practice,
lasting two weeks. At the heart
of controversy is whether same
sex couples are able to be ade-
quate parents.
Hazel Park residents April
DeBoer and Jayne Rowse

brought the case to court after
the state denied them joint
adoption of their three chil-
dren. While the case began as
a matter of changing the adop-
tion process in Michigan, the
lawsuit ultimately called into
question the same sex mar-
riage ban itself.
The state, represented by
Attorney General Bill Schuette,
is defending the voters' 2004
See MARRIAGE, Page 3A



WEATHER HI:42 GOTANEWS TIP?
TOMORROW LO: 24 Call 734-418-4115ore-mail
news@michigandaily.com andIletus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Social disorder: Gentrification and you
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No.81
a24The Michigan Daily
michiaondailycom

NEW S.........................2A SPORTS. .......... 6A
SUDO KU .....................3A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
OPINION.... ....4A B-SIDE....................1B

ii


2A - Thursday, March 13, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
9he *idiianf ajil
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 eat. 1251 734-418-4115 eat. 1241
pjahahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandailycom

-- OH SNOW!

Alum thrives on connections

Gaal Karp graduatedfrom the
University in 1987 with a Bach-
elor of General Studies degree.
After graduating, he entered into
the development and building
business. He currently works as
an independent development con-
sultant and is the development
director for Outdoor Ventures,
a zip line company, and Arbor
Lofts, a student housing com-
pany for Lawrence Technological
University in Southfield, Mich.
What is the most important
lesson you learned as a student
at the University? How does it
apply to your life now?
The most important thing
about University, especially

Michigan is connections - peo-
ple! Every person you meet, every
person's friends you know, at
some point in your life you may
bump into them again for one rea-
son or another. Maybe that person
will introduce you to your future
mate or helps you with further-
ing your business career. Once
you're older if they know you or
are friends with someone you
know, they might introduce you
for some business thing. Probably
the most important thing period
from college is that you learn
how to socialize and meet people.
Those people you meet you will
hopefully come into contact with
some way or another in the future
and that will help you with what-
everyoudo in your life.

How did your time at the
University help lead to your
success in the development
business?
It certainly helped me decide
what I didn't want to do. I took
certain classes that I realized
the subjects were not very inter-
esting. For example, I took psy-
chology and I thought it was
certainly interesting, but not
really for me. I think a lot of
the stuff you learn in college is
what you're not excited about.
You may not find what you end
up doing or really love, but you
certainly learn what you don't
like as well.
- EMILIEPLESSET

Newsroom
734-418-411s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
arts@michigandaly.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandailycom

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
opinionchcigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classiied@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com


CAMPUS EVENTS &NOTES
ON THE EB.. mihigandoi y.com
Beginners' Penny Stamps
New research suggests
Gentrification Medical alarms- -- - that climate change
meditation speaker series a
BY JARRON BOWMAN BY TOM MCBRIEN may have contributed
WHAT: Students are WHAT: Sanjit Roy will to Genghis Khan's success
Jarron Rowman Researchers at the invited to a drop-in clinic speak about his founding of in the 13th centur PBS
dissects the pros and University of Michigan for those iterested i the Barefoot College i Raj- reported. A period of
cons of gentrification, the Health System have have learnngbassc meditation asthan, Indsa, whose mission increased warmth and rain
renovation of buildings in found that medical alarms skills to incorporate in their is to help rural communities improved grass growth for
Idaily lives. toward self-sustaimibility.
lower class communities designed to keep patients iHy CAvs tw H slf st Khan's horse-mounted army.
patns WHO: CAPS WHO: School of Art&
by wealthier individuals. safe by alerting doctors of WHEN: :30 p.m. to 6:30 Design
Although the process can a patient's condition may p.m. WHEN: 5:10 p.m. The Daily Arts staff
revitalize communities, it actually do more harm than WHERE: CAPS Office WHERE: Michigan Theater takes a look at how the

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:IanDillingham,SamGringlas,WillGreenberg,RachelPremack
and StehanenShnuda
ASS"S"a nES EDITOnS: Alana Akhtar, ardain Aron, Hiliary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michael Sugerman
Megan Mttonald and
Daniel Wang Editrial PagetEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garnoand
Alejandro Zifiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SEIORSP RS EDITORS: Max Cohen, AlexaDettelbach, RajatKhare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon,JakeLourimand Jason Rubinstein
lohn Lynh and iois'nch@nichigaedaily.con
Akshay Seth Managing Arts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIRARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
Alec Ster"
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS: JamieBircoll,Jackson Howard,GillianJakahand Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathewand
Paul Sherman ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Patrick Barron and Ruby Wallau
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Allison Farrand, Tracy~o, Terra Molengraff and Nicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasqueztManagingDesigntEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackens and AliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Amy Makens
Marklssolinskiand Meaghan
Thompson Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford OnlineEditor ahufforsd@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar DigitalhAccounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classifiedsManager
Lexi DerasMO Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang NationalsAccounts Manager
Ellen Wolbertand Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
Nolan LohS pecial Projects coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OlivialonesLayoutManager
Th MihganDiyOSs 74-7 sess ubsl 5's,s5shdMnatrogFiaydurig the all adnter tes by
stdetsatth UivrstyofMihian Oe op i aai* be reo fchare to all eaders Addtonlcopipsmay
p ttheD yso 52,Subsc tonsf a e, satnns eptember, viaU sma il 10
a bject tae M cedas Dsipis saemb 5 Thn- a s s ci p rns s ofaldte Asae$ 5aduCsiptionsPrss
beprpad.Te icignDalyisa ebe o TeAsocatd rssan eAs sociatee d Collegiate Prnss

can also cause unwanted
evictions.
Death penalty
BYMICHAEL CASEY
Michael Casey sheds
light on the case of Glenn
Ford, a Black man recently
released from his death
penalty sentence. The case,
which occured thirty years
ago, provided no concrete
evidence for conviction and
instead relied on racism to
condemn Ford.

good.
Skrillex
BY ALLEN DONNE
Skrillex has released a
new single, "Coast is Clear,"
which features Chance
the Rapper. The "go-to
feel good anthem" shows a
different side of the artists
by utilizing new elements.
Read morefrom these
blogs at michigandaily.com

UMMA After Engineering
Hours lecture

WHAT: The University of
Michigan Museum of Art
will be opened late with
music, refreshments and
art, of course. Permanent
and special collections
will be open to the public.
Curators will be present
for information and
conversation.
WHO: UMMA
WHEN: 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art

WHAT: In the 44th annual
Donald L. Katz lecture,
Kristi Anseth, professor
of chemical and biological
engineering at the Univer-
sity of Colorado, will deliver
her research, "Body Build-
ings Designer Gels to Pro-
mote Tissue Regeneration."
WHO: School of Education
WHEN: 5 p.m. to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Gerald Ford
Library Auditorium

Universityisemploying
social networking strategies
to reach a wider audience
base online. We also examine
the Digital Media Club.
a" FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE, PG.1B
Turkish riot police fired
tear gas into crowds
that were mourning
the death of a 15-year-old boy,
Headnine reported. The boy,
Berkin Elvan, died after being
put into a coma last June by
what is believed to have been a
police tear gas canister.

Investigators seek cause of
San Francisco worksite fire

Blaze deemed'one of igation. Fire officials were look-
ing into preliminary reports that
the largest of recent workers at the block-long site
were doing torch work shortly
years' threatened before the fire was reported
around 5 pan. Tuesday, Fire Chief
whole neighborhood Joanne Hayes-White said.
"It's too early to determine a
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Fire cause at this point," Fire Depart-
investigators on Wednesday were snent Battalion Chief Kirk
looking into whether welding Richardson said. "Our arson
work was to blame for a massive investigators still have a lot of
blaze that barreled through an material they have to look at."
apartment building construction Two firefighters suffered
site, threatening nearby struc- minor injuries. One of them, Tom
tures and prompting evacuations Murphy, suffered burns while
as firefighters worked to prevent battling the fire from above but
its spread through a San Francis- didn't realize he was injured for
co neighborhood. hours, said firefighter Stephen
City officials said a catastro- Maguire,swhose crew wasanong
phe was narrowly avoided in an the first to arrive.
up-and-coming area near AT&T The five-alarm fire created a
Park, home of the Giants. plume of black smoke that was
"I think we're very lucky that visible for miles and led to the
the fire didn't jump anymore," evacuation of nearby buildings as
Mayor Ed Lee said. about 150 firefighters were called
The exact cause of the blaze to contain it. A wall of the burn-
- one of the largest in the city in ing building collapsed about ass
recent years - was under inves- hour after the fire began.
DM5055

Firefighters had to take a
defensive stance because the
building was leaning in some
areas, Maguire said.
The blaze cracked windows at
Strata at Mission Bay, an apart-
ment building across the street,
and sent an ember onto the roof
of a University of California, San
Francisco building.
Flames briefly spread to scaf-
folding at another building under
construction, Maguire said.
The fire was fueled by wooden
frames and other materials at the
site, Hayes-White said. Because
it was under construction, the
building had no fire-suppression
systems.
"Our objective last night,
which we were able to achieve,
was to contain (the fire) to the
building of origin," she said.
Fire officials did not yet have
a damage estimate but said the
entire six-story building was a
loss.
By late afternoon Wednesday,
construction crews were using
an excavator to tear down the
structure on one end while fire-
fighters on the other end doused
hotspots.
Firefighters will likely remain
on the scene throughout the
night to make sure the fire
doesn't rekindle, Richardson
said.
Meanwhile, residents of the
Strata apartment building were
allowed back into their homes
Wednesday evening.
Exterior sprinklers on the
building had to be replaced
and the fire protection system
restored before residents could
be allowed back in, fire Deputy
Chief of Operations Mark Gon-
zales said. About 30 units suf-
fered damage, fire officials said.
Earlier Wednesday, Eli Brill
and his wife Justyn Bellsey, both
31, temporarily returned to their
apartment at Strata to retrieve
belongings. Firefighters had
helped them retrieve their dog
the previous night.
"It was really scary," Bellsey
said. "I'm just relieved that we
were able to get in."

Firefighters respond to a fire on 116th Street in Harlem after a building exploded in huge flames.
NYC explosion flattens two
buildings, kills three people
Residents complained at 116th Street, not far from the Fire officials said some people
edge of Central Park, erupted were unaccounted for but cau-
for weeks about gas about 9:30 a.m., around 15 min- tioned they may not have been in
utes after a neighboring resident the buildings.
smell in area reported smelling gas, authori- Atenant in one of the destroyed
ties said. The Con Edison utility buildings, Ruben Borrero, said
NEW YORK (AP) - A gas leak said it immediately sent workers residents had complained to the
triggered an earthshaking explo- to check out the report, but they landlord about smelling gas as
sion that flattened two apartment didn't arrive until it was too late. recently as Tuesday.
buildings on Wednesday, killing The explosion shattered win- A few weeks ago, Borrero said,
at least three people, injuring dows a block away, rained debris city fire officialswere called about
more than 60 and leaving nine onto elevated commuter railroad the odor, which he said was so
missing. A tenant said residents tracks close by, cast a plume of bad that a tenant on the top floor
had complained repeatedly in smoke over the skyline and sent broke openthe door to the roof for
recent weeks about "unbearable" people running into the streets. ventilation.
gas smells. "It felt like an earthquake "It was unbearable," said Bor-
By evening, rescue work- had rattled my whole building," rero, who lived in a second-floor
ers finally began the search said Waldemar Infante, a porter apartment with his mother and
for victims amid the broken who was working in a basement sister, who were away at the
bricks, splintered wood and nearby. "There were glass shards time of the explosion. "You walk
mangled metal after firefighters everywhere on the ground, and inthe front door and you want to
spent most of the day dousing all the stores had their windows turn around and walk directly
the flames. Heavy equipment, blown out." out."
including back hoes and a bull- Police said twowomen believed The fire department said a
dozer, arrived to clear the moun- to be in their 40s were among the check of its records found no
tain of debris where the two dead. instances in the past month in
five-story East Harlem build- Hunter College identified one which tenants of the two build-
ings stood. Flood lights were in as Griselde Camacho, a security ings reported gas odors or leaks.
place. Thermal imaging cameras officer who worked at the Silber- Jennifer Salas lived in one of
were at the ready to identify heat man School of Social Work build- the buildings. She told The New
spots - bodies or pockets of fire. ing. Hunter, in a statement on its York Times her husband, Jordy
The recovery was facing hard- website, said she had worked for Salas, and her dog were in the
ship in the form of the weather, the college since 2008. building at the time of the col-
which was expected to drop into At least three of the injured lapse and were missing.
the 20s with rain. Some parts of were children; one, a 15-year-old "There's six floors in the build-
the debris pile were inaccessible boy, was reported in critical con- ing; each floor has one apart-
because of a sinkhole caused by dition with burns, broken bones ment," she said. "Last night it
a subsurface water main break, and internal injuries. Most of the smelled like gas, but then the
officials said. other victims'injuries were minor smell vanished and we all went to
The fiery blast, on Park Avenue and included cuts and scrapes. sleep."

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 13, 2014 - 3A


HEALTHCARE
From Page 1A
Managed Care/Student Insur-
ance manager, said in an inter-
view Wednesday afternoon that
the University is committed to
providing elective abortion cov-
erage for the domestic student
plan.
"This is something that we
cover, and we're going to contin-
ue to cover it," Burchett said.
Louise Baldwin, associate
director of the International
Institute, said for international
plans, the same applied.
"It would be technically con-
sidered as a rider, which is what
the plan specified, but all stu-
dents enrolled in the plan would
have the benefit," Baldwin said.
"Long story short, it's not going
to affect the coverage."

Baldwin added that students
should not see an increase in
what they pay for the plan based
on the addition of the rider.
Graduate students and faculty
at the University who receive cov-
erage through University plans,
such as GradCare, U-M Premier
Care or Blue Cross Blue Shield
of Michigan's Community Blue
PPO, will not see any change in
their coverage under the new law.
These self-insured plans - under
which the University assumes
financial risks instead of the pro-
vider - are not subject to changes
under the new law.
The three faculty and grad
plans all already offer some form
of elective abortion coverage cur-
rently, according to documents
on the University Benefits Office
website.
One faculty plan, the Health
Alliance Plan, is not self-insured,
but it already has a rider for

abortion coverage, David Reid,
senior director of Strategic Com-
munications, said in an e-mail
statement.
On campus, the law has pushed
students to act both for and
against the changes.
LSA junior Taylor Crookston,
vice president of Students for
Life, a pro-life organization, said
a lot of students among the orga-
nization got involved with advo-
cating and petition to get the law
through Congress.
"We did the petition drives,
most of us have signed it,"
Crookston said. "We didn't do a
lot of it on campus with holding
the petitions and getting people
to sign it, because most of it was
done over the summer."
LSA junior Sophia Kotov,
president of Students for Choice,
a pro-choice organization, said
she saw a strong campus reaction
after the abortion insurance law

passed last December.
"When the law actually passed,
a lot of people were showing up
for Students for Choice and were
saying 'Wow, this is ridiculous, I
should get involved somehow,"'
Kotov said. "It actually mobilized
a lot of people."
The law's official start date
also gathered attention at the
Michigan State Capitol. State
Sen. Gretchen Whitmer (D-East
Lansing) announced the launch
of a new nonprofit organiza-
tion Wednesday, called Right to
Health, in response.
"Through Right to Health, I'll
be traveling around Michigan this
year to talk to women & men about
the importance of protecting our
health care rights and the damage
that is caused when misogynistic
ideas like the new 'Rape Insur-
ance' law are allowed to happen,"
Whitmer wrote in a statement on
her Facebook page.

MARRIAGE
From Page 1A
decision to define marriage as
one man and one woman.
Both sides presented data
and statistics from numerous
scholars, including professors
and economists, to ascertain if
.children would be at a disad-
vantage if raised by same-sex
parents. According to Univer-
sity lecturer Mark Rosenbaum,
Chief Counsel for the American
Civil Liberties Union of South-
ern California, the data clearly
favored DeBoer and Rowse.
"There is no basis other than
sheer animus against all LGBT
individuals to prevent two peo-
ple who love one another to say
so or do so in the same ways as
heterosexual couples," Rosen-
baum said.
In 2004, Michigan residents
approved a ban on same-sex
marriage with around 59 per-
cent of voters favoring the
measure. DeBoer and Rowse's
suit may overturn this law and
raises the question whether
initiatives are appropriate ways
to make legislation.
Jay Kaplan, an attorney with
the ACLU of Michigan, said
he believes constitutionality
should not be judged solely on
majority opinion. He said the
Founding Fathers created three
branches of the U.S. Govern-
ment to prevent such action.

"Our government, our laws,
protect us from the tyranny of
the majority and clearly that
was a discriminatory prevision
that was approved by a wide
majority of voters in 2004,"
Kaplan said. "We've seen over
the last 10 years how attitudes
towards LGBT people in terms
of their support for the right
to marry has significantly
changed - I just think it was
unconstitutional back in 2004,
it is today and the decision to
overturn it is exactly the right
thing to do."
Rosenbaum also warned
against the dangers of majority
opinion when dealing with gov-
ernmental action. He said he
believes the role of the courts is
to represent the minority voice
in legislation to distinguish
between what is constitutional
and what is discrimination.
"In the area of whether it's
race or whether it's class or
whether it is gender or whether
it is sexual orientation: we need
to be very careful in saying the
majority's vote is the final say
so," he said.
An Michigan State Unviersi-
ty poll found earlier this month
that 54% of Michigan residents
support gay marriage.
The federal judge will take
weeks to issue his ruling.
Both the University's chap-
ter of the College Republicans
and the American Family
Association of Michigan were
unavailable for comment.


ELECTION
From Page 1A
lowing six years of his or her term.
University alum Tamara Gar-
wood, an Ann Arbor resident and
Detroit College of Law graduate,
has practiced in Ann Arbor for the
past 15 years. Garwood's legal spe-
cialties are divided between pro-
bate and family law cases, making
this available seat, Garwood said,
an ideal fit for herskill set and pas-
sions.
"I can only help so many peo-
ple in private practice. It sounds
altruistic, butI want to help more
people," Garwood said. "I want to
have a greater impact on the com-
munity, and in my mind the way to
do that to be able to help more peo-
ple each day is to become a judge."
Garwood is the only candi-
date to receive incumbent Judge
Wheeler's endorsement, Garwood
Campaign Manager Tiffany Mess-
er said.
After receiving her Masters of
Social Work from New York Uni-
versity, Ann Arbor resident Tracy
Van den Bergh moved to Michigan
14 years ago, attended Michigan
State University College of Law
and currently practices at Legal
Services of South Central Michi-
gan, where she specializes in both
probate and family law.
According to Van den Bergh,
her unique background in social
work, understanding of mental ill-

ness and ability to interact with a
wide range of individuals sets her
apart from other candidates.
"I would like to take my unique
education to the bench because I
believe it will enable people across
the board to have better access to
the justice system," Van den Bergh
said.
The importance of this bench,
Van den Bergh said, cannot be
overlooked, as the majority of peo-
ple in probate court are experienc-
ing a life crisis and require a fair
and compassionate judge.
Ann Arbor resident Connie
Jones, who grew up in Washt-
enaw County and attended the
University's Law School, worked
for the United Auto Workers-Gen-
eral Motors Legal Services before
opening her own practice in 1993.
She also worked for Ozone House,
a homeless shelter for youth, and
volunteers in the LGBTQ commu-
nity.
She said her passion of work-
ing with children and the elderly
inspired her to pursue a seat on the
probate court.
Ann Arbor resident Julia B.
Owdziej, who graduated from
Detroit College of Law, is cur-
rently the deputy register for
the Washtenaw County Probate
Court. She is also the referee
for Washtenaw County Juvenile
Court, in which she presides over
hearings.
She has lived in Washtenaw
County since 1991, and said that
her experience in a variety of

areas will help her better serve the
people of Washtenaw County.
"Having been an advocate, a
decision maker and administra-
tive work in probate court, I think
I have all of the areas covered to
be a successful judge for the most
vulnerable people in probate
court," Owdziej said.
Ann Arbor resident Jane Bas-
sett, a Detroit Mercy School of
Law graduate, opened her own
practice in 1994 concerning elder
law and family formation for
twenty years. A Washtenaw Coun-
ty resident since 1982, she said she
hopes to use her resources, con-
nections and experience to serve
in a personal and effective way.
"Some of my shining moments
have been small victories. Know-
ing the details of someone's life
and helping them have a better
quality of life in their last days,"
Bassett said. "When clients come
to me they know they are going
to get the service they need with
compassion about what they are
goingthrough."
Shelton's circuit court seat is
historically responsible for more
family law cases, personal protec-
tion orders, divorces and juvenile
court cases.
Ann Arbor resident Michael
Woodyard, Wayne County
assistant prosecutor, attended
Eastern Michigan University
and Wayne State University
Law School and will be running
again after losing the 2012 elec-
tion against incumbent Judge

Tim Connors.
Chelsea resident Patrick Con-
lin, another candidate who grew
up in the Ann Arbor area, has a
private practice in Chelsea. He
attended the University of Notre
Dame and became a high school
English teacher before attend-
ing Wayne State University Law
School.
"I am really eager to serve the
people of this county," Conlin
said. "I understand public service
from my family's own history of
serving the community, and I'm
really eager to be in a position to
make the decisions that are neces-
sary to bring resolution to people's
conflict."
Veronique Liem is an attor-
ney at Smith Haughey Rice &
Roegge, a law firm with four loca-
tions throughout Michigan. She
received her MBA and JD from
the University.
"I want to perform community
service as part of my work," Liem
said. "I also ata stage in my career
and my life where I think I have
the knowledge and skill to be a
good judge and to render sound
and impact decisions especially
in family law, which this seat will
predominantly preside."

I N NOvmVATO0RS!oi
A PANEL ON STUDENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Where: 420 Maynard St.
SrI March 32014,5-7p.


ST. PATRICK
From Page 1A
make it more difficult to take into
account the severity of the cold.
LSA sophomore Leo Weiss-
burg, the Interfraternity Coun-
cil's vice president for public
relations, said that the IFC has
various strategies in place to
ensure that students attending
events at fraternities have fun
and stay safe.
For example, "stay in blue
cups" - which are made with
standard drink lines - will be
provided to fraternity houses

that are hosting events. To con-
tinue with past years' practices,
fraternities will purchase food to
encourage students not to drink
on an empty stomach, and the
IFC will reimburse these pur-
chases.
Members of the Michigan
Ambassadors Program who are
trained by University Health
Services and the Ann Arbor
Police Department will also be
patrollingsocial events to ensure
that "everything is within con-
trol," Weissburg said.
Weissburg said LSA sopho-
more Alex Krupiak, IFC's vice
president of social responsibility,
created guidelines specifically

for the holiday to ensure safety.
For example, the policy discour-
ages the use of glass containers
and encourages fraternity mem-
bers to pick up trash through-
out the day, as well as be aware
of sound system set-ups to avoid
noise complaints.
In addition, Weissburg said
the guidelines encouraged fra-
ternities to hold events on Sat-
urday in lieu of Sunday, when
Honors Convocation will occur.
"We want students to know
that there's alternative events,
that there's other things to do
besides engaging in high-risk
drinking, or drinking at all,"
Daniels said.


EXPO
From Page 1A
instead of going to all the depart-
ments separately," Trame said.
Students of all class standings
stood in line at the front desk
in front of the Union Ballroom
to swipe their MCards to gain
admission to the event. According
to Trame, more than 100 students
attended the expo within the first
half-hour, which was a larger
turnout than last year's expo.
Many students wandered up
to various departments' stands

to browse concentrations and
requirements, discuss career
plans or set up advising appoint-
ments. However, some students
were already set on their academ-
ic plans.
LSA sophomore Lasherryn
Duncan said she had all her
of options in mind before she
attended the expo. As a Biopsy-
chology, Cognition and Neurosci-
ence and Spanish double major,
Duncan decided to attend the
expo to check and confirm all of
her options.
"It was good to see that with
each stand, there was a professor
there," Duncan said. "It was help-

ful to put a face with a name."
LSA freshman Mia Licciardi
said she came to the expo to fig-
ure out the next step for her cho-
sen major - English. But after
perusing the selections, she said
the event opened up her mind to
other majors she was interested
in, such as psychology.
LSA senior Hani Habra attend-
ed the event with a completed
major in mathematics. By attend-
ing the event, he hoped to explore
other opportunities for graduate
school, such as pursuing a degree
in Engineering.
"I'm still searching," Habra
said.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
SUMMER SESSION '14
If you're a standout, you'll fit right in.
Don't just communicate ideas-experience them.
Don't memorize a foreign language-think in one.
Don't study the ruins-excavate them.
Don't analyze dreams-live them.
This is the very essence of the University of Chicago
Summer Session. Where students are engaged at every
level-intellectually, socially, personally, and professionally.
Where you can benefit from the value of taking university
courses in an accelerated, intensive format. Join us this
summer for an extraordinary learning experience at the
academic home to 85 Nobel laureates.
For students in high school, college, and beyond.
June 23-August 29, 2014, 3, 4, 5, and 6-week sessions.
Apply today.
summer.uchicago.edu/VSFUEL
summer@uchicago.eduT11,
GRAHAM SCHOOL
Finduson
iFacebook s

IT'S AN HOUR PAST MIDNIGHT
AND WE'RE HERE MAKING A PAPER
WE'RE HOPING NO NEWS BREAKS TONIGHT
SO WE DON'T HAVE TO BE HERE LATER
OF COURSE WE LOVE THE NEWSROOM
IN ALL ITS PRINT MEDIA SPLENDOR
WE JUST REALLY NEED SOME SLEEP SOON
SO WE CAN SERVE YOU BETTER
HERE'S TO YOU, OUR READERS
FAST ASLEEP BY NOW
OR MAYBE WATCHING NETFLIX
A SHOW HIGH OR LOW BROW
WHEN YOU WAKE UP IN THE MORNING
BE SURE TO PICK A COPY OR TEN
WE MAKE IT EVERY NIGHT SO YOU CAN KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON AT U OF M

I

!

I

r


4A - Thursday, March 13, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, March 13, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

C Ih itigan 4:at*1.1.
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Pothole problems
Michigan needs to allocate more funding to maintain Michigan roads
his Michigan winter has been exceptionally awful, with record-
breaking low temperatures and snowfall totals approaching
the all-time record. Such harsh weather conditions have taken
a considerable toll on the state's roads. Poor road quality has affected
the health and pocketbooks of Michigan drivers. Michigan's legislature
is introducing a mid-fiscal year supplemental budget that will allocate
$215 million to repairing roads. Republican Gov. Rick Snyder can
and should alleviate the dangerous conditions by signing the budget.

Oversexualized sexuality

When I first came out,
I wasn't expecting to
discuss attractive guys
as much as I did.
I knew I would,
and the thought
felt exciting.
Expressing my
attractions felt ,
like placing
the final piece
to my identity
puzzle. What MICHAEL
struck me as SCHRAMM
odd, though, was
how consistently
attractive guys were brought to my
attention. This piece framed my
identity instead of fitting into my
identity's frame. My girl friends
always pointed out attractive guys
- whether it was the cute guy
across the street or the actor on
TV. I couldn't understand why I
was given such acute attention to
anything male and attractive. Even
more puzzling became my frequent
exclamations about cute boys. These
comments felt subconscious, yet I
sensed this spotlighting enough to
realize I didn't understand it.
I now understand this
phenomenon's root: oversexualizing
the LGBTQ community. Though
our entire culture is sexualized, the
gay community carries a heightened
sexual sense where members are
defined by their sexuality. Since
orientations outside heterosexual
are minorities, we emphasize those
members' personalities as linked
to their sexuality. For example, if
you're interacting with a lesbian
and a straight woman, the straight
woman's orientation wouldn't induce
much thought. You're desensitized to
her sexuality since it's common. But
being a lesbian is more uncommon,
and therefore, you'll more likely
highlight her sexual orientation in
constructing your perception of her
identity. This means that you'll more
likely associate "gay" with "sex,"
and - because sexuality connects

with romance - this also implies
a tendency to associate LGBTQ
members with anything romantic.
These perceptions create
stereotypes seen in the media. A
recent study examined the degree of
sexual material in DNA and Instinct,
magazines targeted towards gay
males. The study found that 47
percent of advertisements focused on
sellingmaterialsofanexplicitlysexual
nature, including underwear, male
enhancement materials, pornographic
DVDs and lubricant. This 47 percent
didn't include car, clothingand alcohol
advertisements, which commonly use
sex to sell. of course, sexual content
runs rampant through the media, but
I highly doubt half of "Men's Health"
contains advertisements for penis
pumps, condoms and porn.
These stereotypes also leak into
health fields. Sexually transmitted
infections and other sex-related
topics represent most commonly
discussed LGBTQ topics in medical
school,butmanymemberssufferfrom
other issues. LGBTQ youth are five
times more prone to homelessness,
three times more prone to suicidality
and twice as prone to depression -
yet medical school, which spends, on
average, five hours covering LGBTQ
issues, rarely covers these topics.
This creates serious consequences.
Though doctors may know about STI
risk, they aren't aware of potential
psychological dangers to LGBTQ
members. They may be educated on
suicide and depression,butthey don't
understand their impact on LBGTQ
members. How is that fair? This isn't
doctors' faults. They don't select
the medical school curriculum,
but nevertheless, these issues are
dangerous and require education.
Such stigmas also create social
ramifications. In my experience,
gays and lesbians talk about their
relationships and sex lives more than
heterosexuals. If this talk occurred
among only specific individuals, I
wouldn't be concerned, butI see this
happening consistently. I even see it

within myself.
Though it's important to embrace
sexuality, we shouldn't feel
restrictedly bound to them. Instead,
like any heterosexual, we should feel
encouraged to decide how much we
incorporate our sexuality into our
personalities. The problem is that
my sexuality presses me into being
the "gay guy," and I believe lesbians
and transgenders feel the same
way. This can cause a slippery slope
leading to complications.
By pressuring LGBTQ members
to fulfill sexually based stereotypes,
we inadvertently pressure them into
fulfilling other stereotypes - i.e.
feminine gays and butch lesbians.
Now, there's absolutely nothing
wrong with being a feminine
gay or masculine lesbian if that's
truly who you are. What concerns
me is that feminine guys and
masculine girls feel driven to these
personalities based on fulfilling a
sexuality-based stereotype.
The truth is that my sexuality
- and the sexuality of many other
LGBTQ members - is no more
important than a straight persons.
On most occasions, I'd rather discuss
"Twitch Plays Pokemon" over some
guy's biceps. But that doesn't mean
every member does. Some, just like
straight people, frequently gossip
about relationships, hookups and
bodies. We each favor hookups
or relationships based on our
personalities. How often we think
about sex depends on who we are
as individuals.
Most importantly, we, or at least
I, want to choose how much we
define ourselves by our attractions.
Sexuality's purpose is providing
clarification about who we are as
people. By flipping this concept and
instead defining someone by their
sexuality, you're not only enforcing
stereotypes, you're overlooking the
purpose of sexuality.
- Michael Schramm can be
reached at mschramm@umich.edu.

The budget was passed Tuesday in the state
House and Senate. $100 million will be spent
on general road maintenance- and $115 million
will be set aside for road projects specified by
various legislators.
The pockmarked roads throughout the state
have caused a number of serious and fatal
injuries to drivers, and failing to fix roads is
endangering Michigan residents. In February,
the Michigan Townships Association released a
statementsaying that "One-third of all fatal and
serious traffic accidents are at least partly due
to poor road conditions and roadway design."
The MTA also claimed that improving roads
could save up to 1,000 lives over the span of
10 years. Maintaining the quality of Michigan
roads is not only a matter of improving driving
conditions,but a case of saving lives.
Michigan citizens pay the sixth-highest
gasoline tax rate in the nation yet the state is
unable tokeep the roads in acceptablecondition.
The average vehicle owner in Michigan pays an
additional $357 per year on vehicle repairs such
as flat tires, shock and strut replacements, and

on repairs stemming from accidents caused by
the state's poor road conditions. In areas such
as Metro Detroit - where more than half of the
roads are rated in poor or mediocre condition
- motorists spend $536 more in unnecessary
vehicle repairs. Taxpayers are already paying
for the upkeep of the roads and their vehicles.
It's ridiculous that motorists should be
subjected to further costs due to the state's lack
of road repair.
Michigan comes in dead last in per capita
spending on roads and bridges annually at
$154. If the state had been utilizing more
funds to maintain the roads before the
current winter - one of Michigan's worst
winters in years - the roads would not be
in such extreme deteriorated conditions.
Currently, 32 percent of the roads in Michigan
are ranked in poor condition. It has been
estimated that the number will increase to
65 percent if the problem isn't addressed. An
aggressive investment in road infrastructure
now will help save both drivers and the state
money in the future.

RYAN DAU I
Abolishing minimum wage

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria
Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul
Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
Marjuana misconceptions

In my experience, political ideologies are
akin to overcoats; youwear one while itfits and
trade it for another when you've outgrown it. In
this vein I've had dalliances with neoconserva-
tism, I've summered as a Marxist, I misspent
my high school years as a libertarian and my
intellectual adulthood has thus far been lived
within the parameters of American liberalism.
Each philosophy, of course, has its own
little foibles and fallacies to nip at the heels
of its advocates. Conservatives suffer from a
fetishization of militarism and the more maca-
bre elements of biblical scripture, while Marx-
ists are hung up on their woefully incoherent
doctrine of historical materialism; libertarians
could fill the Encyclopedia Britannica three
times over with their deductive missteps and
political faux pas. In turn, my confederates
can't seem to help themselves when it comes to
the minimum wage.
Let me blunt the edge of my criticism by
saying that I share all of the concerns echoed
by the College Democrats in their recent
Michigan Daily article - wages are shockingly
too low, the economic fortunes of working
class families are woefully insecure and
income inequality is disgustingly ubiquitous
in American life. This is a disagreement
among friends alone, and while my strategy
for achieving a more equitable economic
climate differs from my comrades the ultimate
goal is nonetheless the same. Please keep this
in mind when I say that supporting even the
existence of a minimum wage is misguided at
best and antisocial at worst.
The contemporary liberal case for the mini-
mum wage is largely a hangover from the
writings of economist and policy wonk John
Kenneth Galbraith, who advocated for system-
ic price and wage controls to tame inflation in
his 1952 work A Theory of Price Control. While
a prescient and insightful macroeconomist,
Galbraith's microeconomic treatise proved to
be shockingly offthe mark. When former Presi-
dent Richard Nixon implemented Galbraith's
policies as part of his "income policy" to control
inflation, the bane of rising prices was replaced
with the drudgery ofeconomy-wide production
dislocations. Those industries faced with man-
dated prices above the market-clearing rate
built up unsalable surpluses while those busi-
nesses forced to sell goods below the market
equilibrium price were faced with unquench-
able shortages. America's income policy died in
1973, and liberal support for Galbraithian wage
and price controls went out to pasture yith it -
except, it seems, for the minimum wage.
Now, the minimum wage interferes with
the workings of the market in a manner
akin to any ordinary price floor; quantity
demanded is curtailed while quantity
supplied is stimulated, and we are left with
a certain output which cannot be traded at
the given price. In this case the minimum
wage curtails hiring by businesses while.at

the same time encouraging intrepid workers
to enter the market at the now-higher salary,
producing a body of structurally unemployed
labor, which didn't exist prior to the
imposition of this policy. This is the essential
explication of "Eurosclerosis," or Western
Europe's dichotomy of high unemployment
even during times of economic expansion.
Well-meaning governments, assured that
they are providing a helping hand to working
families in their constituencies, impose a
quasi-wage control that ushers in sickeningly
high levels of unemployment.
Notably, and as mentioned in the article,
this view on the minimum wage has been
greeted with dissent by economists David
Card and Alan B. Krueger, who in their
article, "Minimum Wages and Employment:
A Case Study of the Fast-Food Industry in
New Jersey and Pennsylvania," documented
a supposed positive correlation between
an increase in the minimum wage and
employment in fast-food chains within the
two aforementioned states. Not only was
this claim later redacted by the authors, who
revised their conclusion to say instead that
there was either a mild increase or no change
at all in fast-food worker unemployment,
but the article flies in the face of literally
thousands of other publications documenting
the minimum wage's adverse effects on
employment for African-Americans, single
women, teenagers and part-time workers.
The retort to this claim is obvious; even if
Card and Krueger are wrong and the mini-
mum wage produces unemployment in the
short-term, this will be mediated in the long-
run by an increase in demand from those
workers who will see an increase in their
purchasing power, spurring expansions in
industrial output and, naturally, in employ-
ment. This hinges critically on the assump-
tion that the market demand for labor is
inelastic over the range of the wage increase
from the minimum wage hike. In layman's
terms, we'd have to assume that higher wages
for those who stay employed outweigh lost
wages from those who become unemployed,
and considering that the demand for labor
has been documented as being highly elastic
during recessions at least since Lionel Rob-
bins's 1934 treatise "The Great Depression," I
wouldn't say that those are betting odds.
Now, if liberals are to accept that the mini-
mum wage is impotent at delivering increases
in either employment or higher wages for all
workers then policies which do both, such as
economic stimulus packages, investments in
infrastructure and education, subsidies for
student loans and so on may be pursued in their
stead. Political capital is a scarce good, and it
painsme to see myfellow Democratswastingit
on a bum policy like the minimum wage.
Ryan Dau is an LSA freshman.

week prior to the 2014
State of the Union Address,
The New Yorker published
Editor David
Remnick's
profile, "Going
the Distance:
On and off
the road with
Barack Obama."
The following
morning, the
headlines or LAUREN
lower third of MCCARTHY
every major
news institute
read, "Obama: Marijuana not 'more
dangerous' than alcohol."
Though Remnick's profile
consists of 10 segments and totals
more than 16,500 words - these six
were the only ones the American
people heard, and continue to
repeat. Obama's comment rapidly
became re-tweeted, posted and
commented on just as quickly
as it became skewed, reworded
and misinterpreted as indicative
of active change in policy. From
millennials to baby boomers, social
media was littered with the belief
that the President advocates for the
legalization of marijuana.
During the Feb. 4 U.S.
Congressionalhearingonmarijuana
policy, Rep. John Mica (R-FI.),
chairman of the subcommittee on
government operations - under
the Committee on Oversight &
Government Reform - accused the
administration of having "the most
schizophrenic policy (he) has ever
seen." Despite these accusations
and Obama's recent comments,
Michael Botticelli, the deputy
director of the White House Office
ofNationalDrugControl and Policy,
maintained that the administration
remains opposed to state-based
efforts to legalize marijuana. The
White House website states that,
"The Administration steadfastly
opposes legalization of marijuana
and other drugs" - and rightfully
so - "because legalization of
marijuana would increase the
availability and use of illicit drugs,
and pose significant health and
safety risks to all Americans,
particularly young people."
This commitment, however,
seems unbeknownst to both the

American public, as well as state
governments. Both Washington
and Colorado have legalized
recreational use of the drug for
adults. Similarly, 20 states and the
District of Columbia have approved
the use of medical marijuana, and
28 states have decriminalized
marijuana use in at least one region
- despite the fact that cannabis is
illegal under federal law.
While it was perhaps unwise of
the President-to share his thoughts
on the strength or danger of
marijuana, he made several other
pertinent remarks on the subject.
He expressed his concern of the
disproportionate adolescent arrests,
claiming, "Middle-class kids don't
get locked up for smoking pot, and
poor kids do ... andAfrican-American
kids and Latino kids are more likely
to be poor and less likely to have the
resources and the support to avoid
unduly harsh penalties." He stated
that the "experiments" taking place
in Washington and Colorado are
important in eliminating a situation
in which a large portion of people
break the law, yet only a select few
get punished.
Disproportionate adolescent
arrests and incerations are a valid
concern, but not one that should
be aided at the expense of national
health standards. Though I do
not disagree that America's youth
can be hindered by the harsh
legal ramifications for marijuana
possession - the legalization of
cannabis for adult recreational
use provides neither a remedy nor
positive solution.Instead,youth may
be further exposed to marijuana
by family members, older siblings,
friends or parents who choose to
consume the drug, validating its
use in the minds of their children.
Exposure and desensitization to
the drug continues to lessen the
stigmatization surrounding its
negative effects.
According to the National
Institute on Drug Abuse, pot among
adolescents is again on the rise,
and the serious consequences of
the drug have gotten both lost and
vehemently denied in the national,
pro-legalization discourse taking
place online and on college
campuses. However, if teens
and young adults begin abusing

marijuana before the age of at least
25, it can dramatically affect their
ability to problem-solve, retain
memory and engage in critical
thinking. Studies have also found
long-term use of the drug to be
linked to a lower IQ - as much as
an 8-point drop - later in life.
Hans Breiter, a professor
at Northwestern University's
Feinberg School of Medicine and
the senior author of a study focused
on heavy marijuana users found the
earlier the drug was taken up, the
worse the effects on the brain.
"Marijuana is the ideal
compound to screw up everything
for a kid," Breiter explained in an
interview with Time Magazine.
He concluded, "The more I study
marijuana, the more I wonder if we
should have legislation banning the
use of it for everyone under 30."
The study also found that
abusing marijuana may have
dangerous implications for young
people who are developing or
have developed mental illnesses.
Abuse of the drug has been linked
to developing schizophrenia in
prior research, and Northwestern
Medicine's paper reveals that the
use of marijuana may contribute
to the changes in brain structure
that have been associated with
having schizophrenia. Matthew
Smith, the study's lead author and
an assistant research professor
at Northwestern University's
Feinberg School of Medicine, told
Time, "Chronic marijuana use
could augment the underlying
disease process associated with
schizophrenia ... If someone has a
family history of schizophrenia,
they are increasing their risk of
developing schizophrenia if they
abuse marijuana."
Regardless, by no means is
marijuana as benign as many
Americans tweet, post, comment and
claim. In a country that continues
to intellectually fall behind our
counterparts overseas, there is no
justification in legalizing a Schedule
I drug - proven to erode brain
function, lower IQs and hinder
critical processing skills - for
recreational abuse.
- Lauren McCarthy can be
reached at laurmc@umich.edu.

I,

t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
St. Patricks's Day Events S
By Alicia Adamczyk, Weekend Roundup Editor ( Photos by Adam Glanzmai

This weekend, Ann Ar- There are five diffe
bor will be (pub) crawling on tap and no cov
with drink and food spe-
cials for St. Patrick's Day.
While green beer will be a
staple at fraternities across And if you'
campus, bars and restau- 21 or the bars a
rants are also offering St. scene, there a
Paddy's-inspired fare to get of other events
you in the Irish spirit of the ebrate over the
day. If you're over 21, these
are for you. If you're look- Friday, March14
ing for something else this
weekend, skip ahead to the Innovators and Be
Campus Events section. dent Entrepreneur
The Michigan Dai
G e TMichigan Assoc
Communication S
A self-described "U of hosting an ent
M Landmark," Charley's ship panel begin
doesn't exactly need public- p.m. at 420 Mayn
ity for its specials and will be
an obvious choice for many Wild Wild UMix
students this , weekend. Yee-haw! The C
Lauren Irvine, a bar- Campus Involve
tender at Charley's, said have Western-the
Irish Car Bombs, Dirty flatable activities
Girl Scout shots and Dub- week's UMix,
lin Iced Tea will be on spe- at 10 p.m. in tI
cial Monday. Irvine recom-
mends the Irish Car Bomb. Saturday, March
TEDxUo]M 2014
The theme of t
Dominic's, a favorite for TEDxUofM event
students and Ann Arbor res- the Grain. It begi
idents in the warmer months a.m. at the Pow
of the year, reopened Mon- for the Performi
day. Students yearning for
the homemade sangria are in Shamrock It!
luck: University alum Olivia There will be a
Horn, who works at Domi- night breakfast bu
nic's, suggested students or- Michigan Union,
der the Green Sangria, a sta- tivities and a sc
ple of the establishment's. "Frozen." The e
from 9 p.m. to
Conor O'Neills
Sunday, March 16
If you're in the mood
for an authentic Irish ex- Men's Basketball
perience, head to Conor Championship
O'Neills on Main Street, Root for the M
where there will be a live Blue (assuming
Irish music - including wins on Fridaya
musicians playing the bag day) at the Big T
pipes - all day, starting at pionship this we
7 a.m. and accompanied by
traditional Irish dancing. As Monday, March1
always, there will be plenty
of Guinness to go around. Count Your Luck at
the Blue
Arbor Brewing CO. As part of its St
Blue program, w
Arbor Brewing Company motes responsible
will also open at 7 a.m. with habits, the Univ
a special breakfast menu have green done
and happy hour until 11 a.m. and Stay in Blue


erentbeers
er all day.
re under
ren't your
re plenty
to cel-
weekend:
est: A Stu-
ship Panel
ly and the
iation of
tudies are
repreneur-
ning at 5
ard Street.
enter for
ment will
med in-
at this
beginning
he Union.
15
his year's
is Against
ns at 9:30
er Center
g Arts. .
free late-
ffet in the
trivia ac-
reening of
vent lasts
midnight.
Big Ten
taize and
Michigan
and Satur-
'en Chai-
ekend.
7
nd Stay in
ay in the
hich pro-
drinking
ersity will
ts, water
giveaways.

Lauren Irvine makes a Dublin Iced T

Specials Selectior
n, Daily Staff Photographer T h erace
By BRAD WHIPPLE
WeekendRoundup Columnist
How does one billion dollars
jP sound?
Selection Sunday is this week,
and 64 teams will be given the
chance to dance their way to Arling-
ton, Texas. Who will cut the netting
inAT&T Stadium and return home
with an NCAA Championship tro-
phy in their hands?
But more importantly, who will
be on the edge of their couch April
7 and learn they'll never have to
work aday in theirentire life? That's
where the billion dollars cotnes into
ea at Good Time Charley's. play.
Quicken Loans, a Detroit-based
online retail mortgage lender, has
partnered with Yahoo Sports to give
anyone with a perfect March Mad-
ness bracket a share of one billion
dollars. If you win, you can receive
40 annual installments of $25 mil-
lion or take an immediate $5s1 mil-
lion lump sum payment and earn
the rest later. Who's the couch bum
now?
Now, there is no bulletproof
algorithm to correctly pick 63 game
results. Think about it - there are
more than four billion bracket com-
binations, and you'retrvingto battle
the odds?
Last year, the favorite team was
d Dirty Girl Scouts are the drinks the number-one overall seed, Lou-
Time Charley's. isville, which beat Michigan in the
final. This year, though, there isn't
really a clear-cut leader. Lots of
teams are playing well, and even
the best hit a stopping point. For
instance, Syracuse was a favorite
to go far in the post season when
they were 25-0 in February, but the
Orange suffered an embarrassing
7 first loss of the season on Feb. 19 to
Boston College, the second to last
team in the ACC.
This makes brackets even more
difficult because you have to try and
predict ifa team will go through a
dry spell, and the "Cinderella Story"
teams go fro underdogs to top
contenders.
Last year was actually madden-
s Dominic's St. Patrick's Day ing. Florida Gulf Coast, a 15th-seed,

Thursday, March 13, 2014 - 5A
Sunday:
for $1 B
made it to the Sweet Sixteen. Mean-
while, Wichita State upset first-
seeded Gonzaga in round two and
cruised its way to the Final Four
after overcoming second-seeded
Ohio State. This year, Wichita State
will enter the NCAA Tournament
34-B, the first team to do so since
1991.
There's no telling what could
happen in the tournament, but
here's some food for thought if
you're partaking in the bracket
madness this season:
First: Pick all number-one seeds
to make it to at least the second
round, They have never lost against
the 16th-seed, and it is extremely
unlikely to ever happen. And don't
throw all the number-one seeds
in the Final Four, because it's only
happened once since 1985.
Second: Making accurate picks
relies on research - compare season
records, RPI rankings that compare
strengths of schedules and general
team and playerstats, such as points
per game. It's also important to
look at coaches - what's their track
record in the tournament and how
many national titles do they have
under theirbelt?
Third: Winning teams mainly
come down to the stars that make
them. Former guard Trey Burke,
who earned National Player of the
Year, put Michigan in the spotlight
last year and was the team's foun-
dation. This year the torch seems
to have passed to sophomore guard
Nik Stauskas.
Each team has its star and these
stars make championship teams.
That said, the winner of a matchup
could come down to the team with
the better main-man to look to in
high-pressure situations.
Then again, anything can hap-
pen.
Countless factors affect the mad-
ness of March, but in reality its
entirely based on luck with relative-
ly little skill. But I still spent more
time on my bracket last year than I
did on my college applications. Hey,
with one billion dollars now on the
line, who wouldn't?

Dublin Iced Tea, Irish Car Bombs an.
du jour for St. Patrick's Day at Good I

Special: Tne Green Sangria.
At the Daily, we're
always looking
for NEW, creative
content.
(If you've been searching for a
curated Blues Spotify playlist
by American Culture Prof.
Bruce Conforth, we even have
that covered.)
Check it out
ONLINE!
michigandaily.com

c
1
s
G
4
V
J

ADAMGLANZMAN/Daily
Getting a little festive never hurt anyone.
there are plenty of ways
ay STEPHANIE SHENOUDA to be festive and over-the-
Daily News Editor
top without covering ev-
St. Paddy's day is the ery inch of your body in
only day that we can con- green paint and adopting
done going green in Ann a cheesy accent for the day
Arbor, so you'll definitely - unless you're into that.
want to go all out. It's a Even though it's only
great day whether you projected to be about 39
plan to hit the streets at degrees this weekend,
the top of the morning or you can't let a little thing
are going to practice your like the weather get in the
best jig on the rooftops at way of your festivities.
night. It doesn't matter if Unless your coat happens
you don't have a drop of to be green, you're going
Irish blood in your veins, to have to employ some

accessories for your daily
dose of green, lest you get
pinched all day long.
The Weekend Round-
up staff scoured Ragstock
and came out with our fa-
vorites. Be as creative as
you want; there's no need
to be super fancy or spend
a ton of money. Even don-
ning a green glitter hat like
the one we found for less
than $5 will get you feel-
ing jolly and ensure you
stand out in the crowd.
Green leis and necklaces
can be layered to create a
funky look that suits you
and bowties are fun and
festive. If you still feel
your look isn't leprechaun
worthy, you can pump it
up with other accessories
as well, the greener the
better.
And if you're Irish by
blood, then this is your
day! Show your pride for
everyone to see with a fun
button, like we've selected
above. No advice on solic-
iting kisses though, that's
on you.


6A - Thursday, March 13, 2014

The Michigan Daily- michigandailycom

Tournament Watch: College hockey edition

By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
The No. 13 Michigan hockey
team finds itself on the bubble
of qualifying for the NCAA
Tournament heading into
the final week of the regular
season. It's been a year of ups
and downs for the Wolverines,
but if the season ended today,
they'd probably sneak their way
into one of the final spots in the
16-team bracket.
Unlike the NCAA Basketball
Tournament, college hockey has
just 59 teams vying for 16 spots.
Smaller competition ultimately
means fewer teams on the
bubble every year. Instead of 10
teams probablybeing "snubbed"
by the selection committee like
in basketball, there are usually
just four or five teams on the
NCAA hockey bubble in the first
place.
And how is the selection
process different from
basketball? Well, it's more
straightforward and less
subjective, actually.
The committee uses
something called the Pairwise
Rankings to guide the selection
process for the NCAA hockey
PAIRWISE RANKINGS
For the week of March 101h
13
Cornell - (15-8-5 overall)

tournament. There are six
automatic bids coming from
each conference tournament
at the conclusion of the season.
That leaves ,just 10 at-large
spots to complete the rest of
the field, assuming that the
highest-ranked teams win
their respective conference
tournaments. Michigan
currently sits at 14th in the
Pairwise Rankings.
To earn an at-large spot, a
team needs to be ranked 15th or
better in the Pairwise. In 15th
place, a team will likely make
the national tournament only if
there are no surprise champions
in the conference tournaments.
If a team is ranked 10th or better,
it would be considered a lock for
the tournament since only six
automatic bids are handed out.
Eleventh through 16th in the
Pairwise Rankings would be
eliminated if all six conference
championships were from teams
that aren't ranked in the top 16 of
the Pairwise Rankings.
While it's an unlikely
circumstance, it would prove
to be fatal to Michigan's NCAA
Tournament aspirations. The
Wolverines currently sit at 14th
in the most recent Pairwise
Rankings and no doubt have
work to do in the Big Ten
Tournament and when No. 1
Minnesota comes to town this
weekend.
If the Wolverines win out,
there won't be any worries. But
if they falter early in the Big
Ten Tournament or get swept
by the Gophers this weekend,
they'll need some help from
around the country. So here is
whom fans should be rooting
against for the next two weeks
if Michigan finds itself under
tough circumstances.
Cornell: Playing against
Clarkson in the quarterfinals

VICKILIU/Daily
Red Berenson and the Michigan hockey team need at least a split against No.1 Minnesota this weekend to safely qualify for the NCAA Tournament later this month.
of the ECAC Tournament tournament bubble, Michigan the Wolverines in the Pairwise visit No. 7 Quinnipiac in the
and sitting one spot ahead holds the edge over New Rankings. quarterfinals this weekend.
of Michigan in the Pairwise Hampshire with a win and tie Winning this three-game series
Rankings, Cornell could against it early in the season. Minnesota State: In the would pay dividends for Yale
nearly solidify its position It'd be safe for Wolverines fans first round of the WCHA and spell trouble for Michigan if
in the tournament with a to pull for an upset here to give Tournament, Minnesota State it cannot salvage a split against
semifinal birth. On the other their team a little breathing plays Northern Michigan. the Gophers. It'd be wise for
hand, if Cornell is upset and room from Northeastern. The Wolverines can root for Michigan fans to pull for the
the Wolverines have a strong their former CCHA partner favorite in this matchup.

Tied-14
Northeastern - (18-12-4)

showing against Minnesota,
it could put Michigan in
a favorable position come
selection Sunday.
Northeastern: Sitting in a
tie for 14th place in the Pairwise
Rankings with Michigan are the
Huskies. Northeastern begins
the Hockey East tournament
with a three-game series
against New Hampshire this
weekend. Even though UNH
sits comfortably outside the

Colgate: Before a clash
against St. Lawrence in the
quarterfinals of the ECAC
Tournament, Michigan would
benefit if the Raiders were to
stumble this weekend. Colgate
would move on to play No. 3
Union in the semifinals with a
victory over St. Lawrence, and
a loss to one of the top teams
in the country certainly won't
harm its tournament resume.
A win might even be enough
for the No. 16 team to leapfrog

this weekend in order to gain
more separation from the team
sitting in 17th in the Pairwise
Rankings. The good news for
Michigan fans is that Minnesota
State cannot garner another
marquee win to move much
further in the rankings in the
WCHA tournament unless it
knocks off No. 6 Ferris State.
Yale: In yet another ECAC
Tournament battle, the
defending national champions

Minnesota-Duluth: Tied
with Yale for 18th place in the
Pairwise Rankings, it should
be easy for Michigan fans to
pull against the team that
upset the Wolverines in the
2011 National Championship.
Duluth plays Western Michigan
in the first round of the NCHC
Tournament, and if the Broncos
can oust the Bulldogs, Michigan
would surelyfeel less pressurein
its own postseason tournament.

16
Colgate -(17-12-5)

GOING TO INDY FOR THE BIG TEN TOURNEY?
Doubt it. You're probably trapped in your house. Non-conference
BUT OUR WRITERS ARE CURRENTLY DOGSLEDDING THERE NOW.
SO FOLLOW US ON TWITTER: @THEBLOCKM FOR UPDATES seh edile aids


RELEASE DATE- Thursday, March 13, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 32 "As Time Goes 43 Gather, as fallen
1 Move suddenly 1 Eat at the main By' requester leaves
5 Artestyle meal 34 Bums' 'tim'rous 44 Come out
emphasizing 2 Like Superman's beastie" ode 45 Skilled
gntty reality arms, often 35 Blew up 49 Pollution-fighting
11 Cut, as abranch 3 Leaned (ontl 36 Catalina, for org.
14 MakeroBESTA 4 Running amount one: Ahbr. 50 Followers of
storage products 5 Groupfor ex-Gis 37 Familia Guru Nanak
15 G8aember 6 Sa thats better if 3 membersd 52 Bagon the
1505memry hits lower 38 More rapid way nut
16 Got No 7 Luftwaffenfoe: 41 Horseradish 56 Merit badge gp.
16 Got No Abbr. relative 57 Short rule?
Pino hio 8 Actually existing: 42 Elevated conflict 58 Stamp ending
PLuehn at
17Cookies named 9 Poor ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
for their flavor penmanship
19Cheminde- 10Fooll(with) S T A G A P E SE E R E C
20 First name in 112012film for P 0 K E L E v I V E G A N
American poetry which Ang Lee E D I T IT ALIA N A RT
21 Carrier with a wonBest CON SENT ONIS E N T
hub in Oslo Director E E Al G
22 Physics unit 12 Opertic opening I N V E S T 5 I N y S T S
23 Toed the line 13 Vine-covered S
25 Modesto-to-San walkway KTYEO TRE OE
Jose dir. 18 Assent to a K I ILIN IM S 0 1 IL
26 - speak captain I N 0 C A 0 A 0 C A L A
27 Agree, in a way 24 Actress Merrill M A N A T E M A N 0 A T
28 Flu sufferers 25 Formal group o N 0 F 0T
tomplaint assent FO TUNE O TUN
31 Trg ratios 26 Soggy lowland
33"ItsaWonderful 29 Handful M I L E S T O N E0 TA 0
Life" director 30Completed with L A M E PU E
34 Fib onestroke ALPIwEayPFT 1 5H 0 0
38 Some stereos 31 In afoxyway xwordeditor@aol.com I03l1y/1
39 Stage device 1 2 3 14 5 s 8 9 10 a 12 13
40 Washington
county or its 115 5
seat19
43 Spooner, for one:
46 "Perhaps"
47 Have the flu 23 2 o
48 Pln with edible
seeds 07 02905 30
51 On behalf of 31 32 33
52 Initials on oldL
globes 34 s so n
53 Stingy one3
54 Yank s 9
55Ones often in 4
custody...and o1 on as so an
what17-,28-, 40 47 4a 49 so
34- and40-
Across are? 1 00s
59 Computer add- 4-
on? 541518
60 Brought down 79- 60 1
61 Really important-
62 Blushing es64
63 Desert shimmer 1
64 Shot By JeffreyWecbser 03/13/14
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, LLC

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
. .I I 4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
.ELP_ WANTED pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown'
WAYNE FOR GIRLS - Children's Central Campus, Old West Side,
summer cump, Pocono Mountains, Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
Pennsylvania 6/21- 8/17. If you love 734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
childrenand want a caring, fun environ-
ment, we need Counselors, Instructors EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
snd other staff for our summer cump. $700-$1395, showings uvail. M-F
Intervicws vs tiMieb campus March I Oam-3:3pm w/ 24 hr notice.
21st. Select The Camp That Selects Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
The Best Staff! Call 1.215.944.3069 or Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
apply at www.campwaynegirls.coni
GET UPTO
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This I Month Free
Summer - Make lifelong friends. Ihe on
Island I ouse Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Select Units
Shops are looking for help in all areas: Why Pay over $1,500 per Bed per
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff, Year?
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous- Save over $10,000 per Year by Leas-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)- ing at U. Towers. Prices starting at
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com $695.00

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
! Iiverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
$400 OFF
First 10 rentals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1680.00. Great lecation,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.Lliversitytowers-ni.com
734-761-2680
**LAST ONE** $1495 FOR THE
WHOLE APARTMENT at Forest
Glen. Price includes FREI HEAT, I
parking spot and furniture. Call to tour
your new home today. 734-761-2680.
SECURE YOUR NEW horne today,
right on S. U. / Central Campus. All
new luxury apanrents come with the
BEST service, amenities, and all at
REASONABLE RATES.
www.I'he2ndFloorSU.com

Vist us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
*special can end at any time*
PMSI IS LEASING for 2014-2015.
1 ff. 1, 2, and3 bdrm apts avail. in Cen-
tral Campus and downtown area. Con-
tact 734-665-5552. pmsiproperties.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxnry Apartments,
Right en SUCentral Campus
at REASONABLE RATES.
Contact us at 734-761-2680
www.The2ndP'loorSU.com
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard -$2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.

AJ 1%./1 .i../ %-4L L/11.../ K 1..,I. /V J. v _i

By MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Up to this point, the No. 16
Michigansoftball teamhasplayed
against top competition every
weekend. With the exception
of a road trip in mid April, that's
finished.
Ten of the Wolverines' first 22
games were against ranked teams
- an unusually high tally only one
month in. But with the final non-
conference tournament looming,
only one ranked opponent, No. 18
Minnesota, currently remains on
their schedule.
Though the next 30 games
should bring weaker competition,
they will be invaluable measures
of growth for the team.
"Each game we're getting
stronger and looking for things
to get better at," said junior right-
hander Sara Driesenga.
And after going 5-5 against
its ranked opponents to start the
season, Michigan (16-6) has found
plenty to improve on - takeaways
that might not have been so visible
against less-stiff competition.
For Driesenga, it's been
trusting herself on the mound
fully. For freshman right-hander
Megan Betsa, it's been her control
in pressure situations. For the
offense lately, it's been hitting
with runners in scoring position.
To facilitate improvement,
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins
decided to run a drill at practice
on Wednesday that the team
hadn't done yet this season.
The drill simulated a high-
pressure situation - bases
loaded, full count - and forced
the pitchers to practice one-pitch
softball while the hitters tried to
score the base runners. Pitchers
cycled in every six outs, and the
offense went down the batting
order. This exercise encapsulates
the isolated problems from the
non-conference season and is
designed to correct them in time
for Big Ten play.
The overarching importance,
though, is to correct them before
for the postseason - when the

Wolverines would once again face
the nation's top teams.
"Whoever we play, it's
just preparation for the end
of the year," Driesenga said.
"We're thinking about June
4. We're thinking about the
Championship. We're thinking
about the World Series."
Being measured against the
best competition in the country
places a microscope on every little
problem, but it's that microscope
that willultimately help Michigan
reach those lofty goals.
Now that the strength of sched-
ule is lightening up, the Wolver-
ines will be compared against
their potential and their play ear-
lier in the season. But they'll have
to solve one major issue first.
"When we played tentative,
things never went our way,"
Hutchins said. "When we swung,
when we went up there and
weren't tentative, things are good.
That's the lesson, and when we
learn it, we'll be good."
The confidence problem is a
solvable one, but it's also one that
can plague a team for prolonged
periods. The next few weekends
will be telling as to how it affects
this bunch.
Michigan will face Louisville
twice this weekend at a
tournament in Kentucky before
beginning play at home on
Tuesday. When it returns, it will
go a month before seeing another
team close to its level.
Each new game will bring new
problems, but the team's steadfast
commitment to playing the best
teams will benefit it down the
road. Senior outfielders Lyndsay
Doyle and Nicole Sappingfield
have provided sparks in trying
times thus far, but they trust their
younger teammates fully.
"They're doing great," Doyle
said. "Whatever their role is on
the team, they're doing their
part."
Harnessing that trust and plac-
ing it on themselves may take
patience. But with two months of
weaker opponents, it should only
be a matter of time.

w

I

f

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 13, 2014 - 7A

For freshmen, a series of hurdles to overcome

0

By MINH DOAN could've started his career.
Daily Sports Writer Zonino gave up 11 goals in his
first start against No. 8 Penn
The transition from high State before being pulled at
school to college is tough. Just halftime.
ask any freshman. But he recovered from the
And some add a Division I game thanks to encouraging
sport to the laundry list of new words from his teammates and
responsibilities. coaches
The Michigan men's lacrosse and has
team has seen its fair share of since been Michigan men's
those freshmen walk through a stalwart lacrosse2013-
the doors of Oosterbaan for the 14class
Fieldhouse this season, and they Wolverines.
have excelled. He has 2. Andrew Hatton
Being members of just the recorded 3. Robbie Zooms
second recruiting class in men's more than 4. Charlie McPeters
lacrosse history, many of them 10 saves 5. Christian Wolter
have been thrust into big roles in three 6. Will Weichert
out of the gate. Ten out of 12 straight 7. Mikie Schlosser
freshmen have seen playing games and 8. Will Biagi
time of some sort this season. will look 9. Andrew Simor
"As we recruit, we have more to make 10. Peter Khoury
time to evaluate talent earlier," it four in 11.Ian King
said Michigan coach John Paul. Saturday's 12. Stefan Bergman
"Naturally we're upgrading (the Eastern 13. Andrew Roswell
recruiting classes), and we have College
some guys coming in that have Athletic
skill sets that are a bit ahead of Conference opener at
some of the guys we had before, Bellarmine.
and itgives them an opportunity "He had a rough start, the
to play right away." Penn State game couldn't
Three freshmen - attacker have gone worse for him."
Ian King, defender Andrew Paul said. "You have to be
Hatton and goaltender Robbie mentally tough, especially for
Zonino - have become a freshman, to come right back
mainstays in the starting lineup and keep showing the type of
for the Wolverines. improvement he has. He's really
But they've all had their fair. handled (adversity) well."
share of troubles. Added Zonino: "I just wanted
Zonino, hailed as the No. to change the story from getting
8 netminder in his recruiting pulled in my first game to how
class, was thrown straight into I reacted to it the rest of the
the fire when season."
sophomore King
goaltender "They made it started well
Gerald Logan out of the
tore his labrum clear that our gate for
in the fall and Michigan,
was out for the past accolades leading the
season. Zonino team with
became the did not m atter." 16 goals and.
starter for the recently
rest of the fall earning
and spring. himself
But his college debut didn't go ECAC Freshman of the Week
as well as he would have hoped. honors. King is currently tied
Rather, it was the worst way he for first in the NCAA in goals by

Freshman goalie Robbie Zonino has rebounded nicely after his first-career game against Penn State in early February to help keep Michigan in games.

a freshman.
But King had to overcome a
nasty case of mononucleosis in
the fall as well as deal with all
of the new responsibilities of
coming to college. King played
little in the fall and had to
work harder than most of the
freshmen in the offseason to be
ready for the season.
"I lost 20 pounds, so it was a
really difficult recovery," King
said. "I worked back into shape
and it was a slow start, but my
teammates gave me confidence
to do the best I could."
Hatton also had to overcome
a challenge of his own. After
a strong fall season, he was on
pace to start the season as a key
defender for the Wolverines.
But in the only scrimmage of the
spring season, Hatton suffered a
concussion and was kept out for
two weeks. He made his debut

against Detroit and has been older guys have through their
successful ever since, starting in school work is incredible,"
every game since coming back. Zonino said. "I know a lot of
"(Hatton) would have been the guys are in Ross (School of
starting right Business) and
away," Paul seeing how
said. "He e hard they
came in very College is work is very
confident. He's anot her leve l" motivational."
a student of aIOther level' But the
the game, and older players
he handles all have also
of his business kept them
off the field like a person years grounded, making sure the
older than he is." freshmen don't put themselves
While all three have had in front of the team.
their fair share of troubles, "In our first week, (the older
they all attributed their success players) made it clear that our
to the older players on the past accolades did not matter,"
team preparing them for the Hatton said. "When we came
transition and being there for (to Michigan), we went back to
every step of their journey not the bottom and have to work our
only on the field, but also in the way back up to the top."
classroom as well. With the Wolverines going
"Just seeing the discipline into conference play this

Saturday, the freshmen will
have to step up their game to
check off the big team goal
of winning a regular-season
title. With only five ECAC
games to play, every one will be
important, and the freshmen
will have to bring their best to
every game.
"In high school, I was in big
games, but college is another
level," Hatton said."I've started
to realize that every player I've
played against this season is as
good as the best player I covered
in high school."
While the freshman clss has
already accomplished so much
in its first season as Wolverines,
they know they have a ways
to go before they become
something special.
Check MichiganDaily.com/sports
for up-to-date coverage k.

PAUL SHERMAN/D
Redshirt junior Jon Horford took up philosophy midway through his high school career that changed his game for good.

HORFORD From Page 8A
Ann Arbor to have peace and
their own opinions, he wants his
teammates to as well.
"There's always something
intrinsically that just clicks
when they hear things, and it
causes them to ask me ques-
tions and be naturally curious
about stuff," he said. "That's
why I love that stuff. It's not for
a certain group of people. It's for
everybody. It connects us all."
Being the second-oldest play-
er on the team, Jon has experi-
enced more than others. But due
to his lack-of playing time grow-
ing up and his series of injuries
in college, Jon knows he doesn't
have the playing experience his
younger teammates have.
His freshman year at
Michigan, Jon averaged just
seven minutes a game as he
adjusted to the college system.
Figuring to play a larger role
his sophomore year, Jon missed
the final 25 games of the season
after suffering a stress fracture
in his right foot.
After taking a redshirt that
season, Jon returned last season
and appeared to be at full health
again, until he dislocated his
kneecap, which forced him to

miss five games.
This year, after figuring to be
the third big man in the rota-
tion behind sophomore Mitch
McGary and fifth-year senior
Jordan Morgan, Horford's
playing time expanded when
McGary went out. indefinitely
after havingsurgery onhisback.
Given the opportunity, Jon
has averaged career highs in
points, rebounds and minutes.
Not that he would know. He said
he has no idea what his statistics
are.
While he still tries to work
out more than anyone else on
the team, it's not so he can stand
out above everyone.
"It is for them, to help them
anyway I can," he said. "Even
though my role on this team
isn't necessarily to score a lot of
points, it is for them, but it's also
for peace of mind."
It's that different perspective
and experience that has stayed
with Jon while he's been at
Michigan. Jon's no longer trying
to be better than everyone on
the team. He's trying to get the
best out of everyone on the team.
Sometimes Jon wonders why

he plays Division I basketball.
Though the basketball court
brings him such relaxation
when he's alone, it's that same
place that brings him pain.
Jon sees how society looks
at people if they're not on
television, in films, make a ton
of money or are famous. He
thinks it's ridiculous that if you
don't achieve something like
that, your life doesn't amount to
anything.
So why does Jon stay out there
- on a stage that will only bring
more lights and cameras as the
season and Michigan's success
continues?
The extra shots, the extra
lift sessions, they don't mean
the same things they did when
he was struggling to get on the
court growing up.
At that time, these things
were designed to make him
better and stronger on the court,
make him better than everyone
else playing.
Now, Jon wonders about that
decision.
"Is this something I even
want to do anymore?" me said.
But he already knows the
answer to that.
He wouldn't have climbed the
ladder if he didn't.
I

Summer Sessions 2014
Enjoy all that Chicago and Loyola have to offer this summer
while taking a class to lighten your load for the fall. Choose from
several convenient locations and more than 300 courses.
Chicago - Online - Retreat and Ecology Campus (Woodstock, IL)
Cuneo Mansion and Gardens (Vernon Hills, IL) " Study Abroad
Apply and register today at LUC.edu/summer.
LOYOLA
UNIVERSITY CH ICAGO
Preparing people to lead extraordinary lives

I I


FELDMAN
is Writer
onfetti rain down
ter floor Saturday,
Is expressionless.
bar and taking a
orade bottle, Jon
peers smile while
very direction.
-oldest player on
second to climb
down his portion
fore he even puts
[der, he's already
to get rid of the
n. Andby the end
shirt, hat and net
him will already
ssion.
gear would have
o as every award
gh high school -
or discarded.
ce, Liz Horford,
been approached
trd or plaque Jon
fo give away. And
e mother of that
gifted the award
rn that, well, Liz
a if Jon doesn't.
en that way. The
ogless. There's no
im.
keep the Final
It's at her house
sy never wear the
have the memory
get the ring. And
that's important.
>f stuff you think
of your life," he

Al, currently plays for the Atlanta
Hawks.
Despite the last name, though,
Jon didn't play a lot.
Playing with a bunch of boys that
were coached by their fathers, Jon
rarely saw time on the court.
"Basketball in my family has
always been a huge thing," Jon said.
"The issue was I've been playing
basketball since second grade, but
I literally sat on the bench from
second grade to freshman year in

court came pressure.
Pressure to back up his family
name. Pressure from doing too
much in order to make up for lost
time. Pressure from finally getting
an opportunity he thought he
should have had earlier in his life.
And with that pressure came
negativity. And from that came
anger.

high school. Straigh
"I didn't play,
disrespected, mad
That stuff didn't
was somethingt
bothered me."
So Jon made a
commitment in
middle school to
work out more
than anyone
else, despite his
lack of playing of
time.
T anks to
h -trrainer and
longtime family
friend, Larry
Turnbow, who
taught Jon how to
it was possible.
"He would picl
day," Jon said. "T
gym every day, m
something to eat
won't say father, b
father figure, ever
have a dad. He w
was also my best fr
my best friend."
Under the teachi
Jon's love for bask'
as it grew, Jon's fr
well.

tbenchwarmer. Playing in the 2008 Michigan
I was very Class "A" District finals against
e fun of a lot. Battle Creek Central. Grand
kill me, but it Ledge held an eight-point lead
that obviously with 1:30 left.
Jon thought they had the game
won. With
five seniors
on Central, it
' of appeared it
"It's the type O was going to be
stuff you think their last game.
Holding on for
about at the end dsraion,
p. ayers on
of your clife, Imed
o "throwing guys
on the ground"
as the refs
play basketball, allowed the game to carry on.
After calling a timeout, even
k me up every though Central had none left, the
'ake me to the refs did not call a technical foul.
:ake sure I got "I was going to snap," he said.
every day. I "But the game was still going. I was
iut he was that like 'keep playing, we're going to
n though I did win this game anyway."'
as that. But he As the game neared its finish,
iend and still is Central forced a couple steals,
made some free throws and
ngs of Turnbow, ultimately won the game, 57-55, in
etball grew. But the final seconds.
ustration did as It was after the buzzer sounded
that Jon finally lost his composure
and took it out on the officials.
Jon cursed out the refs as his high
school coach, Tony Sweet, and
ol, Jon still sat Central's coach stood there telling
, waiting for his him he needed to calm down.
while it didn't People were terrified. And
he showed his after he calmed down, Jon was
rhenever he was distraught. He needed to change
his ways.
beat everyone "At that time, sports meant a lot
tests, he still more to me than they mean now,"
he said. "They gave me a sense
ed over to Jon's of purpose, like a false sense of
r in high school, purpose. It was a knock against
n't play a minute me as a human being at that time
sketball. At the because we weren't able to win the
od 6-foot-5. district championship. NowI don't
Jon disagrees feel that way at all."

positivity back to himself. It helped
him grow, and not just physically
from 6-foot-5 to 6-foot-10. It freed
his mind from darkness.
It's the positive energy that has
expanded his mind and allowed
him to grow as a person. It
separated his life from basketball,
instead of intertwining the two
together.
Jon wasn't your typical jock in
high school.
As his teammates wore their
varsity jackets and warm-ups
during the day, Jon would wear
skinny jeans and Vans sneakers.
"He was the kid in high school
who hung out with the alternative
kids, played hacky sack in the
hallway," said Anna Horford,
Jon's sister. "You'll never catch
Jon in his warm-ups unless he has
to be, because that's only one part
of hislife."
Jniib fty to behi]mself and
not"1""what otas thought
of him carried overto his time at
Michigan. With an open mind and
an enthusiasm to listen, Jon has
become willing to talk to people
about basically anything.
Almost weekly, Jon says, he
walks and someone random will
stop him and askhimabout Taoism,
the government, anything really.
But Jon's point in these everyday
conversations isn't to push an
agenda of his own. It's to get people
to think. Jon doesn't want people to
accept things for what they appear
to be on the surface. He wants
people to push boundaries.
Jon wants to help people as
much as he can. The issue, though,
is that people don't understand how
Jon thinks. As a Division I athlete,
fans see him as that alone - not a
person, just an athlete.
Jon hates the attention he gets
as an athlete. He hates the glamor
and glitz.
"We'll walk in the mall and
his poster's up, and it makes him
uncomfortable," Anna said.
Jon thinks the contribution
he delivers for the team is more
important than the adoration he
receives from fans.
"That's not his life," Anna said.
"What other people have to say
about him is none of his business.
He doesn't care."
Though Jon dislikes the
limelight that comes with being
in his position, he knows playing
basketball at Michigan gives him
opportunities to help people that
he might not have otherwise.
"The significance of what we do
on the basketball court is limited,"
he said. "Compared to the lives
that we can touch in other ways,
like putting time in the community
or working with kids through
basketball, that's the stuff that
really means something to people."
As a captain, it's part of Jon's
responsibilities.to make sure his
teammates are in the right mental
state throughout the season.
He wants his teammates to be
comfortable with each other and
with themselves.
Just as Jon wants the people

he meets and talks to throughout
See HORFORD, Page 7A


IVE YOUR SUMMER

didn't always *
emories for him.
:etball tormented In middle schot
there, on the bench
laying basketball opportunity. And
And with the last come in games,1
anly made sense. ability in practice w
ito, was the first given a chance.
player to play in Jon would b
ng three seasons in shooting con
kee Bucks and wouldn't play.
ets. Jon's brother, The trend carri
freshman yea
where he didi
of varsity ba
time, Jon stot
Though.
that he wa
TIIVE angry when I
playing time
that he was t
the situatior
have put me t
"(Turnbom
about the ha
dealt that he
forget that th
that used to
way,' "Jon sa
that all theco
up to youa
_ hand every g
come and wo
kids and stu
those are th
who held you
"You can1
and you can
.rnships but don't fo
treated you."
By Jon'ss
at Grand Led
R CENTER FOR school, he v
E & EURASIA points, 10 rel
SITY OFMICHIGAN blocks perj
finally done r
But with

s told to play
he finally did get
, he did admit
ald not to "forget
ns that people
hrough."
e) was so upset
and I had been
was like 'don't
tese are the kids
treat you this
id. "Don't forget
aches that come
nd shake your
same want you to
rk out with their
ff. Don't forget
he same people
back for so long.
be nice to them
help them out,
rget how they
sophomore year
Ige (Mich.) high
as averaging 12
bounds and two
game. Jon was
iding the bench.
success on the

It was after Jon's sophomore
year in high school that he knew he
had to change his attitude and his
mindset both on the court and off it
to notonlybecome acalmer person,
but a sane one.
He decided to find his inner
peace.
"I was always upset," Jon said.
"If I did have a good game versus
a bad game, that would be like
if I was in a good mood or a bad
mood. My life was controlled by my
performance, more or less."
Jon started to study the Law of
Attraction - the belief that "like
attracts like." If he focused on
positive thoughts, he would have
positive results. From there, he
looked into different philosophies
like Taoism and Buddhism.
In his quest to find peace, Jon
realized that whether he had
success or not on the court, it was
just agame. It wasn't life.
Bringing positivity to all
situations in his life brought

DEADLINE: MARCH 15
il.umich.edu/wcee

WEISE
I E UROPI
UNIVER

I

1

I

A



The Michigan Daily J michigandaily.com I Thursday, March 13,2014

PLUGGED U

I

I

I

BY YARDAIN AMRON, DAILY ARTS WRITER

to help the lot of departments and
offices create personal logos that
visuallyunify the large, decentral-
ized University - a standard block
'M' with proper dimensions, sym-
metry and color being the common
denominator.
"If the College of Engineering is
at a college fair for engineers and
they've got a booth out there and
they're utilizing the symmetry
system and the block 'M' and the
colors accurately, there's a good
chance that there are eyeballs at
that event that are not there just for
engineering, and so the value and
equity that the school of engineer-
ing has raises the overall value and
perception of the brand," Busch
said. "So if I'm not an engineerbut
hanne n o eethe block ' at +his

But these branches have sprouted
over the years without much over-
sight and are oftentimes handled
informally by faculty and adminis-
trators.
When Nikki Sunstrum took over
as director of social media for the
University in late January after
Jordan Miller abruptly resigned
amid allegations she fabricated her
application, she said it became clear
just how unclear the size and scope
of the University's social presence
was.
"One of the primary goals of my
position is to create a core team of
primary representatives in each of
those individual areas," Sunstrum
said. "That way, if something goes
wrong in social and it fell on the
shoulders of athletics or someone

umich retweeted a picture posted
by @MottChildren of @umichb-
ball players signing autographs for
patients.
Between Hillary Frazier, senior
social media specialist, and the two
student interns she oversees - LSA
junior Katie Szymanski, a former
Michigan Daily staff reporter, and
LSA sophomore Alex Fotis - the
central team curates the content
consumed by a considerable audi-
ence: that's 67,000 Twitter follow-
ers, almost 550,000 Facebook likes,
about 29,000 Instagram followers
and roughly 14,000 Pinterest fol-
lowers.
To put that in perspective, Michi-
gan Football has 192,000 Twitter
followers and Barack Obama has
about 42 million. I'm still working

work, maize and blue?
Whatever it may be, those associ-
ations - maybe gained on a campus
tour or at orientation - define the
Universitybrand, packaged into one
simple symbol: the block 'M.'
You may not even notice it any-
more. but there's a ranson the block

A

l

I


2B - Thursday, March 13, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaiiy.com

2B - Thursday, March 13, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

What ifwe just
make our own
myths?)

n 1831, Victor Hugo
published "The Hunch-
back of Notre Dame,"
hoping the novel would raise
awareness of the decaying state
of the titu-
lar cathedral - -- -
and prompt
renovations.
When tour- e
ists began
pouring
into Paris
to catch a JOHN
glimpse of JOHN
the fabled BOHN
Quasimo-
do and see
firsthand the beautiful archi-
tecture Hugo had painstak-
higly described, city officials,
embarrassed by the dilapida-
tion and fearful that it would
come to represent the city
among outsiders, hired Eugene
Viollet-le-Duc to restore the
Gothic vision of Notre Dame's
12th century architects. It's a
simple gesture. To save some-
thing he loved, Hugo created
his own myth, one that enliv-
ened the interest of others in
what he held dear.
Restoring Notre Dame might
not be the most progressive
gain in the history of social
activism, but I think the action
contains a kernel of truth that
might be useful for those with.
more ambitious goals in life.
When I saw "We need new
cultural myths" scribbled onto
a San Francisco sidewalk last
spring, Hugo's gesture came to
mind. To me, it offers a vibrant
response to this demand, one
that's not entirely unrelated
to a long-standing tradition of
political action -in American
history. Over the course of the
19th century, many individuals
and communities, feeling dis-
content with the world around
them, simply packed up their

bags and headed west to make
their own world. The idea is
not to reform an unjust society,
but instead, make it irrelevant.
For cultural politics, following
Hugo, what if we just make our
own myths?
In our "society of the spec-
tacle," the greatest pleasures
of life are presented to us as
always being "out there." But
"out there" is where we want
to be. Everyone wants to get
into Studio 54, but that's where
Andy Warhol and Liza Minneli
hang out. We devote so much
energy to following the every
move of celebrities because
they live the life we desire, a
life our vapid roles in society
do not offer us.
Instead of investing all of
this emotional energy into Hol-
lywood, though, why not for-
get it? Save that seven dollars
you would spend at the mov-
ies. Don't turn on the T.V. The
last thing we need is to open
another magazine and let pho-
to-shopped models make us feel
insecure about our bodies. In
other words, limit the influx of
unhealthy myths that the media
tries to sell us. Even in the most
seemingly progressive moments
of pop culture, Jay-Z still has a
piece of cake for Annie Mae. At
what point do we just give up?
I'mnot saying this is the most
effective politics, especially
when combating structural rac-
ism, sexism, heteronormativity
and classism. But the politics
of irrelevancy do remind us
of the little power we actually
have in our everyday life. We
won't change the world - that's
not art's place - but we might
be able to make ourselves feel
just a little less shitty about
ourselves and our situation.
Instead of getting invested in
who's going to win the Oscars,
read your friend's poems. Write

about them as much as you
write about what Justin Bieber
did the other day. Invest your
emotional and creative energies
in the people and places around
you. Start spinning myths that
enliven this immediate world,
that creates worlds more inclu-
sive and less harmful than what
has been given us.
For those who have the
opportunity to asend to the
Remember:
There's a lot
going on in A2.
heights of media and effect
change, by all means, go for it.
I seriously wish you the best of
luck. For those who do not have
such opportunity, and they are
legion, create your own com-
munities with their own myths,
symbols, icons and histories.
I This politics has always
been in my mind while
working for Community
Culture. Over the years, I've
only found more ways of
articulating what exactly I'm
getting at and why Community
Culture has always been so
important to me. I've had
the chance to interview, and
give space to, the voices of
so many wonderful people in
the community. Of course, as
a University campus, there's a
lot going on here in Ann Arbor.
If, like me, you're straddled
with debt after college and may
have to return home, where not
much is really going on, a lot
can be happening.
This is Bohn's last column.
Send your farewells to
jobohnycumich.edu.

HBO
When will bucket hats die?!
Hit HBO show's first
season comes to a close

Discussing the ins
and outs of the
'True Detective'
season finale
By CHLOE GILKE and
AKSHAY SETH
DailyArts Writer and
ManagingArts Editor
Chloe Gilke: That was quite
the finale. I knew there would
be some sort of twist ending,
but ... optimism? From Rust
Cohle? You got me, Pizzolatto.
But aside from that spectacu-
lar final scene (you can be sure
McConaughey has that Best
Actor in a Miniseries Emmy
Award on lock), "Form and
Void" was another fantastic
installment. The chase of Errol
Childress was beautifully shot
and acted, and the relative quiet
of the last third of the hour,
with Rust and Marty contem-
plating their revived friendship
and their "victory" over Chil-
dress was satisfying. Damn, I'm
going to miss this show.
Akshay Seth: I'm so happy
it looks like you enjoyed the
finale as much as I did because
I really didn't want this recap to
devolve into arguing. I watched
it with a bunch of cynical ass-
holes/my friends (hey, guys!)
who all felt Pizzolatto "bitched
out" and didn't really give the
type of shocking revelation they
had been looking forward to
the entire season. Whein I asked
them what this shocking revela-
tion, in their discerning views,
ought to have been, I got, and I
think marijuana has something
to do with this, "well, I don't
know - what if the spaghetti
monster was real and the last
shot was Rust and Marty trying
to eat him to death."
ANYWAYS, this finale was as
close to perfection as you can get
after the insane, thrilling ride
we've had all season. Pizzolatto
has been saying for a long time
that he's going to end the season
on a predictable note because
he respects his audience too
much to pull a last-minute twist
that nullifies hours of build-up,
and that form of thinking was
really apparent here. The epi-
sode iummoed along cleanly and
peaked in the type of chase that
so many serial killer movies end
in. Everything was predictable,
but as is what we'd expect from

the best show of the year, it was
done with poise and beauty.
Chloe Gilke: I had a pretty
ideal viewing experience. My
friend (who stopped watching
the show, which I will never
understand) let me watch it
alone in his room while he was
at work. There is no better way
to watch "True Detective" than
in enormous HD, while try-
ing not to spill cashews on his
unmade bed. But I digress. I
think this finale was exactly
what the show was headed
toward its entire run. Pizzolat-
to stated that he "doesn't care
at all about serial killers" and
although this is a show that
appears on the surface to be
conducive to mystery and con-
spiracy, when it comes down
to it, that's not really the case.
"True Detective" is about the
two men who had tried for 17
years to crack a case, and who
persevered even while their
partnership and family lives
fell to shambles. The criti-
cism that the show has faced
(mainly its lack of regard for
female characters) is because
of its narrow focus. But when
it comes down to it, I thought
that seeing Marty and Rust
defeat Childress (with the cool-
est POV gunshot wound since
"Breaking Bad") was a satisfy-
ing enough end. One especially
poignant moment was when
Rust believed that the real evil
hadn't been defeated, since the
Tuttles remained unscathed (of
course, this didn't bother Marty
so much). Even in the end, a dif-
ference of opinion between our
two detectives.
Akshay Seth: Ugh, and the
final monologue from McCo-
naughey is just reaffirmation
that no matter how much you
hate him as a human being, he
can sure as hell act. As you said,
this show has been about the
obsessive journeys of two men
brought together by the hands
of evil. Marty, for 17 years,
obsessively tries to find some
modicum of normality while
Rust attempts to bury his past
in his chase for Dora Lang's
killer. Repetitively, both men
are brought together by the
murder case and the last few
minutes of this episode are so
cathartic because it's that same
murder case which helps them
finally get over what they've
been trying to put behind for so
many years. Marty finally sees
some redemption in the eyes of

TRAILER REVIEW

Well, you can't say you
didn't see this one coming:
"Transformers 4: Age of Extinc-'
tion." The first
wasalright,
but thesecond
was not;asto Tranformers
the third,to 4 eof
quote Shake-
speareIsay, Extinction
"thou art the Paramouts
son and heir
of a mongrel
bitch," which makes this fourth
film something truly awful..
Thiis lswhathappens when we
keep giving Michael Bayour
money. So stop, because now
we have robot dinosaurs... yes,
dinosaurs.
Our trailer begins with the
venerable Marky Mark Wahl-
berg- since Shia Laboeuf is just
tooartsyfor"Transformers"
now - a workingclass, single
father finding an old semi he
intends to strip for parts so as
to putchis daughter through col-

his estranged family and Cohle,
and for the first time, is able to
confront how he felt about his
slain daughter. It ended on such
a human, hopeful note mirror-
ing the two men's journeys.
Chloe Gilke: And although
the tie-in with Carcosa and the
Yellow King was a little weak
(leave it to the novelist to make
everything a metaphor), I still
didn't find too much of a fault
with the plot/action aspects. In
my opinion, this episode even
had some of the best action
sequences the show has had.
The tracking scene with Chil-
dress was absolutely chilling,
and his Carcosa lair seemed
straight out of one of my NyQuil
nightmares. The overgrown
plants and chaotic mess of Chil-
dress' home was gorgeous. I'm
not sure if season 2 will also be
set in Louisiana, but as a sucker
for Southern Gothic lit, I'll cer-
tainly miss the color that the
Louisiana landscape brought
to "True Detective." Heck, I'll
miss Marty and Rust, MCo-
naughy monologues and 6
minute tracking shots. I could
talk forever (time is a flat circle,
and that must be mentioned at
least once in every recap I do)
about my "True Detective" sad-
ness. But my sections of this
recap have been Rust-mono-
logue long, and I have to stop
myself before I talk into the flat
circle of infinity.
Akshay Seth: Goddammit,
I was hoping neither one of us
would say "circle," and I'd just
end the recap with "CIRCLES,
DROP MIC." Anyways, we have
to talk about Errol Childress -
probably one of the most fucked
up antagonists I've seen in a
while. He was played perfectly
by Glenn Flesher and the whole
"making flowers" scene was a
brilliant way for Pizzolatto to
put us out of our comfort zone
whenever we saw him. Even his
weird southern/British accent
just made the hair on the back
of your neck stand on end. When
we finally see him, off in the dis-
tance, looking at Rust, for the
first time, you really realize that
McConaughey isn't going to be
back next season and this chase
might as well mean the end of
the line for both protagonists.
Chloe Gilke: Maybe it was
the anthology structure of the
series or just the brilliant plot-
ting of the episode, but I loved
not knowing whether Rust and
Marty were going to make it
past Childress alive. Too often,
especially with finales, plots
and endings can feel predict-
able. The heroes are in danger,
and because it's the last episode,
probably there will be a shoot-
out and someone would die. But
until the hospital scenes later in
the episode, I really wasn't con-
vinced Rust had survived that
brutal stomach wound. Even
after the gunshots and Chil-
dress' death, the suspense was
still just as gripping, Maybe this
is just because I was watching
it live, or the threat of dropping
cashews on my friend's floor
was too real. But the finale was
engaging and just the perfect,
beautiful ending to a perfect,
beautiful show.
And I say this cheesy high

praise without a smirk on my
face. Rust ended the series with
the optimistic line that "the light
is winning," soI think my words
are pretty appropriate.
Akshay Seth: CIRCLES.
DROP MIC.

lege. But it's no ordinary truck:
it's Optimus Prime. When the
governmentcomes to put the
robotcdown because apparently
the "Age of the Transformer"
is done, Optimus effortlessly
escapes. But thentthe dino-
saurs and some other evil space
robots come - the government
undoubtedlyneedshelp, so
Optimus steps up and literally
backhands a T. Rex transformer
in the face.
The trailer is complete with

PARAMOUNT
finishing touches such as a robot
whose face turns into a gun,
screaming, explosions and slow
motion. Basically, it's everything
you wantoutof a Michael Bay
movie with the addedbonus
of being only two and a half
minutes long. So, enjoy this sad
excuse of a trailer and don't see
the actual moviebecause God
only knows what monstrosity
will be cooked up in Trans-
formers 5.
-JAMIE BIRCOLL

The University of Michigan's Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Health & Society Scholars Program present Robert Woad Johnson Foundation
Population Health: Past, Present & Future
Featuring more than 20 international experts reflecting critically on the meaning of population
health, its accomplishments over the past 10 years, and challenges and opportunities.
SPEAERS INCLUIE:

Paula Braveman George Davey Smith George Kaplan Paula Lantz Johan Mackenbach J. Michael McGinnis, UaviaR .iitams
University of Califomia, University of Bristol University of Michigan George Washington Erasius University Institute of Medicine of Harvard Ui versity
San Francisco U.K. University Medal Cnter t he National Academies
COMPLETE INFORMATION +REGISTER: 201 4PopulationHealth.us


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 13, 2014 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 13, 2014 - 3B

LSA junior Rebecca Steiner is the president and co-founder of the Digital Media Club.v
From selfies to

online
How a campus
tL
organization P
teaches social T
st
media culture
By ADAM DEPOLLO
Daily Online Arts Editor t
A recent Business Insider T
report found that Americans e
spend, on average, 114 billion min- s
utes on Facebook every month. t
That's just under six hours for s
every man, woman and child. But
I don't need to tell you that your r
average college student can knock p
those six hours out in a weekend. s
Social media use is ubiquitous
amongst millennials - you can't ii
really have a social life without it - o
but sites like Facebook, Twitter and w
Tumblr are being picked up with r
ever-growing frequency by busi- e
nesses, both large and small, as a e
way to connect with customers and w
expand their brands. Unsurpris- c
ingly, these businesses are looking g
to our generation and its uniquely
obsessive relationship with social h
media to help them break into the h
digital age. t
Of course, there's a difference h
between spending two hours a day
obsessively refreshing your Twit- d
ter feed and being the Social Media -
Chair at Berkshire Hathaway. For- w
tunately, there's a new group on -
campus to help University students Y
make the transition from compul- f
sive selfie-poster to social media s
mogul: the Digital Media Club.
LSAjuniorRebeccaSteiner,pres- e
ident and co-founder of the club,
explained that the club grew out of s
LHC 329, "Social Media and Busi- e
ness,"an elective class for her Infor- e
matics major. The class, offered'
through the Ross School of Busi- h
ness, was taught by Law, History & p
Communications Profs.AmyYoung p
and Mary Hinesly. W
"(In the class we spoke about) c
social media's role in businesses," n
Steiner said. "Not only for the mar- C
keting and external aspects, but S
also the internal aspects: inter- w
nal communication, how to share y
business plans, using Reddit, using
Yammer (an intra-company social t
media platform), how to implement m
Google Docs, Google Chat, all of a
those things, all of these new digital s
media outlets, to improve the work- so
force!'
Owing to Drs. Young and Hines- b
ly's extensive network of contacts n

in
tt
PI
si.
T
st
Ii]
tr
sa
tr
01
T:
er
st
to
se
re
P(
A
in
A
w
re
ec
ex
w
cr
a
h<
hE
th
he
dl
w
Yc
Fo
sa
e
h
x
x
IE
X
De
J4
Ia
1E
;t
M
(C
:O:
n,
n
,h
;o
)e
is

networking.
n the business world, the class fea- companies and organizations
ured insights from many industry that they're connected in - big
rofessionals - such as Univer- organizations, corporations who
ity alum Dick Costolo, the CEO of have kind of already gotten in the
rwitter, - and opportunities for forefront of the digital media game
tudents to work with corporations - but also people who would want
ike Kellogg's. At the conclusion of to recruit from us and learn from
he class, however, the professors us," Steiner said.
aw an opportunity to continue Equally important to develop-
he work their students had done ing skills and providing network-
iver the course of the semester. ing opportunities, however, is the
rhey asked Steiner, along with sev- establishment of a community and
'ral other members of the class, to resource network for the Digital
tart what would become the Digi- Media Club's members.
al Media Club at the start of this "We don't want to make it like a
emester. club - more likea community that
Steiner sees the club as avaluable provides resources. That's kind
esource for students who already of our thing: We want to provide
'ossess significant digital media resources for our members and
kills. really give back for us, for what we
"Our generation, we're just more do,"Steiner said.
ntheknowthananyother.Because Intheshorttimethattheclubhas
f what we do, our activities, what existed - it held its first workshop
ve like to do for fun, without even on Feb. 6 - it has already begun to
ealizingit wehaveso muchknowl- develop a following. Its Facebook
dge," she said. But, as she also page has accumulated just shy of
xplained, "There comes a point 150 likes and about 30 members are
vhere you need to establish your listed on its Maizepages account.
redibility:Youcan'tjustgointothe But the club is looking to expand
ame and say'We're experts."' beyond just the University's under-
Throughout the year, the club graduate population.
olds biweekly workshops aimed at "We want to have workshops for
elping members further develop graduate student MBAs and pro-
heir digital media skills and learn fessors on how to use social media
ow to capitalize on their abilities. for them, how to use Google Does,
"We did 'The Secrets of Linke- Google Drive for them" she said.
In,' 'The New Digital Resume' "Definitely, in time we'll partner
- how to make a creative resume, up with local businesses and even
vho would want a creative resume larger corporations who want usto
- then we did 'How to Google do some sort of case studyor evalu-
ourself' - what recruiters look ation on them to help them with the
or when they Google you," Steiner skills we're learning."
aid. Ultimately, the Digital Media
The club's focus is two-fold, how- Club is driven by technology's inte-
ver. gral role in modern society and
"The ultimate goal isnto not only modernbusiness.
harpen our skills and to become "Digital media and information
xperts, but to present ourselves as is something that's so omnipres-
xperts," Steiner explained. ent today, and every organization,
As the club develops, it aims to if they don't think they need to
elp its members network with revamp their digital media pres-
otential employers and develop ence, they do. If they're not going
artnerships with businesses. "(We to do it right now, then they will
rant to) be able to tell all of these in a couple months or maybe a
ompanies and organizations that year or else they won't be able to
eed help, 'Come recruit from us. survive," Steiner said. But this
:ome ask us to do a case study,' " view is in no way pessimistic. The
teiner said. "Come and see what club treats digital media asa posi-
e're doing and see if we can help tive force in the world and a way
ou andhowyoucanhelpus." to establish connections between
The club doesn't have a manda- people.
ory attendance policy, but those "I think that we're so lucky to
iembers that show commitment be a part of this digital age, and
nd go to the majority of the work- it's incredibly rewarding to feel
hops will be invited to a club-spon- empowered by my community
ored networking eventnextfall. and my club members to just use
"Dr. Hinesly and Dr. Young have my interests and have a tangi-
een preparing for this event, where ble effect on my surroundings,"
ot only are they inviting different Steiner said.

PLUG
From
Righ
versity
I thi
hovere
'M' on
campu
silly su
Univer
her: "A
on the
first Bl
I lau
I didn'
wives'
I lef
fresh b
for th
homet
mined
into gr
media.
Pror
brand,
at the:
sity's c
ful br
more e
the mo
"Michi
transla
tions, v
attend
mainst
Hopeft
And
ty's un
semina
across
is cruc
Szyr
intern
tral ut
est and
the co
reflect
what's
studen
That
many
issues
versity
mentio
gation
Gibbon
gations
nation:
that b.
and ha
Union'
"We
choose
into,"
individ
specifi
individ
expert:
and lea
Cont
good fo
That
ply abt
lowers,
that's
Frazier
engage

boils down to maximizing the
amount of eyes that see the con-
Page 1 B tent and the comments, likes,
retweets, shares, etc. the con-
it there is where the Uni- tent generates.
starts making money. Thus, knowing thy audience
nk back to the first timeI and their tendencies is crucial.
d over that bronze Block Say hello to a social media spe-
the Diag as the innocent cialist's best friend: analytics -
s tour guide recited that deep data analysis.
perstition just like those "Primarily it shows us when
sity officials had trained people are online, when they're
nd make sure not to step engaging with us, what type of
'M' or you'll fail your content is performing the best,"
ue Book exam." Fotis, an analytics intern for the
ghed to myself. Of course social media central unit said.
t actually believe that old "Then we can adjust our strat-
tale ... Right?! egy and tailor our content to
t the campus tour with that data."
uds of inculcated respect Online Marketing Strategist
e 'M'. When I headed Shannon Riffe, who manages
the 'M' followed, deter- the Twitter and Facebook chan-
to water those buds nels for the Office of University
een. Enter again, social Development, said her content
does better in the middle of the
notion is critical for any week.
and the large audience "Friday is a little bit of a qui-
fingertips of the Univer- eter day and the weekends are
entral unit is a power- quiet too as far as egagement,"
and boosting tool. The Riffe said. "I think people are at
yes seeing the content is work or in class and using some
re mouths talking about of that time in front of their lap-
gan" - which hopefully top all day to check in online.
tes into alumni dona- On the weekends, they're not
oluntary support, better in front of the computers as
ance at events and more much."
ream media coverage. Riffe said finding the ideal
ully. time of day to post is trickier
similar to the Universi- because the University is a glob-
ified logo template, dis- al institution.
ting a unified message "What is a traditional work
all University channels hour for us is not for a donor or
ial. alum in Hong Kong, but in gen-
nanski, the student eral around the times of 9 a.m.
who manages the cen- to 1 or 2 p.m."
nit's Instagram, Pinter- The scope of data provided
i Tumbr platforms, said by the analytics is startling.
ntent she posts "has to Take Oct. 30, when Jerry May,
back on our brand and vice president of development,
going to be relevant to sent an email to all 44,754 fac-
ts." ulty and staff inviting them to
of course leaves out the Victors for Michigan kick-
important contentious off events. The analytics told
surrounding the Uni- the office that 7,277 (16 percent)
currently. You'll find no of recipients opened the email
n of the federal investi- and 777 (1.7 percent) of those
regarding the Brendan clicked the Facebook event link.
is sexual assault alle- A week later, #Victorsfor-
, nor much about the Michigan was launched con-
al #BBUM movement currently with the event and
egan at the University in the span of the next month
s led to the Black Student reached 2.7 million people
s seven demands. and had 7 million impressions,
have to really pick and which is social jargon for times
carefully what we step displayed on screen whether it
Sunstrum said. "The is clicked or not.
ual issues in content- Judy Malcolm, senior
c areas we leave to the director of executive com-
uals that are content munications for the Office of
s in those specific areas University Development, said
ve it out of social." they had expected maybe one
:roversy is, of course, no million impressions.
r the brand. "ln the past campaign there
was no way that with news-
Data to dollars paper articles, meetings and
announcements, we could
t doesn't mean it's sim- reach 7 million people," Mal-
out garnering more fol- colm said.
re-pins, or likes. While The financial benefit of the
definitely a part of it, office's social campaign has yet
said it's more about to be determined because the
ment. Victors campaign is ongoing.

As Szymanski explained
how she uses the analytics
more as loose guidelines than
strict regulations, Frazier and
Fotis had their phones on their
laps and were tapping away.
"Sometimes I get too excited
and I don't want to wait on the
analytics which is so lame but I
don't care - like if I see a real-
ly cute squirrel I'm like, 'Oh I
gotta post it'," Szymanski said.
"Other times I also want to
experiment and I don't want to
stick within what the analytics
is telling me because maybe we
can grab a different audience
by posting at a different time.
Obviously I'm not going to post
on Instagram at 8 in the morn-
ing because nobody is going to
look at that. But do I have to
post at 1 p.m. everyday? - No,
because then it becomes bor-
ing and people expect it. You
always want to be versatile."
Szymanski posts to Pinter-
est 40 to 50 times per week
and to Tumblr at least 40 times
per week, and said she's picked
up her own personal strate-
gies since starting to work the
channels over a year ago.
She went on: "I used to post
on Instagram two, three times
a day but now I'm finding one
a day or every other day is
most effective. I realized that
we were getting more likes on
our pictures if there weren't as
many posts."
Frazier took over from there
and Szymanski went straight
to her phone. She said she's
solely responsible for the @
umich Twitter account, which
gets the most activity, and con-
sumed because of it.
"I'm looking at it 24/7. I'm
posting there five to 10 times
a day but then responding to
people all the time," Frazier
said. "Writing papers is so
hard. The longest thing I write
is 140 characters."
'U'has launched
a comprehensive
networking
campaign.
Frazier has amassed her own
arsenal of gadgets, so far lim-
ited to two phones, two laptops
and two iPads.
I asked her if she had any
stories.
"The cofounder of Reddit
was speaking at Rackham ear-
lier this year and I was there
with one of our other interns
who just graduated. We were
both sitting in the back and
without even realizing it, I'm
sitting there with my legs
crossed with an iPad on one
leg, a laptop on the other, and
phones in both hands and I'm
using both of them at the same
time. It's moments like that I
just sit back for a second and I
asked him 'Can you take a pic-
ture of me right now, because
this is not ok.'"
I wondered if she tweeted it

"It's about our content and
the performance of our content Paid to tweet
as opposed to having a million
followers because if they're not I interviewed Frazier, Szy-
engaging with you, then really manski and Fotis together and
what's the point?" it quickly became clear that
Engagement is hard to mea- keeping their large following
sure and varies across the stimulated was an around the
manondifferentrchannels but it clock ioh for the central team.

SINGLE REVIEW

"Computerized," a previ-
ously unreleased collaboration
between Jay Z and Daft Punk
leaked
yesterday
to the
excitement ompUzd
of many. Daft Punk
However, &JAYZ
"Comput-
erized"
creates the same sort of disap-
pointment one would feel if
they brought together a rhi-
noceros and a stallion to make
some sex, and they ended up
with something shitty instead
of a unicorn. Perhaps this song
is a victim of the high bars
both artists have set for them-
selves in their previous work,
but it still - at best - kind of
sucks.
HOV and the robots teamed
up to produce this single
around the time Daft Punk
was recording the "Tron:
Legacy" soundtrack. Appar-

ently, they were unsatisfied
with the result and chose not
to release it. 'Twas a wise
decision, because when it hit
the airwaves yesterday, the
disappointment led listeners
to question if it was even real.
If only that was the case ...
Yes, these superpowers
really conceived an ugly baby.
There is a complete lack of
cohesion between the two
participants - it's as if one
stops to let the other take
their turn. Daft Punk fails to

KOC NATIOIN
do anything original with the
production, and Jay Z seems
totally lost, rattling off dis-
jointed verses about "tappin'
on his Blackberry." The lack
of chemistry impedes both
artists from operating in their
respective comfort zones. This
partnership was definitely not
a match made in heaven and
their offspring is proof. Give
it a listen, and you'll see why
this track was supposed to
remain unreleased.
-NICKBOYD

t

t

I


4B - Thursday, March 13, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, March 13, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

centered on a multimedia
performance blending film,
dance, textiles, music and
photography. In the show,
she enters wearing a heavy
overcoat and a fake beard and
mustache. She begins to empty
the contents of her coat - doz-
ens of small, black "creatures"
made of cuts of fabric - and
then slowly undresses, reveal-
ing a Pagliaci-inspired clown
outfit before stripping down
to just a bikini. As Louis Arm-
strong's "The Whiffenpoof
Song" plays over a speaker,
Bledsoe moves between focus-
ing on her wardrobe and look-
ing intently into the eyes of
individual audience members.
The performance is funny
at times while serious and
probing at others, which
seems to have been Bledsoe's
intention.
"I definitely think that
there's a provocative compo-
nent to what I'm Akiientinig.
I definitely feel like I intend
for people to leave and have
conversations and to revisit
images that I create, because
I don't speak at all in the work
that I'm making," she said.
The imagery of the show
and of much of Bledse's work
touches on issues of race, gen-
der and sexuality, but, as she
is quick to point out, the social
commentary present in her
pieces is the result of a long
process of artistic and per-
sonal growth during her time
at the University.
"Initially, I had a lot of
qualms with the Art School
in terms of its diversity," she
said. "The professors were
very whitewashed and the
student population was very
whitewashed. And I felt like
being a Black queer woman
in class was just kind of this
perspective that ... you know
I would make a piece of work
and the commentary, before
anybody would say anything
about the technical aspects

of the piece, it would be about
I'm presenting it and I'm
Black and I'm a lesbian.'"
Over time, however, Bled-
soe has come to realize that
the way her audience views
her identity is essential to the
way her work is viewed.
"My work has evolved
to become something that's
much more conscious of the
implications that my identity
as an artist carries," she said.
And, ultimately, she hopes
that her work can provide oth-
ers with insight into their own
identities.

"I want to be talking to
people who are interested in
knowing more about them-
selves. My work is not neces-
sarily for someone who just
wants to be entertained," she
said. "I'm much more inter-
ested in promoting dialogue,
making a piece for someone
who's interested in grappling
with the information they're
seeing in relation to how it
affects them."
Bledsoe will be presenting
her thesis performance at the
Duderstadt Video Studio from
Anril 17 to 19.

Bledsoe defines herself as a Black woman, a lesbian and, most importantly, an artist.
The many faces
of Carisa Bledsoe

Art & Design
senior embraces
performance art
to its fullest
By ADAM DEPOLLO
Daily OnlineArtsEditor
For Carisa Bledsoe, identity
is fundamental. The School of
Art & Design senior defines
herself as a Black woman and
as a lesbian, but most impor-

tantly as an artist - an artist
whose work is deeply influ-
enced by her process of self-
definition.
"I've always had an inter-
est - and I don't know why,
it sounds awful - in exposing
myself in my work. In a purely
selfish, sort of therapeutic
way ... it's a way to grapple
with things that I don't know
how to grapple with in any
other way," she said.
She is, however, uncomfort-
able with defining herself as
an artist limited to a particu-

lar medium. Her work ranges
from painting, to sculpture,
to video and dance - each one
can convey her message.
"In any given piece there
are aspects of all these dif-
ferent types of mediums,"
Bledsoe said. "You know, I
might do a performance that
involves video, and that video
involved my paintings. The
performance is influenced by
dance, the colors I chose are
influenced by the video."
Bledsoe is currently work-
ing on her thesis, which is

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily
Bledsoe will present her senior thesis at the Duderstadt Video Studio in A pril.
Design by Gaby Vasquez

Each week we take shots at the biggest
developments in the entertainment world,
Here's what hit (and missed) this week.

Controversial Bachelor Juan
Pablo gives pediatric nurse
Nikki Ferrell his final rose.

The Big Bucks Theory
"The Big Bang Theory" renewed
for 3 more seasons
ate Olsen rumored to be
d to 44-year-old tycoon
Sarkozy

SEASON TEASER REVIEW

To all the TV lovers who have
not yet recovered from the mon-
umental end of "Breaking Bad,"
I say: Fear not.
We are but one Mad Men
month away April 13th
from the return
of AMC's other AMC
crown jewel,
and now is the perfect time to
startre-focusing our attention
on it.
This week, AMC released a
new trailer and promotional
poster for the upcoming sev-
enth season of "Mad Men."
The fifteen-second teaser,
which has been widely shared
and scrutinized, features a
dapper looking Don Draper
descending from a plane in
slow-mo while "don"-ning
his signature black hat. The
poster, a psychedelic jumble of
color and'pattern designed by
the artist responsible for the
"I Heart NY" logo, has hard-
core fans reminiscing on the
infamous Roger Sterling acid
trip. But what does all this


The Mark Stone Trio:
Thursday, March 13, 7-10 pm
Free and spes ts the public
Universityof Michigan Museum of Art (UMMA)
5255. State Street
The Mark Stone Trio, sponsored by the Center for
World Performance Studies, will play in theApse
daring the . event onThursday,
March 13th.This event, generously supported by
Fidelity Investments, also features curator talks
and light refreshments.

x
.:
,
.. w .. .I: C C., .

mean for season seven?
Season six of "Mad Men"
ended with a sense of finality,
in that Don finally reached
the metaphorical "edge" and
plunged off it. With his bold
Hershey pitch that included a
dark but true (for once) personal
anecdote about growing up
in a whorehouse and stealing
from patrons to earn himself
a Hershey's chocolate bar, he

effectively gets himself pushed
out of the agency. It set the stage
for the show's final act. Don
has entered uncharted terri-
tory - he's hit rock bottom, and
he's actually telling the truth for
once.
"Mad Men" is about to take
a turn toward somethingnew:
a plane that flies to new places,
a poster that emphasizes a new
national mindset on the brink of

UNIVERSAL
unfolding and a new beginning
for everyone's favorite alcoholic
sex-addict. We're in for a whirl-
wind of a final season (spread
over two years, of course,
because ifsomething works, you
draw it out for as long as pos-
sible). It's just a matter of days
(31, to be exact) until Jon Hamm
graces our screens on a weekly
basis once more.
-MADDIE THOMAS

Moe inormation at: http:f/ooji.umic.edu/cpseents

I

J



