u h40P 46F 46F IV
,qq I Ld c an at
ONNE-1.tU: I)llI'ID-l, }f1VENIfy-Fi lURtYE ARS\_ 1{ 1{ D1,11011,1All Ill E D(), 1I

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, January 30, 2014

michigandailycom
ADMINISTRATION
'U' declines
to release
Gibbons

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
A worker carries in equipment to dry East Quad's floors after a flooding occured Wednesday. Classes in the building were subsequently canceled.
Pipe burst cancelsclass

Flood affected
first level of
newly renovated
residence hall
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily News Editor
One day after the first Uni-
versity weather-related clo-
sure since 1978, some students
were told to take another day
off Wednesday.
Classes in East Quad Resi-
dence Hall were cancelled
Wednesday in response to a
pipe burst in the early morn-
ing, according to a University

press release.
According to the press
release, the break occurred at
9:30 a.m. but caused no dam-
age to residential areas of the
building.
University Housing spokes-
man Peter Logan said he could
not confirm the precise time
of the break, but said the flood
was the result of a frozen one
and a half inch pipe in the fire
suppression system, which
ruptured over the first floor
theatre area.
Fire alarms were set off
throughout the building as a
result of the flooding imme-
diately after the line break.
Logan said the alarms auto-
matically activate when the

system senses a discharge of
water, since that can be an
indicator that the system is
attempting to suppress an
active fire. Fire officials must
investigate the area to deter-
mine there is no fire present
before the alarms can be deac-
tivated.
Logan said fire suppres-
sion systems in the building
are now fully operational.
Most classes in East Quad will
resume normal operations
Thursday, with the exception
of five classrooms that may
require additional repairs. Stu-
dents with classes in affected
rooms will be contacted by
their professors to arrange
alternate schedules or loca-

tions, Logan said.
Wednesday's pipe break
reflects a similar situation in
March 2013 - the flooding
at North Quad - when a fire
suppression supply line, much
larger than the pipe in East
Quad, broke and triggered a
similar evacuation procedure.
The flooding primarily
affected the first level corri-
dors and main concourse
areas. Logan added that regu-
lar dining operations resumed
as normial after the incident,
although an e-mail from resi-
dential advisors to students
suggested that the flooding
might have reached some parts
of the dining facilities.
See FLOOD, Page 3A

inal I
Experts say FERPA
empowers institutions
to release outcome of
sexual assault cases
By MATT SLOVIN and
ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily Sports Writer and
Daily News Reporter
After The Michigan Daily
reported Tuesday that former
Michigan kicker Brendan Gibbons
was permanently separated from
the University in December, Uni-
versity officials declined to release
any information pertaining to his
academic status, citing the Fam-
ily Educational Rights and Privacy
Act and University policy.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald reaffirmed that stance
Wednesday and cited University
precedent of not discussing disci-
plinary records.
"It's a combination of being sen-
sitive to FERPA, the law, as well
as the University policies that are
more restrictive than FERPA,"
Fitzgerald said.

ruling
Fitzgerald said administrators
deliberated Wednesday on what
course of action to pursue, tak-
ing into account "the letter of the
law, the spirit of the law and long-
standing University policies."
"After consulting the law, con-
sulting the attorneys in the Office
of General Counsel, giving careful
consideration to our long-standing
policy of not discussing student
disciplinary matters publicly, this
is the only information we are
releasing," Fitzgerald said. "We're
not releasing any additional
details."
Without directly referring
to Gibbons, a written statement
e-mailed to the Daily from Fitzger-
ald stated that allegations of sexual
misconduct made in 2009 were
"handled in accordance with the
University policy in effect at the
time."
Though FERPA does not pro-
hibit the University from relying
on its institutional policies as rea-
son to withhold the results of a dis-
ciplinary proceeding, two experts
specializing in media and records
law said in. interviews with the
Daily on Wednesday that the out-
See GIBBONS, Page 3A


CAMPUS LIFE
SAPAC pilots
online chat to
increase aid

VOICES HEARD

m
tc
Un
Th
tion
has o
onlin
that
the t
anon
advo
will
thros
5 p.m
Ar
gram
care,
for th
ratio:
Holly
two
the id
ture
bega

and implementing the pro-
gram about a year ago.
essage system Ensuring users' confiden-
tiality was a primary concern
be open to all when selecting a chat pro-
vider. SAPAC decided to work
iversity students with an Ann Arbor-based
company, Alark, on the proj-
By JULIA LISS ect.
Daily StaffReporter Next, the technical staff
worked to set up the chat on
re Sexual Assault Preven- SAPAC's website in a way that
and Awareness Center would be visible and acces-
fficially launched its new sible. SAPAC began piloting
e chat feature, a program the feature in a beta version
will allow members of last semester, during which
University community to interns would test it a few days
ymously chat with an a week to work out any bugs
cate. The chat feature that might have come up.
be available Monday Given the new feature is
ugh Friday from 9 a.m. to intended for use by the Uni-
. and is free to use. versity community, users are
ny Burandt, SAPAC pro- asked to enter their Kerberos
manager for survivor password to verify their iden-
came up with the idea tity, although this information
7e new feature in collabo- is not revealed to the SAPAC
n with SAPAC Director expert responding to the chat
Rider-Milkovich. The request. Users are also shown
women began discussing a detailed explanation about
lea for an online chat fea- confidentiality and who will
about two years ago and be corresponding with them.
n the process of creating See SAPAC, Page 3A

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
BAMN organizers Joseph Semana and Jose Alvarenga speak at Activism Night as part of the exposure series at North
Quad Wednesday.
ANN ARBOR
Construction on high-rise
buildings moves forward

RESEARCH
Engineering
prof. works to
prepare for
epidemics
Team creates model
for policymakers to
consider in potential
disease outbreaks
By PAULA FREDRICH
Daily Staff Reporter
A fluepidemic inPortland?There's
a model for that.
Engineering Prof. Siqian Shen and
collaborators from Sandia National
Laboratories, a contractor for the
U.S. Department of Energy, have
created an optimization model that
could help public health officials
make decisions about which places
to close in epidemic situations.
The project uses data from Port-
land, Oregons social networks and
censuses to model how the flu would
spread when cities close facilities
to contain it. It builds on previous
simulations by taking into account
people's continued movement after
certain facilities are closed, known
as compensatory behaviors.
The model gives the option of clos-
ing five different facilities and then
See EPIDEMICS, Page 3A

Luxury apartments
to bring over a
thousand new rooms
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
Daily StaffReporter
Two development companies
have received authorization
from the Ann Arbor City Coun-

cil to build new high-rises near
campus.
one building will be built on
top of the south side of Pizza
House at 624 Church Street,
near South University Avenue.
The 14-story building will con-
sist of 76 units, 74 percent of
which will be either one bed-
room or two bedrooms. It is
projected to open to tenants in
August 2015.

University alum Bradley
Moore, owner of the Ann Arbor-
based architecture firm J. Brad-
ley Moore and Associates, will
oversee development and con-
struction of the high-rise above
Pizza House. The restaurant's
owner, Dennis Tice, and Opus
Group, a Minneapolis-based
development company, part-
nered with J. Bradley Moore.
See HIGHRISE, Page 3A


WEATHERHI:26 GOTANEWSTIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS.....................2A SPORTS ,.. ...........,.....7A
TWM RO EI A2E Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Hopwood Awards recognize 21 winners for writing Vol. CXXIV, No.58 SU DO KU............2A CLASS I FI EDS..............6A
TOMORROW O21 newsmichigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDALYCOM/BLOGS 4The Michigan Daily OPINION...........,.4. A B-SIDE.................1 B
news ichganail~co andletus now MIHIGADAIY CM/BOGSmichigandoily.com

i


2A - Thursday, January 30, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, January 30, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

f e SO pgan qtly
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115ueat..1251 734-41e-4115exn. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

Sitch: A philanthropic leader

Denise Ilitch, a Democratic
member of the University's Board
of Regents, earned her bachelor's
degree from the University and
received her law degree from the
University of Detroit. She current-
ly serves as the President of Ilitch
Enterprises, Inc., and is the owner
of Ilitch Designs, owner and pub-
lisher of Ambassador Magazine
and Of Counsel at Clark Hill PLC.
She has earned several honors
including "Marketing Innovator of
the Year" from the Marketing and
Sales Executives of Detroit and
"Best & Brightest Marketer" from
AdvertisingAge magazine.
How do the organizations you
were involved with in college
relate to your work in the

Detroit community today?
I was not as involved in organi-
zations while at the University of
Michigan, although I was a mem-
ber of Kappa Kappa Gamma and
lived in the sorority house in Ann
Arbor. That experience taught
me the importance of being able
to coexist with lots of different
types of people and personali-
ties and to appreciate the value of
our similarities and differences.
It was great preparation for my
work in the Detroit community.
Why did you decide tobecome
a member of the Board of
Regents for the University?
I decided to become a member

of the Board of Regents because
of my love and passion for the
University of Michigan. After all
these years, my heart still skips a
beat when I step on to campus. I
also wanted to give back and con-
tribute to my alma mater.
Do you have any advice for
current students?
My advice to current students
is to take advantage of every
resource at the University of
Michigan. Make sure your expe-
riences are rich and live every
moment of your college life to the
fullest because it flies by all too
quick.
- THERESE BREUCH

Newsroom
734-418-415 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section'
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

VJt51515 LOZANO/Daily
Chef Peter Julian gives a recipe themed 'Sassy work-
shop' in the Union Wednesday, teaching students
household tasks they wouldn't learn from classes.

CRIME NOTES
Liar, pants
not on fire
WHERE: Wall St.
WHEN: Monday around
5:45 p.m.
WHAT: A heating unit was
reported to be on fire in the
parking lot of a construction
site. The unit was not on fire
and functioning properly.
Without a trace
WHERE: Bursley Hall
WHEN: Monday around
4:25 p.m.
WHAT: Less than $100 was
reported to have been miss-
ing from the retail store
safe with no signs of forced
entry. No suspects were
identified. The date of the
incident is unclear, but may
have occured between Dec.
15 and Jan 14.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Charge!
WHERE: 1500 Block E
Hospital
WHEN: Monday around
10:15 a.m.
WHAT: A vehicle was
reported to have driven into
a cement pillar. While there
were no injuries, the vehicle
suffered from significant
damage.
Left means
right?
WHERE: Northwood
Apartments
WHEN: Monday at 8:55 p.m.
WHAT: A University bus
was reported to have been
struck by another vehicle
driving in the wrong direc-
tion on a one-way street.
There are no injuries, but
damages are unknown.

Beginning
meditation
WHAT: A workshop for stu-
dents interesting in learning
beginners' meditation tech-
niques for stress, anxiety
and focusing purposes.
WHO: CAPS
WHEN: Today from 5:30 to
6:00 p.m.
WHERE: CAPS office in
the Union
Fred lersch
Trio
WHAT: Hailed as one of
the most innovative jazz
pianists of the 21st century
by Vanity Fair and The New
York Times, Fred Hersch
will perform.
WHO: University Musical
Society
WHEN: Today at 7:30 and
9:30 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
League

Black History
Month lecture
WHAT: In the Black Histo-
ry Month Keynote Lecture,
Melissa Harris-Perry will
discuss race talk and leader-
ship on campus.
WHO: Office of Multi-Eth-
nic Student Affairs & Trot-
ter Multicultural Center
WHEN: Today at 5:30.
WHERE: Rackham Audi-
torium
CORRECTIONS
A Jan.29 article "Obama
emphasizes domestic
policy in State of the Union"
misattributed a quote from
Public Policy senior Adam
Watkins, vice president of
College Democrats. The
original story attributed
the quote to LSA junior
Mary Bridget Lee.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

T H REE T HINGS YOU
SH ULDKNOWITOAY
CNN reported a letter
by former U.S. Senate
aide Jesse Ryan Loskarn,
who recently commited
suicide, explained why he
watched child porn. Loskarn
said he felt connected with
the films because he was sex-
ually abused as a child.
Daily Arts takes an in-
depth look at the Uni-
versity's unique co-op
food culture by visiting
local kitchens. A new per-
formance arts minor is also
examined.
>> FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE, PAGE lB
After about 3 inches of
snowfall, massive sec-
tions of Atlanta have
been shut down as driv-
ers attempt to adapt to icy
driving conditions. Gridlock
has shut down businesses
and caused people to stay the
night in their cars.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham, Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
A SSISTNTNEWSEDITORS:Allana AktararainAmron, Harytrawfod, Amia
Michae Sugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang EditrilPagenEditors opinioneditosa@michigandailyecom
SENIO EDITORIALPAGEDTORS: arca Marhad Vctrs hgNoble ~ c
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
GregGarnoand
Alejandro Zliga Managingesports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIO RSPORTs EDITORS:MaxCohen,nAlexarDettelbach,RajatKhare,JeremySummitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
5ennonake onrimand JasonhRuainstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandailycom
AkshaySeth ManagingArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASISTNT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SSTANTsnaHOOEDTORS:llisonFarrandn TrcyKoaTerra Molengraffand Nicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasquezeManagingDesignEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: AmyMackens andAliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Nicholas Cruz
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompsn ManagingCoytEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPYEDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar DigitalAccounts Manager
Doug SolomonU niversity Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi Derasmn Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang NationalAccounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OliviaJones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daily (ssN 0e45-96) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter terms by
stude"ts t ei yo' ''"er . "Mchig cp'a i 'r rg de' r d e ia'lopiesmay
bepickedupnatntheDaiysoici 2 uscrsfaetmstartingin September SaU.S.mai e$1O.
Winter term ( panuarythrough Aprl is ,ye a g Se r m through Apri) si s u niversity affiliates
e uce pe.O-mpusbiptions frfal term are 3s Sbscriptionsm est
be prepad The Michigan Daly is a memberof The Assoiated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

Research shows ACA will
boost lower-class incomes

New healthcare laws
will result in minor
wealth redistribution
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Maybe the health care law was
about wealth transfer, after all.
New research shows that the
Affordable Care Act will sig-
nificantly boost the economic
fortunes of those in the bottom
one-fifth of the income ladder

while slightly reducing average
incomes on the rungs above.
Economists at the nonpar-
tisan Brookings Institution, a
Washington public policy cen-
ter, found an average increase of
about 6 percent in the incomes
of the poorest 20 percent of the
United States, meaning those
making below approximately
$20,600 a year.
The study used a broad defi-
nition of income that counts
the value of health insurance,

WHAT IS YOURfavorite.
OOO O
ICE CREAM LANDLORD BREAKFAST VOTE TODAY!
BEST OF ANN ARBOR 2014
S]EU2KlU

which is not normally measured
by Census Bureau income statis-
tics.
Changing the distribution of
incomes was not a stated objec-
tive of the health care law, co-
authors Henry Aaron and Gary
Burtless wrote. "Nonetheless,
the ACA may do more to change
the income distribution than
any other recently enacted law."
"This is certainly a very big
deal for the income distribu-
tion of the United States," Burt-
less said. "If you are raising the
incomes of the people in the bot-
tom fifth by 6 percent, then we
are talking about a big change."
A leading economic adviser to
Republicans said he agrees with
the broad findings.
"This was always portrayed as
a health reform, not a big redis-
tribution policy, but it turns out
they are the same thing," said
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president
of the American Action Forum,
a center-right public policy
institute.
That could mean the health
care law may one day be seen as
President Barack Obama's big-
gest legacy to the poor, not just
the uninsured. The two groups
often overlap, but not always.
Major programs such as
Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid redistribute income
in various ways: from workers
to retirees and disabled people;
from wealthier people to those
of more modest means; and
from younger people to older
ones.
Americans describe such pro-
grams as "social insurance," or
the "safety net."
Burtless said the Brookings
researchers used a large gov-
ernment survey of more than
60,000 people. They developed
a measure of income that includ-
ed not only categories such as
wages, rents and investments,
but also the value of health
insurance benefits, whether
provided by an employer or
obtained through a government
program.

NICK UT/AP
A python is is prepared for transport Wednesday Jan. 29 in Santa Ana, Calif., at the home of William Buchman. Buch-
man has been arrested for investigation of neglect in the care of animals.
California teacher's stench-
i1led home tips off police

Teacher's snake-
filled home part of
an 'enterprise'
SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP)
- A California schoolteacher
was arrested Wednesday after
hundreds of living and dead
pythons in plastic bins were
found stacked floor to ceiling
inside his stench-filled home in
suburban Orange County.
As investigators wearing
respirator masks carried the
reptiles out of the house and
stacked them in the driveway,
reporters and passers-by gagged
at the smell. Some held their
noses or walked away from the
five-bedroom home to get a
breath of air.
"The smell alone - I feel like
I need to take a shower for a
week," said police Cpl. Anthony
Bertagna. "They're pretty much
in all the bedrooms - every-
where."
Officers found as many as
400 snakes, as well as numerous
mice and rats, in the Santa Ana
home of William Buchman after
neighbors complained about
the smell. He was arrested for
investigation of neglect in the

care of animals, Bertagna said.
Buchman, 53, was still incus-
todyWednesdayafternoon, Ber-
tagna said. The Newport-Mesa
Unified School District, where
he works, declined comment,
saying it was a police matter.
Buchman has not yet had a
court appearance or been for-
mally charged and it wasn't
clear if he had an attorney.
Authorities said he lived
alone, and neighbors said his
mother, who had lived with him,
had passed away within the past
few years.
Sondra Berg, the supervi-
sor for the Santa Ana Police
Department's Animal Services
Division, said four bedrooms
in the home were stacked from
floor to ceiling and wall to wall
with plastic bins on wooden
and metal racks. The bins were
packed so tightly, Berg said, that
they didn't require lids because
there was no room for the
snakes to slither out.
Each snake was catalogued
by name and type, and Berg said
Buchman told authorities he
was involved in a snake-breed-
ing enterprise.
"House of Horrors: That's
the best way to describe it,"
Berg said of the house. "I mean

there's so many dead snakes ...
ranging from dead for months
to just dead. There's an infes-
tation of rats and mice all over
the house. There are rats and
mice in plastic storage tubs that
are actually cannibalizing each
other."
Some of the snakes were little
more than skeletons. Others,
only recently dead, were cov-
ered with flies and maggots.
Next-door neighbor For-
est Long Sr. said he has known
Buchman for years, adding the
men had once been friendly, get-
ting together to watch sports on
television.
But he noticed a change in his
neighbor about a year ago, he
said, adding Buchman stopped
coming around and, when he
did, he appeared to have gained
a good deal of weight.
"Something changed in Bill,
yes it did," he said. "Something
triggered it because I couldn't
even think that that was going
on."
The odor from the house,
meanwhile, became unbearable
about five months ago.
"It got so bad as to where my
wife would throw up," Long
said. "She'd get out of the car
and run into the house."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 30, 2014 - 3A


FLOOD
From Page 1A
The Java Blue Cafe on the
main level of East Quad reopened
Wednesday afternoon, although
one entrance may still be impact-
ed by the damage. Logan said
the housing staff turned off the
water shortly after the flooding
occurred and is working to repair
any damage done to the affected
areas.
Per standard evacuation proce-
dures, students exited the build-
ing onto either Church Street
or East University Avenue. LSA
freshman Jackie Saplicki said stu-
dents from both evacuation zones
were then moved to the Ross
School of Business until they were
allowed to reenter the building at
around 10:45 a.m.
Saplicki said she evacuated
onto Church Street around 9:50
a.m. after the alarm was activat-
ed. She claimed there was a 20- to
30-minute delay before students
on that side of the building were
moved indoors, although Logan
said housing staff immediately
suggested that students move
inside once the evacuation was
complete.
"Everyone was totally compli-
ant, but people were obviously
enraged," Saplicki said. "All in all,
it was a little annoying."
Students were allowed to enter
the building around 10:45 a.m.
Saplicki said. She said a second
alarm was activated sometime
after students entered. Although
Logan could not confirm this,
he said a second alarm may have
sounded while the system was
being reset.

SAPAC
From Page 1A
The chat will be manned by an
on-call advocate at the SAPAC
office, which could be an intern,
Social Work student, or profes-
sional staff member. The chat can
support up to about five different
users at once, though Burandt
mentioned that there has not
been enough traffic on the site yet
to know for sure the maximum
capacity.
The goal of this program is to
make SAPAC's support services
more accessible to more people,
especially those who may not feel
comfortable speaking to someone
face-to-face or on the phone.
"We're really feeling like folks
are really shying away from talk-
ing on the phone ... so we thought
this might be a nice step for stu-
dents who don't like to do that,"
Burandt said.
She added that national pro-
grams such as 1in6 have been suc-
cessful in being able to reach out
to male survivors through their
online chat features, and SAPAC
hopes to see that benefit as well.
Burandt said she doesn't antici-
pate the feature becoming so
busy that the SAPAC office needs
to hire additional staff, but if it
does become a problem, they will
adapt.
For now she said she hopes
people will log on to ask any
questions they may have and feel
comfortable reaching out to their
staff.
The University's Sexual Assault
Prevention and Awareness Cen-
ter staffs a 24/7 crisis line at (734)
936-3333.

GIBBONS
From Page 1A
come of the disciplinary process
is not protected by FERPA.
Frank LoMonte, executive
director of the Student Press
Law Center, said FERPA does
not prohibit the disclosure of
the outcome of Gibbons' disci-
plinary case because University
investigators concluded that he
was responsible for behavior
that equates to a sexual offense.
"They're just wrong that
FERPA applies to a finding
that a person committed a
sexual assault," LoMonte said.
"So that's not a valid reason to
refuse comment on a disciplin-
ary outcome."
The text of FERPA notes that
the law shouldn't "be construed
to prohibit an institution of
postsecondary education from
disclosing the final results of
any disciplinary proceeding
conducted by such institu-
tion against a student who is
an alleged perpetrator of any
crime of violence ... or a non-
forcible sex offense, if the insti-
tution determines as.a result
of that disciplinary proceeding
that the student committed a
violation of the institution's
rules or policies with respect to
such crime or offense."
The provision, which was
added by Congress in 1998,
amended FERPA to allow the
release of the final decision in

cases related to offenses that
would be treated as a violent
or sexual crime in a court of
law.
The lone exception that
would allow the University to
invoke FERPA, LoMonte said,
would be if Gibbons had been
found responsible solely for
sexual harassment, as opposed
to a more violent, physical
crime like sexual assault or bat-
tery.
Documents reviewed by the
Daily do not disclose the spe-
cific conduct for which Gibbons
has been found responsible,
stating only that he was found
to have "engaged in unwanted
or unwelcome conduct of a sex-
ual nature, committed without
valid consent, and that conduct
was so severe as to create a hos-
tile, offensive or abusive envi-
ronment."
LoMonte acknowledged that
investigators could have found
Gibbons responsible for sexual
harassment, but said the severe
and rare punishment of per-
manent separation from the
University doesn't match the
offense based on similar occur-
rences at other schools.
"I suppose it's conceivable,
but I think that's highly doubt-
ful because of the penalty that
was assessed," LoMonte said.
"You just don't see people get-
ting removed from college for
sexual harassment."
Fitzgerald said the refusal to
release the results of the disci-
plinary proceedings should not

be used to infer the nature of
Gibbons' alleged conduct.
At the University, permanent
separation is a very rare result
of OSCR proceedings. In the
latest OSCR data available from
the 2011-2012 academic year,
there were zero permanent sep-
arations.
Mark Goodman, a media law
professor at Kent State Univer-
sity, said institutions can't cite
FERPA as a reason for refus-
ing to release the final results
of a disciplinary investigation
when a violent or nonforcible
sex offense has been alleged.
"If they're saying that,
they're flat-out wrong," Good-
man said. "That's all there is
to it. Assuming this is a crime
of violence or a nonforcible
sex offense, they are simply
wrong."
Though University officials
claim only Gibbons can release
information about his academ-
ic record, FERPA would not
prohibit the release of the final
outcome of the disciplinary
proceedings. Therefore, it is
possible that Michigan football
coach Brady Hoke could have
been informed of the disciplin-
ary process and sanctions. If
Hoke was informed, FERPA
would not have prevented him
from disclosing the permanent
separation to the media.
While FERPA prohibits cer-
tain information from being
released to the public, it does
not obligate their release.
Requests for such information

is handled through a Freedom
of Information Act process,
which obligates institutions
to release any documents not
exempted from FOIA, redact-
ing only what is exempt.
The University has a his-
tory of narrowly interpreting
Michigan's FOIA law. In 2011,
a Daily investigation found that
the University charged much
higher fees than other pub-
lic Big Ten schools to release
basic documents, such as park-
ing ticket and payment card
records. In 2012, the University
refused to release to the Daily
the graduate school application
of James Holmes, the 24-year-
old charged in the mass shoot-
ing that took place at an Aurora,
Colo., movie theater in July of
that year, despite the fact that
several universities with simi-
lar public records laws released
Holmes' application to their
institutions when asked.
The state's FOIA law con-
tains a provision exempting
documents that would prevent
the University from complying
with FERPA, but experts have
said FERPA does not apply to
the information in question.
In response to requests for the
Holmes application and many
other documents pertaining to
individuals, the University has
often cited a provision of FOIA
which exempts the release of
information that would con-
stitute "a clearly unwarranted
invasion of an individual's pri-
vacy."


FOLLOW THE MICHIGAN DAILY
ON TWITTER
@MICHIGANDAILY

EPIDEMICS
From Page 1A
simulates how the population
would move given those compen-
satory behaviors. Shen said the
optimal choice would be the com-
bination of five different facilities
that spreads the population out
the most.
"After you think about it, you
kind of see the intuition behind
it," Shen said.
Shen added that when it comes
to modeling infectious diseases,
there are two main questions:
how much to invest in preventa-
tive measures, and how much to
invest in intervention after the
fact.
Prevention, measured in vac-
cination rates, is straightforward
- the more people getvaccinated,
the better a cityis protected in the
event of an outbreak. Interven-
tion on the other hand, is harder
to quantify. Policymakers might
close facilities or work with secu-
rity agencies to restrict travel
out of certain areas, among other
options.
"At the beginning we had sev-
eral very complicated models
involvingmore differentvariables
than this model," Shen said.
She said this led her team to a
number of "failed models," but
eventually they were able to nar-
row it down to the "most sensitive
part of the model" - how people
move around the city when cer-
tain places are closed.
Simplification of the model
also made it a more powerful
tool, Shen said. The simulation
takes data from 100 people mov-
ing between 195 locations. To use
this model, a city would have to
collect travel data from only 100
people. This includes information
about the disease and census data
to determine how susceptible
each person would be. It could
then help in showing what clos-
ings would disperse, and thereby
protect, the population the most.
The team chose Portland
because the data happened to
already be aggregated. Shen said
she's hoping to gather more data
from other cities to expand on the
model as the project moves for-
ward.
As for a potential epidemic at
the University, Shen said she'd
have to collect the data about
where students study first.
"I have no idea," she said. "I
guess italsovaries amongthe stu-
dents who are studying on North
Campus versus Central Campus."

HIGHRISE
From Page 1A
Moore likened the atmosphere
of these new apartments to an
"urban loft" style, adding that the
development company intends for
them to have a wide appeal.
The building is estimated to
cost $17 million, although the
specifics of the construction plan
are not yet solidified. After the
plan is approved and a building
permit received, the surrounding
area south of Pizza House will be
demolished.
In addition to housing units,
the new building will also feature
an outdoor seasonal dining area
on the first floor.
The housing addition near
pizza house has been in the works
for years. A decade ago, J. Bradley
Moore designed an addition to
Pizza House intending to expand
it in the future - including a
stronger foundation that would
accommodate a larger structure.
"When we designed the addi-
tion to the Pizza House, we actu-
ally had enough foresight to put
in extra large foundations to pre-
serve the ability to someday in the
future build vertically on top of
that part of the building," Moore
said.
The second high-rise, with
its construction overseen by a
Connecticut-based real estate
firm called Greenfield Partners,
will be located at 413 E. Huron
St. and Division Street. It will be
14 stories high and include 513
bedrooms and a two-floor under-
ground parking facility. The con-
struction is estimated to cost $45
million.
Both the former and cur-
rent owner of the property were
unavailable for comment.
The approval of its construc-
tion was a controversial move
by Ann Arbor City Council, The
Michigan Daily reported. The
Council was originally opposed
to the structure's potential com-
mercial infringement on the com-
munity's atmosphere but feared
that the developers would file
a lawsuit if their petition was
denied.
Moore acknowledged that
while receiving approval from
the Ann Arbor City Council is
challenging for larger downtown
construction projects, the process
went smoothly for the Church
Street structure.
"I think there's a great demand
right now for housing anywhere
in the downtown area," Moore
said.

KHALIL HAMRA/AP
In this photo taken with a fisheye lens over the city's perimeter highway known as "Spaghetti Junction," the ice-covered interstate system shows the remnants
of a winter snow storm that slammed the city with over 2 inches of snow that turned highways into parking lots when motorists abandoned their vehicles creat-
ing massive traffic jams lasting through, Wednesday, Jan. 29 in Atlanta.
Snow storm sends Atlanta reeling

Two
icec
shut
ATLI
sands
strande
schools
their pa
rescuer,
kets, fo
to cout
ists stol
paralyz
of the
inchesc
As
and sta
Mayor
gia Go
themse
acknow
aration
But De,
ers, say
it woul
The
similar
the Sou
highwa
and coi
dozen d
dents a:
Yet i
major
world's
was Exi
ern cit
by wint
NorthI
an incor
Ther
could I
busines
offices t
on Tue

inches of snow, storm began, rather than dis-
missing everyone at the same
causes freeway time.
The result was gridlock on
down, stranded freeways that are jammed even
on normal days. Countless
mnotorists vehicles were stranded and
many of them abandoned.
ANTA (AP) - Thou- Georgia State Patrol officials
of Atlanta students said two traffic fatalities had
d all night long in their been reported in counties out-
were reunited with side of Atlanta. State troopers
rents Wednesday, while also responded to more than
s rushed to deliver blan- 1,460 crashes between Tues-
od, gas and a ride home day morning and Wednesday
ntless shivering motor- evening and said more than 175
pped cold bya storm that injuries had been reported.
ed the business capital Officials said 239 children
South with less than 3 spent Tuesday night aboard
of snow. school buses; thousands of oth-
National Guardsmen ers stayed overnightin their
te troopers fanned out, schools.
Kasim Reed and Geor- One woman's 12-mile com-
v. Nathan Deal found mute home took 16 hours.
ves on the defensive, Another woman gave birth
'ledging the storm prep- while stuck in traffic; police
s could have been better. arrived just in time to help.
al also blamed forecast- Drivers who gave up trying to
ing he was led to believe get home took shelter at fire
dn't be so bad. stations, churches and grocery
icy weather wreaked stores.
havoc across much of "I'm not thinking about a
tth, closing schools and grade right now," the mayor
ys, grounding flights said when asked about the
ntributing to at least a city's response. "I'm think-
leaths from traffic acci- ing about getting people out of
nd a mobile home fire. their cars."
it was Atlanta, home to National Guardsmen in
corporations and the Humvees, state troopers and
busiest airport, that transportation crews delivered
hibit A for howa South- food and other relief, and by
y could be sent reeling Wednesday night, Deal said all
er weather that, in the Atlanta-area schoolchildren
might be no more than were back home with their
nvenience. parents.
mayor admitted the city Atlanta was crippled by an
have directed schools, ice storm in 2011, and officials
ses and government had vowed not to be caught
to stagger their closings unprepared again. But in this
sday afternoon, as the case, few closings or other

measures were ordered ahead
of time.
Deal, who is up for re-elec-
tion in November, said warn-
ings could have been posted
along highways earlier and
farther out Tuesday. But he
also fended off criticism.
"I would have acted sooner,
and I think we learn from that
and then we will act sooner the
next time," Deal told reporters.
"But we don't want to
be accused of crying wolf.
Because if we had been wrong,
y'all would have all been in
here saying, 'Do you know
how many millions of dollars
you cost the economies of the
city of Atlanta and the state
of Georgia by shutting down
businesses all over this city
and this state?"'
Deal faulted government
forecasters, saying they
warned that the storm would
strike south of Atlanta and the
city would get no more than a
dusting of snow.
However, the National
Weather Service explicitly
cautioned on Monday that
snow-covered roads "will
make travel difficult or impos-
sible." And around 3:30 a.m.
Tuesday, the agency issued
a winter storm warning for
metro Atlanta and cautioned
people not to travel except in
an emergency.
Around the time the traf-
fic jam started, Deal and Reed
were at an award ceremony
recognizing the mayor as the
"2014 Georgian of the Year."
Deal spokesman Brian Rob-
inson said the governor left
before 1:30 p.m. and was in
constant contact with emer-
gency officials.

Among the commuters
trapped in the gridlock was
Jessica Troy, who described
her commute home to the
suburb of Smyrna as a slow-
motion obstacle course on
sheets of ice.
"We literally would go 5 feet
and sit for two hours," Troy
said after she and a co-work-
er who rode with her finally
made it home about 1P:30 a.m.
Wednesday. They spent more
than 16 hours in the car, cover-
ing 12 miles.
The standstill gave Troy
time to call her parents and
send text messages to friends,
letting them know she was OK.
By 3 a.m. her car was stuck
on a freeway entrance ramp.
She put it in park, left the heat
running and tried to get some
sleep.
"I slept for an hour and it
was not comfortable," Troy
said. "Most people sat the entire
night with no food, no water, no
bathroom. We saw people who
had children. It was a dire situ-
ation."
After daybreak, a few good
Samaritans appeared, goingcar-
to-car with bottles of water and
cookies. Traffic started moving
again about 8:30.
At Atlanta's Deerwood Ele-
mentary School, librarian Brian
Ashley spent Tuesday night
with a dozen of his colleagues
and 35 children on cots in the
gym.
The teachers and other staff
members opened up the pantry
in the cafeteria, making pizza
and chicken nuggets with cai-
rots and apples for dinner. Later,
some police officers dropped off
sandwiches, and parents living
nearby brought food.

4

I

I


4A - Thursday, January 30, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A -Thusda, Jauar 30 201 Th Mihiga Daly micigadaiyco

KARA ARGUE

E-MAIL KABA AT KARGUE@UMICH.EDU

C4be 1idhiian aUt
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Moving'forward' again
Obama must follow through on issues affecting University students
n Tuesday night, President Barack Obama reviewed his
administration's achievements and presented his vision for the future
i ofthe nation in his State ofthe Union address.While Obama addressed
many pressing issues, he also covered topics of interest to University students.
Among those topics, Obama discussed his efforts to improve the educational
accessibility for all students, make higher education more affordable and a plan
to assist a bankrupt Detroit. Stating these issues is one thing, but we must hold
Obama to his word as he goes forward in his second term.

During the address, Obama made a note-
worthy reference to the White House's College
Opportunity Summit, saying, "150 universities,
businesses and nonprofits have made concrete
commitments to reduce inequality in access to
higher education - and help every hardwork-
ing kid go to college and succeed when they get
to campus.' The main aims of the conference -
fairer standardized tests, making college more
affordable and increasing opportunities for low-
income students - were warmly received by over
100 colleges and universities, whose presidents
pledged to further the summit's goals. Among
those institutions were Massachusetts Institu-
tion of Technology, Georgetown University, The
University of California, Berkeley and Colum-
bia University. The University of Michigan did
not sign in support of these efforts. The White
House's efforts to make college more accessible
are clearly commendable, and seemingly coin-
cide with the University's claims to want to fos-
ter both socioecdnomic and racial diversity. The
University should support these actions by the
White House. Furthermore, Obama should pub-
licize these actions outside the SOTU, and make
the push for accessibility a more public cause.
For years, Obama has championed higher edu-
cation as a tool of upward social and economic
mobility. Inhis recentspeech, Obamamentioned
Congress' efforts to "redesign high schools and
partner them with colleges and employers" so
that all American children will have a better
chance at attaining a college education. Momen-
tous changes have in fact been made with the
nation's highest high-school graduation rates in
over 30 years. However, statistics are not enough.
In a 2013 report from ACT, Inc. nearly one third

of students metzero of the four college-readiness
benchmarks. Only 39 percent of students met
threeormoreofthebenchmarks. Similarly, near-
ly650 percent of first-yearcollege students discov-
er they are not ready for postsecondary education
and must take remedial classes. If Obama contin-
ues to champion the American Dream of a college
education, the administration must find practical
and successful ways to help students transition
from a secondary to postsecondary education.
In his speech, the president also discussed the
auto industry, specifically referencing Detroit
manufacturing. The president introduced an
initiative for the country's training programs
to "train Americans with the skills employers
need, and match them to good jobs that need
to be filled right now." Detroit is a city sorely in
need of skilled labor. Obama's proposal is one
that could fill the open job market in Detroit and
assist the city in its path back to prosperity. Simi-
larly, Republican Gov. Rick Snyder has laid outa
plan to supply an extensively trained workforce
by bringing immigrants to the city. Snyder aims
to work with the U.S. State Department to grant
visas to skilled immigrants to satisfy the needs of
Detroit employers.
While an obstructionist Republican-con-
trolled House of Representatives makes it diffi-
culttoexpectsweepingreformsinthe president's
second term, students can at least expect Obama
to accomplish some of his goals through execu-
tive orders and directing the federal agencies to
focus on alleviating the challenges facing young
Americans. His rhetoric is a welcome acknowl-
edgement of many of the issues facing the nation,
but only bipartisan proposals and action can rem-
edy them.

Loks lke
so r-s How DIO
TH ISH A PPSr J
0
Waste of the union
atching the State of the applications from convicted felons, to prison over drugs.
Union on Tuesday night, regardless of the crime. This is a winning issue.
I wanted to hear five In 2004, Obama put it quite elo- I know the president is afraid of
words and five quently: "The war on drugs has been losing popularity and alienating
words only: end an utter failure." people on both sides of the aisle, but
the war on drugs. Today the United States has over he needs to realize he's already done
Before Presi- 2 million incarcerated citizens with that. From Obamacare, to drone
dent Barack $70 billion in costs for corrections strikes, to the NSA scandal and the
Obama was even and incarceration. Huge portions of economy, Obama has made enemies
in college, he both of these statistics are thanks with both progressives and right-
spent his days to the war on drugs. Half of federal wingers. He has accomplished very
and nights in JAMES prisoners are serving time for non- little of note in the last few years,
Hawaii hang- BRENNAN violent drug offenses, with U.S. tax- and sadly, it seems the man elected
ing out with the payers being billed some $51 billion to bring hope and change has only
now-infamous a year for prisons and enforcement. reinforced our country's ideology
"Choom Gang." The Drug Policy Alliance estimates that politicians bringneither.
Choom is an old euphemism for that the totality of the war on drugs If I were Obama, I'd take a cue
smoking weed, an activity Obama has cost America over $1 trillion in from a more popular leader: Pope
and his pals participated in quite taxes. That's not including the count- Francis. Pope Francis has said and
frequently. Not surprisingly, last less billions that we have lost from done things no other Pope has, and
week the president came to the those who have been thrown in jail his simple actions and words have
same conclusion a lot of other for- and labeled felons for life, unable to inspired new debates and discus-
mer and current marijuana users get housing or jobs. sions that may change the world's
have - the substance is no more We all know the State of the Union political, social and economic tra-
dangerous than alcohol. address is a joke. It means very little jectory. It was unthinkable a few
Obama famously joked in 2006, in terms of both politics and sub- years ago to imagine a Pope saying
"I inhaled frequently. That was the stantive policy, but for some reason heisn'tinapositionto judge gaymen
point." While Obama can look back 40 to 50 million people still watch it and women or to call on the church
at his pot-smoking (and coke-snort- every year. If there were ever a time to stop talking about abortion and
ing) days with humor, millions of for the president to call for an end to contraception, let alone start talk-
young men like him are imprisoned America's longest war, it was Tues- ing about income inequality and the
every day for drugs and released day night. poor. This unthinkable situation led
years later only to be treated like Obama has articulated the same to Pope Francis becoming, poten-
second-class citizens. Though our vision at all of his other State of the tially, the most popular pope the
chief executive believes marijuana Union addresses. It has gotten us world has yet to see.
is less dangerous than a legal sub- almost nowhere, especially with Calling for an end to the war on
stance, police and prosecutors con- the current Republican Party hold- drugs could be the president's Pope
tinue to send people to jail for pot ing the House of Representatives. Francis moment, and it could very
and other nonviolent offenses every Article after article came out this well be his legacy if he chooses.
day - offenses Obama committed week discussing the insignificance Obama probably won't see the drug
plenty of times as a young man. of the State of the Union, especially war end during his time in office,
Had Obama been caught smoking recently. Had Obama called for an but the conversation has to begin
pot or doing blow when he was my end to the war on drugs, the coun- somewhere; someone needs to
age, it's likely he would have been try would have been set ablaze (no start talking.
convicted of a felony and barred for pun intended). How about the guy with the
years from voting. He would also The majority of Americans favor microphone?
have been automatically disqualified legalizing marijuana, while a huge
from jobs with arbitrary criminal majority of people in both Texas and - James Brennan can be
background screenings that toss any California are tired of sending people reached at jmbhree@mich.edu
MARY BRIDGET LEE
An optimistic vision
During Tuesday's State of the for us and saved money for students jobs to help pay for their education.
Union address, I was proud to hear across the country. Along these same lines, Congress
our president talk about the issues In Michigan, a state controlled by should immediately renew emergen-
that matter to Americans, especially Republicans at every level of govern- cy unemployment insurance. In our
those that impact us as students. ment, college becomes less afford- state, Michiganders have lost these
From the skyrocketing cost ofcollege able every day. Gov. Rick Snyder has vital benefits. Without unemploy-
to the importance of raising the min- repeatedly demonstrated a lack of ment insurance, these people may
imum wage, the vision the president concern for education, cutting more struggle to put food on the table for
laid out last night is distinctly Ameri- than $1 billion from K-12 funding in their families and lack resources like
can - infused with the optimism and 2011 and watching higher-education gas money to effectively search for
pragmatism that has always kept our funding fall by 11 percent since tak- jobs. Obstructionist Republicans are
nation moving forward. ing office. These cuts result in lower blocking these bills in Congress, and
By making the issues so important quality and more expensive educa- we should stand up to them - now is
to our generation a priority, Presi- tion. Obama reminds us that it's time not the time to play political games
dent Barack Obama has commit- to elect leaders who will make educa- while hurting our economy.
ted to leading our nation to a bright tion a priority. Throughout his presidency,

future. We know that the cost of col- Notably, the president also dis- Obama has fought to expand oppor-
lege is unacceptably high, and it isn't cussed that Congress needs to step tunity for all Americans - espe-
going to go down overnight. But this up to boost our economy and help cially young people. As a member
president has put college affordabil- the American people. By heeding the of the College Democrats, I'm fired
ity front and center, from creating a president's call and raising the mini- up to continue to stand with Obama
College Scorecard, to helping inform mum wage, Congress would affirm in this fight. It's our responsibil-
students about financial aid opportu- that it is unacceptable for a person ity to hold Congress and Washing-
nities, to keeping student loan rates to work full-time and live below the ton accountable to ensure that our
low. When Republicans in Congress poverty line. Raising the minimum futures are as bright as they can be.
were ready to abandon us by dou- wage isespeciallyimportanttoyoung
bling interest rates, Obama stood up people, many of whom rely on hourly Mary Bridget Lee is an LSA junior.
TAYLOR NORTON|
Does it make a sound?

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Alex Bear, Rima FatIlallah, Nivedita Karki, Jordyn Kay, Kellie Halushka,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew
Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Republican response
solidifies gender norms

addressing the issu
sive speech of the y
There was non
women in the wor

TO THE DAILY: an attempt at addre:
As a moderately conservative female at the and how McMorris
University of Michigan, I am oftentimes iso- thing that could h
lated from my peers. Finding firm ground to GOP. Instead, McM
stand on as a conservative female has become picking apples on t
increasingly difficult. The phrase "Republican ing a nice gentlema
women" incites images of Michele Bachmann Congress and raisir
and Sarah Palin. Unfortunately, after the State life's unexpected ch
of the Union, the GOP did yet another disser- Unfortunately, M
vice to young women like myself. the predominant cot
Republican leaders, in an effort to skirt females smile, talk p
accusations of a "War on Women," strategized of their power deri
that these problems would all go away if they roles rather than in
chose a female speaker for the Republican will not be accepted
response. This could have been an effective McMorris stated s
plan, had the speech even remotely pertained empower people, no
to any one of the political issues that mat- however, only empo
ter to liberal and conservative women alike. to continue margina
Instead, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris comrades and me to
Rodgers ignored almost every point made on Women alone.
about women in President Barack Obama's
speech. She gave a nice little chat that resem- Katie Koziara
bled an episode of Sesame Street rather than Public Policy junior

es in the most comprehen-
ear.
mention of equal pay for
kforce. There wasn't even
ssingthe "War on Women"
defies this notion - some-
have actually helped the
Morris painted a picture of
he farm as a child, marry-
n she met while serving in
ng her family while facing
hallenges.
lcMorris' speech solidifies
nservative norm that unless
olitely and insist the source
ves from traditional female
telligence or ambition, they
I into the Republican Party.
he "came to Congress to
t politicians." Her remarks,
wer Republican leadership
alizing females, leaving my
continue fighting the War

Students must demand the victim? There needs to be far more trans-
parency into the entire process. It can't stop
answersfrom 'U' here. It is simply unacceptable that the inves-
tigation took as long as it did, considering the
TOI'HE DAILY: absolute seriousness of the charges against
To say I am disappointed with how the Uni- Gibbons. We as a collective student body must
versity handled the sexual assault accusations demand more answers from University admin-
against former kicker Brendan Gibbons would istrators. We absolutely cannot let this story
be a massive understatement. I have never been die quietly.
more ashamed of the University I have so long Sexual assault and rape are incredibly cata-
proudly called my own. strophic' and life-altering tragedies that leave
The incident in which Gibbons was accused deep, and oftentimes, permanent wounds. I,
of assault was first reported to authorities in for one, do not accept the University's slow
2009. Almost four full years later, the Universi- response and find the way the situation was
ty takes action by expelling him. The expulsion handled appalling. All signs point to the Uni-
convenientlycoincideswith the endofGibbons' versity looking to cover up potentially bad
eligibility as a college football player. publicity, and not doing everything possible to
Why did it take four years to investigate the protect its students.
accusation? Why was he allowed to continue Is this the Michigan Difference?
playing and representing the University while
such serious charges were leveled against him? Al Alsaidy
What support, if any, did the University offer to Engineering junior

Last Saturday, President Barack
Obama established the White
House Task Force on Protecting
Students from Sexual Assault, reaf-
firming his administration's com-
mitment to fight sexual violence on
college campuses.
In a Title IX procedure in Decem-
ber, the University permanently
separated a student athlete from our
institution after naming him respon-
sible for a sexual assault committed in
2009. While the reality of the assault
and the subsequent years of inaction
are deeply disturbing to our commu-
nity, we can count this as an enormous
success for our new Title IX policy.
This thorough and conclusive inves-
tigation suggests that we are finally
on the right track, that the University
administration has, like Obama, re-
committed itself to creating a safe
environment for everyone on our cam-

pus. So far, there has been no official
statement from any department of the
University administration. The ques-
tion remains: why are we ignoring
such an enormous success?
The I Will campaign was designed
to challenge the University commu-
nity to engage in difficult, yet neces-
sary, dialogue about sexual violence
and the silence surrounding this
instance is greatly disappointing to
us. When faced with an epidemic in
our own community, it is our duty as
the leaders and the best to seek it out
and eliminate it - a duty that in this
case, was ultimately fulfilled. How
can we lead by example if nobody
gets the chance to hear about it?
This is our campus. It's our busi-
ness. When sexual violence haunts
our friends and peers, their struggles
mustn't languish in obscurity. As a
community, we deserve all the facts

we need to ensure the safety and
prosperity of the people we love. This
silence must be broken.
In ignoring this enormous suc-
cess, we reject an opportunity for
silent survivors on campus to wit-
ness the justice lying within their
reach, and prevent the courage of
their peers from inspiring them to
seek the help and support that they
deserve. This is inexcusable.
Please join the I Will Team on
Friday, Jan.31 at 2:30 p.m. at Amer's
on Church Street for a conversation
about the evolving Gibbons sepa-
ration and Obama's newly formed
task force. We're done with the
silence. We'll be there.
Will you?
Taylor Norton is a School of
Music, Theatre, and Dance senior
and campaign director of I Will.

I

1


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Thursday, January 30, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 30, 2014 - 5A

NEWS BRIEFS
EMPIRE,;Mich.
Sleeping Bear
Dunes wilderness
bill advances
A bill that would designate
32,000 acres of Sleeping Bear
Dunes National Lakeshore as
wilderness is moving closer to
congressional approval.
The measure won unanimous
backing this week from the
House Committee on Natural
Resources. A floor vote has not
been scheduled.
A similar version cleared the
Senate last year.
The lakeshore is headquar-
tered in Empire in the north-
western Lower Peninsula in
and is in the district of Rep. Dan
Benishek, who is sponsoring the
bill. He says it would preserve
the park's natural features while
protecting county roads, his-
torical structures and access to
recreation and enjoyment of the
lake.
WASHINGTON
Japan envoy urges
calm amid tensions
with China
Japan's ambassador called for
improved relations with Chinason
Wednesday as the top U.S. intel-
ligence official warned that ter-
ritorial disputes and nationalist
fervor are increasing the risk of
conflict in East Asia.
Ambassador Kenichiro Sasae
said people are afraid of the con-
sequences of a deteriorating rela-
tionship between the two Asian
powers, and appealed for a calm-
ing of "agitated remarks" from
both sides.
Sasae told a Washington think
tank that constructive dialogue
was needed but also said Japan
would notgive in to pressure over
its sovereignty claims.
The long-running dispute
over unoccupied islands that
Japan calls Senkaku and China
calls Diaoyu has grown more
intense since Japan, a key U.S.
ally, nationalized some of them
in 2012. China has stepped up
patrols around the islands, which
are controlled by Japan but
claimed by both nations. China
recently declared an air defense
zone over the islands, drawing
stiff international criticism.
NEW YORK
Super Bowl ads
show signs of
maturity
Forget slapstick humor, corny
gimmicks and skimpy biki-
nis. This year's Super Bowl ads
promise something surprising:
Maturity.
There won't be any close-up
tongue kisses in Godaddy's ad.
Nor will there be half-naked
women running around in

the Axe body spray spot. And
Gangnam Style dancing will be
missing from the Wonderful Pis-
tachios commercial.
In their place? Fully-clothed
women, well-known celebs and
more product information.
KIEV, Ukraine
Ukraine lawmakers
offer amnesty to
mass protesters
Ukraine's parliament on
Wednesday passed a measure
offering amnesty to those arrest-
ed in two months of protests, but
onlyifdemonstrators vacate most
of the buildings they occupy. The
move was quickly greeted with
contempt by the opposition.
The measure was put forth
by a lawmaker from the party of
President Viktor Yanukovych,
who is casting about for a way
to end the protests, which are
calling for his resignation. The
measure was a softer version of
an earlier proposal to only offer
amnesty if all protests dispersed.
But the opposition regards the
arrests during the protests - 328
by one lawmaker's count - as
fundamentally illegitimate.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Twenty journalists on
trial in Cairo courts

CARLOS OSORIO/A
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder is floating to lawmakers whether the state should contribute money to shoreLop Detroit
pension plans to stave off the sale of city-owned pieces in an art museum.
Detroit's emergency manager
submits debt plan to creditors

Details not available
to public, will likely
be adjusted before
court hearing
DETROIT (AP) - The state-
appointed emergency manager
overseeing Detroit's finances
on Wednesday gave the bank-
rupt city's creditors copies
of his plan to restructure the
debt, though it could be modi-
fied before being reviewed by a
court.
Details of the plan were not
released publicly. In a writ-
ten statement to the media,
Orr said the so-called plan of
adjustment outlines how much
each class of creditors would
receive for claims submitted in
bankruptcy court.
The plan is expected to be
filed with the court in about
two weeks, Orr said.
Orr said the plan "offers the
most effective and efficient

way for Detroit to resolve its
numerous issues." He origi-
nally had said the plan would
be released in late December
but moved that back as medi-
ation continued with city
unions, banks, a group rep-
resenting retirees, and other
creditors.
"There is much work still to
do and we believe the proposed
plan provides the roadmap for
all parties to resolve all out-
standing issues and facilitate
the city's efforts to achieve
long-term financial health,"
said Orr, who was appointed
by the state last March to fix
Detroit's finances.
He filed the bankruptcy
petition in July. Bankruptcy
Judge Steven Rhodes approved
it in December. It's the largest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S.
history.
Experts have said the debt-
restructuring plan likely will
bear some similarities to a
June 14 report laid out to cred-

itors when Orr said Detroit
was insolvent. He placed
Detroit's debt at $18 billion or
more, including $3.5 billion in
unfunded pension liabilities
and $5.7 billion in unfunded
retiree health care obliga-
tions.
"Time is of the essence," Orr
said Wednesday. "The longer
we remain entrenched in our
positions and fail to reach an
agreement, the worse life gets
for Detroit's 700,000 residents
and the greater our collective
challenges become. My team
and I believe this plan pres-
ents each interested party with
fair and equitable treatment,
and we look forward to work-
ing with our creditors to adopt
this plan."
Since filing for bankruptcy,
Orr has proposed freezing
pension benefits to thousands
of city workers and reducing
health care ')enefits, affect-
ing about 28,500 o-rent and
retired employ

Egyptian gov.
accuses al-Jazeera
reporters of
assisting terrorists
CAIRO (AP) - Egypt said 20
journalists, including four for-
eigners, working for Al-Jazeera
will face trial on charges of
joining or aiding a terrorist
group and endangering nation-
al security - an escalation that
raised fears of a crackdown on
freedom of the press.
It was the first time authori-
ties have put journalists on
trial on terrorism-related
charges, suggesting authori-
ties are expanding the reach of
a heavy-handed crackdown on
the Muslim Brotherhood since
the military's ouster of tslamist
President Mohammed Morsi
on July 3.
A trial date was not set, and
the full list of charges and
names of defendants not yet
issued. But they are known
to include three men working
for Al-Jazeera English - act-
ing bureau chief Mohammed
Fahmy, a Canadian-Egyptian,
award-winning correspondent
Peter Greste of Australia and
producer Baher Mohamed,
an Egyptian. The three were
arrested on Dec. 29 in a raid on
the hotel suites in which they
were working.
The charges are based on
the government's designation
last month of the Brotherhood
as a terrorist organization.
Authorities have long depicted
the Qatar-based Al-Jazeera
network as biased toward
Morsi and the Brotherhood.
But police largely targeted its
Arabic service and its Egyp-
tian affiliate, which remained
one of the few TV stations
to provide a platform for the
Brotherhood after the govern-
ment crackdown. While jour-
nalists have been detained, the
decision to refer cases to trial
is unprecedented, experts said.
AI-Jazeera denies bias and
has denanded the release ofdits
reporters, whose arrest sparked
an outcry from rights groups
and journalist advocacy orga-
nizations. Authorities have also
denied the network's reporters
accreditation.
In the United States, which
has already suspended some of
its more than $1 billion annual
aid to Egypt, State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki said
Washington remained "deeply
concerned about the ongoing
lack of freedom of expressions
and press freedom."
"The government's targeting
of journalists and others on spu-
rious claims is wrong and dem-
onstrates an egregious disregard
for the protection of basic rights
and freedoms," she told report-
ers at a regular briefing. "We
strongly urge the government to
reconsider detaining and trying
these journalists."
The prosecutor's office said
Wednesday that 16 Egyptians
in the case are accused of join-
ing a terrorist group, while an
n - .] - ^.,^ ,.r, ^'- ^:. ^- ^

two Britons were accused of
helping to promote false news
benefiting the terrorist group.
If found guilty, the defendants
could face sentences ranging
from three years for spreading
false news to 15 for belonging
to a terrorist group.
Prosecutors allege that the
20 journalists set up a media
center for the Brotherhood in
two suites in a luxury hotel.
The statement said the
defendants "manipulated
pictures" to create "unreal
scenes to give the impression
to the outside world that there
is a civil war that threatens
to bring down the state" and
broadcast scenes to aid "the
terrorist group in achieving its
goals and influencing the pub-
lit opinion."
An official from the high
state security prosecution
team investigating the case
said Famy, theactingbureau
chief, was an alleged member
of the Brotherhood, led the
media operation that "fabri-
cated footage" and broadcast
it with the "aim of harming
Egypt's reputation." The offi-
cial said equipment confiscated
included editing equipment,
microphones, cameras, com-
puters, Internet broadcasting
equipment and money.
The official said national
security agents also seized doc-
uments, and handwritten notes
including "students on strike
during exams," and "the most
important trials of December."
Student supporters of Morsi
were on strike and held protests
that frequently turned violent
for most of December.
The official spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because he
was not authorized to release
the information.
Fahmy's brother, Adel,
said the family had given
evidence to the prosecutors
showing Mohammed Fahmy
was not paid by the Brother-
hood and did not adhere to
the group's conservative life-
style. He said his brother has
been kept in a high-security
prison with Islamists and
terror suspects.
"This is a cooked case and
they are trying to make it
bigger than what it is," Adel
Fahmy said.
Another relative said
Mohammed Fahmy's condi-
tions have sharply deteriorated
in the past week. The relative,
who declined to be identified for
fear of retribution, said Fahmy
has been denied food from out-
side, books and forced to sleep
on the floor without a blanket.
He has not been allowed out of
his cell to exercise and has no
concept of time.
The prosecutors' statement
said eight defendants were
in custody. Presumably they
include Fahmy and his two
detained colleagues. Two Al-
Jazeera reporters were arrest-
ed in August while covering a
police crackdown on pro-Morsi
protesters in Cairo that killed
hundreds. It was not known if
they are among the defendants

Uruguay president opposes the
business suit, other formalities

Saying they must
stay faithful to
cultural roots,
Mujica spurns the tie
HAVANA (AP) - War!
Imperialism! Racism! Formal
attire!
One after another, the
leaders of Latin America
denounced the ills of the
world at a regional summit in
Cuba on Wednesday.
It fell to famously casual
Jose Mujica, the Uruguayan
president, to tackle a subtler
evil plaguing humankind: the
business suit.
"We have to dress like Eng-
lish gentlemen!" exclaimed
Mujica, clad in a rumpled
white shirt. "That's the

suit that industrialization
imposed on the world!"
"Even the Japanese had
to abandon their kimonos to
have prestige in the world,"
he continued, gesturing force-
fully and rapping a pen on the
table to punctuate his words.
"We all had to dress up like
monkeys with ties."
Mujica's tirade was a light
moment in an otherwise
mostly sober gathering of the
Community of Latin Ameri-
can and Caribbean States that
focused on hunger, poverty
and inequality.
But Mujica was also try-
ing to make a serious point:
That Latin American leaders
must stay faithful to their cul-
tural roots and not alienate
the common man in a region
where the wealthy are a tiny
minority.

Mujica is known for his
homespun oratory, cantanker-
ous personality and insistence
on living simply in a world of
conspicuous consumption.
Even as president, he still
lives on a small, ramshackle
flower farm with his wife.
He gives away nine-tenths
of his salary, doesn't have a
bank account and drives a VW
Beetle that's more than four
decades old.
"To be free you have to
have time, a little bit of time,
to live, to cultivate the three,
four, five ungostionable,
fundamental things tiat ire
important in life," he said in
Havana. "All the rest is noise
and fuss."
Mujica is also famous for
never wearing a tie.
Wednesday was no excep-
tion.

Researchers link antioxidant
supplements to cancer risks

Some antioxidants
may paradoxically
increase risks for
tumors
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Antioxidant vitamins are
widely assumed to be cancer
fighters even though research
in smokers has found high
doses may actually raise their
risk of tumors. Now a new
study may help explain the
paradox.
Swedish scientists gave
antioxidants to mice that had
early-stage lung cancer, and
watched the tumors multiply
and become aggressive enough
that the animals died twice as
fast as untreated mice.
The reason: The extra vita-
mins apparently blocked one of
the body's key cancer-fighting
mechanisms, the researchers

reported Wednesday.
The scientists stressed that
they can't make general health
recommendations based on
studies in mice, but said their
work backs up existing cau-
tions about antioxidant use.
"You can walk around with
an undiagnosed lung tumor
for a long time," said study
co-author Martin Bergo of the
University of Gothenburg. For
someone at high risk, such as
a former smoker, taking extra
antioxidants "could speed up
the growth of that tumor."
Antioxidants are com-
pounds that help protect cells
from certain types of damage,
and antioxidant-rich fruits
and vegetables certainly are
healthy. The question is the
health effect of extra-high
doses in pill form. Studies in
people have shown mixed
results but haven't proven that
vitamin supplements prevent
cancer, and a few have suggest-

ed the possibility of harm. One
study in the 1990s found beta-
carotene increased the risk of
lung cancer in smokers. Nor
are smokers the only concern:
A 2011 study found Vitamin E
supplements increased men's
risk of prostate cancer.
As for people who already
have cancer, the National Can-
cer Institute says: "Until more
is known about the effects of
antioxidant supplements in
cancer patients, these supple-
ments should be used with
caution."
But biologically, scientists
couldn't explain why antioxi-
dants might harm. Wednes-
day's report in the journal
Science Translational Medi-
cine is a first step to do so.
The research doesn't exam-
ine whether antioxidants
might help prevent tumors
from forming in the first place
- only what happens if cancer
already has begun.

A

1 R

i


6A - Thursday, January 30, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Thursday, January 30, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Sochi chief:
city is the
most secure
venue'
Over 50,000
police and soldiers
deployed to Sochi
LONDON (AP) - After all the
talk of terror threats, corruption,
overspending and anti-gay legisla-
tion,theheadoftheSochiOlympics
is determined to show the world
the games will be ahuge success.
Nine days before the opening
ceremony, organizing committee
chief Dmitry Chernyshenko said
Wednesday that Sochi is "fully
ready" and will deliver safe,
friendly and well-run games that
defy the grim reports that have
overshadowed preparations.
"History will be made," he said
of Russia's first Winter Games.
With Sochi facing threats of
terrorist attacks from insurgents
from the North Caucasus, Cher-
nyshenko said the city is the "most
secure venue at the moment on
the planet" and promised that
tight security measures will not
detract from the atmosphere of
the games.
"I can assure you that Sochi
will be among the most security-
friendly games and all the pro-
cedures will be very gentle and
smooth," he said in a conference
call with reporters.
Russia is deploying more than
50,000 police and soldiers to
guard the Olympics. A Muslim
militant group claimed respon-
sibility for back-to-back suicide
bombings that killed 34 people in
Volgograd in late December and
threatened attacks on the games.
"You will see thousands of
(security) people around but it's
important to understand that the
Olympics is a global event and
the security is also a global multi-
national event and state authori-
ties are doing (their) utmost to
deliver Sochi as safest for every-
one," Chernyshenko said.
Referripg to the Russian law
banning gay "propaganda" among
minors, he repeated assurances
that Russia will not discriminate
against anyone at the Olympics on
the basis of sexual orientation.

Monarch butterfly
numbers drop to
two decade low

ASIA NIEDRINGHAUS/AP
U.N. Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi reacts during his daily press briefing at the United Nations headquar-
ters in Geneva, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 29.w
Bitterness of Syrian civil war
demonstrated at U.N. talks

Supporters and
opponents of Assad
have first meeting
in three years
GENEVA (AP) - The bit-
terness and rancor stirred by
Syria's civil war were on full
display this week at peace talks
in Switzerland - and not just
in the closed room where rival
delegations are seeking a way
to end the three-year conflict.
For the first time since
the country devolved into its
bloody civil war, supporters
and opponents of President
Bashar Assad - many of them
journalists - are meeting face
to face. The mix is produc-
ing more than just awkward
moments between people with
vastly different views.
In the hallways of the U.N.'s
European headquarters and on
the manicured lawns outside,
tempers have flared. Scuffles
have broken out as journalists
interrupt rival reports, govern-
ment officials have received
extraordinary public grillings,
and a distraught mother con-
fronted the Syrian government

delegation at their hotel.
More than 130,000 people
have died since the uprising
against Assad began in March
2011, and millions of people
have been uprooted from their
homes. The conflict has pit-
ted neighbor against neighbor.
People who were once friends
have stopped talking to each
other. Journalists who once
worked together have been
separated. Sectarian tensions,
once tamped down under
Assad's grip, have exploded
into the open.
Many journalists have
been forced to leave the coun-
try, either thrown out by the
regime or going into self-
imposed exiled in order to con-
tinue their work freely. Many
have switched jobs to work
with opposition or government
outlets.
"It has been a rare opportu-
nity to meet and get to know
each other again," said Ibrahim
Hamidi, a Syrian journalist
working for the London-based
Arabic regional newspaper, Al-
Hayat. "It's unnerving for both
sides."
In Geneva, anti-government
activists accuse journalists
supporting the regime of com-

ing with a specific mandate to
ask disruptive questions. And
for government officials used
to controlling the narrative
back home, the experience has
been frazzling.
"The regime's delegation feel
besieged here, they are on the
defensive - clearly the weaker
party," claimed Rima Fleihan, a
member of the Syrian National
Coalition opposition group.
During an impromptu brief-
ing at last week's opening
session in Montreux, Syrian
Information Minister Omran
al-Zoubi was hounded by a
widely known anti-govern-
ment activist who pressed him
on the government's indis-
criminate use of barrel bombs
against civilians in the hard-hit
northern city of Aleppo.
"Who is using barrel bombs
in Aleppo?," Rami Jarrah
asked. "I will give you the
Google coordinates of ISIL
headquarters in Raqqa. Why
don't you bomb them?," he
demanded, referring to the
al-Qaida-linked Islamic State
of Iraq and the Levant, which
hopes to turn the war into a
regional conflagration that
would allow it to take deeper
root.

Extreme weather,
reduction of
butterfly habitat are
culprits
The stunning and little-
understood annual migration of
millions of Monarch butterflies
to spend the winter in Mexico
is in danger of disappearing,
experts said Wednesday, after
numbers dropped to their lowest
level since record-keeping began
in 1993.
Their report blamed the dis-
placement of the milkweed the
species feeds on by genetically
modified crops and urban sprawl
in the United States, extreme
weather trends and the dramatic
reduction of the butterflies' hab-
itat in Mexico due to illegal log-
ging of the trees they depend on
for shelter.
After steep and steady
declines in the previous three
years, the black-and-orange
butterflies now cover only 1.65
acres (0.67 hectares) in the pine
and fir forests west of Mexico
City, compared to 2.93 acres
(1.19 hectares) last year, said the
report released by the World
Wildlife Fund, Mexico's Envi-
ronment Department and the
Natural Protected Areas Com-
mission. They covered more
than 44.5 acres (18 hectares) at
their recorded peak in 1996.
Because the butterflies clump
together by the thousands in
trees, they are counted by the
area they cover.
While the Monarch is not in
danger of extinction, the decline
in their population now marks a
statistical long-term trend and
can no longer be seen as a com-
bination of yearly or seasonal
events, experts said.
The announcement followed
on the heels of the 20th anni-
versary of the North American
Free Trade Agreement, which
saw the United States, Mexico
and Canada sign environmen-
tal accords to protect migratory
species such as the Monarch.
At the time, the butterfly was
adopted as the symbol of trilat-
eral cooperation.
"Twenty years after the sign-
ing of NAFTA, the Monarch
migration, the symbol of the
three countries' cooperation,
is at serious risk of disappear-
ing," said Omar Vidal, the World
Wildlife Fund director in Mexi-
co.
Lincoln Brower, a leading
entomologist at Sweet Briar Col-
lege in Virginia, wrote that "the
migration is definitely proving
to be an endangered biological
phenomenon."
"The main culprit," he
wrote in an email, is now
genetically modified "herbi-
cide-resistant corn and soy-
bean crops and herbicides in
the USA," which "leads to the
wholesale killing of the mon-
arch's principal food plant,
common milkweed."
While Mexico has made
headway in reducing logging in
the officially protected winter
reserve, that alone cannot save
the migration, wrote Karen
Oberhauser, a professor at the

University of Minnesota. She
noted that studies indicate that
the U.S. Midwest is where most
of the butterflies migrate from.
"A large part of their repro-
ductive habitatin that region has
been lost due to changes in agri-
cultural practices, mainly the
explosive growth in the use of
herbicide-tolerant crops," Ober-
hauser said.
Extreme weather - severe

cold snaps, unusually heavy
rains or droughts in all three
countries - have also appar-
ently played a role in the
decline.
But the milkweed issue now
places the spotlight firmly on
the United States and President
Barack Obama, who is scheduled
to visit Mexico on Feb. 19, with
events scheduled for Toluca, a
city a few dozen miles from the
butterfly reserve.
"I think President Obama
should take some step to support
the survival of the Monarch but-
terflies," said writer and envi-
ronmentalist Homero Aridjis.
"The governments of the United
States and Canada have washed
their hands of the problem, and
left it all to Mexico."
It's unclear what would hap-
pen to the Monarchs if they no
longer made the annual trek
to Mexico, the world's biggest
migration of Monarch but-
terflies and the second-largest
insect migration, after a species
of dragonfly in Africa.
There are Monarchs in many
parts of the world, so they would
not go extinct. The butterflies
can apparently survive year-
round in warmer climates, but
populations in the northern
United States and Canada would
have to find some place to spend
the bitter winters. There is also
another smaller migration route
that takes butterflies from the
west to the coast of California,
but that has registered even
steeper declines.
Oberhauser noted that some
Monarchs now appear to be win-
tering along the U.S. Gulf coast,
and there has been a movement
in the United States among gar-
deners and home owners to
plant milkweed to replace some
of the lost habitat. But activists
say large stands of milkweed
are needed along the migratory
route, comparable to what once
grew there. They also want local
authorities in the U.S. and Cana-
da to alter mowing schedules in
parks and public spaces, to avoid
cutting down milkweed during
breeding seasons.
The migration is an inher-
ited trait. No butterfly lives to
make the full round-trip, and it
is unclear how they remember
the route back to the same patch
of forest each year, a journey
of thousands of miles to a for-
est reserve that covers 193,000
acres (56,259-hectares) in cen-
tral Mexico. Some scientists
think the huge masses of migrat-
ing butterflies may release
chemicals that mark the migra-
tory path and that if their num-
bers fall low enough, not enough
chemical traces would remain
and the route-marking might no
longer work.
The human inhabitants of
the reserve had already noted a
historic change, as early as the
Nov. 1-2 Day of the Dead holi-
day, when the butterflies usually
arrive.
"They were part of the land-
scape of the Day of the Dead,
when you could see them flitting
around the graveyards," said
Gloria Tavera, the director of
the reserve. "This year was the
first time in memory that they
weren't there."

Losing the butterflies would
be a blow for people such as
Adolfo Rivera, a 55-year-old
farmer from the town of Los
Saucos who works as a guide for
tourists in the Piedra Herrada
wintering ground. He said the
butterflies had come later and in
smaller numbers this year, a fact
he attributed to a rainy winter.
"This is a source of pride for us,
and income," Rivera said.

KtntSt sUA I .- imursauay, Januar y ou, --'1
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 68 Chest muscles, 37 Mitt Romney's 48 Prisoner's reward
1 Like many briefly 2012 running 49 Strikingly
abbreviatedterms 69 Early temptation mate unusual
in footnotes locale 39 "The Celts" 50 Trailing
6"Hudyburly" 70 Mails singer 51 Purse part
playwright David 40 Stacked fuel 56 New York team
10 r DOWN 41 Poker game 57"Him _":
14 _ ballerina 1 12-in. discs 43 Bruins' campus: romantic triangle
15 "Foaming 2 Bush spokesman Abbr. ultimatum
cleanse" of old Fleischer 44 Like most new 58 Bout of beefy
ads 3 Sardine blder drivers baters
16 Champagne Tony 4 Calral Apple 46 Hotsprings 62R itals
ofa'60s golf 5 Finger painting? resorts 63 "However..."
17 Biblical peak 6 Hilton rival 47 Strengthened 64 Product promos
18 Confused state 7 In _: stuck
19 Plodding haulers 8 Cairo market ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Em tte 9Pushed(onesel
successfulbounty pde OWL CTaCeA N E S S E
hunter 11htrenEm e P E A R A M A DA PE
23Halloween deriedrmthe O B R A C E L E T U L N A
creature prescripion
26 Three NASCAR ,symbl E S O A Y W I S E S I A M
27PaofD.A.: 3Filmfish A L P I N E P A S YSaT E M
Abbr. 21 Second half of a
28 .FNI: II/sb balgame? L A I L 0 E W E M E R E
"stsne dfdestiny' 22Cuwithacid E D N A M S D O S C R A M
29'Tothe bestofmy 231984lympics RYAN A H A L T E C 0
memory' paralelsngol OK C ORR A L E P O D E S
33 Chem tab event medalistCoanner I0NA T M
34A.Llineup 24Outofport 1 0 N A I T E IM
fixtures 25 Nonstick A L L WE LSH EIN O L A
35 Babypowder cookware brand F L A P V A H O S P I T A L
ingredient 30 Seaport of Ghana RED O E L A P S E I R E
36 Siesta 31Bowledaver
38 Missalsites 32 Tree with ORAL L ADGEAR SA n
42M Gind quivering leaves xwordeditor@aol.com 01/30/14
45 Start of a green 1 2 3 4 s 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
adage
48"Sao 14 15 16
aechem"
51 Adolphe who 17 1r 19
developed a
52 "Dthe Right
Thing"director 23 24 25 26 27 2a
Spike -.-
53lntra celT 29 s 31 32
system
54Attach,asa 33344
55 Dev ous traps, 3an35 an n8asono
ada hint to
surprsesond ina 42 43 44 4as s as
20-29- and 48-5
Across
59 Mechanical 51 52 53 54
600enandbreezy
61mIn ape b 55 5 57 58
p1 sn ickname561 6 1 3 64
65 Touched ground
66 Cov.-owned s566
mefinancing
gp.7 66s5705
67 Mde clsoat
6om BpEd mcs
(c)2014 Tribne oent sAgncy,,LLC 01/30/14

WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com


Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATES
www.The2ndFloorSU.com

!721 CHURCH -CENTRAL
CAMPUS ! Across from East Quad!
Fall2014- 1 bedroom and efficiency
apartment available. Free heat/water/-
parking! 734-320-1244
www.churchstreetrentals.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
$1400 FORAFIUL.2 bedroom at For-
est Gien Apts. Price includes FREE
tEAT', I parking spot and furniture.
$1400 for the whole apartment!!!
Call us to tour your new home today.
734-761-2680.
$400 OFF
First 10 rentals
on
Selected Units
Al
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1635.00. Great location,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
655-$1395, shoowings avail. M-F
tllam-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/lDeincocuppamanagementcem.
Contact 734-996-199t M-F 9am-4pm

ARE YOU ONE FOR THE SCENT OF INK AND PRINT?
OR DO YOU LIVE FOR NEWS ONLINE?
DO YOU LIKE MULTIMEDIA REPORTING?
OR TRYING TO KEEP THE REGENTS IN LINE?
DO YOU PREFER WRITING ABOUT SPORTS
THAN TAKING BALLS TO THE FACE?
THEN JOIN THE MICHIGAN DAILY
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOUR KIND OF PLACE!

It


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 30, 2014- 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 30, 2014- 7A

Men's Lacrosse Season Preview:
Wolverines starting to think big

A
re
m

ided by strong got a lot of playing time,"
Jackson said. "Those game
Cruiting class, experiences should help us out
a lot this year."
[ichigan looks But even with big goals for
to rebound the season, Michigan began the
season practicing the basics.
"We're doing the
By MINH DOAN fundamental drills in practice,"
Daily Sports Writer Jackson said. "We're doing
the passing, the catching, the

attacker
US Lacr
"King
on in pr
be a fr
some go
The
core of
season.
and red
Thomas
scorers
returnt
expects

'in the class, was a 2013 But a solid recruiting class
osse All-American. and another year of experience
ghas been really coming should bolster a defense that
actice," Paul said. "He'll allowed an average of 11.79
eshman, but I expect goals per game.
'od things from him." "Our defense is one of our
strengths this year," Jackson
MIDFIELDERS said. "We struggled last year
with it, but we've taken some
Wolverines return the steps to improve the system."
their midfielders this The coaching staff will give a
Jackson, Hernandez hard look at freshman defender
shirt senior midfielder Andrew Hatton, another U.S.
Paras - the top-three Lacrosse All-American, who will
from a year ago - push for a substantial amount of
to a midfield that Paul playingtime this season.
to be the strongest

After years of dominance at
the club level, the transition
phase to a Division I contender
has been a steep learning
curve for the Michigan men's
lacrosse team.
But in its third season and
with two recruiting classes
under its belt, the team believes
it's ready to command respect
from the rest of the nation.
Michigan coach John Paul
believes this is finally the season
that Team Three blossoms.
"Our first two years were
overwhelmingly about building
a culture," Paul said. "Now,
enough of that is done and we
feel like we have the talent to
start thinking about bigger
goals. We have two goals for this
year. One is to win a conference
championship and the other is
to beat Ohio State."
The team returns the first
Wolverine recruiting class in
its history, which includes last
year'sleadingscorer,sophomore
midfielder Kyle Jackson, and
sophomore midfielder Mike
Hernandez, who leads the team
in assists. Both players were
also on the Eastern College
Athletic Conference All-Rookie
team last year.
The first recruiting class
will also have a full year of
experience and will look to
improve into its sophomore
campaigns.
"All the freshmen last year

shooting, the individual stick
work. We're just looking to get
better every day."
With that, the Daily breaks
down the 2014 season, position
by position.

point of the team that scored
ATTACKMEN 64 percent of Michigan's goals

GOALTENDERS

a year ag

The attack comes into its
second year under offensive
coordinator,
Ryan Danehy, -
and looks
to become "T feel
more complex have th
after playersLI
have had a to start1
year to get
accustomed to about
the system.
Junior goQ
attacker
Will Meter,
who led all
attackers last season with
10 goals, will miss the first
month of the season due to a
knee injury that occurred over,
winter break.
"Will has been a three-
year starter for us and the
'quarterback' of our team," Paul
said. "We'll miss him."
In Meter's absence, the
Wolverines will look to
freshman attacker Ian King to
head the offensive attack.
King, who was ranked as the
No. 45 recruit in the country by
Inside Lacrosse and the No. 13'

Jackso
his scor
like w
le tale
think
biggej
als"
Jackson
whateve
to NCAA
Fresh
Schlosse
anotherl
also com
a crowde
Consi
past tw
has vast
backline
opponen

;o. Sophomore goalie Gerald
on will look to replicate Logan, a 2013 ECAC All-
ring total from last Rookie, was expected to
year. But he continue his dominance in the
knows that net. But the sophomore tore his
if the team is labrum and needed surgery on
ie successful, the shoulder muscle. Because
it won't of the surgery, Logan will be
fli matter if he out for the remainder of the
i replicates his 2014 season.
team leading To fill the big hole left by
! total or not. Logan, the Wolverines will
"I just rely on freshman goalie Robby
want to help Zonino, the No. 68 recruit
my team do in the nation, to guard the
as well as it Michigan net.
possibly can," "We're going to be putting a
said. "I want to do lot of trust into Zonino," Paul
r I can to lead the team said. "I think he's ready for the
championships." challenge."
man midfielder Mikie Backing up Zonino will be
r from Davis, Calif., sophomore Mike D'Alessio and
heralded recruit, will senior goalkeeper Bobby Riso,
pete for playingtime in a walk-on, who was recently
d midfield. brought up from the men's
club lacrosse team because
DEFENDERS the varsity team needed three
goalkeepers to practice.
dered a weakness the After two years of building a
o years, the defense culture, Michigan will open the
ly improved and the season looking to the freshman
will look to stifle and sophomores of the program
ts. to lead them to success.

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Sophomore goaltender Gerald Logan will miss this season with a torn labrum.
Riso makes jump
from club to varsity

By MATHEW KIPNIS
Daily Sports Writer
Is sitting on the bench ever
better than starting for ateam?
For senior goalie Bobby Riso,
the answer is a resounding yes
after he was called up from the
club lacrosse team to the varsity
level.
Many club sports players
dream of a day they might be
called up to the varsity level and
have an opportunity to fight for a
starting job, but Riso is satisfied
with his spot on the practice
squad and has no complaints.
"I didn't even imagine I would
be onthisteamsoIam100-percent
satisfied with this role," Riso said.
"Everyone would love to be able
to start for a Division I team but
the fact that I am on the team now
is pretty satisfactory. I am pretty
happy with the backup role."
For Riso, practice does not
make perfection - it means
perfection. On this stage he is
able to compete against the best
competition that he has ever
played.
"My first reaction when I heard
I was called up to the varsity
lacrosse team was honestly
disbelief and it didn't seem real to
me," he said. "I remember waking
up the next morning and checking
through my emails to make sure it
actually did happen."
When Riso received the e-mail,
he almost missed the chance to
be promoted. Riso was abroad
over break and didn't have a
way to contact anyone from
Michigan. He had to think fast
and find a way to get in touch
with someone to relay his
message back to the states.
"I guess they had left me a
voicemail but I had no way to
access it," Riso said. "Because
I was out of the country, I had
no Wi-Fi. I was able send a
message to my sister and she
was the one that actually called
the assistant coach, Jeff Turner,
back to tell them that I had an
interest in joining."
Because of an injury to
sophomore goalie and reigning

team MVP Gerald Logan and the
departure of sophomore goalie
Dylan Hurd due to academic
reasons, the Wolverines were left
with two goalies on the roster.
If the team had three goalies,
it could survive, but it couldn't
make do with two since it couldn't
scrimmage.
After the initial call up -
when the entire club team was
promoted to the varsity level
- Riso is the first player to be
promoted to varsity in the team's
three-year history.
"We knew we had to add
somebody and we knew Bobby,
as we had been tracking him at
Michigan," Michigan coach John
Paul said. "It was a logical fit. A
lot of our guys knew Bobby and
thought highly of him so that was
important so that he could fit into
our team culture."
Riso played his first three-
and-a-half seasons on the club
team. As a freshman, he split time
in goal and earned the starting
role the following year. During
his sophomore year, he had a
62-percent save percentage, but
he broke his hand and missed his
junior season.
Lastfall, he playedsevengames
before getting called up. Club
lacrosse has helped Riso over the
past three years by keeping him
active and helping him stay sharp.
"He is going to add what we
need in practice, which is a third
goalie," Paul said. "It allows for
us to function more effectively in
practice."
Riso wasn't called up to
compete for the starting job or to
be a leader on this team. He was
called up to be a great teammate,
and he understands that.
"They were pretty up front
with me about that," Riso said.
"They were very confident that
(freshman goalie) Robbie Zonino
is the starter. My role is to be
the best teammate I can during
practice. It's staying around after
practice to help"
Riso has no complaints about
his role on the team. For him,
it's a dream just to sit on the
varsity bench.

FILE PHOTO/Daily
The Michigan lacrosse team has higher expectations this season after welcoming a high-level recruiting class. Freshman Ian King will lead the offensive attack.

Chiasson waits for his opportunity on defense

By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
Daily Sports Editor
The afternoon before every
game, junior defenseman Mike
Chiasson and the rest of the
Michigan hockey team sit togeth-
er to watch film of the upcoming
opponent. Afterward, the flat-
screen TV displays the line pair-
ings for the next day's contest.
For much of the season,
Chiasson has been disappointed
to not see his name on those lists.
After playing 30 games each year
as a freshman and sophomore,
the defenseman has earned little
playing time this year.
When freshman Kevin Lohan
suffered a torn lateral meniscus
on Nov. 1, Michigan coach
Red Berenson replaced him by
converting junior Andrew Sinelli
from a forward to a defenseman
instead of turning to Chiasson.
Even as the unit has struggled,
allowing 33 shots per game,
Chiasson has seen time in just
seven games.
"I've been around hockey

for a long time, and I know it's
not easy," Chiasson said. "I
have to come to the rink and
be a professional every day. I
understand that coach Berenson
says I'm right there, but we have
a solid six defensemen back there.
I'm taking it in stride and I'm
learning from it."
Berenson's game-day deci-
sions are based heavily on a
system he uses to rate each ath-
lete's performance. The coaches
assign values to positive or neg-
ative plays and then compare
them to individualized bench-
marks. The players aren't privy
to the exact numbers, but they
meet for progress reports three
times per season.
"He's a great kid and he's
worked hard, just like everyone
else," Berenson said.
The sparse playing time isn't
all Chiasson's doing. Berenson
admitted that he gave the
freshmenpreferredopportunities
at the beginning of the season.
Because Chiasson has seen such
little time in games, coaches have

had limited opportunity to rank
his progress throughout the year.
"Players that are not in the
lineup, the best way to get back
in the lineup is to be lights out
in practice," Berenson said.
"They've got to make practices
their games."
That hasn't stopped others
from earning roster spots,
though. Sophomore Justin
Selman and freshman Max
Shuart both impressed enough to
play against Michigan State last
weekend, and though the roster
for the Wisconsin series this
weekend hasn't been decided,
Berenson said both will likely
retain those roles.
No line pairing has been
perfect. Against the Spartans
last Thursday, junior Brennan
Serville rushed off the ice for a
change on the fly despite the play
moving toward the Wolverines'
defensive - zone. The resulting
two-on-one nearly resulted in a
Michigan State goal.
That's just one of many miscues
by a disorganized defense that

has forced freshman goaltender
Zach Nagelvoort into needing to
regularly make spectacular saves.
Though Sinelli's transition
to defense has been a pleasant
surprise, Berenson gives Serville
mixed reviews. Wednesday, he
explained that the junior "is just
starting to put it together," but
that he has "really had to work
hard to stay in the lineup this
year." Meanwhile, the coach said
Chiasson has regressed at times
according to his rating system.
"Ifa player has an off night or
we feel like we need another guy
out there, Chiasson hasn't let us
down," Berenson said.
Added Chiasson: "If you can
play a consistent game, the
better chance you have to play
in the lineup every single game.
They make the decisions, and I
support it."
Until then, the junior promises
to continue learning and fighting
to stand out in the eyes of his
coaches. And the day before every
game, he'll keep hopingto see his
name on that flat-screen TV.

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Junior defenseman Mike Chiasson has played in just seven games this year.

a

I

1

I

i


8A -- Thursday, January 30, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

After grueling schedule, Wolverines Behind enemy lines:
look to catch their breath vs. Purdue Terone Johnson

Michigan prepares
to defend dual
offensive threats in
Johnson brothers
By SIMON KAUFMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Purdue men's basketball
team has a
better shot of
getting a major PurdUe at
sponsorship Michigan
from
American Matchup:
manufacturer Purdue 13-7;
Jhsn & Michigan 15-4
Johnson &
Johnson When:
than it does Thursday
of remaining 9P.M.
relevant in the Where: Crisler
Big Ten. The Center
Boilmakers TV/Radio:
backcourt is ESPN
led by brothers
Terone and
Ronnie Johnson, who will
faceoff against Michigan
Thursday night.
After an upset victory in East

The Wolverines (7-0, 15-4) are
coming off their most grueling
week of the season thus far, in
which they faced three top-10
opponents - Wisconsin, Iowa
and Michigan State - and came
away with their three biggest
wins of the year thus far.
Michigan coach John Beilein,
in typical Beilein fashion,
refused to look past Thursday,
regardless of the opponent.
Purdue has played Beilein's
teams competitively over the
past two years, losing by just five
a season ago in West Lafayette
- but Michigan has handily
taken care of the Boilermakers
at the Crisler Center.
"That's the challenge I think
of coaching everywhere," said
Beilein when asked if he was
concerned abouthis team losing
energy after coming off of a big
week. "You have to continue
to address that, and you trust
the character of your kids, and
you trust that they get it, they
understand this game."
The Johnson brothers are
Purdue'sbiggestthreats. Terone
and Ronnie are averaging
13.4 and 10.6 points per game,

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
The 2013-14 season has
brought another year of so-so
basketball to West Lafayette,
as the Purdue men's basketball
team sits at seventh in the confer-
ence - exactly where they were
picked to finish by the media.
But for one set of parents,
every
game BEHIN D
this year
- win
or lose - NES
can't be
taken for -
granted.
At each game Terone and Rona
Johnson attend, they get to their
pair of sons sharing the starting
backcourt, just like they did at
Indianapolis's North Central
High School.
Terone, a senior, leads the
team with 13.4 points per game,
while younger brother Ronnie,
the starting point guard, leads
the team in assists.
At Chicago's Big Ten Media
Day in October, the Daily sat
down with Terone to talk about
the tempered expectations
heading into the season and
what it'll be like to play with his
brother for one final season.
The Michigan Daily: You
guys were picked to finish
seventh in the Big Ten. How
much does that motivate you
guys heading into the season?
Terone Johnson: I think
you look at it at some point, but
I don't think it's something you
look at on a daily basis. You want
to worry about yourself and
worry about what we have to do
as a team and get better. We feel
like we have a chance to win the
Big Ten this year with the talent
that we've got. We've just got to
put it all together.
TMD: You never want to have
a season like last year, but can

those types of seasons help kick
the program back into gear and
get everyone hungrier?
TJ: Oh yeah. The young
guys, they actually took it well,
as far as off-season workouts
and things like that. That was
something that we talked about
the whole summer, that had to
sit with us and I feel like they
took the challenge over the
summer and they got better.
The new guys coming in, they
attached to us really fast, so our
chemistry is coming together
really well right now.
TMD: I'm sure you're very
used to getting questions about
your brother, but has it crossed
your mind much that this is
probably going to be the last
season that you will play on a
team together at a competitive
level?
TJ: It does. It's been a good
- as far since I've been playing,
we've been playing together. He's
always played up and played with
me and I've been able to see him
play, so obviously it's going to be
something that we look at as a
family also.
TMD: Bigger deal for your
parents, maybe?
TJ: Yeah, I think it's a bigger
deal for my parents. It'll probably
be a bigger deal for me later on,
but it's just fun and it'ssomething
that we've always loved doing.
TMD: For a guy like you who
has NBA aspirations, how does
the Big Ten help prepare you for
that?
TJ: It's a huge conference as
far as professional basketball, no
matter where you want to play at.
It puts you in the best position
because of the physicality, the
competition that you get to play
against and also, I feel like the
league is so smart that guys
won't let you do certain things
and they'll make you play to your
weaknesses, so I think that really
helps for professional basketball.

PAUL SHEMAN/Dily
Fifth-year senior forward Jordan Morgan looks to control the paint Thursday.

Lansing, the
tenth-ranked
Wolverines
own sole
possession
of first place
in the Big
Ten, and it's
unlikely that
will change
following
their matchup
with Purdue
(3-4 Big Ten,
13-7 overall).
Thursday

respectively,
as the family
affair has
"W iith us scored 32
percent of the
playing so well, Boilermakers'
points this
you almost season. In
Michigan's
wanna be able matchup
against them
to play games, last March, the
pr c." , pair combined
not practice. for 37 points.
"We could
not stop them

though, will be endurance.
Thursday night it begins a
stretch of five games in 13 days,
including Indiana, Iowa and
Ohio State on the road.
The two-week stretch will be
telling of how good Michigan
is. A clear vulnerability of the
squad is its lack of depth beyond
a regular eight-man rotation,
and the Wolverines' ability to
recover quickly from game to
game will begin to be tested.
"With us playing well, you
almost wanna just be able to
play games, not practice as
much," said fifth-year senior
forward Jordan Morgan.
"At the same time its gonna
be difficult - obviously for
recovery, our bodies and things

of that nature."
If Michigan's three wins last
week helped validate the team, a
successful run in this upcoming
stretch would help define it
and further mitigate doubts
that arose after dropping four
nonconference contests.
"There was a bunch of teams
that were all highly ranked
before their league season
started," Beilein said. "They
had unblemished records, and
now they're not even close to it."
But as quickly as an
unblemished Big Ten record
comes, it can go. Michigan will
try to avoid finding that out as
it continues its quest to remain
perfect in the conference
starting on Thursday night.

night's last year,"
opponent is a drop off in Beilein said. "Terone could get
talent given Michigan's recent anywhere he wanted to get to,
competition and may give it an so it's a big challenge for us."
opportunity to catch its breath The bigger challenge facing
- even if only for one game. the Wolverines going forward,

Give your Valentine a gift that everyone will see!
'I
Buy a Cupid Gram from
Deadline: 3:00pm, Monday, February 10th
Cost: Only $5
Publication Date: Friday, February 14th
Recipient's Email Address:
Text: D IFtIIL I IIII Ii
PlJL sII byDTL Mitg 111111 1f1111111 itltI
420WLMIIn]W L ( indt 11111A ] buldg ith 11 ltI
Ef y II ]WLpa byCeit C111]d, i 1111 i[ltI
WWWIIWWWWWWWWWWW-
Please stop by The Michigan Daily office at
420 Maynard (behind the LSA building) with
this form and $5. CASH ONLY PLEASE.
If you wish to pay by credit card,
simply scan the QSR code and you
will be taken to The Michigan Daily's.
online store to place your order.
*WAIZ Each Cupid Gram purchased gives
you the chance to win dinner for two
at Maiz Mexican Cantina!
For Internal Use
Gram# Ad# Student Group Ad taken by

Nebraska too much for
Wolverines in Lincoln

By SHANNON LYNCH looks, and it seemed like we
Daily Sports Writer couldn't get stops," Barnes
Arico said. "When we did score,
The road warriors have they ran in transition on us, so
finally hit a wall. they did a really great job."
At the start of the second Elmblad was the only Wol-
half in Pinnacle Bank Arena, verine with any consistent
junior forward Nicole Elmblad shooting throughout the game,
gave the Michigan women's and she was able to knock down
basketball the jumpers the Husker defense
team MICHIGAN 51 forced Michigantotake. She fin-
its first NEBRASKA 84 ished the night with 16 points,
chance but her contribution couldn't
for points after the break with lift the offense out of its slump.
a layup. She missed. Seconds Nebraska never let up on
later, Nebraska guard Tear'a defense, forcing the Wolverines
Laudermilleasilyknocked down to run down the shot clock and
a nothing-but-net 3-pointer, take tough jump shots under
extending the Cornhuskers' pressure. Junior guard Shannon
lead to 21 with just under 20 Smith, Michigan's leading
minutes remaining in the game. scorer, finished the night with
Those short seconds just 10 points. The Cornhuskers
are a good summary of the kept her in check with a steady
Wolverines' first road loss, dose of double teams, cutting off
when Michigan (5-3 Big Ten, nearly every drivinglane. Smith
14-7 overall) fell flat offensively went just 4-for-15 from the field,
and failed to protect on its own far below her normal 42-percent
end. It allowed Nebraska - a shooting average.
team coming off back-to-back "They always sag off of non-
losses - to finish the contest 3-point shooters, and that's
with a bigger lead than any of why I was able to get some open
the Wolverines' opponents this shots," Elmblad said. "They did
season. Michigan never came a good job with their center
close to bridging the gap and fell court and really knowing their
to the Cornhuskers, 84-51. matchups on us, and we weren't
"It was one of those nights," able to execute our offense."
said Michigan coach Kim Junior forward Cyesha
Barnes Arico. Goree, whose aggressive pres-
After managing to keep the ence and consistent rebound-
scoring gap close in the first ing have been important for the
eight minutes of play, Nebraska Wolverines this season, was
(4-3, 14-7) racked up nine hampered by foul trouble mid-
unanswered points. It never way through the second half,
handed the momentum back forcing Barnes Arico to bench
over, and as hard as Michigan her. The absence of her 6-foot-2
pushed back, the Cornhuskers frame onthe courtput Michigan
couldn't be stopped. at an even bigger disadvantage.
"We tried to get different The Wolverines suffered

shooting woes from the start,
which they failed to make up
for on defense. Five Nebraska
players made at least one
3-pointer - the Cornhuskers'
leading scorer, forward Jordan
Hooper, made four. She finished
the night with 10 rebounds and
25 points in just 27 minutes on
the court.
"The biggest thing that
we had trouble with was just
locating her in transition,"
Elmblad said. "Sometimes,
we just had some lapses and
forgot where she was, she got
open, and all she needs is a few
seconds of space."
Though it never backed down,
Michigan couldn't cut down
on Nebraska's shot production.
The Cornhuskers finished the
night shooting 53 percent from
the field, 90 percent from the
free throw line, and totaled 38
rebounds, 27 assists and just
seven turnovers.
Losing by 33 points has the
potential to ruin the confidence
that the young and inexperi-
enced Wolverines have worked
so hard to build up this sea-
son. To limit the damage done,
Barnes Arico said they will need
to make major improvements
on both ends of the court before
their next conference game Sat-
urday against Minnesota.
"Other teams are going to
watch this to figure out how to
attack us, so we better get bet-
ter at the things we didn't do
too well," Barnes Arico said.
"The wind was out of their sails
in the locker room, and hope-
fully they don't get too down
about this because we do have
to bounce back."

to
W
ai
W

DO YOU THINK WE'RE FUNNY?
Check Yes or No:
YES

1 i

i

4


the i-ie

The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com Thursday, January 30, 2014

MIL NIL f
IL ff IL
AF IL
AF IL C
Ull Ine at nI 11 S 0
By Senloi Arts Ed or Giancario Buonomo

Cooking is one of those life skills
that, love it or hate it, you better
learn how to do, because you're
going to end up doing it a lot. And for
every person like Gordon Ramsay,
for whom "cooking is like having the
most massive hard-on plus Viagra
sprinkled on top of it and it's still
there 12 hour hours later," there is
another for whom a nightly kitchen
session makes them wonder what
evil they did in a past life to deserve
such a punishment.
College is typically the time when
one finally undergoes a (sometimes
literal) trial by fire and learns to
scrape together a satisfying meal
for him or herself and friends. In
the end, it usually works out. But
we're talking about cooking for your-
self and maybe three or four other
friends.
How about cooking for fifteen
other people? Or thirty?
While this may sound like a night-
mare for some students at the Univer-
sity, for those who live in a co-op, it's
all in a night's work. Having started
as a Great Depression-era solution for
cutting down room and board costs,
the University's co-op system now
contains eighteen houses. Co-ops
might have a r utation for crunchi-
ness and an arc ting attitude toward

a wide variety of controlled substanc-
es, but in reality they're serious oper-
ations; in almost every house, big or
small, members cook dinner for each
other five nights a week. This raises
some interesting questions. First: how
exactly do co-op members manage to
cook for so many people? And second:
can a co-op have its own "food cul-
ture?"
To find answers, I went to three
different co-ops and observed house
members cook dinner for their entire
house, talked with them and even
sampled the night's offering. It was, to
say the least, a deliciously interesting
time.
Debs
Situated at the corner of East Uni-
versity and Oakland, the Eugene V.
Debs Cooperative has a reputation as
a small, intimate house dedicated to
sustainability. On their website, Debs
describes itself as "a vegetarian, vegan
friendly house that makes an effort to
buy organic and local food and house-
hold goods from environmentally and
socially conscious producers."
"We buy all of our ingredients
locally and organic," says Kurt Muel-
ler, Debs co-op president and Univer-
sity Alum. "We end up spending more

money to do that, but we just have to
do it."
Having had little experience with
vegetarian food or environmen-
tally friendly cleaning products, I'm
intrigued to say the least as I ascend
the snowy stairs and enter the cozy
red house.
The inside of Debs looks exactly as
I had pictured a co-op might look. The
walls are lined with years of accu-
mulated knick knacks: concert post-
ers, collages, street signs and enough
Asian art to form a small shop. All
around the living room, adjacent to
the kitchen, mefnbers of the house
lounge on the well worn couches and
chat. The air smells of incense and tea.
I feel like I've been transported back
to Haight-Ashbury in 1968. In fact,
I'm so overwhelmed by the neo-psy-
chedelic environment that as I walk
into the kitchen, I assume one of the
cabinets is labeled "LSD AND POT,"
only to realize it actually says "LIDS
AND POTS."
Debs, like most co-ops, has a system
where each member must contrib-
ute a certain number of work-hours
a week, and many house members
choose to cook one night a week as
part of that work. And although some
house members are seasoned veterans
behind Deb's little electric stove, LSA

senior Erin Barber is a newcomer to
both Debs and co-op cooking.
"This is my first time," Barber says.
Nevertheless, when I arrive at
the kitchen, Barber is already hard
at work grating a pile of peeled car-
rots. Barber is serving breakfast for
dinner tonight - the grated carrots
are for vegan carrot-cake pancakes,
which will be accompanied by a tofu
scramble. Barber is working solo right
now; Debs usually has two cooks per
meal, but Barber's partner had to be
somewhere else, so she peeled the
carrots beforehand. Those peels were
of course deposited in the large com-
post bucket right next to the stove,
complete with a sign detailing exactly
what can and cannot be deposited
there (who knew that you shouldn't
compost limes?)
Debs is a medium-sized co-op (they
have 23 members), but their kitchen
is noticeably smaller, with a standard
household sink and a four-burner
electric stove.
"We are one of the very few co-ops
that doesn't have an industrial kitch-
en," Mueller says.
Barber finishes grating the car-
rots and is joined by LSA sophomore
Michael Stinavage, who graciously
agrees to fill in for her absent part-
ner. Together, they get going on those

pancakes. First, they mix ground flax
seeds, almond milk, maple syrup and
a variety of spices in a large bowl,
which now looks like the BFG has
just finished eating a bowl of cereal
out of it. Then, they add flour and that
mound of shredded carrots. All the
while, Debsters drift in and out of the
kitchen, making tea and small talk.
With the small kitchen comes a flex-
ible and Macgyver-esque approach
toward cooking. The recipe makes six
pancakes, but tonight, forty-two are
needed, which makes for some awk-
ward guesstimation when multiply-
ing, say, three-fourths of a tablespoon
of vinegar times seven. Then, there's
a momentary panic when Stinavage
discovers that there's no gluten-free
flour left, a necessity to make pan-
cakes for allergenic Debsters. Think-
ing quickly, he grinds up some oats to
make a "flour," which he adds to some
of the reserved almond-milk mixture.
He hands me some of the resulting
batter, which although cat food-like in
appearance, hasan appealing oatmeal
cookie-dough-like taste.
While the extensive improvisation
might look like sloppiness to some,
Debsters insist that a relaxed atmo-
sphere, even in the kitchen, is a co-op
essential.
See COOP Page 3B


Photos by Nick W iliams
Design byJake Wellins

I

I

I r


2B - Thursday, January 30, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

28 - Thursday, January 30, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Warm up with
hearty Superb owl
favorites

NETFLIX PIX
Daily Arts Writers dig through recent
Netflix releases to find the shows worth
revisiting or discovering.

There are three things
that you should con-
sider absolute neces-
sities for your upcoming Super
Bowl Party: a big TV, drinks (I
won't give
any specifics
here, as this
is an official
University
publication)
and food. Lots
of food. As a
completely NATE
untrained, WOOD
amateur
meteorologist
(wannabe),
my prediction is that Ann Arbor's
weather will be similar on Sun-
day night to how it is now: polar
vortex-like. Therefore, some
hearty, warm foods are in order
for Super Bowl XLVIII. (Any-
body else tired of these archa-
ic letter-numbers? Screw the
Romans.) Consider my following
suggestions as flexible themes
around which you can plan your
grub; there's no need to serve
all of this ... unless you and your
friends have the appetite of King
Kong.
Chili
So many options here. One of
my favorite chili recipes of all
time comes to us from none other
than the 30-Minute-Meal Queen
herself - Ms. Rachael Ray. The
ingredients and directions for her
hot and savory buffalo chicken
chili can be found in one of my
past columns. Chunks of moist
chicken, a strikingly spicy broth
(tailor the quantity of hot sauce to
your taste buds) and - ala every-
thing Rachael Ray - a whole lotta
garlic worktogether towarmyour
body from the inside out. With
accompanying blue cheese tortilla
chips and a celery stalk or two?
Touchdown. (Yes, I just did that.)
Another good option would be a
simple white chili. Most any rec-
ipe off the Internet is fine, but do
go ahead and add a couple of cups
of shredded mozzarella cheese to
the pot as you're combining the
ingredients. It'll really take the
chili's consistency and umami to

the next level. And of course, your
own family recipe for beef or veg-
etarian chili will do just as well.
If you're looking to add a little
extra something, though, empty
in a bottle of a bold, dark beer.
The alcohol will cook off, leaving
a complex background addition to
the dish's flavor profile that you
won't regret.
Nachos
You're the judge of how crazy
you want to go with this one.
It can be as simple as a bowl of
cheese dip - the standard Velvee-
ta-Hormel-Rotel is a great place
to start - and tortilla chips, but
it can also be as involved as an in-
home Chipotle Burrito Bowl pro-
duction line. A buffet-style line of
chips, cheese, jalapefios, guaca-
mole, salsa, beans, meat, rice, sour
cream, and hot sauce for guests
to serve themselves on massive
plates is sure to not disappoint.
Wings
Don't be lame. Buffalo Wild
Wing's wings are good, but bor-
ing and - frankly - overpriced.
Unless you want to drop a couple
hundred dollars to entertain your
friends for the evening, you're
better off buying a bag of frozen
boneless or traditional (or both!)
wings from Costco and heat-
ing them up in the oven yourself.
Make or buy a fewsauces, toss 'em
with the wings and voila: You're
Super Bowl-ready.

broccoli, and cauliflower are
all perfect choices for a healthy
game-day crudit4. Setout a platter
ofthevegetables andyour favorite
flavor ofhummus on ice as soon as
your guests arrive for pre-entre
snacking.
Dips on Dips
Buy every type of chip avail-
able and whip up a host of dips to
complement a few. The options
are endless: French onion, bacon-
queso, crab, smoked salmon, beer-
cheese, garlic-herb and so on. See
my recipe for homemade caramel-
ized onion dip - and a suggested
bag of chips to pair with it - on
The Michigan Daily's website.
Cupcakes
really aren't
masculine
enough.
Dessert
Cupcakes aren't masculine
enough. Cake is too formal.
Brownies are boring, and ice
cream is too cold. So what's left?
Rice Krispies treats - while I per-
sonally don't care for them - are
always a crowd-pleaser, especially
when there's added peanut butter
and chocolate. Homemade saltine

"in Bruges"
What happens in Bruges stays in Bruges;
sightseeing in historical canals, snorting a bit of
angel dust with a foul-mouthed little person, and
contemplating the utter horror of our existence.
Full disclaimer: This movie is bizarre. Two hit-
men find themselves in Bruges, Belgium waiting
for a phone call from their boss after a botched
job. That's the premise, but "In Bruges" is hardly
an action movie. Watch for its labyrinthine and
completely offensive dialogue, unpredictabil-
ity and the 100 ways protagonist Colin Farrell
maneuvers his eyebrows. You'll either want to
never go to Bruges or visit immediately.

WARNER BROS
"Jiro Dreams of Sushi"
Jiro, chef of the most famous sushi bar in
the world, will literally dream about sushi and
wake up, Eureka! style, to scribble a recipe idea
down. At 85 years old, Jiro has devoted his
entire life to sushi. His devotion is of a pious,
monkish sort, at the cost of neglecting his sons
(If you're choosing between sushi and babysit-
ting, I guess the answer is obvious), but this
documentary focuses on Jiro's passion. His
apprentices take up to ten years to learn how to
properly wring a hot towel. This is a fascinat-
ing glimpse into how one man made perfection
his hobby.

Make
but may
much att
watch ti
variety o
pizza -k
is anoth
your crew
Who

toffee candy is tasty, a cinch to
Pizza make and easy to eat. Chocolate-
covered pretzels and mixed nuts
-your-own is always fun, are great. And, of course, there's
be requires a little too always the trusty ol' cookie. You
ention to simultaneously can't go wrong with a classic choc-
he game. Ordering in a olate chip and a pinch of flaked
f pies is easy, and veggie sea salt. Bon Appdtit, Food 52 and
good and good for you - foodnetwork.com all offer great
er fun option. Exercise resources to help you think of fun
ativity! and creative dishes to serve your
Super Bowl party guests, so if you
Hummus, etc. don't like my suggestions, check
out theirs! Happy cooking, cheer-
doesn't like hummus? ing and eating. Go Seahawks!

It's gluten-free, vegan, healthy
and downright delicious. Pita
chips, celery and cucumber sticks,
baby carrots, bell pepper strips,

Wood is rooting against
Peyton. To join him, e-mail
nisaacwOumich.edu.


"Mulan" "Downfall"

TAKE
FLIGHT.
@MICH IGAN DAILY

Everyone knows that Disney has a secret gar-
den where they grow instant classics from magic
beans, and "Mulan" is no exception. After fail-
ing the matchmaker's test, Mulan cuts her hair
and runs away with her father's armor to replace
him in the military draft. With help from the
comedic styling of dragon/lizard Mushu and
her lucky cricket, Mulan proves herself to be not
only as tough as any man but smarter too. Sav-
ing a bright, colorful China from the dirty and
smelly horde of Huns never sounded so good.
Who could possibly refrain from singing along
to "Reflection" or "I'll Make a Man Out of You?"

"Downfall" takes place in the Fuhrer's private
bunker as the Soviet forces close in on Berlin and
World War II drags to a close. It tells the story of
Hitler's last days through the eyes of his personal
secretary, giving audiences a glimpse of the man
behind the monstrous figure. The film also bears
witness to the dark, depressing death of the
Hitler Youth, brainwashed children who gave
their lives fighting for the Nazi cause. "Down-
fall" offers a frightening premise grounded by
the gravity of these historic events, inviting its
audience to empathize with one of history's most
demonized villains.

EPISODE REVIEW

With all eyes on Showtime's
other series,including"Home-
land" andthe departed "Dexter,"
"Shameless"
has consistently
delivered some
ofthe network's Shameless
bestmoments.
Now in season Season 4
fourthis peren- Episode 3
niallyunder- Showtime
the-radar,
genre-lessgem
is stronger than ever -and in
"Like Father, Like Daughter,"
realistic character growth and an
ideal blend of laughs and genuine
emotion continues to make it a
must-watchshow.
"Like Father, Like Daughter"is
"Shameless" at its best - cringe-
worthy comedy (Frank's budding
romantic relationship with his
long-lost daughter), authentic
portrayals of adolescence and
young adulthood(Debbie's first
dating experiences and Lip's
struggles atcollege) and surpris-

ing turns (Fiona's affair with her
boyfriend's brother).
Just when it borders on absur-
dity, "Like Father, Like Daughter"
is grounded by gut wrenching,
substantial drama,brought
together by superb writing,
unique direction and unrelenting
performances.
Like in most episodes of
"Shameless," addiction plays a
heavy role. But in "Like Father,
Like Daughter,"this running
theme propels the episode over
the edge ofsimplygood televi-

sion.While gazinguponher
unconscious father, with the
lingering, potent words of Mike's
brother inthe back of her head,
it's hard for Fiona to deny what
her actions have made perfectly
clear:she has more in common
with Frank than she hoped she
would. The tragic,self-destruc-
tive and addictive Gallagher
tendencies are too powerful to
overcome. And for viewers, it's
much too compellingto look
away.
-ALEC STERN

I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 30, 2014 - 3B

CO-OP
From Page 1B
"The good times in the co-ops
are when people just sporadically
make stuff," says recent alum Jay
Lonski, who lived in Debs for two
years.
"Everything is pretty happy
go-lucky as far as dinner goes,"
Stinavage adds.
And while there might be some
last minute spice substitutions,
Debsters are clearly committed to
providing nutritious and satisfy-
ingmealswithout meat.
"There's a stigma against being
vegan or vegetarian that there's
not enough to eat or that there's
not enough diversity," Stinavage
says.
The batter is ready, so Barber
and Stinavage heat up a portable
griddle, grease it with vegan but-,
ter, and start pouring out the
batter. Because the griddle can
only accommodate three or four
at a time, the cooked pancakes
are transferred to a platter in the
oven. Stinavage snags one of the
couked flapjacks and hands me a
piece, which I pop into my mouth.
It tastes just like carrotcake.
Nakamura
The John Nakamura Coopera-
tive House is, in many ways, the
exact opposite of Debs - at least
to an outsider like me. I'd only
been to Nakamura once before, to
a Halloween party my freshman
year. I enter again, this time with-
out a costume, under the watchful
eye of a pterodactyl perched on
the roof. The house is bigger than
Debs (29 members), and dimly
lit inside. Every surface appears
to be a canvas for the artistically
inclined, most noticeably the
basement dining room, where an
entire wall is taken up by a huge
mural depicting Meso-American
gods and tropical lushness. Hunt-
er Thompson would have felt at
home here.
Nakamura, while undeniably
"alternative," doesn't have the
organic or vegetarian focus of
Debs. In fact, they proclaim on
their website that they "are more
carnivorous than most houses."
Thus, dinner at Nakamura could
resemble dinner at any campus
apartment, but on a larger scale.
Tonight: chicken and vegetable
stir fry, plus tofu for the few veg-
etarians.
The Nakamura kitchen and
dining room are in the basement,

set off from the living areas. As
I walk into the kitchen, past the
huge dining room table (actually 5
tables put end to end), I'm greeted
by the two cooks for the night:
fourth year Rackham student
Aaron Sciore and LSA sophomore
Tyler Whittico. Sciore and Whit-
tico have cooked for the house
many times before, so this dish
should be easy.
"I've made it for myself a bunch
of times," Sciore says.
Sciore puts on some music that
can only be described as psyche-
delic techno, and together they
get to work. Whittico was thaw-
ing two bigbags of frozen chicken
breasts in the sink, and now is
cleaving them into dozens of sea
scallop-looking cubes. He moves
like a professional, which he is; he
works as a chefinthe morningat a
restaurant on Main Street. Mean-
while, Sciore is busy collecting a
kaleidoscope of vegetables (broc-
coli, peppers, onion and peas),
chopping scallions, and mixing up
his "special sauce," a heady mix-
ture of sriracha, brown sugar and
soy sauce..
Nakamura's kitchen and cup-
boards look like an exaggerated
version of any college house -
bagels, coffee, bananas and peanut
butter are everywhere. Thus, for
food steward Sarah Caruso, shop-
ping is a biweekly quest she must
embark on, armed with $850.
"I am notused to spending that
much money," she laughs.
Like most co-ops, Nakamura
has a system where food in the
house is divided between GUFF
(free for anyone to use), and non-
GUFF (people's personalpurchas-
es or food requested by cooks for
a specific meal). GUFF is a ubiq-
uitous term in co-ops, yet no one
is quite sure where it came from.
General Unspecified Free Food,
perhaps?
But Nakamura is different from
a co-op like Debs in two ways.
First, is the relative "normalness"
of the food.
"We have a meat-eating culture
that's probably the biggest in the
co-ops," says LSAsophomoreYas-
mine Zein-Phillipson.
Second, the rigor of the dinner
schedule. Sunday through Thurs-
day, dinner is always supposed
to be ready at 7:00 p.m. Tonight,
Sciore and Whittico are on track.
Almost twogallons of rice, cooked
the night before, are now frying in
a huge wok of peanut oil. To this,
Sciore adds beaten eggs, and then
that cornucopia of vegetables. The
chicken and tofu cubes sizzle in

On Malevick,
Suprem atism
and vomit

Ratatouille at Lester co-op.
differentpans, havingbeenglazed
with the sauce. By now, dinner
is almost complete, and the wok
resembles one of those steam
trays at Panda Express. Sciore and
Whittico quickly divide the wok's
contents in half, add chicken to
one and tofu to another and ring
the dinner bell.
"We got done early," Sciore
says.
Within the minute, over a
dozen members amble into the
dining room, pile their plates
high, and sit down. I do the same,
but before anyone starts eating,
there's a big round of applause for
the cooks.
Lester
I must admit that I was half-
dreading my visit to the Muriel
Lester Cooperative at the corner
of Oakland and Arbor. Lester is
officially a vegetarian house, but
unlike Debs, Lester allows no
meat in the house and the com-
munal meals are usuallyvegan. As
a carnivore since birth, I've been
inclined to agree with Anthony
Bourdain that "vegetarians, and
their Hezbollah-like splinter fac-
tion, the vegans ... are the enemy
of everything good and decent in
the human spirit." ButI also heard
theyhad Zingerman's bread - how
bad could itbe?
Lester is certainly the oppo-
site of a hostile environment. The
house is small but immaculately
clean, with a palpable sense of, I
don't know, gemntlichkeit. I arrive
ten minutes late, and house secre-
tary Helen DeMarsh is well into
her dinner preparation.
"This is a highly experimental
dish," she says.
This experiment is a ratatouille
of sorts. She coated the bottom of
a baking pan with tomato paste,
green lentils and onions, and now
is layeringonslicesoffennel, sweet
potato, zucchini and beet, form-
ing an almost polka-dotted pat-
tern on top, which she then dusts
with spices. Roundinguout the meal
will be brown rice and peanut but-
ter cookies. Even with so many
ingredients forone meal, DeMarsh
manages to keep it both vegan and
gluten-free and avoids having to
make alternatives.
"It's way easier to make just one
thing," DeMarsh says.
Unlike Nakamura, where the
cooks coordinate their meals with
the food steward, Lester's cooks
typically make do with the (exten-
sive) pantry.
"We justcbuy food and the cooks
use what food we have to make
dinner," says Lester co-op presi-
dent and LSA senior Sara Boer.
And what goes in the pantry is
the responsibility of food steward
Katy Hollobaugh. Every week,
she takes a house poll of what veg-
etables are wanted, and then has

a local produce purveyor deliver
them to the house. Other items,
like beans or sugar, are ordered in
bulk through the Student Buyers
Association. But there's one item
that Lester usually doesn't order at
all; because most chocolate is pro-
duced using unethical labor prac-
tices, Lester won't use house funds
to purchase it.
"If somebody buys chocolate for
the house with their own money,
they have to label it 'slave choco-
late,"'"Hollobaugh says.
On the flip side, Lester has an
absolute dream of a deal worked
out with Zingerman's Deli; every
Friday, a house member drives to
Zingerman's to pick up free bread
leftover from the day before. The
waiting list for this deal is years in
the making, and one missed pick-
up would move Lester back to the
bottom, so god help whoever miss-
es their shift.
"You're probably going to be
banished from the house," Hollo-
baugh saysnwith alaugh.
Art and Design senior Anya
Klapischak is kind enough to show
me Lester's food stocks. First, she
pulls open that mythical drawer
which, sure enough, is filled with
a half dozen types of tantalizing
bread. I consider grabbing the larg-
est loaf and making a break for it.
She then leads me to the recently
renovated basement, where Les-
ters sanctum sanctorum of dry
goods is located. Stored in large
plastic buckets, I find at least a
dozen varieties of beans, rice, flour
and a mustard-colored powder
called "nooch," which is shorthand
for nutritionalyeast.
"It all looks sort of primitive,"
Klapischak says.
Allthis looking at food is making
us hungry,so wegoupstairs, where
DeMarsh has pulled the "gangster
ratatouille" out of the oven. Some
house members couldn't make din-
nertonight, soshequicklycompos-
es plates for them, which she wraps
and places in the fridge. Then, she
rings the bell, and everyone cuts
a hunk out the pan and sits down
at the dining room table, less than
half the size of Nakamura's.
While I tuck into the zesty cas-
serole and nibble my cookie, two
thoughts come to me. First, my
fears of vegan food were (mostly)
unfounded; while I wouldn't want
to eat like this at every meal, I
certainly would like to do it more
often. Second, there's something
more than just bulk cooking here.
I don't know if it's the chocolate
or the bread or the nooch or the
lack of animal products, but here
at Lester, I finally understand
that a co-op is more than just a
bunch of people living together
in a big house; each one has its
own culture, its own vibe, its
own indescribable spirit that, as
I discovered in the past week, is
expressed through its food.

azimir Malevich,
I've spent too
much time reading
up on your work lately and
wasted toomuch energydespis-
ing you.
In my
mind,
Suprematism
- your e arly
19th-century
Russian art
movement - !
embodies anJ
ethos that JOHN
I've always LYNCH
struggled to
comprehend.
With your radical Black
Square painting in 1913, you
told artistic convention to fuck
off and just painted a damn
black square on a white canvas
and called it an indisputable
masterpiece. I envy confidence
- that senseless degree of self-
assurance and life purpose
- because I don't have it
inherently and because I'm
generally lost at all times. So
here I sit without certainty,
typing a column to a dead
man that had tons of it, when
I should be researching the
internships and careers
that will lead me on a path
toward financial success and,
ultimately, greater misery.
As someone interested in
art and letters, though, I do
pay special attention to any
renowned creative mind to
assess what made that mind
important and measure mine
up against it.
See, I actually created a per-
formance art masterpiece last
week. I was running late to my
Art History section - running
for the first time since taking
a permanent vacation from
health & wellness this summer
to make smoking and eating
terribly part of my daily regi-
men - and I found a canvas
on the pavement of Tappan
St. when I ceased my vigorous
sprinting to throw up violent-
ly on the sidewalk in front of
three beautiful women.
Eventually, I arrived late
to the class that has nothing

to do with my major, and by
some sickening chance, found
myself treated to a lecture on
your art. Mouth acidic and
struggling to catch a breath,
I felt an unfathomable hatred
surge through me when I saw
your Black Square appear on
the projector screen. When
I heard the word, "Supre-
matism," I almost threw up
again and imagined that you
must have been some demonic
incarnation of conviction - a
faceless, self-sustaining entity
with the power to completely
ignore any perceptions from
the outside world.
In reality, though, you were
just a painter, a supporter of
the Russian Revolution. The
Bolsheviks incorporated your
Black Square as a symbol of
freedom and umodern truth, and
today, your legacy is cemented
in the pretentious drawls of art
historians everywhere.
Learning
from a radical
Russian artist.
So what am I doing with my
life then? Fittingly enough, I
too find undue importance in
squares - filtering, focusing,
unfocusing Instagram posts
and constantly refreshing my
feed to see if anyone under-
stands my genius - but I do
plan on doing something bigger
at some point. I'm far too timid
and chemically imbalanced by
nature, so what Suprematism
could I possibly muster? All
I know is that I love writ-
ing more than anything, and
someday, I might clear this
hazy, depressive mind, stop
throwing up on sidewalks and
start creating something great.
Best,
A Black Square
Lynch is looking for his
own Suprematism. To help,
e-mail jplyn@umich.edu.

DO YOU ENJOY
WATCHING AND
WRITING ABOUT
MOVIES?
JOIN THE DAILY FILM STAFF.
E-mail jplyn@umich.edu
to request an application.

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily
Helen DeMarsh who graduated from LSA in May serves vegan food at Lester.

TRAILER REVIEW

MUSIC VIDEO REVIEW

Christoph Waltz now has
as many Oscars to his name
as Tom Hanks. Almost over-
night, the
distinctly -
Austrian
actor has Thee
gone from
being just T
another S
European
sounding
name to one of the most rec-
ognizable ones in modern
cinema. There's no one else
who possesses a similar ability
to bring Quentin Tarantino's
paranoid, eccentric character
to life, but over the past two
years, it seems as if Waltz has
shoehorned himself into that
role, So the question arises:
Can he do anything without
Tarantino? With Terry Gil-
liam's "The Zero Theorem," it
looks like he's finally ready to
move away from those "Pulp
Fiction"-esque scripts.

It's tempting to drawhasty
conclusions from a start-to-
finish viewing of the "Goodnight
Kiss" music
video, Randy
Houser's latest
single release Goodnight
from How Kiss
Country Feels.
It's acon- Randy Houser
tinually repro-
cessed country Stoney Creek
formulaof
SONY back-and-forth footage between
see in the 150-second trailer, Houser jamming with the band
whether it's Waltz's bizarre and a young couple's love story.
appearance or the casual The director, Wes Edwards, does
way with which every char- more recycling than an environ-
acter approaches the equally mentalist when it comes to coun-
twisted dystopia they're living try musicvideos.
in. The film itself may be an Before decking Edwards in the
exhausting, detached viewing face, howeverlet's dial it back.
experience, but if there's one Literally, dial it back and look at
thing that's looking certain, Houser's past two singles from
it's the depth of the perfor- this record. The videos for titular
mances and visuals. single "How Country Feels" and
-AKSHAYSETH "Runnin' Outta Moonlight" both
feature the same female actress

Set in a dystopian, corpo-
rate-defined universe, the new
sci-fi pic follows a mathemati-
cian, played by Waltz, as he
attempts to find an all-pow-
erful formula to discern the
meaning of life. It's abroad,
potentially pretentious prem-
ise, but Gilliam's gripping
"Blade Runner" influenced
environments look to embrace
the patchwork nature of the
plotline. No matter where
you look, there's something to

as "Goodnight Kiss." Each is also
directedby Wes Edwards. Tril-
ogy? Trilogy indeed. Well played,
Edwards and Houser, intention-
ally reusingstoryboard concepts
and characters to tietogether the
album's three single releases.
Despite this, the young
couple's segmentwithin the
video leaves a bit to be desired
substance-wise, butnsucceeds at
charming viewers with a mid-
night stroll through the forest.
"Charming" borderson cheesi-
ness, however, when the young
lad blindfolds the gal and leads

STONEY CREEK
her to a surprise party celebra-
tion. Not to mention there's a
raised eyebrow dedicated to any
girl who thinks it's wise to let
some guy blindfold her in the
middle of a nighttime forest.
As for Houser's performing,
there's a drastic improvement
from the singer's previous work.
Eye-level close-ups with shots
changing at a sporadic pace
transform Houser into a real-
deal artist - something that
shouldn't even require mention-
ing.
-GREG HICKS

t

I

1


4B - Thursday, January 30, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A NEW DANCE
Culture, arts combined in new minor

Global Theatre minor
to offer a variety
of courses
By REBECCA GODWIN
DailyArts Writer
Theater and the art of per-
forming have been a part of
human culture for more than
two millenia. From a young age,
students are taught about the
celebrated performances from
ancient Greek and Roman civi-
lization, but theater has played
just as big of a role in other cul-
tures all over the world. India
had Sanskrit theater as early
as the first century A.D., and
kabuki theater has existed in
Japan since the 17th century.
And in the Middle East, pup-
pet theater was hugely popu-
lar with complex productions
made up entirely of hand pup-
pets and marionettes.
Every culture in the world
has some form of theater or
dramatic presentation and now,
starting in fall 2014, students
will have a chance to learn more
about these different cultures
with the new Global Theatre
and Ethnic Studies minor being
offered through the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance.
The minor originally start-
ed off as a program in African
American Theatre, but Theatre
and Drama Prof. Anita Gon-
zalez, the program advisor for
the Global Theatre minor, real-
ized she was missing out on the
opportunity to explore other
interesting cultures.
"The perspective of African
American studies scholars is
when you study African Ameri-
can studies, you're studying the
whole world anyway," Gonzalez
said. "So rather than try to draw
divisions, we're studying global
theater."
The minor is intended to teach
students about diverse com-
munities through a combina-
tion of performing, creating and
engaging with different cultural
works. Students will not be lim-
ited to only one region; they will
have the opportunity to study
numerous unique cultures all
over the world.
"The minor will cover play
reading and analysis as well as
studio practice," Gonzalez said.
"So you get to study the theater
of global communities, both

domestic and international. And
you get to create work within the
program and also study the lit-
erature."
For students, like Music, The-
atre & Dance sophomore Flores
Komatsu, a native of Mexico
City, the new minor opens up a
variety of opportunities that had
not been available to students
before.
"What I loved when I came to
Michigan was the fact there is
such diversity on campus, cul-
turally and in the arts," Komatsu
said. "Andthe kind oftheatrethat
I do is sort of intercultural world
theater, so when this minor came
out it seemed like the exact thing
I wanted to do."
The program will include
a variety of different courses
covering topics such as race,
ethnicity and gender. Some of
the courses offered in the fall
include a class dedicated to mod-
ern rituals and traditional prac-
tices in which students will learn
different cultural traditions such
as choral singing, masking and
poetry.
Another class being offered is
called Performing Archives and
Oral Histories and will, accord-
ing to Gonzalez, offer students
the chance to use "ethnographic
or archival sources to create new
performance works." Students
will also be required to go out-
side of the University and create
their own work to complete the
minor.
"The capstone course will
require people to make new
work," Gonzalez said. "So they
either have to work in a multicul-
tural community in the United
States or they have to work at an
international sight."
While Komatsu understands
that this requirement could be
difficult for some students to
complete, particularly those who
may wish to work during the
summers or have other commit-
ments, he finds the chance to go
into the world and explore the-
atre and performance in different
cultures an exciting prospect.
"Working within one of the
communities you're studying and
exploring is definitely important
because it's one thing to look at
them from an outsider's perspec-
tive and another to go and actu-
ally experience it for yourself,"
Komatsu said.
The new Global Theatre minor
will be only the second minor
offered by SMTD (the first being

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily

Theatre and Drama Professor Anita Gonzalez is the program advisor for the new Global Theatre minor.

a minor in Performing Arts Man-
agement), and Gonzalez attri-
butes this fact to the intense
workload that theater and per-
formance students must deal
with. "If you ask what the biggest
challenge right now is, it's to get
(SMTD students) to have time in
their schedules to take a minor,"
Gonzalez explained.
In order to increase the num-
ber of people interested in taking
the course as well as give as many
students the opportunity to learn

about different communities
and cultures through the unique
lens of theatre, the minor will
be offered to students outside of
SMTD who are involved in a lib-
eral arts program.
"It's great to include people
from outside (SMTD) because
it enriches the community and
shows that art doesn't have to be
this self-indulgent thing, it can be
something that brings us togeth-
er as one community," Komatsu
said.

Because the minor is being
offered to such a large number of
students on campus and because
many of the courses will involve
areas of study outside of theatre
and drama, Gonzalez intends to
bring in professors from other
schools to teach some of the
courses.
"I've been looking at LSA for
other professors to teach the lit-
erature and history of intercul-
tural performance," Gonzalez
said.

In the future, both Gonzalez
and Komatsu hope to see the pro-
gran expand and grow as more
and more students learn about it
and begin taking courses.
"I hope in the next year we
will have a good number of stu-
dents within the minor," Kom-
atsu said. "And we'll have a lot
more courses as we gather more
student interest and get some
really good student projects
started so we can put into prac-
tice what we'll be learning."

/ ~JEach week we take shots at the biggest "kufl

developments in the entertainment world.
Here's what hit (and missed) this week.
Leonardo DiCaprio and
Jonah Hill reenact iconic
"Titanic" scene on
"Saturday Night Live"

{0
a
N
a
z
I LB
t
Des ign by Gaby Iaaqssz

I

I

I

I


