(11E £xdpgan.0i~
Tuesday, November 4, 2014 michigandailycom

Ann Arbor, Michigan

MICHIGAN VOTES
In governor
race, Snyder
holds small
leadinpolls

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Mark Schauer speaks at the College Democrats Election Eve Rally in Weill Hall Monday,
Co ege Dems. hold pre-
*election rally for students

Pet
tren
in t
Afte
events
and a s
tion DE
Michig
didate-
of Goi
Attorn
of Stat
In add
to U.S
ate sea
spots a
some l
the sta
Rep
locked

ers looks to buck tion with Democratic challenger
Mark Schauer, a former congress-
d for Democrats man. RealClearPolitics aggregate
polling, which averages several
U.. Senate race top polls, has Snyder leading by
2.5-points, though Schauer has
By BEN ATLAS made significant progress in clos-
.Daily Staff Reporter log a margin that was as large as
eight points earlier in the year.
r months of campaign Snyder has touted economic
, a flurry of television ads progress across the state and in
teady stream of polls, Elec- Detroit specifically as grounds
ay is finally upon us.Today, for his reelection, while Schauer
tan voters will elect can- has tried to position himself as
to the statewide offices a candidate who would work for
vernor and Lt. Governor, the middle class and invest more
ey General, and Secretary heavily in education. Both candi-
e, as well as for U.S. Senate. dates had full campaign schedules
lition, each of the 14 seats Monday and each ended the day at
Congress, 38 state sen- events in Ann Arbor.
its and 110 state legislature U.S. Senate
re alsoontheballot. Hereis The race to replace retiring
ast minute information on Sen. Carl Levin (D) looked like it
tus of some of these races. might have been one of the most
Governor hotly contested in the country
ublican Gov. Rick Snyder is with Senate control hanging in
in a tight race for reelec- See PREVIEW, Page 3

Candidates call for
strong turnout to
bolster performance
By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
Cheers and applause resonat-
ed throughout the Ford School
of Public Policy building Monday

evening as Democratic candi-
dates pumped up about 130 Uni-
versity students and members of
the Ann Arbor community for
the University College Demo-,
crats' Election Eve Rally.
Among the list of speakers
were many candidates at the top
of the Michigan Democratic tick-
et, including gubernatorial can-
didate Mark Schauer, Lieutenant
Gubernatorial candidate Lisa

Brown, Attorney General can-
didate Mark Totten, U.S. Senate
candidate Gary Peters, Congres-
sional candidates Debbie Dingell
and Pam Byrnes, State Senator
Rebekah Warren and Secretary
of State candidate Godfrey Dil-
lard. Ann Arbor Mayor John
Hieftje and Democratic mayoral
candidate Christopher Taylor
also spoke.
"The idea is to give candidates

and elected officials a chance to
speak about why this election
is going to be a really impor-
tant one for the state, why it's
important for students and why
it's important as a whole," said
LSA junior Stephen Culbertson,
communications director for the
University's chapter of College
Democrats.
The rally aimed to encour-
See DEMOCRATS, Page 3


ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Program helps
. high schoolers
fund innovation

TRADITION

Detroit network
focuses on business
acumen, diversity
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
For the student-run Detroit
Entrepreneurship Network, the
city of Detroit is ahub of potential
- not just for growing businesses,
but also for creating relationships
that span geographic and socio-
economic boundaries.
The network, known more
casually as d[en], holds an annual
entrepreneurship program for
high school students both from
the heart of Detroit and the city's
suburbs. It recruits students from
18 schools and boasted 50 partici-
pants in 2013.
Established in 2012, the
program has run from mid-
November through April - with
two-hour student- and profes-
sionally-taught business work-
shops held in a Detroit workspace
on a bi-weekly basis.
This year's program will start
in January, later than it has in the
past, in order to align with the

start of the Winter 2015semester.
To compensate for the lost time,
workshops will last three hours
instead of two and the students
involved may consider meeting
on a weekly basis for the first
month.
Business junior Nick Resn-
ick, d[en] co-president, said
the program's mission is two-
pronged. The first part, he said,
is giving students the entrepre-
neurial toolkit to improve their
communities. The second part
goes beyond business acumen to
addressing diversity awareness.
"We want to promote dia-
logue and collaboration between
people of different backgrounds,
different races, socioeconomic
situations, everything like that,"
Resnick said.
"We don't want to just focus on
kids from Detroit. We want to get
high school students from Detroit,
along with across the suburbs, and
bring them to these workshops
and have them work with people
that they would otherwise never
talk to and never get the pleasure
of meeting," he said.
Aside from the workshops,
Resnick said students also split
. See DETROIT, Page 3

Kristin Surak, an associate professor of Japanese politics, and the Center for Japanese Studies guides students
through an authentic Japanese tea ceremony at the School of Social Work Building Monday.
ELECTION FINANCE
State races see sharp rise
in campaign ad spending

TECHNOLOGY
UHS faces
adjustment
as records
go digital
After rough start,
new system offers
benefits to patients
By AMABEL KAROUB
Daily StaffReporter
After a shaky start, the Uni-
versity of Michigan Health Sys-
tem is settling into its new and
improved filingsystem.
In summer 2012, UMHS made
anenormousshift-moving from
paper medical charts to Epic, an
electronic health records sys-
tem. The UMHS version of Epic
is called MiChart. Two and a half
years later, University Health
Service, the primary source of
health care services for the cam-
pus community, is beginning to
take advantage of Epic and its
many features.
Epic currently holds the medi-
cal records of nearly half the
patients in the United States. A
version of Epic comparable to
UHS' MiChart has been adopted
by every medical center in the
health system. However, in an
interview in September 2013 -
See UHS, Page 3

Sr
hav
Cal
parad
candi

nyder, Schauer are increasingly advocating the
need for greater fiscal respon-
e spent $28.8M sibility in government, there is
one area where hopeful politi-
on TV spots cians are not shy about spend-
ing: their own campaigns.
By BEN ATLAS Due in part to a series of
Daily StaffReporter Supreme Court decisions,
beginning with the Citizens
11 it the great political United case in 2010, more cam-
ox of our time. While paign spending nationwide
dates for higher office is from outside groups rather

than candidates themselves,
Political Science Prof. Michael
Traugott said.
In the Citizens United case,
the court held that campaign
contributions constitute a form
of speech, and money coming
from organizations indepen-
dent of campaigns could not be
regulated.
In Michigan, the races for
See FINANCES, Page 3

I


WEATHER HI: 56
TOMORROW I-LO: 40

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Professor Profile: Michael Zochowski
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No,.22
02014The Michigan Daily
michigandaily.com

NEWS...........................2 ARTS ..........................5
SUDOK U........................2 CLASSIFIEDS................6
OPINION .....................4 SPORTS................7

i


2 - Tuesday, November 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com a]

2 - Tuesday, November 4, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

-W

FIND YOUR POLLING PLACE
Polls open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
0!COUZENS MARKLEY,
ALICE
Ward 1-2LLOYD
UardS-2R - *Waid*2-2*
MICHIGAN PALMER JORDAN
-LEAGUE. PALMER *" " " " " #
L UCOMMONS " " " ! ! "
c STOCKWELL
.Ward -1 M I

1M~ Wcipian aUIj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com dougsolo@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandailyDom
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classitied Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburke@michigandaily.com
enniferCaltas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIONEWSEDITORS:Ian Dillingham, SamGringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily,com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Matthew Seligman and David Harris
Greg Garno and
AleandroZdtiga ManagingSportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Lev Facher, Rajat Khare, Jake
Lourim and Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
Johntlynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
Akshay Seth ManagingArts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
Alec Stern
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman ManagingPhotoEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIORPHOTOEDITORS: AllisonFarrandand RubyWaliau
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Luna Anna Archey,VirginiaLozano,
James Coller, McKenzie Berezin, and Nicholas Williams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela Vasquez Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackens and AliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR Ruby Wallau
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMackens
MarklOssolinskiand Meaghan
Thompson Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and Alisha Qiu
Austen Hufford online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
VIDEO EDITORS: Paula Friedrich and James Reslier-Wells
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: Brianne Johnson
BUSINESS STAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classifed Manager
Simonne Kapadia LocalAccounts Manager
Lotus An NationalAccounts Manager
OliviaJones Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. Oneecopy is available free of charge
toallreaders. Additionalcopiesmay be pickedup atthe Daily's office for$2.Subscriptionsfor
fallterm, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through April) is
1115, yearlong (September through April)is $195.University affiliates are subject to areduced
subscriptionrate.On-campus subscriptionsfor fall termare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is amember of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

6

* *-*
n a
Michigan Union Angell School Mary St. Polling Place
530 S. State Street 1608 S. University Avenue 926 Mary Street
Community High School Palmer Commons University Coliseum
401 N. Division Street 100 Washtenaw Avenue 721 S. Fifth Avenue
Ann Arbor District Library Ann Arbor Michigan League
343 S Fifth Avenue Community Center 911 N. University
625 Main Street


Adidas collaborates

Panelists talk missing.

with 'U' researchers Mexican students

Kinesiology School much of the project, which he
says has benefitted student-ath-
enlists help of student etes, coaches, researchers and
Adidas.
athletes to test, The program started three
years ago when Adidas, a Ger-
 ppr s man athletic equipment compa-
ny valued at $12 billion, wanted
By JULIA LISS to boost it's involvement with
Daily StaffReporter traditionally North American
sports like football and basket-
On top of Adidas' apparel con- ball, and identified the Univer-
tract with the University Athlet- sity as an ideal research partner,
ic Department, the company has Goulet said. Kinesiology Dean
also been working closely with Ron Zernicke already had a rela-
the University's School of Kine- tionship with the company.
siology on research focused on Some research projects test
athletes' apparel needs. Adidas' wares, like a certain type
Over the past three years, of running shoe or compression
Kinesiology researchers have suits, while other studies do not
enlisted the help of student-ath- concern an Adidas product and
tetes to better understand what are simply meant to garner a bet-
products and features work, ter understanding of athletes'
don't work and need improve- needs.
ment when it comes to athletic A current study undertaken
equipment. Assistant Research by Goulet and his team will
Scientist Grant Goulet oversees examine the effect of a running
S MO

shoe's cushioned thickness on
performance and the physi-
cal impact that is transmitted
through the body.
"It's purely just to develop a
better understanding of running
and how some properties of foot-
wear could affect risk of injury
and things like that," Goulet
said.
Goulet emphasized that play-
ers and coaches benefit from
their participation through the
information obtained from the
data. One example he cited was
a study that involved football
players wearing sensors while
developing an Adidas product
called Speedcell, which is a
sensor worn in the shoe. Using
the data from this research, the
team was able to learn how far
they were running during prac-
tice and how that compared
with how far they actually ran
in a game.
One challenge Goulet he
anticipated was that Adidas
might not want to hear criticism
of their products. He said he was
happy to find that this wasn't the
case, as the team of researchers
he works with at Adidas focuses
solely on innovation. They are
separate from those who bring
products to market and sell
them.
"Fortunately, we are work-
ing with a team who's genuinely
interested in bettering the prod-
uct." Goulet said..
Though the contract between
the two groups is renewed on a
two-year basis, Goulet does not
see any end to this partnership
in sight, as long as all parties are
continuing to benefit from the
research.
VOTE
TO DAY!
#umichvotes
FREEDOM RULES

,.

Po
C
p
s

In
in the
forced
Ayotz
a pol
agains
and
reforn
not be
An
Unive
Work
ing 43
Prof..
a pan
Jaime
Latin)
at the
and Jo
iting s
has liv
In 1
dents'
mayor
ished
a wary
is in tl
rero,
cartel
years.
found
not yE
remai
Invest
police
the M
reros
of the
provi
more i
The
70 pe
Latin
Studie
Ethni
spons

lice corruption, Institute, the Latina/o Studies
Program and the Romance Lan-
artel violence guages and Literature depart-
ments. A vigil was held at the
)lague nation's Diag after the event.
"We have been brought here
outhlern states by together to'talk about these
missing 43 students, but this is
By ANASTASSIOS not an anomaly unfortunately,"
ADAMOPOULOS De Le6n said. "It's been happen-
Daily StaffReporter ing for a very, very long time and
it's unfortunate that it takes this
September, authorities sort of event to raise attention in
Mexican city of Iguala the U.S. media."
1 43 students from the However, he noted, many
inapa Normal School into of these challenges are related
ice vans after a protest to broader global processes,
st rising university costs including U.S. foreign policy.
government education "As a community we want
Es. The 43 students have to understand the gravity and
en seen since. also the horror of what is going
event held Monday at the on, and understand better the
rsity's School of Social situation of students who are
focused on Mexico's Miss- fighting for economic and social
I. Associate Anthropology justice in Mexico," said Alexan-
Jason De Leon moderated dra Minna Stern, director of the
el that featured speakers Latin American and Caribbean
Pensado, director of the Studies department.
American Studies program Pensado presented on the
University of Notre Dame similarities and differences
orge Najera Godinez, a vis- between Mexico today and
tudent from Guerrero who Mexico of the 1960s, focusing
ed in Iguala. on 1968 when student move-
the weeks since the stu- ments were also taking place.
disappearance, Iguala's However, the student move-
, Jose Luis Abarca, van- ments were much less popular
after authorities issued than current activities. Today,
rant for his arrest. Iguala the movements are largely
he Mexican state of Guer- non-partisan and unsupportive
which has been a center of of political parties in general,
-related violence in recent attracting students from Mex-
Mass graves have been ico's elite universities, conser-
, but investigators have vative and Catholic students, as
et been identified as the well as participants from both
ns of the missing students. sides of the political spectrum.
igators say that the local "What I want to emphasize
delivered the students to today is a sense of optimism that
exican drug cartel Guer- I see," Pensado said. "I've been
Unidos. Four members fascinated by the social upris-
cartel were arrested and ing that has developed not only
led the investigators with in Mexico City but across the
information on the case. nation and across the world in
event, which drew about support of the people of Guer-
ople, was hosted by the rero, but also to sort of question
American and Caribbean and pressure the Mexican state
s department and Multi- to finally transform its system
c Student Affairs and co- so that things like this will not
ored by the International happen again."

Pensado noted that there are
two options that could follow: a
peaceful social movement or an
armed uprising.
"Every time there is a mas-
sacre in the state of Guerrero, it
has been followed by a guerilla
uprising," Pensado said.
Pensado noted that in Guer-
rero today, citizens have essen-
tially two governments, the
actual state and the narco-state,
meaning citizens often pay taxes
to both authorities as the link
between legal and illegal activity
becomes increasingly blurred.
"What you have now is peo-
ple directly associated with the
narco- trafficking and so on,
running for elections and win-
ning elections," Pensado said.
"And this is something that was
really unheard of if you think of
Mexico's 'dirty war' of the 1970s
for instance."
He noted that in his expe-
rience people in Mexico have
three reactions toward the
situation: fear, distrust of gov-
ernment and anger that is espe-
cially prevalent among youth.
Pensado noted that 47 out of
Mexico's 81 municipalities have
developed self-defense bri-
gades.
Godniez, who spoke partly
in Spanish via a translator, was
awarded a scholarship to study
at the University.
"I just arrived here two
months ago and am planning
to come back to study my Ph.D.,
but I want to go back to my
community to help my people,"
Godinez said.
Godinez noted that what hap-40
pened in Iguala happens else-
where in Mexico. The normal
schools in the region, where he
noted that being an indigenous
person is a requirement to gain
admission, are the poorest in
Guerrero. He also said that the 0
indigenous students are some
of the most marginalized in the
state.
Read the full story at
michigandaily.com

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 4, 2014 - 3


PREVIEW
From Page 1
the balance, but U.S. Rep. Gary
Peters (D-Detroit) has taken a
commanding lead in the polls over
Republican Terri Lynn Land, for-
mer Michigan Secretary of State.
What was once a four-point lead
in early September has tripled to
a more than 12-point advantage
for Peters, according to the Real-
ClearPolitics aggregate.
Peters, who specialized in
financial issues during his three
terms in Congress, supports rais-
ing the minimum wage and deficit
reduction, favors policies such as
cap-and-trade to combat climate
change and has also campaigned
on his support for abortion rights
and having access to contracep-
tion.
Land, meanwhile, favors lower
tax rates for businesses to stimu-
late economic growth, supports
free-market solutions to combat
climate change, opposes same-
sex marriage, favors restrictions
on abortion and would support
repealing the Affordable Care Act.
Attorney General
Republican Attorney General
Bill Schuette is seeking a second
term as the state's chief legal offi-
cer as he tries to fend off Demo-
cratic challenger Mark Totten, a
law professor at Michigan State

University. Schuette leads Totten
by roughly four points, according
to a Detroit News poll released last
week. Schuette has highlighted
his efforts as a "voice for victims"
in his reelection bid, but has been
criticized by Totten for his sup-
port of a state ban on same-sex
marriage and his challenges to the
Affordable Care Act in court. Tot-
ten hopes to refocus the role of the
Attorney General as "the people's
lawyer" by prioritizing efforts
such as protecting consumers
from predatory business schemes.
Michigan 12th
Congressional District
Rep. John Dingell's (D - Dis-
trict 12) 58-year run in Congress
is coming to an end, but his wife
Debbie Dingell, a former General
Motors executive and a Democrat-
ic party activist, is looking to keep
the seat in the family. She hopes to
fight for women's and children's
issues, increase state support for
higher education and is an advo-
cate forgayrights. OpposingDing-
ell is Republican nominee Terry
Bowman, an assembly line worker
at a Ford Motor Co. plant and the
founder of Union Conservatives,
which seeks to promote conser-
vative principles to union mem-
bers. Bowman supports the state's
right-to-work laws and opposes
the Affordable Care Act for its
potential to incentivize part-time
rather than full-time employment.

No formal polls have been con-
ducted for the race, but Dingell is
heavily favored in this left-leaning
district.
State Senate
In Michigan's 18th senate
district, incumbent Democrat
Rebekah Warren is seeking
reelection against Republican
Terry Linden. Warren previously
served two terms in the state leg-
islature before being elected to the
Senate in 2010 and supportswom-
en's reproductive rights, increased
state support for education, eco-
nomic innovation and expanding
access to healthcare. Information
about Linden's campaign or views
on issues could not be found and
he declined multiple requests for
comment.
State Legislature
Incumbent Democrat Jeff
Irwin is seeking a third term rep-
resenting the 53rd district in the
state legislature and faces chal-
lenger Republican John Spisak, a
former small business owner and
currentastay-at-home father. Irwin
supports increased state funding
for K-12 and higher education, and
supports investing in the physi-
cal infrastructure to promote
economic growth. Spisak's top
priority is to improve the state's
infrastructure and is also an advo-
cate for fiscal responsibility in
government.

FINANCES
From Page 1
governor and U.S. Senate have
been no exception to this trend,
becoming some of the most
expensive in the country. In the
gubernatorial race, $28.8 million
has been spent on television ads
alone, according to the Center for
Public Integrity.
Republican Gov. Rick Snyder's
official campaign has spent $7.6
million, supported by another
$6.5 million from the Republi-
can Governors Association and
$1.3 million from the former
New York City Mayor Michael
Bloomberg's Independence USA
political action committee. The
Democratic Governors Associa-
tion has done the majority of the
ad spending for Democratic chal-
lenger Mark Schauer, providing
$8.9 million so far, while Schau-
er's campaign itself has contrib-
uted $2.6 million.
The RGA and DGA are 527
organizations, meaning that
unlike the candidates' official
campaigns, there is no cap on
how much they can accept from
contributors or on how much
they spend. According to the
Michigan Campaign Finance
Network, the largest Michigan
contributor this election cycle
to the RGA was ETC Capital, a
Farmington Hills-based invest-
ment firm that has given roughly
$2.7 million. The DGA's largest
in-state contributor this cycle is
the United Auto Workers, which
gave $1 million.
As expensive as the guber-
natorial race is shaping up to

be, the race for Michigan's open
U.S. Senate seat has proven to
be even more costly. The Center
for Responsive Politics rated it as
the ninth-most expensive Senate
race this election cycle, topping
$46.9 million. Republican candi-
date Terri Lynn Land's campaign
has spent over $11.8 million,
while U.S. Rep. Gary Peters, the
Democratic candidate, has spent
$9.5 million in his campaign.
Just like the gubernatorial
race, outside spending for the
Senate race has outpaced that of
the candidates themselves. Lib-
eral groups either supporting
Peters or opposing Land have
together spent roughly $18.7 mil-
lion, while Conservative groups
supporting Land or opposing
Peters have spent $8.8 million.
The two largest spenders in the
race are the SuperPAC Ending
Spending Action Fund, a con-
servative group advocating for a
reduction in government spend-
ing, and the NextGen Climate
Action, a liberal environmental
group backed by billionaire Tom
Steyer, a hedge fund manager.
Steyer has spent $58 million this
election cycle, the largest single
donor in the disclosed political
system.
While abundant spending
on behalf of both candidates
has distinguished the races for
governor and Senate, lopsided
financial advantages have char-
acterized two other prominent
Michigan campaigns.
In the race for Attorney Gen-
eral, Republican incumbent Bill
Schuette has raised $3.7 million
compared to Democratic chal-
lenger Mark Totten's roughly

$679,000, according to the
Michigan Campaign Finance
Network. Schuette has received
large donations from the PACs
for Decider Strategies, a Republi-
can political consulting firm, and
Detroit law firm Miller Canfield,
as well as the Michigan Beer and
Wine Wholesalers Association.
For Totten, the largest contribu-
tors have been from the PACs for
UAW and the Michigan Educa-
tion Association.
Fundraising in the race for
Michigan's 12th congressional
district has been similarly one-
sided. Democratic nominee Deb-
bie Dingell has raised over $1.3
million compared to just over
$42,000 for Republican Terry
Bowman. According to the Cen-
ter for Responsive Politics, more
than half of Dingell's campaign
war chest-has come from sources
outside the state.
Despite the influx of out-
side money in these races, it is
unclear whether the candidates'
positions have altered as result
of such trends. Traugott noted
that though the current state of
campaign finance has empow-
ered some outside groups with a
narrow issue focus, many of the
groups like the RGA and DGA are
just newer fundraising apparatus-
es ofthe standard political sources
that existed pre-Citizens United.
"I think that the greatest
impact on position-taking comes
from direct contributions rather
than these indirect contribu-
tions," Traugott said. "They have
the ability to contact the (elected
official's) office and remind them
how they supported them during
the campaign."


UHS
From Page 1
very soon after the shift - Doug
Strong, CEO of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers, said the health system
was suffering.
"It caused us to slow down
because it was complicated and
people had to learn it," Strong
said. "As a result we were suffer-
ing more financially than we had
been previously ... as we speak
we are resurfacing from that."
UHS Medical Director Rob-
ert Ernst agreed that the change
to MiChart was a major step for
UHS, particularly because they
were transitioning from paper
charts to computers.
"It was a really major shift
in our practice when we moved
from paper records to an elec-
tronic record system," Ernst
said. "And I don't think you can
underestimate the disruption."
Two and a half years later,
UHS members have become
much more comfortable with
the inner workings of MiCh-
art. With familiarity has come
success, and in many ways
the UHS online system is
thriving and nearly all of the
paper charts have been moved
online.
"People who have been users
of this system have had an oppor-
tunity to build a record, and that
took some time," Ernst said.
"There were instances when
we were working with both the
paper record and the electronic,
and we've kind of grown out of
that now."
Electronic records have
resulted in bidirectional com-
munication between the health
care provider and the patient.
Using an online health portal,
MyUofMHealth.org, students
can request prescription renew-
als, view test results and make
appointments. Previously, stu-

dents had to call or even come to
UHS to perform these tasks.
The convenience of care has
brought increased patient satis-
faction. Ernst said patient satis-
faction with ability to view test
results was 70 percent without
the portal. Since then, this num-
ber has now climbed to 90 per-
cent.
"That addresses what we had
known as a gap," Ernst said.
"We've really made a tangible
improvement in that."
UHS is still looking to improve
student usage of the portal,
which about half of students
currently use. UHS has taken
measures such as putting portal
information on business cards
and having kiosks at checkout
with computers for patients to
make portal accounts.
Though 50 percent of patients
are actually using the por-
tal, only 5 percent are making
appointments through it. Ernst
said he is looking to increase this
number over time.
UHS is the only site within
UMHS that offers patients the
option of scheduling an appoint-
ment online. Ernst is an advo-
cate of this feature particularly
because it encourages continuity;
patients can only make appoint-
ments with a doctor they have
seen in the past, a feature that
is supported by studies indicat-
ing a link between a consistent
patient-doctor relationship and
better quality of care.
"It's not as intuitively obvious
to most students that they would
benefit from continuity until
they've had it," Ernst said. "Then
they really find it to be satisfy-
ing."
The biggest challenge that
persists with the online system
is internal communication with-
in UHS, Ernst said. Rather than
making a phone call or going
to see them in person, doctors
can contact their medical assis-
tants and nursing staff through

the system, and Ernst said staff
members are still working out
this part of the routine.
"It has become almost some-
thing else to do," he said.
Epic is not a simple system.
Ernst said there are other, less
advanced systems that are tai-
lored specifically to college
health centers and might be eas-
ier to work with initially. How-
ever, Epic's functionality results
in greater efficiency once its
capabilities are well understood.
UHS is now reaching that point.
UHS has begun to launch
screening algorithms to encour-
age protocol-based features such
as STI screenings for women.
Ernst said this functionality
has greatly improved efficiency
because it takes advantage of
a patient's presence at UHS. A
patient can receive - or at least
schedule - the routine check
that day.
"That is the high-end Epic
functionality that is not associ-
ated with the off-the-shelf, more
tailored college health electronic
records," Ernst said.
The use of Epic is also crucial
because it allows UHS to be on
the same system as the rest of the
University hospitals. This would
not be the case if UHS were using
the less complex programs typi-
cally meant for college health
systems.
"The fact that we're using the
same system as the medical cen-
ter has really eliminated this loss
of information," Ernst said. "If
a student goes to the emergency
room ... that sort of sharing of
information when there needs
to be sharing of information has
been fantastic."
MiChart is continually becom-
ing a useful tool for UHS. Just
last week, UHS launched online
nutrition services.
"We've really settled in now,"
Ernst said, "so we're much more
efficient with it than we've been
before."


DETROIT
From Page 1
into teams and develop products
that they pitch to a panel of pro-
fessional mentors.
Ultimately, one team wins the
"competition," earning a $400
prize. How the winners use the
money is up to their discretion.
Last year's program had two
winners. One winning team
designed a product called Graf-
fiti Gowns, medical gowns that
can be drawn on, as a way to
engage younger children in hos-
pital environments.
Resnick said this team used
some of its prize money to con-
sult with a patent lawyer and try
to patent a washable material for
the gowns.
"The end goal, really, is to give
what we envision the promising
team from our workshop money
so that they can continue to
have resources to continue this
work," he said. "We just want to
see these students empowered
to go on their own."
Resnick added that even
those who do not win funding
are given the tools to succeed.
Not all projects set out to cre-
ate products - others include
valuable services, such as local
tutoring or community service
organizations.
Once the program ends, Resn-
ick said many of the projects go
on to be implemented, and par-
ticipants stay in touch with their
fellow students and mentors
through Facebook groups and
over e-mail.
One example is LSA sopho-
more Monica Mungarwadi, who
was a student in the program

during her senior year of high-
school and is now a member of
d[en]. Her group project was
called the Middle School Initia-
tive, which would recruit stu-
dents from middle schools to
take part in a diversity education
program centered on race and
ethnicity.
The initiative was success-
fully launched last year in her
hometown of Farmington Hills.
She said the skills she learned in
the d[en] program were invalu-
able ingettingthe Middle School
Initiative going. y
"One of the first things that
I learned was writing a busi-
ness model," she said. "I had
never even heard what a busi-
ness model was. That helped a
lot because it helped us struc-
ture our organization: what our
main goal was, what our mission
statement was, how much money
we wanted to put towards our
program, how to get the funding
that we needed."
Tom Frank, executive direc-
tor of the University's Center
for Entrepreneurship, who was
a guest judge at last year's con-
cluding d[en] competition, said
a couple of teamseven sought
his mentorship after the pro-
gram came to an end. He hap-
pily extended it and said he was
impressed by the program over-
all.
"Two of these high school
teams presented the best startup
ideas that I had seen all year,
and one of them I would have
invested my personal money in if
that was not completely outside
of our conflict of interest," Frank
said, referring to Graffiti Gowns.
Frank said high school stu-
dents yield innovations that go

beyond the sometimes-cookie
cutter version of "entrepreneur-
ship" that is often prevalent at
the university level, which tends
to focus on tech startups.
"People solve problems that
reflectthe world thattheyilive in,
and the problems that we were
presented by the d[en] students
were really cool to me because
they came from a completely
fresh perspective," he said.
Frank said the sentiment was
also visible recently at the CFE's
Urban Entrepreneurship Ini-
tiative Symposium, where, he
said, many Detroit natives were
present. The initiative encour-
ages sustainable business meth-
ods for solving important urban
issues and was founded by David
Tarver, a lecturer at the College
of Engineering and the CFE.
"The things that they cared
about around financing are not
the same things that somebody
who's commercializing a laser
in one of our research labs cares
about," Frank said. "So there
again, you get the benefit of this
feedback from the community:
'Don't set up a venture capital
storefront ... show me how I can
finance the next phase ofgrowth
so I can manufacture this thing
I've created.'"
Tarver also taught a d[en]
workshop last year, which pro-
vided an overview of methodolo-
gies for growing a business. This
is one of his areas of expertise
- he has successfully developed
numerous profitable businesses,
namely Telecom Analysis Sys-
tems, which he started in his
basement with two friends and
ultimately sold for $30 million.
Read the full story at
michigandaily.com


DEMOCRATS
From Page 1
age students to vote this election
cycle, especially because non-
presidential elections are known
for attracting fewer voters. Many
of the candidates cited low voter
turnout among young voters as
the reason for substantial Demo-
cratic losses in the 2010 midterm
elections.
"We need you tomorrow,"
Dingell said to the cheering
crowd. "We've got to take the
state legislature back. We are here
tonight to create the energy, to
create the enthusiasm to remind
your roommates and the people
and in your houses and in your
dormsthattomorrow matters and
what's at stake."
Schauer said he believes the
student vote will push Democrats

ahead in the election.
"I am an optimist about our
future and I trust you with the
future of this state," Schauer said.
"It is in your hands and I am com-
pletely comfortable with that."
After the rally, the College
Democrats posted flyers and
chalk messages around campus.
"We're doing everything we
can to make sure that if you're a
student at the University of Mich-
igan, you know that it is Election
Dayandyouknowwhothe Demo-
crats are," Culbertson said.
In addition to encouraging stu-
dents to vote, many candidates
discussed their positions on fun-
damental issues like the environ-
ment, women's rights, health care
and LGBTQ rights. Many candi-
dates also discussed their goals
for empowering the people over
big business and corporations.
"This is really a critical elec-

tion to show that big money can't
buy elections," Peters said. "It is
the people of the state of Michi-
gan who get to determine who
their Senator is, who their Secre-
tary of State is, who's their Attor-
ney General, not these out of state
billionaires."
Culbertson said that the state
elections, and especially the guber-
natorial race, are still very impor-
tant for out-of-state students.
"We're voting for someone who
is going to sign the state budget
for higher education and sign the
road funding, and they're going to
be signing bills of anti-discrim-
ination legislation," Culbertson
said. "Even if you're only going to
be on campus for four years, all of
those things will and should mat-
ter to you. I think this election
is incredibly important and it's
incredibly important to show up
on Election Day."

F RIlDAY
Nov21
The Future @11AM
Sta p
of Global Tech Adt~u
Centerran
Entrepreneurship
FE AT U RING
Co-founder & General Partner, DCM dcm
Dr. Dixon R. Doll
Dixon Doll has been one of the architects of some of the greatest waves
of technology innovation the world has ever seen. His venture firm Doll
Capital Management, or DCM, has led investments for years in the United
States and Chins. Notably, Mr. Doll's partners have received acclaim by
K- Forbes and other premier investment and business publications, moat
recently for DCM's leadership in the Chinese technology revolution.
Wherever new and important economic trends and development have
occurred, you can be sure that Mr. Doll's influence has been present. He
will be drawing upon this unparalleled experience and perspective to
share not only how global technology innovation has grown but also where, how and who
will develop it in the future.
Register today http://goo.gl/iVhRmg
JAMES R. MELLOR LECTURE SERIES MICHIGAN ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

#TURNUP4ELECTIONS
We'll be updating michigandaily.com
all day with election results.

t


Page 4 -- Tuesday, November 4, 2014

The Michigan daily -- michigandaily.com 0

Page 4- Tuesday, November 4, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

C 1 Mitlhinan 4F{
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETERSHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Crossingtheaisle

I've been to more Republican campaign
events that I can reasonably recall. Hav-
inginterned and volunteered for ahandful
of local candidates, I'm used
to the large crowds amped up
on the idea that, after Elec-
tion Day, society might begin
to change for the better.
I'm also the last person
you'd expect to find at a
Democratic rally featuring
President Barack Obama.
But, three days before VICTORIA
the election, in a crowded NOBLE
gym filled with cheering
supporters for Michigan's
bluest candidates, that's exactly where I was.
I watched passionate devotees erupt with
hope and excitement as candidates promised
wider access to quality education, middle
class-centric policies, a better economy with a
booming job market and a fairer government
less controlled by special interests. At several
pointsinthespeech,Iwastemptedtosmile and
cheer with the crowd - though my yellow press
pass and frequent self-reminders to maintain a
journalist's fagade of impartiality (hopefully)
prevented those reactions.
For a good portion of each candidate's and,
subsequently, Obama's speech, the focus was
on issues and policies that consistently poll
favorably among most Americans, regardless
of political orientation. At several moments,
if someone had told me Obama's words were
actually those spoken by his presidential oppo-
nent two years ago, I would've believed them.
As normal, rational citizens, there are just
certain things we can all get behind. The real
economic progress described by Obama really
isn't so divisive. And I'm fairly sure that leaders
valuing the "hard work and responsibility that
the ordinary people they represent take with
them every single day when they go to the job,"
appeal to voters on both sides of the aisle.
Yet, Obama made a concerted effort to'
differentiate Democratic candidates from their
Republican opponents. He did this by painting
them as anti-family, anti-worker and anti-
women. He conflated and (unfairly) compared,
even quoting, sans context, an unidentified
Republican candidate, who said, "You could
argue that money is more important for men."
After a quick Google search, I found that the
quote was given by the Assistant Majority
Leader of the Wisconsin state Senate Glenn
Grothman in 2012.
Obama was giving a campaign speech in
front of a base of supporters, not an address to
the nation, and firing up the crowd just domes
with the territory. Sometimes making dramatic
statements is the best way to do that. But, in
a few days, the election will be over. Those
feelings, that animosity stirred by aggravating
statements pitting leaders against their
constituents won't fade just because one party
or the other has decisively won.

In one part of his speech, Obama focused
on the progress that this state has recently
realized. But, instead of properly giving credit
tc the swaths ofpolicymakers at everylevelwho
contributed to these impressive improvements,
he politicized it.
"Despite the unyielding opposition of folks
on the other side, there are workers who have
jobs today who didn't have them before," he
said. "There are auto plants that got shifts that
weren't there before."
The tension that characterizes the
relationship between Republican and
Democratic parties, especially at the national
legislative level, is undeniable. But even so, any
assertion that either party alone is responsible
for Michigan's economic recovery, or that one
side accomplished it in spite of the other, is
unequivocally false.
Obama and the Democrats certainly aren't
alone in their use of dichotomous and partisan
language. But, when Obama was campaigning
in2008,he characterizedhimselfas abipartisan
leader, so his move toward divisiveness in
this election is particularly disappointing.
One quote was particularly condescending
and off-putting.
"Republicans are good people, they're
patriots. They love their country ... But they've
got bad ideas," he said. "And I always try to
explain - look, I've got members of my family
who I love and have bad ideas. I still love them.
I just wouldn't put them in charge."
Ironically, so many of both parties' ideals,
if not the ideas themselves, are strikingly
similar. And that's not to say that there aren't
differences - there are. But effective policy
will draw from both parties' platforms - it's
what our government was designed to do.
By characterizing Republicans so negatively
now, it only reduces the prospects of
future cooperation.
A few weeks ago, I listened to University
Regent Kathy White give atalk on leadership.
One lesson she gave really stuck in my mind:
there's no limit to what you can accomplish
if you don't care who gets credit. It's
abundantly clear that Michigan's economic
recovery is the result of interplay between
Republican and Democratic ideas. Instead
of highlighting their differences, leaders
from both parties should recognize that
real, continued progress will require serious,
pragmatic collaboration - not opportunistic
criticism aimed at winning votes.
In a few days, the competition will be over.
It will be time to put aside the differences,
forget the negative advertisements and move
past antagonizing words. But, no matter
who is elected, our new leaders will have a
responsibility to focus on the most important
thingboth partieshaveincommon:the people
they serve.
- Victoria Noble can be reached
at vjnoble@umich.edu.

r

Seeking refuge in a strange land
M y arm was beginning private organizations providing tage for one which they'd only seen
to fatigue, but I dared vocational, settlement and through the glass of a television set.
not move for fear of the therapeutic services for Michigan's Bravely, they made their way
microphone pick- sizable refugee population, which through the Middle East onward to
ing up some sort in the 2011 fiscal year amounted Europe, across the Atlantic, first to
of grainy interfer- to 2,587 people. Over the past Canada, and then later across the
ence that would decade, Michigan has accepted border to Michigan, where family
ruin my audio. the entry of 23,547 refugees from members in Metro Detroit housed
With every invol- an estimated 49 countries into its them before they received enough
untary, sinewy borders, a number higher than money through philanthropic
twitch, I felt the any other state in the Midwest donation to settle in Lansing.
joints in my elbow AUSTIN except Minnesota. Although they don't reside in the
and wrist sort of A According to data from 2011, best of neighborhoods, the woman
click before lock- DAVS some 8,802 refugees who have told me, at least there is no immedi-
ing up again in a entered Michigan in the past year ate threat of car bombs or gunfire.
new position. I have hailed from Iraq; on a national I do not tell this woman's story
took a deep breath and tried to sup- scale, about 20 percent of refugees to evoke sympathy for her or her
press the dull ache. I didn't want to coming to the United States from circumstances, nor do I do it to put a
break contact with her eyes. Iraq choose to come to Michigan for face on the thousands of refugees in
I couldn't understand a word asylum, most likely due to the dense Michigan who attempt to assimilate
she was saying, but I could feel the Arabic population surrounding the to an American life without first
emotion pouring out of her, travel- Detroit area. For those seeking a being given psychological services
ing up from her depths and mate- better life, Michigan is an attractive to cope with the pain they've
rializing itself in the brimming resettlement location. already experienced.
tears hanging on to the bottom of The woman described above is I tell this woman's story as one
her lids. Her voice quivered and one such refugee. She is a native which I hope will humble those
vacillated between light and dark Iraqi who fled her homeland with who read it, who will appreciate
inflections, from a quiver to a sinis- her family only a few short years the pain this woman has endured
ter, shrill, almost piercing screech. after the U.S. invasion in 2003; the and the strength she has displayed
Her face twisted with the confus- sectarian violence that had already in swallowing that pain against
ing mix of feeling accompanied by plagued Iraq, coupled with rising hardship in order to attempt to
each memory; a smile would begin political violence between Iraqi provide her loved ones with a life
to appear, but would be halted by and American soldiers, became too here in the United States - a place
the progression of anguish creeping unsafe an environment for her and where she believed they would have
its way into her countenance. Like a her family. more opportunity and autonomy
movie reel, her story replayed itself I later came to find out through in their lives as compared to that
in vivid projections in her mind. the aid of a translator who accom- experienced in their native land.
She was speaking Arabic, and I panied me to the interview that I tell her story because, despite
couldn't understand a single word she'd been recounting the moment the toil that life can have, the
she was saying - yet somehow, I in which she decided to flee Iraq: depression for which it can be a
had understood exactly what she due to a misunderstanding by mili- catalyst, or the crippling doubt of
was attempting to convey: pure, tary officials, her family's home - a choices made that accompanies
unadulterated pain. farm house built by her grandfather the former and the latter, at least
About ayear and ahalf ago, during which had since housed her family there is some form of choice in
the time in which I was interning at - was burned to the ground, along this country to change one's
the NPR member station, Michigan with all the family's material pos- circumstances without having to
Radio, I was given an assignment sessions. Nobody sustained physi- seek refuge in a strange land. With
covering a refugee women's group cal injury in the arson;however, the midterm elections upon us, it's
based out of Lansing supported by prospect of what may have occurred critical to keep this in mind.

funds from St. Vincent Catholic
Charities. Since the 1970s, St.
Vincent's has been one of many

given different circumstances was
enough to scare her family into
abandoning their country of heri-

- Austin Davis can be reached
at austchan@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Devin Eggert, David Harris, Rachel John, Jordyn Kay, Aarica
Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Allison Raeck,
Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Mary Kate Winn, Jenny Wang, Daniel Wang,, Derek Wolfe
Girl-on-girl crime

I

White privilege? Hail yes
bite privilege is a set of privileges dards set upon them due to their race.
that white people experience, 8. They do not question if the reason
while non- they got accepted here was because of
white people of the their race.
same social, political 9. Their parents did not have to tell
or economic status do them about the systematic racism they will
not. Many things white experience in college and in life beyond.
individuals experience 10. No one is surprised if they tell him/
are easily taken for her about their high test scores and/or GPA in
granted, but that is a high school.
primary factor in being 11. They can outwardly support
privileged by a system RENNIE affirmative action without their opinion
that favors the white race. PASQUINELLI being attributed to their race.
A common misconception 12. They can be reassured that the
about white privilege is person in charge of their school is someone of
that it is a direct attack on a specific white their race, and always has been.
person's success or failure. The inherent 13. If they make a mistake in a group
privilege of white people is not a blame game, assignment, their race will not be pinpointed
but rather just a term to highlight the system as the reason why.
itself. Here are 20 ways that white people 14. They can be late to appointments or
- including myself - are privileged at the meetings withoutit being blamed on their race.
University of Michigan and other settings. 15. Other white people's use of the
1. They can be pretty sure there will n-word doesn't affect them.
be someone of the same race as they are in 16. They do not have to worry that the
any class they are in. way they dress, or even just their skin color,
2. Walking around campus, they do will make them a more susceptible target to
not have to actively search for somebody of law enforcement.
the same race. 17. If they are walking alone at night, no
3. They are not stared at in class when one is (consciously or subconsciously) fearful
the conversation of race comes up. of them.
4. They get to study people of their 18. Theycan go to the CVS or Walgreens
race doing groundbreaking and important on State Street and find Band-Aids that match
things in their textbooks. their skin color.
5. If they wanted to, they could spend 19. Iftheyare atall and strongmale,oth-
time with only people of their race whenever ers do not automaticallyassume theyare on the
they so choose. basketball or football team.
6. They do not have to be nervous 20. Somebody didn't dress up as their
about being one of the only, if not the only, race or ethnicity for Halloween last weekend.
person of their race in their dorm's hall.
7. No one ever assumes that they got - Rennie Pasquinelli can be
into the University because of lower stan- reached at renpasq@umich.edu.
1

've never been a huge Renee
Zellweger fan. Maybe it was
her character in "Chicago,"
in which she
plays a mousy,
manipulative
and popularity-
hungry girl. Or
maybe it was
because I never
got in to the whole
"Bridget Jones's
Diary" fad. But
regardless of my LEVINE
preconceived
notions about
this tiny blonde actress, I would
never wish upon anyone the kind
of agony and humiliation she is
currently enduring.
Despite her statements saying
she doesn't mind that the press
is abuzz with chatter about her
"new look," I can tell she must be
hurt. How could she not? Recently
"legitimate" media outlets (i.e. not
tabloids) have been chock-full of
pictures of Zellweger, comparing
her face from what it looked like in
the past to how it looks now, which
is apparently "unrecognizable"
and therefore newsworthy. These
images went viral over the past
couple of weeks, and it seemed as
though everyone had something
to say about how this 45-year-
old woman looks. I'm not only
disgusted and embarrassed for her
but also ashamed of our country
for portraying a woman in such a
light. Why are we not celebrating
her recent book? Instead we are too

obsessed with the body and face of
a woman first and foremost. God
forbid we peek into her intellect
without first examining her
physical appearance. To me this
incident says a lot about how we
treat women in America.
I'm not a fan of plastic surgery
personally, but I can understand
how it could make some people
feel more confident about their
bodies. Admittedly, plastic surgery
embodies everything anti-feminist
in my mind, but if it empowers
any particular woman to feel more
confident, then I refuse to judge
her choice to change her body. If it
will make her still feel sexy as she
ends her youth and enters middle
age, then so be it. Throughout the
past couple of weeks, media outlets
have been hounding Zellweger,
talking about different procedures
she must have had done in order to
look a certain way. Her response
was, "I'm glad folks think I look
different! I'm living a different,
happy, more fulfilling life, and I'm
thrilled that perhaps it shows."
If your best friend said this after
you noticed she looked different,
wouldn't you be happy for her?
Wouldn't you stop wondering what
she did differently (if she didn't
want to tell you) and just be happy
that she feels positively about
herself? I'm not saying Zellweger
is any of our best friends but we
should still cut her a little slack.
I'll admit we can't deny that we see
a difference in Zellweger's look.
That would be denying our human

nature to notice details. But human
nature doesn't dictate the nasty
comments that have ensued since
pictures surfaced. If she chooses
to look a certain way, she should be
allowed to. If she is aging gracefully
or not, depending on your opinion,
it doesn't really matter because
apparently Zellweger herself thinks
that her life is more fulfilling. She's
now more comfortable with her
body. It's like that scene in "Mean
Girls" where Tina Fey's teacher
character Ms. Norbury tells the girls
in the gym, "There's been some girl-
on-girl crime here." The way women
are caring about Zellweger's new
look exemplifies that.
In America women are expected
to look youthful and sexy, otherwise
they aren't considered beautiful.
That idea stays in place until they get
too old. Then the tables are turned,
and you're no longer supposed to look
youthful, vivacious or sexy anymore.
Women,whetherornotthey're inthe
public eye, are expected to embody
the modestly dressed, conserva-
tive grandmother once they reach
middle age. With sex appeal gone, it .
seems our culture rejects women for
everything except being good home-
makers or wise maternal figures. But
women aren't just their sex appeal
or their wise brain. Women can stay
sexy well into middle age so long as
they feel confident and comfortable.
That's exactly what Renee Zellweger
is doing, and I applaud her for it.
- Maura Levine can be reached
at mtoval@umich.edu.


We built the beehive, but to see all the bees
coming and going and being active is exciting."
- Architect David Childs said while watching office employees move into One
World Trade Center in New York City Monday morning, a building he designed.

a


j The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 4, 2014 -" 5

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November 4, 2014- 5

Author of 'The Color
Purple' comes to AA

ByGRACEPROSNIEWSKI Hurst
DailyArts Writer major

BOLD
Gyllenhol. Gyllenhal. Gylenhal. Gyllenhadsahadshjsadjasdjksaf.
Nightcra wler'is
a dark, flat. affair

Gyll
pei

"Nig
instanc
that is
Many
films
themse
"dark
but fem
live u
descrip
What
"Night
that its
relies
violenc
society
Lou
"Prison
a free
who s
Angele
Entirel
journal
follows
crimina
murder
and h(
candid
the loc
manage
person
block
Russo,
is por
exploita
stories
their a

enhaal's twisted journalistic enterprises simply
because theyboostratings.
rformance only From the first frame when we
far see Lou's face, we know there is
goes so a something wrong with him. He
is distant and unstable. Every
ByJACOBRICH word out of his mouth is a lie,
Daily Arts Writer a, coercion or inspirational text
he likely lifted from a self-help
;htcrawler" is a rare manual or an internet guide. We
ce of a mainstream film see him repeatedly fail to bargain
truly dark. with others for money or favors.
popular He is a psychopath character,
tout but not a smart, scheming one
lves as Night- like "American Psycho" 's Patrick
thrillers," Bateman. Lou is more like Mark
w actually crawler Wahlberg's wannabe extortionist
p to the Raveand character in "Pain & Gain," an
.tor. Quality16 amoral, petty man with twisted
separates Bold ambitions. Gyllenhaal sells Lou's
crawler" is socially awkward behavior from
s darkness beginning to end in perhaps his
not on staging intense most energetic and convincing
e, but on portraying performance to date.
's fascinationwith it. It's unclear, though, why
Bloom (Jake Gyllenhaal, Lou is willing to go to such
sers") is a "nightcrawler:" morally reprehensible lengths
elance crime journalist to cover these stories. We are
ells his product to Los shown scenes of his engagement
s television news stations. with petty criminal activity
y outside moral and legal prior to becoming focused on
listic boundaries, Lou "nightcrawling" but we never
the LAPD into various learn anything about his back-
al situations, including story. He is given no reason to
rs, car crashes, stabbings "nightcrawl" other than being
ome invasions, to market a greedy psycho. Gyllenhaal's
footage of the crimes to performance is nuanced enough
al news stations. The upper to intrigue throughout, but
ement of these outlets, a greater explanation of his
ified in ,been-around-the- motivations may have made Lou
news director Nina (Rene the best new character of the
"Thor: The Dark World"), year. Unfortunately, Lou is merely
rtrayed as shamelessly interesting, not classic.
ative, valuing violent The supporting cast, however,
that frighten and upset lacks intrigue entirely. Nina is less
udience above legitimate an interesting character and more

a plot device, and Lou's rival (Bill
Paxton, "Edge of Tomorrow")
is a one-note caricature. Lou
eventually hires an assistant, a
witless homeless kid named Rick
(RizAhmed,"IllManors"), whose
characterization takes up a large
amount of screentime but never
really goes anywhere. The climax
of his arc is the least believable
part of the movie.
Somewhat mitigating the film's
lack of character development
is its excellent sense of tension.
Each time Lou and Rick arrive
at a new crime scene, it seems
as though there are endless
possibilities - will they be
caught? If they are, will it be by
the cops, or the criminals? What
horrific act will they capture
next? "Nightcrawler" has a keen
understanding of these "what's
around the next corner?" thriller
sensibilities. Unfortunately, this
terrific tension is sometimes
hampered by the film's poor use
of non-diegetic sound - its music
is often strangely out of tune with
what is happening onscreen. For
example, it cascades bizarrely,
upbeat and bouncy during an
extremelydarkmomentearlyonin
which Lou illegally moves a body
at a crime scene for the first time.
It felt strange and unintentional,
certainlynotpurposefullyironic.'
"Nightcrawler" is not nearly
as effective a character drama
as it clearly wants to be, but
Gyllenhaal's talent nearly
transcends the superficiality
of his character, and first-time
director Dan Gilroy's well-shot
action sequences are brimming
with drama and twisted energy.

The University has a long,
rich tradition of bringing
speakers of literary and
cultural
significance Alice
to address
students and Walker:
the community Zora
at large. Neale
Tomorrow,
the University Hurston
will host Lecture
novelist, poet
and activist Wednesday,
Alice Walker, 530 p.m.
who was the
first African- Hill Auditorium
American Free
woman to win (registration
the Pulitzer requested)
Prize in
Fiction for her pivotal work
"The Color Purple," a novel
that continues to inspire and
influence writers and readers
alike.
Alice Walker will serve as
the guest lecturer for this
year's Zora Neale Hurston
Lecture, an annual event
presented by the Department
of Afroamerican and African
Studies and the Center for the
Education of Women.
Michael Awkward, a DAAS
professor and founder of the
Zora Neale Hurston Lecture,
spoke about the creation of the
event, now in its 20th year.
"I started the series in
1994 when I was director of
Afroamerican and African
Studies feeling that the unit,
and the University, needed
a major annual event to
showcase the breath and
depth of the field," Awkward
said. "Hurston, an American
novelist, essayist, a playwright
and anthropologist whose
interests spanned the African
diaspora,-medt s the perfect
symbol of the expansiveness of
the field of Black or Africana
Studies."
While many of us have read
Hurston's classic "Their Eyes
Were Watching God" at some
point in our academic careers,
for many years, Hurston
and her work sat in relative
obscurity. In fact, it was
largely through Alice Walker's
research and writings that
Hurston's writings were
rediscovered.
"Fortunately, unlike

lifetin
fact, i
Purpl
30 ye
"Also,
time
Black
more
in Hu
been
the e
sort o
Hurst
"Th
coura
And
being
feels
has m
as an'
I can
conce
repres
peoph
wome
It i
lives
wome
"wom
theor
Aw
SP(
on
on B
exper
gende
"wom
"The
tells t
of Afr
rural
Walke
"to si:
for Bl
impos
we r
of Bk
inextr
Wa
intrin
comm
and p
imbue
poign
open
includ
last y

on, Walker achieved disinvited Walker from
recognition during her speaking at an event -
me - relatively early, in allegedly because of pressure
f we note that 'The Color from donors who disagreed
e' was published over with Walker's views on the
ars ago," Awkward said. Arab-Israeli conflict.
Walker appeared at a "Walker emerged as a
when respect for talented writer in part because of her
and women writers was connection to politics albeit of
widespread than it was a racial and national variety,
rston's day, so she hasn't which she was able quite
ignored or, at least since seamlessly to connect to the
arly 1980s, suffered the gender politics that marked the
f poverty that debilitated feminist movement," Awkward
on. said. "Her connections to
hey share a those movements certainly
geousness, certainly. had an influence on her legacy
Walker's insistence on up until the 1980s."
a voice for those she "Since then, her focus
are unduly mistreated has included international
ade her as controversial atrocities, and she's ruffled
y Black American writer the feathers of people who
1 think of, and a deep believe she has no right to
rn for understanding and speak about controversies
senting the lives of Black connected to non-US countries
e generally and black or that she doesn't understand
n in particular." the issues," said Awkward.
s this emphasis on the "We won't stop reading 'The
and realities of Black Color Purple' or her seminal
n that mark Walker's essays because of Walker's
anist" perspective, a pronouncements on the Israel-
y of social change based Palestinian conflict, I suspect,
though those pronouncements,
as well as hers on the bestiality
., , of the patriarchal institution
card-winning of clitoridectomy, will become
Swi unavoidableaspects of her
writer will literary biography."
eak at the 'U'V in By taking on clitoridectomy
in her novel "Possessing the
Secret of Joy," Walker rejected
W ednesday. the romanticizing of Africa
by many Black writers in the
1960s, and again challenged
readers to look at the complex
lack women's unique interplay of ethnicity and
ience of both racial and gender in the lives of Black
r oppression. Walker's women.
anism" is evident in "In one of my books I write
Color Purple," which that she 'marches tirelessly
he story of the struggles for justice.' And I suspect that
ican American women in she'd willingly sacrifice what,
Georgia in the 1930s. even if her work ended after
Womanist' is a term 'The Color Purple,' would have
er uses," Awkward said, -been a complicated literary
gnify that gender equity legacy to continue to advocate
ack American women is for the causes that speak to her
sible to imagine until soul," Awkward said.
ecognize that the lives Despite the political
ack women and men as controversy, Awkward is
icably bound together." confident that Walker and her
lker's writings are work will continue to impact
sically linked to her our understanding of and
itment to social justice relationtoAmericanliterature.
olitical activism, which "No one will be able to
s them with great discuss American writing
ancy but also leaves her during the last four decades
to partisan criticism, of the 20th century without
ing the controversy considering Walker's
ear when the University contributions."

'Before I Go to,
Sleep' dozes off

CHECK OUT THE LATEST
ENTERTAINMENT NEWS ON
OUR ONLINE BLOG

ByKARSTEN SMOLINSKI
DailyArts Writer
Imagine waking up every
day with no memory of the
past twenty years of your life.
Every night,
your mind
erases the
previous day Before
and every I Go to
morning
you're forced Sleep
to trust the
stranger Re and
sleeping next Quality16
to you. Such Clarius
is the premise
behind
"Before I Go to Sleep," only
the latest thriller to feature an
amnesiac.
There's a good reason why so
manythrillers,fromHitchcock's
"Spellbound" to Christopher
Nolan's "Memento," rely on of
memory loss as the plot driver.
Our memories make up our
personality; they give us a sense
of continuity and purpose.
Without our memories, we lose
control of our destinies and
ourselves. We can't know truth
from falsehood or whom to
trust.
In "Before I Go to Sleep,"
an amnesiac named Christine
(Nicole Kidman, "Eyes Wide

Shut") struggles to recollect
her past with the aid of a
neurologist, Dr. Nasch (Mark
Strong, "Green Lantern").
Dr. Nasch reveals that she
sustained a terrible brain
injury during a vicious attack
years ago, and together they
work to remember the details
of the attack. Unfortunately,
her husband Ben (Colin Firth,
"The King's Speech") strongly
opposes her digging up old
memories. Every day, each
secret Christine uncovers must
be relived by the couple as a
fresh trauma.
Solid performances by
the leads keep the film
engaging and the outcome
uncertain. Though bordering
on melodrama with the
remembrance of old tragedies
and clandestine affairs,
the plot stays emotionally
taut until the climax. The
revelation of one drama after
another pulls the viewer
along at a rapid pace, and the
actors almost make the cliches
bearable. Like the web of
lies ensnaring Christine, the
holes in the story only become
visible when examined too
closely.
Fittingly, "Before I Go to
Sleep" often feels disorienting.
Scenes jump around, making


time difficult to track. Like
a slideshow on fast-forward,
Christine's mind flits
through tantalizingly vague
images: a passionate lover, an
identifying scar, a champagne
bottle descending towards her
head. Phantom voices haunt
her, echoing just out of reach.
The more she unravels of her
past, the more the threads of
memory twist in her grasp.
Disappointingly, the
revelations come with the side
effect of making the plot feel
contrived. Rather than stick to
any hard rules, the story bends
Christine's condition to fit its
needs. It builds relationships
that Christine should be
incapable of. All in all, the
film's treatment of memory
loss doesn't feel as real as in
"Memento."
Though the twists keep the
viewer uncertain, the climax
fails to provide much of a
shock. The deception possesses
great depth, but the small
red herrings along the way
never fully divert attention
from the prime suspect. In a
similar manner, "Before I Go
to Sleep" proves an adequate
diversion, but once the credits
roll, it probably won't stick in
anyone's memory, amnesiac or
not.

WHENEVER
OUR TWEETS
DON'T DO
WELL, WE
REPLY TO
THEM AND SAY
"I GUESS YOU
HAD TO BE
THERE..."
TO SEE IT LIVE,
FOLLOW
@MICHIGANDAILY

U-MOVE
PERSeyO a|
Set your goals.
Meet your goals.
Succeed!
We offer individual, doubles and small group training packages
to fit your needs.Your certified personal trainer works with you
to help you achieve your personal fitness goals. Starting in 2015,
there will be 8 and 12 week packages available.
Fitness Assessment
$60
Individual
$210
Doubles
$120/person
Small Group (3-4 people)
$1001person
Register online at
kines.umich.edu/umoveorin the
U-Move Fitness office located in the
Central Campus Recreation Building,
Bm 3064. You most hose a Rec Sports
membershipfor buildingaccess. Umove Fitness
umove.fitness
734.764.1342 1.u-move@umich.edu @UMoveFitness 3

I


6 - Tuesday, November 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

6- Tuesday, November 4, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

Style Selects: Fall's
fashionable jewelry
By CAROLINE FILIPS the scoop on some of the other "Statement necklaces, that's
For The Daily popular trends. huge right now," Bazzi said. "Like
alot of our fashion-based jewelry
Though the fall-to-winter 1. Color me happy are pretty statement-based and
transition is a bit awkward in they're very big, and if they're not
terms of dressing - "which Banish any beliefs that fall is big they're very detailed."


g

"Are these the right buttons?"
MOtion' cruises

Calvin Harris's new
album leaks classic
techno dance tunes
By MELINA GLUSAC
DailyArts Writer
If anyone's the king of
dance-y dub, it's the enigmatic,
gruffly-voiced
DJ Calvin
Harris. Radio
listeners know Motion
him from that Calvin Harris
inescapable,
unexpected Columbia
hit "Feel So
Close" and,
more recently, "Summer." These
pleasant, .harmless techno
grooves are exactly what Harris
brings on his newest release
of happy-go-lucky club jams,
Motion. So the album lives up
to expectations - but it doesn't
exceed them.
Tunes like "Summer" and
"Under Control" have already
peaked on the U.K. and
U.S. charts. The beautifully
atmospheric "Slow Acid" was
also previously released prior to
the album. These songs are not
necessarily the strongest on the
album, but they've lived up to
their hit potential. "Pray to God,"
Harris's killer collaboration with'
the bad-ass, all-female rock-pop
group HAIM, could also be a
smash; its fusion of great beats,
cool synths and guitar build-
up a la Stevie Nicks's "Edge of
Seventeen" leaves the listener

wanting more.
The only rap on the album,
"Open Wide" with Big Sean,
is stellar - Sean's witty, laid-
back, cocky lyrics blend well
with Harris's perfect techno
accompaniment. This isn't the
case with the other collabs,
though, and the ones with
the most hype tend to fall the
flattest. "Outside," featuring
Ellie Goulding, is blissfully
unoriginal - a formulaic track
laced with Goulding's signature
soulful-whispery-mouse-on-
crack vocals. The strength of
the synths and the epic-ness of
the drop overpower Goulding
by miles. A track like this needs
someone like Mariah Carey to
power through the excess.
So many of Motion's songs
plummet into the depths of
familiarity, the signature-
Calvin-Harris, typical-EDM
hole. "Together," featuring Gwen
Stefani, doesn't deviate from the
norm at all - it's repetitive and
difficult to separate from ditties
like "Faith" and "Love Now."
Harris doesn't allow Gwen a
chance to show her punky flavor
at all. Instead, she's trapped
behind a"dub"blegum pop
number with a melody so simple
Britney Spears could sing it just
as effectively. No doubt there.
The album hits a sultry,
intimate spot for a few minutes
with "Ecstasy." This track,
unmatched by any others, is a
ballad etched with spotless lead
vocals and soft techno insertions
that don't get overwhelming.
Harris has the listener on the

edge of their seat, basking in the
initially jarring, gentle light of
the song and wondering if a drop
is ever going to come. It doesn't
(thank goodness). When it comes
to music, the benefits of straying
from the status quo are infinite;
Harris should've included more
of this inventiveness.
"Blame" with John Newman
is decent, once again steered
by the power of a strong male
vocalist. Newman's soul is
undeniable and the song shines
a little bit more than the others
because of it. Other tracks -
"It Was You" - fade into the
electronic dust.
Of the three all-instrumental,
no vocal tracks, "Slow Acid" is
the darkest, most futuristic and
strongest. It weaves and takes
some unexpected melodic turns,
unlike "Burnin" (with R3hab)
and "Overdrive" (with Ummet
Ozcan), which are unendingly
boring.
The biggest upset is Harris
and newcomer Tinashe's "Dollar
Signs," another characteristic
jam. The listener yearns for
something great, something to
match the effortlessly fly vibes
of Tinashe's first hit, "2 On." But
"Dollar Signs" is so confused,
complete with a huge, hardcore
drop that mismatches Tinashe's
cutesy, chill vocals in the verses.
All of it - all of Motion -
is current. There are dollar
signs in Calvin Harris' future.
But he shouldn't be under the
impression that he's acquiring
that green from being good. It's
all just catchy shit.

coat should I wear today, my
portable sleeping bag or the airy,
windbreaker?" - style knows no
season, especially when it comes
to jewelry. Classic concepts reign
supreme this season, but that
still leaves room for expressing
individuality.
In a quest to find the perfect
set of fall jewelry, I looked no
further than Neiman Marcus at
Somerset Collection in Troy, MI.
I interviewed Kristina Bazzi, a
jewelry consultant of Neiman
Marcus, who shared the hottest
trends for fall jewelry.
It's nearly impossible to walk
into a jewelry carrier without
seeing a vast selection of symbolic
jewelry. Ranging from Hamsas
to four-leaf clovers, the current
trend caters to all.
Brands such as Alex and Ani
offer more affordable examples
of symbolic jewelry, including a
vast selection of their signature,
adjustablebraceletsandnecklaces
in both silver and gold. Sydney
Evan is a pricier option, but
includes a more varied selection
with beaded pieces and jeweled
charms.
"Wehave symbolic jewelrylike
the evil eye, that is huge, and it's
been huge since 2011," Bazzi said.
"A lot of people use it because they
like what it symbolizes, which is
protection. So it became more of a
fashion statement now."
Obviously, doting emblems
has been popular for a few years,
but for this season, Bazzi gave us

Miu
fall c
vibes
seaso
fall,
the
navie
"As y
the n
In
no l

prove color has taken over Sport rings in an
ollections, tinged with '60s unconventional manner this
, and it's reflected by the season by styling your hands
)n's jewelry. with a myriad of bands. Ariella
It has to do with color. For Collection for Nordstrom offers a
the colors are gray, which is set of five stackable rings thatcan
number one color, and then be arranged in any orientation.
es and blues," Bazzi stated. "Normally you wear one ring
you may have heard, navy is and you put it on your middle
.ew black. That's true." finger," Bazzi noted. "But people
are wearing rings now at a
2. Stacks on stacks higher level on the finger. It kind
of makes a zigzag look. It's all
terms of bracelets, there are over Instagram too if you follow
imits this season. Stacking certainvendors."

reserved for neutral colors. This
season, colors are key. Fashion
houses such as Valentino and Miu

4. Puta ring on it

FI

any and all bracelets, regardless
of style and shape, achieves the
perfect look. Stack 'em up for
your own arm party. Try pairing
a watch with a few bangles or
beadedbracelets, such asthoseby
Simon Sebbag or MARC by Marc
Jacobs.
"Bracelets. It is the trend right
now, we call it 'arm candy' to
have a bunch of bracelets on your
arms," Bazzi added. "It's just the
trend."
3.Bebold
Make statements with your
accessories. Bold and daring
pieces are the perfect option
for dressing up simple outfits.
BaubleBar.com has a wide
selection in terms of colors and
styles, catering to both edgy and
classic wearers.

5.Keep it cuffed
Swap your "arm party" for
a wider cuff to add a polished
finish to any look. Rustic Cuff
for Nordstrom has various styles,
including the opportunity to add
an engraved or personalized
cutout.
"They're asymmetrical and
geometric, and geometric shapes
with jewelry are huge right now,"
Bazzi said.
Subtlety just won't cut it
this season as bold and colorful
accessories reign as the top
trends.Rock colors,hostyour own
arm party, add bold necklaces to
your jewelry box, style rings high
and low and invest in a cuff, and
your jewelry game is sure to be on
point.

4

Letk 's talkabout Joe

By KATHLEEN DAVIS
Community & Culture Columnist

I

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
uEi byi h; N i d J Niuhnly L Pueio


ttea Dy c iomrs ana oyce vcnois Lewis
ACROSS 68 Country, and 29 About, in dates 48 "Shame on you!"
1 Makeup or final word that can be 30 Moth-_: tattered 50 Eyeliner !
5 Olympics appended to the 32 Pet detective of problem ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
segment three-letter film 52 "Just joking" ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
10 Elaborate dance ending of 18-, 33 "Hungry Likethe 53 Boy, in Bogota! www.HRPAA.com !
14 Golf clinic topic 26-, 47- or60- Wolf rockers 54 Bad mood
15 'The Lincoln Across 34 "Hit the road" or 55 "That's mine!"
Lawyer" actress "hitthe books' 5705-8b 5AND6BdrmCampushousesfor2015-
Mars DOWN 37 Attress Hatther hearthrob
16 With 41-Across, 1 Self-perceptons 41 Workbench Estrada 2016, check out Joyce Properties at
plantusoumceot 2 One ot clamp 57 So-so grades mw jyc2co
cosmetic Superman's 43 Rewardfora 9Curvein the road
additives hero 61 G-man's org.
17 Rowboapair 3 Bombing attacks 46At ease with 62"__Abner" AVAILABLE NOW! $745 or Best
18 Hot-loking dude 4AO 344 S. Division- Efficiency
20 GPS part: Abbr. A L pursuers5On ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: Furnished, Water & Free Ethernet
21 Yeses inBL B RA746180
Congress marketplace for B L A B R A M A F E A N S 7347618000
22 Laburday handmade goods A I 8 A E M I T I N 0 I L Primesh.com
ardival? 6 Cast a ballot GRIN LA TCASTLE
23 Powerful engine 7 Flightless birds A C NC T I A S H EW HOUSES AVAILABLE MAY 2015
25 650,to Augustus 8 Actor Beatty 8 Bdrms - 720Arbor - $5560
ryso - dn keamouse H E A T C C C E 6 Bdrms - 417 N. Thayer - $3900
sounding Caun 10 Contuse T H E R I S S I A H 0 U a E Tensstspayallutitities. ShowingsM-FI10-
side 11 A, in radiocode I 0 N D E A F E a P A N A 3w/24pyruti ie.
31 Doesageneral's 2Por-cutr M O O D R O D S I D Call 734-996note required.
job 13 Pre-EsterCall7349 11
35 "Be that may season E A T R E
19 Ben or Sam H A U N T E D M A N S I O N WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
36 Work in the 21 "luck?" B 0 L L E B A Y COM
cockpit 24Suffxwith T A E E A G R E E D 734-332-6000
38 _-de-sat kithen H0MEM0VIES ULNA
38 Maker othe Air 26 "nterno" poet AR M EVAC PL T
Maxnathletic she 27Hourlycharge A M A V A C P L 0 T
40 Rich cake 28 Old piano key R E S I N N E R O S ASE WW.CHURCHSTREETRENTALS.-
41 See 1-Across material xwordeditor@ao.com 11/04/142 COM 734-32t01244 715/721 Chich-
42 Extemity Central Canmps/Acoss from East Quact
sporting a ring, 1 02 3 4 5 s 7 5 n1 11, 12 13 1& 2 bdrmnapis avail for2015-2016
maybe
43 LyicitJohnny 14 16 16
daTerrible" ruler
45 Come next in is 1s
47 Taiwanee LPGA 20 21 22
star who ithe
youngest golfer n 24 2
to win five maior
championshipu no un u6 s usou 1o 320030030
49 '60s militant THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
51 camu p. s o o organization, format. All Disciplines.
52 Slacks measure os 40 41 734/996-0566 or writeon@iser.net
55 It's cut before
dealing 0a2 as
58 Most ike it hot
60Nook Tabletdroal as 460 4 aenLPWATo
82 Angler's atificial
fly,e.g. 49 0 01
63 Monogram Itr. nn on ___ ___ ___
64 YippiesoCo- 52 003 54 55 __56____57____58________
fander Hoffman
65 Major exporter oft o 1 62 FULL TIME COMMERCIAL
handmade CLEANERS:CLEANINGINANNAR-
carpets BOR M-F 7-3:30PM. MUST PASS
66 "WhatdidI o-n6 en 50 AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND
7Takeu acance CHECK AND DRUG SCREENING.
on By C.C.Burniket www.aarocompanies.com or call
(c)214 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 586-759-3700

"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
721 S. Forest "Forest Place"
$125 per month-Paid in full up front
Limited Passes Remaining
Now thru April or August 2015
734-761-8000
primesh.com
HAVE YOU
PURCHASED
THE
FOOTBALL
BOOK
YET?

This city is undoubtedly home
to a huge population of uniquely
talented individuals and an above-
average population of brilliant
people. We're consistently atthe
tops of "Smartest Cities inthe
US" lists, and for good reason.
We're a hard-working collection
of high-functioning students and
professionals, and the truth is, a lot
of that focus necessary for ahigh-
stress life can probably be chalked
up to that little browncup of bit-
terness so many ofus drink every
morning. I wouldn't make it to
many of my morning classes with-
out alittlehelp from myKeurig.
This isn't to saythat our ability to
study atsuch a great university is
reliant on a java addiction, but it's
definitely helpful.
The average coffee-drinking
American drinks three cups a day,
which equals 21cups a week and
more than 1,000 cups in a 365-day
year. Add in the fact thatthe aver-
age resident of downtownAnn
Arbor is either a high-functioning
student or a hard-working pro-
fessional, and you're guzzling
down above-average cups a day.
Ann Arbor has a coffee culture so
deeply rooted thatthese figures
aren't so surprising, butthey raise
a serious question: How does the
human race keep up this habitthat
depletes so many of the world's
resources?
The world (and us Ann
Arborites) doesn't need to kick the
coffee habit, we just need to start
making better choices in where
we put our money. A great way
to do this, and an option plenti-
ful in Ann Arbor coffee shops, is
choosing fair trade: the process of
businesses justly compensating
farmers and workers in develop-
ing countries instead of exploit-
ing them for profit as many large
corporations do. These businesses
work directly with the farmers
who grow the cropsthey will use
and sell, ensuringthatthey're
grown sustainably and organi-
cally. Fair trade is, in a way, the
epitome of anti-capitalism: the
workers at the bottom of the
production chain are paid fairly
for their contribution to the busi-
ness, instead of being dragged in
the dust by the bigwigs at the top.
While this entire process can seem
so far from our daily routines
and our simple need for a shot of
espresso, it's importantto realize

the power we can have all the way
in Ann Arbor just by choosingsus-
tainable options.
While it's not practical to inter-
rogate your local barista about the
facts of where their coffee beans
are grown and how much the
farmers are paid per shipment, it's
not so difficult to do your research
about which of your favorite coffee
shops use fair trade ingredients.
Fair trade options are plentiful in
Ann Arbor, as long as you know
where to look. Businesses who
utilize fairtrade are usually proud
of this fact and promote it when
possible, since it's aprettyawe-
some business strategy:you'll reel
in people who consider themselves
environmentally friendly and
sustainable, and the people who
could care less won't think less of
your shopbecause of it. Espresso
Royale buys their coffee from
"Crop-to-Cup," an importer that
buys organic beans directly from
farmers in developingcountries,
and reward them with fair pay for
practicing environmentally sus-
tainable practices. Smaller shops
like Elixir Vitae Coffee and Tea
have fair trade options if you ask.
The options are there if you know
where to work, and the whole
process is a win-win situation,
win-win-win if you think about
the workers who benefit from fair
wages.
Coffee isn't a luxury for many
people. It's a necessity. Coffee
fuels our work, our successes
and keeps us functioning for our
8 a.m.'s as well as our nights out
with friends. Coffee drives our
educations, our artistic endeavors
and, occasionally, our failures. For
a beverage so present in our lives,
we mightas well make choices in
our purchasing histories that may
have little difference for ourselves,
but could greatly change the well-
being of someone working in agri-
culture a world away. Fair trade is
the building block for buildingup
poor communities, startingwith
families, then communities and
then finding the power to change
entire populations for the better.
It's a small step, but every one of
us has the power to help a commu-
nity just by our pre-class choice of
where to pick up a latte.
Davis is addicted to little brown
cups oftbitterness. Totalk about
rehab, e-mail katjacq@umich.edu.

DO THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE.
STORE.MICHIGANDAILY.CDM

A

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 4, 2014- 7

As lone senior, Bielfeldt
hopes to make impact

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Corinne Harris has played in all 23 games for Michigan this year. She has 15 points and has tallied 23 shots on goal.
Harris emerges as veteran
leader for youngz Wolverines

By DANIEL FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
By quickly scanning the
Michigan men's basketball
team's roster, one might notice
a couple things. Yes, there are
12 underclassmen on the team.
Correct, Caris LeVert and Spike
Albrecht are the only juniors.
And lastly, forward Max
Bielfeldt is the lone senior on
the squad. However, until mid-
July, that wasn't true.
It wasn't until July 17 that
Bielfeldt and Michigan coach
John Beilein decided to change
his classification from a redshirt
junior to a senior, opening up
another roster spot in the 2015
recruiting class.
"We had a meeting and he
said, 'We're going to list you as
a senior,' " Bielfeldt said. "I was
fine with it. I'm just looking to
have the best year I can."
For Bielfeldt, this season
represents his best opportunity
to play a pivotal role for the
Wolverines.
After taking a redshirt in
the 2011-12 season, Bielfeldt
played in 20 games the next
season, tallying 23 points and
31 rebounds total in 5.3 minutes
per game. For a while in the
2013-14 season, it was thought
Bielfeldt's minutes could
increase after former Wolverine
forward Mitch McGary had
season-ending back surgery, but
that didn't hold true.
Instead, Bielfeldt played just
89 minutes, usually only when
JordanMorgan andJonHorford
got into foul trouble - such
as in the Big Ten Tournament
Championship game against
Michigan State and during the

second half of Michigan's Elite
Eight game against Kentucky.
But a door opened for Bielfeldt
when McGary declared for the
NBA Draft, Morgan graduated
and Horford transferred to
Florida. He wouldbe the lone big
man with collegiate experience
coming back to Michigan.
With such a major
opportunity for minutes, this
season represented the chance
to show what he had left,
while competing with redshirt
freshman Mark Donnal and
incoming freshmen Ricky Doyle
and D.J. Wilson.
However,
before
competition ,
could even Iit
start, Bielfeldt
underwent door s o
hip surgery in
early June that
kept him out
for the team's
four-game
Italy trip in August. While the
operation and opportunity to
play in Italy could have been
seen as a setback, Bielfeldt said
it felt it would help in the long
run - especially in terms of
improving his leadership and
health.
"I've kind of been struggling
with the whole hip (and) knee
issue for my college years here,"
he said. "And I felt I could finally
benefit more from getting that
surgery done. This summer, it
was a little weird, because the
guys were doing the Italy trip
stuff and I was there doing'
senior support. So I had a little
different role.
"But overall, I think it was
a great idea. I'm feeling great.

I'm just working on getting my
explosiveness back, like the
speed I had before. I know the
ceiling's higher. I can feel when
I'm doing stuff that I have more
of an ability to keep working
hard."
Bielfeldt isn't alone in his
progression and confidence.
Beilein said at the team's awards
banquet in April that Big Ten
opponents were going to learn
"nobody can guard" Bielfeldt.
Hyperbolic or not, Bielfeldt
believes now that he is
100-percent healthy, he can
make a significant difference on
the court.
"I think
I have the
nk the opportunity
to (have
pen with my most
.ea impactful
year)" he
said. "I think
the door's
open with
my health, along with the guys
we have and my position as a
leader."
Though Bielfeldt said he will
contribute more than ever on
the court in his final season at
Michigan, he knows for certain
the impact he has off the court
on his new teammates is as
important.
"We have a lot of guys that
need advice," he said. "As a
person that's been through it,
from academics to athletics or
anything, I think me and the
other upperclassmen are just
trying to advise them as much
as possible because we have a
lot of young souls that really
have no idea what it takes to be
a college student-athlete."

Following lo
of eight start(

)SS
ers,

junior takes on
expanded role
By MATTHEW KIPNIS
Daily Sports Writer
With the Michigan women's
soccer team graduating its most
decorated senior class last year,
including eight of its starters,
coach Greg Ryan needed
someone to step up.
After having thought
about it over the summer and
discussing the
idea of taking
on a bigger
leadership "lH avin
role with
her coaches, exper
junior
midfielder gives y(
Corinne p1
Harris took Confd
the initiative
and sent Ryan
an e-mail
saying she was
ready to do more - ready to
make more of an impact on the
team.
Every athlete takes her own
amount of time to mature into
who she truly is. The process can
depend on many things - not
only the athlete's personality
but also the situation the athlete
is placed in. This can take some
players a couple weeks. Others,
a few years.
For Harris, it took two years
for her to lead Michigan, and
herself, in the manner she feels
most confident with.
"Every year, I have tried to
take on the biggest role that I
can, and this year, I am taking
more of leadership role," Harris
said. "I think I have a lot more
confidence being in the center
of the field than I did when I
was a freshman. Each year is a
different role, but having more
experience gives you more
confidence."
Harris recorded 19 points in
her first two years combined
and has recorded 15 points this
year alone, with three goals and
nine assists. She is also tied for
second in the Big Ten in assists,
only trailing fellow Wolverine
Ani Sarkisian. Harris carried
this team to a surprising third-
place finish in the Big Ten and
has shown her true potential
this season as a player and
leader with the experience and
confidence to step into a much

bigger role.
"I think she is b
Harris for the fir
she arrived," Rya
is confident doin
wants to do on t
just expressing al
have seen in her si
recruiting her."
It took Harris
to this point in h
career, though.
with seniors Nk
Meghan Toohey,
Shelina Zadorsky
leading the way,
took a backseat co
bench. This limi
but increased he
le
thi
ai
ig morem
fences y
w
)U more o1
H
ence. I
to
c
w
envisioned her in
role.
"She could sta
them and deman
attention they wi
Ryan said. "I think
she saw herself as
player alongside
who had such a hu
our program, but I
at Corinne that
way. I always
looked at her as
a kid that could
come in from
day one and
make a huge
impact."
But talent
alone doesn't
make a great
player.
"You can
encourage kids, yo
kids, you can dem
them," Ryan said.
Corinne wasn't t
player you could d
I tried different
get more out of C
whatever I tried dii
Going into this
didn't know if she
up, take on the lea
and elevate her g
next level until he
e-mail from Harri
on, her improvem
evident.
While the team
of mostly undercl

still trying to find its footing,
eing Corinne Harris was the key to keeping
st time since the team above water, recording
n said. "She six points in the team's first six
ig what she games. Harris was the team's
he field and second-leading point scorer,
i the talent I and, at the time, Ryan called her
nce I was out the best player on the team.
"Corinne's progress is the
time to get cornerstone and the foundation
ier collegiate ofoursuccess,"Ryansaid. "There
Last year wasatimewhenshewascarrying
em Ezurike, us almost by herself early in
Holly Hein, the season. I felt like Corinne's
and others performance was holding us
Harris often together early in the season."
iming off the Harris couldn't have elevated
ted minutes her game at a better time.
r ability to But the success can be
am from attributed to the things she
ie players learned while on the bench
round her. behind last year's seniors. She
"It was saw talent and raw ability from
iy role that Ezurike, the proper work ethic
ear, because from Toohey and composition
*e had a lot and intelligence needed on the
f veterans," field from Hein and Zadorsky.
arris said. Harris developed the best
was happy qualities of many of the seniors
step in and from last year and, as described
ontribute any by Ryan, is hard to label with
,ay I could." a single adjective. She has led
But Ryan the team as a mentor to the
a different underclassmen and as a player
who raises the level of those
nd next to around her.
d the same Even with what she has
ere getting," taught the underclassmen on
, in her mind, the field, she also taught them
more of a role how to handle a new role that
the seniors they might not be used to.
ige impact in Almost everyone in the
never looked college level was once one of the
best players
on her club
team, so
"Corinne S it can be
a rough
performance transition
for them to
was holding US be relegated
limited
roles. Harris
experienced
that herself
early in her
ou can get on Michigan career.
and more of "Talking to the
"But I think underclassmen, communicating
hat kind of with them and making sure
o that with. they know that they are a big
things to part of the team, even from day
orinne, and one, is extremely important,"
dn't work." Harris said.
year, Ryan In a time when Michigan was
would step considered to be in a rebuilding
idership role stage, Harris developed into a
lame to the leader on and off the field when
received that the Wolverines needed it most.
s. From then Now, with this confidence, she
nt has been will look to carry Michigan
in the most important part
a consisting of the season as it heads into
assmen was tournament play.

*NSYNC OR BACKSTREET BOYS?
E *NSYNC


wts

8 - Tuesday, November 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


Hoke not concerned with job status

FOOTBALL RECRUITING
Michigan picks up
ninth 2015 recruit

By GREG GARNO
Managing Sports Editor
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
has never worried about his job
status, even as his team sits 4-5
this season.
And even after his boss
resigned,
he's still not NOTEBOOK
backing down
from that stance.
"I've never been concerned
about a job, ever, and I never will
be," Hoke said Monday. "Because
if I get concerned about a job,
then you get distracted. ... If I
get distracted, I'm not being fair
to those kids who haven't been
distracted."
Dave Brandon, who resigned
onFridayfromhisrole asAthletic
Director, was responsible for
hiring Hoke and had publicly
supported the coach. In the
interim, University President
Mark Schlissel appointed Jim
Hackett to replace Brandon.
Hoke said he found out
about Brandon's resignation
from Brandon himself Friday
but declined to discuss what
was said.
"I have a lot of respect for
Dave," Hoke said. "From a
reaction standpoint, he did a lot
of good things for the University,
and now I'm real excited to work
with Jim."
Hoke, who said he has only
briefly spoken with Hackett
after the meeting, said he would
have a longer conversation
"sometime sooner than later"
with his new boss. The two have
met in prior meetings at multiple
events, according to Hoke, but he
wouldn't elaborate on how much
they've discussed the future.
"We've got Northwestern (to.
play)," Hoke said. "It's not fair to
anybody who is involved to say
when we did this or when we
didn't do this."
MORE REPS: Redshirt
sophomore Drake Johnson was
the first Michigan running back
to rush for more than 100 yards
in a game this season since now-

Michigan football coach Brady Hoke wouldn't say whether running back Drake Johnson will get more carries this week.

injured sophomore Derrick
Green did against Miami (Ohio)
six games ago.
But that doesn't mean he'll see
more snaps this week against
Northwestern. On Monday, Hoke
wasn't ready to say Johnson
would get more snaps, offering
little in the direction he'll go.
"They'll compete like they
always do," he said.
Johnson, a third-string back,
finished with 122 yards and
two touchdowns on 16 carries
in three quarters of action to
lead all backs in the Wolverines'
win over Indiana. Meanwhile,
Michigan's other running backs,
sophomore De'Veon Smith and
redshirt junior Justice Hayes,
combined for 42 yards Saturday
after totaling 66 yards against
Michigan State.
Without Green, who is out for
the season with a broken clavicle,
Michigan hasn't had the same
threatin the ground game.
Hoke and offensive
coordinator Doug Nussmeier
both note Johnson brings
a different running style,
describing him asa "slasher."
"He's got good speed, he's
goingto try and create holes with

his speed, and you'll see him
stick his foot in the ground and
go north and south," Nussmeier
said. "I think he's continuing
to develop his feel within our
running game, understanding
which holes to hit and when."
But Nussmeier was also quick
to cite his improved performance
from "all 11 guys," highlighting
the performance from his
offensive line. But neither the
line nor the wide receivers were
needed to open up holes or block
for extended periods of time,
as Johnson was able to burst
through.
"Drake had an awesome
game," said redshirt junior
center Jack Miller. "He made us
look better at times."
SIGNAL STEALING?:
Defensive coordinator Greg
Mattison didn't need to talk
much about his defense during
Monday's press conference.
After all, the Wolverines limited
the Hoosiers to 24 pass yards and
contained the nation's leading
rusher.
Instead, he spent time
discussing opponents stealing
signals, which he described as

being "real prevalent" in college
football.
Mattison described coaches
who wait for a play call to be
communicated to the defense
and then communicate that
signal down to the field so the
offense can catch the defense off
guard.
So to make sure no one
was able to steal his signals,
Mattison had two people hold
towels behind him. As Indiana's
effort continued, Mattison had
four people call in signals as a
distraction.
Soundridiculous?Itprobablyis.
"That's what it has become
now," Mattison said. "Bo would
die. He would not like that, I can
tell you that."
WEEKLY JABRILL
UPDATE: For the second
consecutive week, freshman
defensive back Jabrill Peppers
was excluded from the depth
chart.
Peppers, who last appeared in
Michigan'sgame against Utah on
Sept.19, hasn't been ruled out for
the season. He could be in line for
aredshirt, but Hoke isn't budging
on whether he plans to do that.

By JUSTIN STERN
Daily Sports Writer
Moments before former
Michigan Athletic Director
Dave Brandon's resignation, the
Wolverines received their third
commit to the 2016 football
recruiting class. Four-star
linebacker Dele' Harding tweeted
on Friday, "Just committed to the
University of Michigan #GoBlue."
The 6-foot-1, 232-pound junior
from Elkton, Michigan ranks No.
186 overall in the 2016 recruiting
class according to Rivals.com.
For the Wolverines, Harding's
commitment adds confidence to a
program that saw two decommits
in the month of October.
As the Feb. 4 deadline
approaches, here's a rundown of
notable performances.
Chris Clark,tightend:Avon
Old Farms (Conn.) at Phillips
Exeter Academy (Conn.);
Ranking: ESPN (111) Scout (23)
Avon Old Farms defeated
Phillips Exeter Academy, 47-20,
to improve to 5-2 on the season.
While he is still committed to
Michigan, Clark has started his
search for other options. He
will visit Southern California
on Nov. 29 and Texas on Dec. 6.
Clark was once committed to
North Carolina and now says he
is considering a potential Nov. 15
visit to Chapel Hill.
Brian Cole, athlete: Saginaw
Heritage (Mich.); Ranking:
ESPN (142) Scout (39)
Saginaw Heritage finished
its season with a 2-7 record.
While Cole remains committed
to Michigan, he made an official
visit to Wisconsin. On Oct.11 Cole
told GoBlueWolverinecom, "As
of right now, I'm still committed
to Michigan." With the insecure
job status of Michigan football
coach Brady Hoke, Cole said,

"That's kind of scary, but me and
Coach Hoke have talked a couple
of times, and he said that he
would let me know individually
(if he was going to be let go), so
I've really just not been worrying
about it."
Michael Weber,running back:
CassTech (Mich.)vs. Mott
(Mich.); Ranking: ESPN (169)
Scout (99)
Weber has been raising the
eyebrows of recruiters all over
the nation these past few weeks.
Cass Tech won its home playoff
game against Mott, 26-7, behind
Weber's 229 rushing yards and
four touchdowns. In the past
three weeks, Weber has rushed
for 624 yards and 10 touchdowns.
The Technicians look to build
upon the momentum as they face
Fordson on Friday.
Alex Malzone, quarterback:
Brother Rice (Mich.)vs.
Cousino (Mich.); Ranking:
ESPN (NR) Scout (183)
On Saturday, Malzone led
Brother Rice to a playoff victory
over Cousino, 38-21. Malzone
finished 13-of-25 for 143 yards,
with three passing touchdowns,
one rushing touchdown and
no interceptions. Even with an
undefeated record, Brother Rice
dropped five spots in the state
rankings and is currently ranked
No. 8. The Warriors face Groves
on Saturday in their next home
playoff game.
Jon Runyan Jr., offensive
lineman: St. Joseph's Prep
(Pa.) at Roman Catholic (Pa.);
Ranking: (NR)
While Runyan's primary
position is offensive line, he has
also been serving as the Hawks'
kicker in recent games. The son
of former Philadelphia Eagles Pro
Bowl tackle Jon Runyan, he went
5-for-5 on extra points.

Five things we learned: Blowout losses in Houghton

Michigan falls to
2-5, off to worst
start since 1986,
By ERIN LENNON
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan hockey team
was swept this weekend at
Michigan Tech. After a strong
showing against ranked
opponents Boston University
and UMass-Lowell, the
Wolverines proved there are
holes in nearly every facet of
their game.
Here are five things we can
take away from a disappointing
weekend and start to the season
as Michigan enters a bye week.
1. The forward lines are still
very much in flux.
Prior to Friday's series
opener against Michigan Tech,
Michigan coach Red Berenson
announced 11 lineup changes
in hopes of sparking a dormant
offense.
The coach split up his first
line, separating sophomore
forward JT Compher from
junior forward Andrew Copp.
The duo, two centers by nature,
had been playing side-by-side
all season in hopes that, with
Compher at the wing, last
season's top-two scorers would
create offense for one another.
It was a move that sent
Compher back to his comfort
zone on the second line and
junior center Boo Nieves to left
wing opposite freshman Tony
Calderone. Sophomore forward
Tyler Motte jumped up to the
first line to play alongside Copp
and freshman Dexter Dancs.
In their new positions, the
Wolverines managed only one
goal against Huskies netminder
Jamie Phillips, prompting more
changes Saturday.
After bumping Michigan's
most productive line down
to third on Friday, Berenson
moved the trio of sophomore
Alex Kile, freshman Dylan
Larkin and senior Zach Hyman

means Downing will have to be
on his best behavior because
every one from here on out will
yield a one-game suspension,
per NCAA rules.

6

5. Misery loves company.
Save for No. 1 Minnesota,
which currently sits in its
rightfulspotatopthe conference
standings with a 5-1 record, the
Big Ten is up for grabs, just likea
spot in Michigan's lineup.
Last year's last-place finisher,
Penn State, currently occupies
the second position, and has
received votes in the USCHO.
com rankings thanks to a 5-1-2
non-conference record.
For its troubles, Michigan
currently sits in fifth place in
front of a struggling Wisconsin
team. The Badgers, one of the
youngest teams in the country,
are winless in four contests.
The Wolverines are leading
the league in something -
they've surrendered 27 goals,
10 more than the next-highest
total allowed in the Big Ten.
Projected to finish second in
the conference, Michigan won't
want to lead that category come
March.

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
The Michigan hockey team suffered a pair of blowout losses in Houghton, Michigan over the weekend, dropping from the USCHO polls for the first time this year.
back into the second slot while on Saturday after stopping twice this weekend. For context, in Michigan's
pushing Compher's line back to the Huskies in six man-down win over UMass-Lowell, its only
third. chances on Friday. As they 3. Faceoffs matter. A lot. dominant victory of the season,
J Sophomore forward Evan have all season, the defense the Wolverines won twice as
Allen was benched in favor of committed egregious turnovers After Saturday's loss, many faceoffs as the River
freshman Alex Talcott, and and gaffes on the blue line. Berenson was quick to Hawks.
Berenson opted for junior On Friday, the unit put up a attribute yet another stagnant More than just a pattern,
goaltender Steve Racine after minus-7 plus/minus rating in a performance to faceoffs. He has faceoffs increase puck
sophomore Zach Nagelvoort 5-2 loss, and finished at minus- said it before: if nothing else, possession. And for a team that
allowed five goals Friday. 11on the weekend. faceoff wins are an indicator of struggles to put the puck in the
Short of starting freshman Meanwhile, senior aggression. net, that matters a whole lot.

defenseman Zach Werenski as
a forward, Michigan did all it
could to end its scoring drought.
But three goals in two games
indicates the Wolverines' lineup
is still far from settled.
2. But special teams is still
the biggest question mark.
Michigan and Michigan
Tech combined for 62 penalty
minutes - longer than a
regulation hockey game. But
only one team's penalty-kill unit
was scored on - four times to be
exact.
The Wolverines allowed
four power-play goals in
seven penalty-kill situations

defenseman Brennan Serville -
who has been a healthy scratch
on more than one occasion
this season - didn't make an
appearance this. weekend. In
his place, freshman defensemen
Cutler Martin and Sam Piazza,
who played one game each,
were minus-i in their respective
appearances.
Having surrendered nine
goals this weekend, Michigan
has now allowed 27 goals in
seven contests, an average of 4.5
goals per game.
Berenson has said time and
time again that his team can't
afford to give up four goals and,
save UMass-Lowell, put out a
victory. He was proven correct

Michigan and Michigan
Tech won 31 faceoffs apiece on
Friday, but the Huskies outdrew.
the Wolverines on Saturday,
claiming 38 wins to Michigan's
25. The stat contributed to
Michigan's inability to climb
out of an early two-goal deficit
to avoid the sweep.
Copp and senior forward
Travis Lynch, some of the
Wolverines' best faceoff men
this season, lost 13 draws
each in 22 and 20 chances,
respectively. Larkin was the
only player to finish above 50
percent in faceoffs on the night.
Meanwhile, Compher finished
the weekend just 3-for-16 in the
circle.

4. No more passes for Michael
Downing.
Downing, a player who has
created a reputation for hard
hits, showed why he spent a
significant amount of time in
the box last season, earning
matching major penalties on
Friday and Saturday.
Shortly after Compher was
ejected in the third period
Saturday, the sophomore
defenseman earned his
second game misconduct of
the weekend. He too watched
Michigan's third straight loss
from the locker room.
Two game misconducts

6

3.
Number of goals scored this weekend
while getting swept.

I I

a


