wr

f)l I N)(L)I\INI I ,,,N 4l010(1\611 FL)\

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, September'19, 2014

michigandaily.cm 

ADMINISTRATION
Athletics
upgades
approved
by regents

Pussy Riot members Nadya Tolokonnikova and Masha Alekhina speak at the Penny Stamps speaker series hosted by the Penny Stamps School of Art and
Design Thursday at the Michigan Theatre.
Pussy Riot tals p
govt repression in Rssia

IM Building, South
Campus facility
to receive $118.7
million investment
By CLAIRE BRYAN
Daily StaffReporter
From varsity rowers to intra-
mural racquetball fanatics, stu-
dent-athletes are in luck.
Thursday, the University's
Board of Regents approved $18.7
million in renovations to the
Intramural Sports Building and
the construction of a $168 million
South Campus athletics facility -
one of the largest sports-focused
construction projects in decades.
The athletic campus proposal,
called the Athletics South Com-
petition and Performance Project,
is funded in part by a $200 million
gift by real estate tycoon Stephen
Ross, a University alum. The $200
million was.split evenly between
the Athletic Department and

Ross' namesake business school
and followed his first $100 million
donation to the school in 2004.
Plans for the athletic - facili-
ties call for the construction
of a 310,000 square-foot facil-
ity designed to serve student-
athletes, including participants in
men and women's track and field,
cross country, soccer, lacrosse,
wrestling, tennis, gymnastics and
women's rowing teams.
"What I appreciate about the
proposal is the holistic approach
that it takes," University Presi-
dent Mark Schlissel said. "It
allows us to address a number
of important needs across these
teams simultaneously."
According to Douglas Strong,
interim executive vice presi-
dent and chief financial officer,
the project will construct five
facilities including an indoor
and outdoor track venue that
will accommodate 2,000 and
1,000 students respectively and a
lacrosse stadium slated to accom-
modate 3,000 spectators.
See ATHLETICS, Page SA

* Feminist activists
famous for protests
against Putin
By RACHEL PREMACK
Daily News Editor
Students and Ann Arborites
lined East Liberty Street Thurs-
day night to see two members
from Pussy Riot, a Russian punk

rock protest group that's made
international headlines since
their 2011 inception.
Dressed in A-line skirts,
tights and lace-up sneakers,
Nadezhda (Nadya) Tolokon-
nikova and Maria (Masha)
Alyokhina did not look so dif-
ferent from their undergraduate
audience - a few of whom wore
the neon balaclavas that Pussy
Riot members typically don.
Interarts junior Daniel Ghas-

tin was one such balaclavaed
student, who said he and other
performance arts students
came to show solidarity for
Pussy Riot.
"As performers, we want to
understand what they do bet-
ter and a form of imitation is the
greatest compliment," Ghas-
tin said. "I am really curious in
what makes them tick and how
they formulate what they do,
but also I really admire the balls

that they have."
Before entering the theater,
one performance art student
mimicked a Pussy Riot dance
while two others filmed him.
Attendees packed the 1,700-
seat Michigan Theater, where
punk rock music played in
the background as they found
their seats. Tolokonnikova
and Alyokhina were not there
to play their own music, but
See PUSSYRIOT, Page 2A


Provost announces plan
to control enrollment

Admissions office
considers admitting
fewer early applicants
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily News Editor
Thisfall,the Universityenrolled
6,532 freshmen - an increase of
307 over last year - and about 500

more than University officials had
intended.
At Thursday's meeting of the
Board of Regents, University Pro-
vost Martha Pollack detailed sev-
eral steps the Office of Admissions
plans to take to reduce the size of
future classes - including shifting
more early applicants to a wait list.
She also outlined the University's
plans to handle this larger-than-
expected freshman class.

"We have been over-enrolling
every year for the past five years
and we have to stop this," Pollack
said. "I'm notchappy about it."
This year, the University
received a record-breaking 49,731
applications for Fall 2014 admis-
sion. Though the University's
adoption of the Common Applica-
tion in 2010 provided a bump in
applications, the growth has con-
See REGENTS, Page SA

University President Mark Schlissel presides over Thursday's Board of Regents meeting at the Michiga


ELECTION 2014

,-.-- - - ._.-.. -. _,__ a._-_-.._-_.. . ,_ _..,. . a.,.. ...,.........a,. ....,
_____r.. _ , .__ _ .,.... .,. ...w,.. .. ... ._._ --r- ___ - .,.., .._ ._....,__ __._

AG Democratic
'candidate aims to
aid student debt

Schuette's platform supported by experience

STott
won
to

ten hopes to givet tion, but Mark Totten, Michigan
tb State University law professor and
ien better access Democratic nominee for that spot,
is hoping to bring that streak to
contraception an end. Totten, 40, has both a law
degree and Ph.D. in ethics from
By BEN ATLAS Yale University and his past expe-
Daily StaffReporter rience includes stints as a staff
attorney for the U.S. Department
as been 60 years since an of Justice and a clerkship for a fed-
bent attorney general in eral judge.

Republican
incumbent hopes
to keep seat for
second term
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
Attorney General Bill
Schuette (R) will ask Michi-
gan's voters to elect him to a
second term this November.
Running on the slogan
"Michigan's voice for victims,"
over the past three years,
Schuette has been involved in

issues affecting a variety of
constituencies, ranging from
college students to Detroit
pensioners. As his campaign
ramps up, he's picked up
endorsements from several
groups, including police offi-
cers and small businesses. His
Democratic challenger is Mark
Totten, a Michigan State Uni-
versity law professor.
Gay marriage
In March, a district court
struck down Michigan's ban
on, same-sex marriage, which
was approved by voters as an
amendment to the state consti-
tution in 2004.
Schuette, who represented

the state in defense of the ban,
filed for an appeal and an emer-
gency stayon the decision. Both
were granted, which means the
change will not go into effect
until the appeal is settled. Oral
arguments were heard in the
case this August by the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 6th.
Circuit.
Schuette's decision to defend
the ban drew attention because
many other state attorney gen-
erals, especially in the wake of
a 2013 Supreme Court decision
against parts of the Defense of
Marriage Act, have declined to
defend similar litigation. Addi-
tionally, U.S. Attorney Gen-

eral Eric Holder has stated that
state attorney generals are not
required to defend the bans.
"In 2004 the citizens of
Michigan recognized that
diversity in parenting is best
for kids and families because
moms and dads are not inter-
changeable," Schuette said in a
March statement on his choice
to appeal the ruling. "Michigan
voters enshrined that decision
in our State constitution, and
their will should stand and be
respected."
Rape kits
Five years ago, the city of
Detroit discovered more than
See SCHUETTE, Page SA

It h
incumt

Michigan has lost a bid for reelec-

WEATHER H :78 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail . 'U' professor receives MacArthur Fellowship
TOMORROW LO:59 news@michigandaily.comand let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEW S.......................2A ARTS...........................7A
Vol. CXXIV, No.140 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS..............6A
©2014TheMichiganDaily OPINION....................4A FOOTBALLSATURDAY...1B
michiondoilycom

0

A


2A - Friday, September 19, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Ple MOO= gandaly
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4u15 ext. 1251 734418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com dougsolo@michigandaily.com
Newsroomn News Tips
734-418-4115 opt.3 news@michigandaiy.com
Corrections Letters to the Editor

LEFT A broad-winged hawk,
that has survived West Nile
virus and a car collision, at
EarthFest Wednesday.
(ALLISON FARRtAND/Daily)

corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmait.com
Online Sales -
onlineads@michigandaily.com

tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaity.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

RIGHT Sophomore wide
receiver Amara Darboh runs the
ball during warm-ups before the
Miami (Ohio) game Saturday.
(ALLISON FARRAND/Daily)

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

SPH Info
Session
WHAT: The Schol of
Public Health will tell
prospective students about
the application proces
WHO: School of Public
Health
WHEN: Today from 2 p.m.
to 4 p.m.
WHERE: Henry F. Vaughn
School of Public Health
Museums and
Brown Bags
WHAT: A presentation that
is about museums and the
way they've changed their
approach to visitors inthe
face of changing technology.
WHO: Museum Studies
Program
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art -
Multi-Purpose Room

Michigan race Symphony
journal tribute orchestra

THR EE THI NGS YOU
There's a bake . .
T aPolice said Jonathan
sale in Haven Dwyer of the Arizona
Cardinals hit his son
WHAT: This women in and head-butted his wife,
science group is having a ESPN reported. Dwyer
bake sale to raise money for was released on a $25,000
their organization. bond after being arrested on
WHO: Chapter of the charges of aggravated assault
ScientistaFoundation Wednesday.
WHsEs Teday frned11uto

WHAT: The Michigan
Journal of Race & Law is
celebratingits first 20 years.
WHO: Michigan Law
Program in Race, Law, and
History
WHEN: Today from 8:30
a.m. to 6 p.m.
WHERE: South Hall -
Room 1225

WHAT: The University
Symphony Orchestra will
have their first concert of
the year.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenniferCalfas ManagingNews Editor jcalfas@nichigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham,Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Matthew Seligman and David Harris
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Ziliga ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michiendaily.com
SEIORJeORTStEDITORtSMax Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Lev Facher, Rajat Khare, Jake
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourin and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynchband jpynyeh@michigandaaily.com
AksbaySethManagingArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.om
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwoodand
SSIST uNTARTSEDITORS:JamieBircollJacksonHoward,GillianJakabandMaddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors phato@michigandaily oom
SENIORPHOTOEDITORS: AllisonFarrandandRubyWallau
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Katherine Pekela, Virginia Lozano,
James Coller, McKenzieBerezin,and NicholasWilams
Carolyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasqueManagingDesignEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackens and Alicia Kovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopytEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhand AlishaQiu
AustenHufford online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
VIDEOETORSa urieichanames Reslier-Wells
BUSINESS STAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir Classified Manager
Simonne Kapadia Local Accounts Manager
Lotus An National Accounts Manager
Olivia Jones Production Managers
Nolan Lohbspecial Projects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The MichiganD al(y SSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winte rterms by
stu"ts"a"theUnivesity'fih-n".Oncpysvsisvalabefree of charge to al readers. Additionacopies may
bspickedup athe ailysoficefor$2S ubscriptionsfor faltermstartingsiniSeptembervia s. essmalav.
W'er term (anuary through Apri( t is $11s.yeasong( s eptember through Aprilt is $195 .University affiiates
are subject to a reduced.subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall term aredo35. Subscriptions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate-Press

Dance Aerospace
Master Class centennial

WHAT: Internationally
acclaimed dancer Nadja
Raszewski will conduct a
30-minute technique class,
and then host a 15 minute
Q & A session for students'
benefit.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 12:10
p.m.
WHERE: Dance Building

WHAT: To celebrate
100 years, the Aerospace
Engineering program is
hosting pael discussions
on the future ofispace.
WHO: College of
Engineering
WHEN: Today from 8:30
a.m. to 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

wnN: Toaay rom12 to
6 p.m:
WHERE: Haven Hall
Janiva Mag-
ness
WHAT: This blues singer
has been nominated
for many awards and is
now playing nearby. Her
low voiceis said tube
captivating.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

The Michigan women's
soccer team is rid-
ing a four-game win-
ning streak heading into this
weekend's road trip to Mary-
land (Friday) and Rutgers
(Sunday).
SFOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PG. 9A
With the new iOS 8,
Apple says the gov-
ernment can't access
Phone users' private infor-
mation, because Apple will
no longer be ableto access the
data. A new encryption pre-
vents anyone but the phone's
user from gaining access.

i


around the world as supporters gether non-eiste44n the polio-,-Riot-
PUSSYRIOT and detractors rallied to the cause. cal discourse. What's replaced Thet
From Page 1A The Russian government charged this, enhancedbyPutin, is Russian rangi
members of Pussy Riot with crimi- nationalism. ladies
nal hooliganism and handed down Tolokonnikova had this same on p
rather to discuss their work, Rus- heavy sentences in whatmany saw observation. were
sian culture and Zona Prava, their as a politically charged trial. "Putin was really trying hard tary{
recently created prisoners' rights Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina to create this mythology of this durin
non-governmental organization. served just over a year in Russian common Russian man from the "
Pussy Riot has not released a jails before being released under Ural mountain who uncondition- Putin
single album. In fact, their punk a new amnesty law in late 2013. ally believes in Putin and wants Vowe
rock songs consist mostly of yell- During their imprisonment, they to chase critically thinking people Riot:
ing in Russian over instrumentals received sympathy from individu- out of the country," Tolokonniko- the si
that are "badly recorded, based als and institutions around the va said. On
on simple riffs," according to one world; including Madonna, Paul "This is what I call Putin's most
Associated Press review. McCartney, the German Parlia- war against his own people," she "Pun
They have seven songs and five ment and Hillary Clinton. added. Drive
videos, all targeting Russian Presi- "It touched all the wrong nerves Back in the Michigan Theater, get-u
dent Vladimir Putin and the poor of the Orthodox Church and of the the audience thanked the many and1
state of women's and LGBT rights ruling elite and offended lots of sponsors for hosting Pussy Riot their
in Russia. It's their illegally held people in the general population at the University. The two women storm
concerts - and their lyrics - that as well," Ronald Grigor Suny, the came as part of the Penny W. ands
have caused their international Charles Tilly Collegiate Professor Stamps Distinguished Speaker the O
fame. of Social and Political History, said Series. Sponsors included the "V
Their most famous protest act, in an interview with The Michi- Weiser Center for Emerging becon
which took place in a reserved ganDaily. Democracies, the Institute for nist,I
space within the Russian Ortho- Suny added that the women Research on Women and Gender, in ma
dox Cathedral of Christ the Sav- challenge Russia's growing con- Michigan Radio, WUOM 91.7 FM fromi
for in Moscow - a symbol of the servative element. With the fall of and Arts @ Michigan. During the Le
Orthodox Church's resurgence in the Soviet Union, ideologies like reading of this list, Tolokonnikova churc
the post-Soviet era - in February Communism, Socialism and even poked her green-and-brown- nent
2012 caused waves in Russia and Liberalism are unsavory or alto- haired head from behind the cur- Orth
tains, evoking giggles and whoops the g
from the audience. phem
Parents W k d 2014 Before the two women came was1
on stage, a video played of Pussy konn
4pm, A ge// Hal/E(AHEc/torium A)
1Open to the Public

performing.around Russia
compilation showed reactions
ing from wizened church
s waggingtheir finger to full-
olice brutality; the women
horse-whipped by paramili-
Cossacks on patrol in Sochi
g the 2014 Winter Olympics.
hate everything about what
stands for," LSA junior Evan
ell said at the talk. "But Pussy
represents the oppressed and
lent citizen in Russia."
e clip showed Pussy Riot's,
infamous performance:
k Prayer: Mother of God,
e Putin Away." In theirtypical
p of sleeveless dresses, tights
balaclavas covering all but,
eyes and mouths, Pussy Riot,
sed two Moscow churches
sang in protest of Putin and
)rthodox Church.
irgin Mary, Mother of God,
me a feminist, become a femi-
become a feminist,"theysang
ock-chorus. It elicited laughs
the Ann Arbor audience.
ss laughter came from the
ch and government. Promi-
members of the Russian
odox Church demanded that
overnment punish their blas-
ty. Nine days after the video
published, Alyokhina, Tolo-
ikova and a third member

of Pussy Riot'made inernational -Alyokhina said e nydfher
headlines in March 2012 when fellow female prisoners had
two members were arrested. suffered partner abuse. They
Suny said protestis legal inRus- responded to the abuse with vio-
sia, but it can be trounced upon lence, and then were imprisoned
just like protests in the United for assault.
States. More acceptable ways "There are actually thousands
for Russian women to complain of those women in Russian pris-
about the government, he said, are ons," Alyokhina said. "And it
through writing newspaper col- should be known that there is
umns, organizing political groups absolutely no domestic violence
or petitioningthe government. law in Russia."
"There are ways for women to Indeed, much of their dis-
get their voices heard," Suny said. cussion revolved around their
"Whether they are listened to - activism for prisoners' rights.
that's another thing." The women were imprisoned in
"We have red lines beyond a corrective labor colony, where
which starts the destruction of prisoners are forced to work
the moral foundations of our soci- while serving their sentence. In
ety," Putin said in Oct. 2012. "If a Sept. 2013 letter published by
people cross this line they should The Guardian, Tolokonnikova
be made responsible in line with describes working up to 17 hours
the law." a day in a sewing shop for almost
LSA senior:Hannah Crisler said seven days a week.
their actions against the Russian Friday, the women will meet
government were commendable. with two local prisoners' rights
"Because the Russian govern- activists: Lisa Greco, director
ment and Putin have such power of the Washtenaw County Chil-
and control over their citizens, it's dren's Services Department, and
so refreshing and honorable that Heather Wilson, director of the
Pussy Riot rebels against them," Youth Arts Alliance. Both groups
Crisler said. "Even though at times work to rehabilitate those in the
they are extreme, which they are juvenile justice system through
on purpose, they have created creative arts.
enough noise to be recognized "These kids are writingamaz-
around the world. They're creat- ing poetry," Greco said in an
lng global awareness and push interview with the Daily. "They
others to do something in order are articulating things that we
for change." have to understand as reality,
Alyokhina and Tolokonniko- like drugs and violence. We can
va's entrance was received with really hear what they're saying.
loud applause and whoops. They We get to see what kids are really
were accompanied by Chrisstina feeling, they're writing it, they're
Hamilton, the director of Visi- drawing it, they're singingit."
tors Programs at the School of Art Zona Prava, Alyokhina and
& Design, who coordinates the Tolokonnikova's prisoners'
Penny W. Stamps Distinguished rights group, embraces this idea
Lecture Series and led the dis- of allowing typically silenced
cussion, and a Russian to English groups to express themselves.
translator. The women spoke pri- Their group promotes freedom
marily in Russian, making a few of expression, along with legal
statements in English. aid for incarcerated Russians.
The women's wits survived the "I am just hoping to under-
translation to English, and laugh- stand a bit more about the dif-
ter was frequent. ferences in the way that we are
"To be honest, the art from the working on social justice in our
conservative side can sometimes respective communities and
also be incredibly artistic and countries," Greco said. "I am
good,' Tolokonnikova said sarcas- hoping to understand that in
tically. "For example, when I was both directions."
in prison I was incredibly inspired Zona Prava provides prison-
by an action which took place in ers with legal consultation over
the Russian city of St. Petersberg, the phone, investigates deaths in
a slogan that read, 'We are against prisons and assists in filing suits
oral sek."' against prison administrations
Other effects of Russia's con- on behalf of wronged inmates.
servative turn were less jovial. See PUSSYRIOT, Page 5A


0

I

t

--i
=r
(D
n'
n
a
3
rs*
:-
ft4
Z3
i
0
-n
n}
to
CD
rn
3
0-
m
N
O
w
D


Page 4A - Friday, September 19, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Page 4A - Friday, September19, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

a11e 1Jhdlian D&ti4
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
The spirit ofDetroit
N ow the Lord is that spirit: "I know what you may hear about Detroit
and where the spirit of the may not be all that pleasant, but there is good
Lord is, there is liberty." - 2 here. I promise," writes one student. Another
Corinthians 3:17 elementary school student writes more bluntly,
These words sit behind "You can also come to tell everybody in Detroit
the cast bronze statue of that they shouldn't make more crimes." But
the SpiritofDetroit; when it underneath it all is hope: "If you can inspire
was first installed the stat- worldwide, you can inspire Detroit also."
ue was the largestofits kind On the east side of Detroit sits a grand Polish
since the Renaissance. It Cathedral-styled church. It has been over two
sits in the heart of Detroit, decades since the nave in St. Albertus has heard
with a bronze sphere in its an Our Father - its doors closed in 1990. But on
left hand and small cast ofa AAug. 10 some 2,500 people have come for mass,
family in its right. It sits in DAVID and the halls echoed with "amens" and "peace
between cut shots of auto- HARRIS be with you's" as the crowd filled every seat,
mobiles and abandoned every space in aisles and even out the doorway.
homes in commercials. It It started with just a small idea. At the first event,
sits adorned in an oversized Red Wings jersey 150 people showed up to St. Hyacinth. Two
year after year during playoff season in Hock- months and two mass mobs later, 900 visitors
eytown. It sits on stamps and in pictures, as the from all over the metro area showed up to St.
crest for Detroit's minor league soccer team. Joseph's. And the numbers kept growing up to
North of the town sits a football field. Years the St. Albertus mass. What began as a small
ago it was an indoor field, domed by a grand, movement to explore the historical churches of
white inflatable roof. It has since been convert- the city hadbecome so much more.
ed, unintentionally and unceremoniously, into The Detroit Mass Mob was uniquely, for lack
an outdoor one. What once of abetter adjectiveDetroit:
was the Pontiac Silverdome, the grassroots efforts that
home to the Detroit Lions, started the movement; the
the Detroit Pistons and con- It only takes faith as unwillingnesstoletgoofthe
certs of all the most famous culture behind the cathe-
bands, sits with its roof col- small as a mustard drals; the embracing of the
lapsed and the turf, with seed to move troubled past and the vision
end zones still emblazoned to make something out of it;
with "Lions," flooded. The mountains. and the resurgence of faith
80,000 seats still sat there in a city where sometimes
until they were auctioned faith is all thatisleft.
offthis past June, alongwith So, too, are the efforts to
much of the memorabilia that was left behind. In bring the Pope to Detroit. Yet there's a determi-
the Silverdome's largest event, Pope John Paul II nation behind it - a "we're still here" attitude
oncegavemasstoover93,000 in attendance. thatpersists."Therearegoodpeople,too,"wrote
The striking dome that once held a holy event another student in her letter to the Pope. "People
of the Catholic faith rests in the most unholy who actually care about Detroit and the people
of conditions. In the quarter century since in it."Because when it seems thatDetroit truly
then, much of Detroit has followed the same has nothing else, the Spirit of Detroit reminds us
pattern of leay and neglect Pope John Paul thatthere will always remainhop.r-
II last visited in 1987. From 1991 to 2010 Detroit Pope Francis is scheduled to make his first
civilian unemployment nearly doubled. Between visit to the United States in September of 2015.
1990 and 2010, the city lost somewhere around Philadelphia is on the list of cities he will visit.
300,000residents.But what it did not lose was its Detroit is not. But then again, Detroit wasn't on
hope and its faith. the list for the last papal visit either. It'll take
The Silverdome is just one example of the determination in another uniquely Detroit
how the area has changed since John Paul II way to pull it off. The movement to bring Pope
made his visit. So when students from Cristo Rey Francis to Detroit seems small and wishful, but
High School in southwest Detroit helped start a after all, it only takes faith as small as a mustard
campaignto ask the current Catholic pope, Pope seed to move mountains.
Francis, to visit the city, the reality of the strife
of Detroit was clear to them and to the many David Harris can be reached
students who wrote letters to the pontiff. at daharr@umich.edu.
MICHAEL PAUL
Play to your strengths

A con(text)ual evolution

ost of us at Michigan
spend the beginning
our semester solving the
problem of textbooks. They're expen-
sive and generally
worthless after
the class is over. As
an English major,
though, I appreci-
ate that most of
the books I need
to buy are works JENNY
of literature that WANG
I can read again
and again even
after I graduate. The required texts
section in the syllabus feels more
like the professor sharing his or
her favorite books with you than
anythingelse.
For personal and economic/corpo-
rate reasons, there is something very
anti-literature about e-books, and
I find myself stuck between want-
ing to fit in with my English major
peers (who post about their favorite
bookshelves) and wanting to save my
money. As soon as I find the Kindle
version of a book on Amazon, I turn
into your average penny-pinching
consumer. The e-books are cheap
and instant. The books will be there,
loaded on your app, ready to go.
Of course, before I make any
purchases, I ask about my professor's
policies on textbooks, which he or
she rarely specifies in the syllabus.
"What is your policy on e-readers?"
And while I'm at it, "What is your
policy on electronic devices in the
classroom?" If possible, I never print
my readings, and instead do all my
analyzing and annotating with my
tablet and stylus; same goes with
the e-book. I, among many other
consumers, quite like having all
my texts stored in a single app and
accessible anywhere via the cloud.

A survey back in 2013 ft
62 percent of young peo
16 to 24) preferred print
e-books. I don't find this pa
surprising, since we we
before electronic texts, andc
fondest memories that mya
experienced was reading t
Potter series in its origina
version. There is somethi
a physical book, people
smell, the feel of the pages
this weightiness to it that
replicated in digital texts.
however, abetter survey wi
be conducted on the genera
ours that grew up with the
and everything in digital for
I may have more in
with this:new generation t
my own. I grew up with
relationship to the scre
to the page.
Everything I
physically wrote
down or drew
or recorded, I I re,
also stored onto
my computer. rel
This summer my
mother assigned Scre
me the project
of scanning all
of our family
photos onto the
computer, because we bot
it was more "permanen
hard drive. I was also not
when I was little. My rela
with books was, for som
or other, difficult. I actual
read Harry Potter until th
high school. And speaking
school, I got through my
classes with Sparknotes (ti
something I'm proud of, tol
I know it might sound r
to say, but I feel, in the s,

sund that some people feel for physical books,
ple (ages this weightiness about digital media.
books to That almost feels comedic to say. Like
rticularly saying there is something about the
re alive heat of the laptop on the desk or the
one ofthe glow of the artificial Kindle text in
age group my eyes.
he Harry My point is that there are people
i printed - a good 38 percent of us - who
ng about approach the book business from a
say. The different angle. People who, maybe
. There's like me, have returned to literature
can't be but with a different perspective
I think, based on their upbringing. These
ll need to people clearly matter; they affect
tion after the market for literature no matter
Internet how much traditional lit lovers may
m. object. These people, whether they
common- realize it or not, are at the forefront
han with of what literature may become in
a closer the future.
en than I don't think of this as a bad
thing, though
I am clearly
biased. All art
forms change,
w up with a closer rejecting or
renewing or
ationship to the transforming
the old ways as
en than the page. the newest wave
of consumers
sees fit. Each
new generation

h agreed
" on a
a reader
ationship
e reason
Ily didn't
e end of
g of high
English
his is not
be clear).
idiculous
same way

answers for
itself, "Will this form survive?
How much longer can we keep
this going?" From my position, I
do think we can keep this alive for
at least a while longer. I believe
the e-reader invites an influx of
new readers (such as myself) who
have found a certain accessibility
with the screen that they couldn't
experience with the page.
Jenny Wang can be reached
at wjenny@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, David Harris, Rachel John, Nivedita Karki,
Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Victoria Noble, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu,
Meher Walia, Mary Kate Winn, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
Groove: making a unique ruckus

I just opened another tab on my laptop to
search for the list. Yes, the list that all of cam-
pus has been talking about. The new univer-
sity rankings have just come out. Most would
assume that I am referencing the latest U.S.
News and World Report published college
rankings (with their highly questioned meth-
odology), where the University unfortunately
continues to trickle lower and lower. While
more concentrated efforts must be taken to
ensure that we as a university push the needle
in the opposite direction, I am actually allud-
ing to the new college football poll released this
week by the Associated Press. A storied foot-
ball program like Michigan should consistently
be in the top 10 and not at number 13. Oh, I'm
sorry, the Wolverine in me saw "Michigan" and
assumed that it was us. That spot has already
been taken by the green people in Lansing -
our rivals, Michigan State.
I continue to scroll down the page, aimlessly
looking for the maize and blue, knowing damn
well we're not there. I scroll back up and go
down the list again, probing for any pattern that
might exist in the universities that are ahead
of us that might provide us with something to
emulate and provide me with an excuse to tell
my friend at the University of Notre Dame,
explaining why we didn't put up a single point
against them two weekends ago in South Bend.
I continue to scan the page, examining what I
see and come to this conclusion: The schools
that make up this list don't have tough, robust
academic programs like the University of
Michigan. This lame cop-out was short-lived
when I went over the list again and noticed the
University of Notre Dame; University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles; Stanford University and
the University of Southern California. These
schools are ranked 16, 23, 4 and 25, respectively,
in this year's aforementioned U.S. News rank-
ings. The University of Michigan is ranked 29.
For the better part of the last decade, seeing
auniversity known for its academic prowess in
the AP Top 25 was a rarity. Now an institution
like Stanford - which pumps out tech CEOs

faster than their alum Richard Sherman can
open his mouth -is sitting pretty in college
football paradise, consistently competing for
National Championships. With Michigan also
being an academic world power, what is hold-
ing us back from reclaiming our glory on the
gridiron while continuingto study our tails off?
It starts and ends with recruiting. Our col-
lege football program must look itself in the
mirror and realize that we aren't a stereotypi-
cal SEC school that:doesn't care about academ-
ics. At our very core, we are aresearch-oriented
school and an authority in the world of aca-
demia. This shouldn't be something we should
run away from. We should gladly embrace this.
Contrary to popular belief, strong academ-
ics will not deter quality student-athletes
from attending the University. And let's face
it, Michigan's academic standards are hard
for any high school student to meet, let alone
those who devote a large amount of time to
athletics. Although this definitely limits the
amount of talent that will be scouted, this
will not necessarily limit the quality of talent.
There is an article in The Wall Street Journal
by Darren Everson and Jared Diamond on
Stanford's recruiting methodology. Wayne
Lyons, a highly rated recruit from Florida
with a 4.96 weighted GPA who was recruited
by the top programs in the country but ulti-
mately chose the Cardinal, said, "Stanford
made the academics a huge priority." Stanford
University is the only school to be ranked in
the top five in U.S. News rankings and the
AP Top 25 concurrently. Michigan football
must use the University to their advantage
and find leaders in the classroom, as well as
the field. Success can and will be found when
this happens. The program shouldn't try to fit
in with some of the less academically inclined
schools. Michigan football should try to stand
out as aprogram where you will pushyourself
further than you thought you could go and
you will be glad you did.
Michael Paul is an LSA senior.

You've heard them banging
during Festifall, seen
them scale ladders during
Artscapade and
always wondered
how a relatively
small group of
people could
make such a
unique ruckus.
Groove has'
provided our SARA
campus with an SHAMASKIN
interesting form
of entertainment
by hitting drums and homemade
instruments. Simply described'
as a "high energy percussion and
performance group," Groove has
made a statement on our campus.
I had the opportunity to talk with
Groove treasurer John Mirandette,
an LSA junior with an international
studies major and sustainability
minor;in order to get more insight
into this group of drummers. I
wanted to see the inner workings,
how a member began and grew and
what Groove itself is like as a whole.
When John first came to
Michigan, he had plans other than
joining Groove. "I thought about
being in marching band and drum
line, but I hated marching band
in high school. I had to follow
instructions to the tee and be rigid;
I couldn't do what I wanted to do,
I couldn't have fun with it." After
finding Groove at Festifall during
his freshman year, he could tell this
was it: "It was already something I
was good at, so it was easy for me
to dive in." John always found that
he was uncomfortable playing in
front of groups of people when it
was songs about which he himself
was not passionate. As opposed to
the "cheesy and corny" songs that
were typically reserved for high
school bands, John found that he

could explore in Groove, making the common denominator is
and performing the songs he had music." Because of their love for
always wanted to during band. performance, the Groove members
Just talking about these songs, I are comfortable with themselves
could see John getting excited, an enough to collaborate . with each
instinctive reaction including big other and do what they love to do.
hand gestures, talking fast and a John told me about his friendships
tiny smile that crossed his face, withinGroove, explainingthatthey
remembering some of his favorite get together for football pregames,
pieces that he had written. to family game night, to study
I asked John abouthowthegroup sessions in the UGLi. "They're my
has grown since its inception: "We best friends; I love them all. It's
started -out as a percussion group, hard to see seniors leave, but it's
but over the lasilO years, what it great to see new people coming,
has become is a variety group. We because you can see how it's going
are still drumming, at our core, but to unfold in the next few years; it's
we have found avenues to utilize a continuous family."
other people's talents to make a This 10-year-old group has made
more complete show." John breaks a statement on campus, rising from
Groove into two groups: musicians a small group that only played in
and actors. He wants his songs to Angell Hall auditoriums to selling
be "kick-ass," wanting the crowd to out Michigan Theater. Groove has
get up and feel it expanded its
in their chests. If repertoire and
he feels that way its presence,
and can project He wants his songs to and the future
it on stage, then be' - _ n g seems prom-
the audience kiCk ass, wanting ising to John.
will feel the the crowd to get up "We're on the
same. The act- cusp of being a
ing makes the and feel it in big group ... as
show complete, in people know
with skits, gui- their chests. who we are,
tar and melody being recog-
songs, incorpo- nized without
rating drumming to remind people our Groove shirts. We have the tal-
that it is Groove at the center. ent and the fan base ... now we just
But how does the mood change got to act on it." The excitement of
when John is on stage? "When it's Groove becoming a bigger force on
in front of 20 people, that's one campus drives John to continuous-
thing. But in front of 1,000 or 1,500 ly work to make new songs. Any-
people, and you can see it across body who has been to one of their
the board, the people getting so shows can see the camaraderie
hyped for-you and the group and on stage, the energy that persists
the talents you have; it is so sick." throughout the music and the pas-
Even offstage, the chemistry sion that these drummers possess
is strong. I asked about all of when showingtheir talent on stage.
the different majors, ages and
experience of the other members: Sara Shamaskin can be reached
"It doesn't really matter because at scsham@umich.edu.

INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES? POLITICS?
SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every
Monday and Thursday at 6pm, the Daily's opinion staff meets to
discuss both University and national affairs and write editorials. E-mail
opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.

a:

,,


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 19, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, September19, 2014 - 5A

REGENTS
From Page 1A
tinued well beyond that change.
Additionally, more admitted
students are choosing to actually
enroll at the University at a time
when officials are actively plan-
ning to shrink the freshman class.
The University admits more stu-
dents than it can enroll, anticipat-
ing some of those applicants will
ultimately select other schools -
a standard practice in higher edu-
cation admissions.
The proportion of applicants
admitted who actually enroll is
called an institution's "yield."
This year, the yield for fresh-
man applicants increased by 1.3
percent for in-state students and
two percent for out-of-state stu-
dents.
"In a sense, there's a bit of
good news, but of course, there's
bad news because this isn't what
we had planned," Pollack said.
SCHUETTE
From Page 1A
11,000 rape kits - evidence col-
lected during investigations of
alleged sexual assault - that had
not been processed or tested.
Schuette, along with Republi-
can Gov. Rick Snyder, announced
a $4 million state appropriation to
expedite testing the kits last year.
The funding came from settle-
ment money in national and state
cases litigated by Schuette in his
capacity as attorney general.
"Every woman who was a vic-
tim of sexual violence deserves
a full and complete investiga-
tion, and these funds will begin
the road to justice for those who
have already waited too long,"
Schuette said in a press release at
the time.
An additional $3 million allo-
cation was approved in the fiscal
year 2015 budget for the attor-
ney general's office to prosecute

Pollack said the University's
Office of Admissions would con-
sider placing more early appli-
cants on the wait list and offer
comparatively fewer early admis-
sions.
"We're goingto set a targetthat
is well below actual and we're
going to make very intentional
use of the wait list," she said.
Pollack added that she's
working with the University's
new vice president of enroll-
ment management, whom the
regents appointed in June,
to implement more advanced
prediction tools for modeling
enrollment figures. -
The target freshman enroll-
ment number will require
approval of the provost and the
office of Admissions will also
have to clear any adjustments
to the target with Pollack.
"I feel pretty comfortable that
we won't be in this situation next
year," she said.
Officials are also working
with colleges and schools to

ensure the University can pro-
vide a high-quality undergradu-
ate education for this year's
larger freshman class over their
next four years.
LSA added 41 class sections
this fall and plans to add an addi-
tional 45 for the winter semester,
mostly in popular core subject
areas such as Spanish, math-
ematics and economics. The Col-
lege of Engineering has hired
new instructors to teach addi-
tional discussion sections for the
college's key first-year courses.
On top of the accommodations
that have already been made,
Pollack said the University is
increasing funding by 10 percent
for the faculty expansion pro-
gram included in the fiscal year
2015 budget that was designed to
keep class sizes small. Those fac-
ulty will be hired this year and
arrive on campus next fall.
Housing was also a primary
concern for administrators, since
more than 97 percent of fresh-
men live on-campus and West

Quad Residence Hall remains
closed as it undergoes a massive
renovation project. To cope with
a shortage of housing, the Uni-
versity incentivized returning
students with University Hous-
ing contracts to seek off-campus
accommodations. More than
330 of those students ultimately
signed off-campus leases - free-
ing space for the larger freshman
class. When West Quad reopens
next fall, it will mark the first
time in eight years that none of
the University's major housing
facilities are closed for renova-
tion.
Despite the University's fail-
ure to meet enrollment targets,
Pollack assured the board that
this year's influx of freshmen
won't impact the student expe-
rience. In 2010, the University
enrolled a similarly large fresh-
man class without a noticeable
dip in retention.
"I don't want to leave the
impression that it's more of a
disaster than it is," she said.


TOTTEN.
From Page 1A
A native Michigander and resi-
dent of Kalamazoo, Totten has
been on the law faculty at Michi-
gan State University since 2008,
and for three years served con-
currently as a federal prosecutor
in the U.S. Attorney's Office for
the Western District of Michi-
gan. Totten feels that incumbent
Bill Schuette has used the office.
to "wage a series of extreme cru-
sades that have left every family
and everystudent inthis state less
safe." He believes the attorney
general's role is to be "the people's
lawyer," and has positioned him-
self on the issues through that
lens. Here are five major issues
Mark Totten wants to focus on.
Violent crime
Totten wants to reemphasize
effortsto protect people from vio-
lent crime, whether at the hands
of armed criminals or domestic
abusers and sexual assailants. In
addition to advocating for sur-
vivors, Totten wants to protect
public education funding from
further cuts and expand prisoner
reentry programs as a means of
crime prevention.
Economic crime'
Aside from violent crime, Tot-
ten believes the attorney general
must do a better job protecting
people from economic crimes as
well. Michigan was one of the
states hardest-hit during the
housing crisis, as many families
fell victim to predatory lending
schemes that often resulted in
home foreclosure. In an inter-
view with the Daily, Totten said
he believes Schuette has not done
enough to hold lenders account-
able or assist citizens affected by
the crisis.
Strengthening Consumer Pro-
tection and ending drug immu-
nity
Somewhat related to economic
crime protection are Michigan's
consumer protection laws, which
Totten characterized as some of
the weakest in the nation, as they

are filled with exemptions for
businesses that would normally
be compelled to comply with the
regulations. In addition to tight-
ening protections for consumers
in a variety of transactional areas,
Totten also wants to end Michi-
gan's drug immunity law.
"We're the only state in the
nation that says if you are harmed
or killed by a prescription drug
you are helpless to do anything
about it," he said in a statement.
Women's issues
If elected, Totten said he would
use his office to better protect
women's interests, such as ensur-
ing access to contraception. He
has accused Schuette of being
the most active Attorney General
on behalf of Hobby Lobby, which
argued that corporations should
not be required to provide insur-
ance policies that cover the pur-
chase of contraceptives.
Studentloans
Totten is concerned with the
amountofdebtthatstudentsaccrue
by the time they graduate college,
and said part of the problem stems
from lenders and loan servicers
acting in bad faith. He said pri-
vate lenders "try to steer students
into products that are much more
expensive when the student other-
wise might have qualified for sub-
sidized loans in the first instance."
As Attorney General, Totten said
he would be active in fighting these
groups in court.
Though he is 40 years old, Tot-
ten said he felt this was the right
time to run for this office because
he was concerned with the direc-
tion the office was taking. He said
the job is so important because
most people - even those in the
middle class - cannot afford law-
yers of their own.
"When there are harms that
affect thousands of people across
the state, they really depend upon
the Attorney General who is act-
ing as their lawyer," he said. "I
don't think that mission is being
fulfilled now."
With just under seven weeks
until election day, a Detroit News
poll has Schuette leading Totten
40-38 among decided voters.

cases related to the kits.
Healthcare
Schuette announced this Feb-
ruary that he, along with several
other state attorney generals,
joined a federal lawsuit against
a provision in the Affordable
Care Act. Schuette supported the
plaintiffs in the suit, a group of
individuals and small businesses.
The case hinges on whether
states with healthcare exchanges
set up by the federal government,
as is the case in Michigan and 33
other states, are eligible for fed-
eral tax credits to subsidize the
cost of healthcare for individuals
with financial need.
The ACA includes language
meant to incentivize states to set
up their own exchanges by offer-
ing the tax credits specifically to
state-run exchanges.
The case is currently before
the D.C. Court of Appeals. With-
out the financial support from
the credits, a large number of
individuals could feasibly opt out
of the ACA's individual mandate

requirement for coverage.
Affirmative action
In 2012, Schuette faced a legal
challenge to another state ban,
this one on affirmative action,
approved by the voters in 2006
and prompted by a previous case
against the University's admis-
sions practices.
In Schuette v. Coalition to
Defend Affirmative Action,
the U.S. Supreme Court upheld
the ban earlier this year, after
Schuette appealed a decision by
the 6th Circuit Court to over-
turn it. In his original petition
to the Supreme Court asking
for a review of the 6th Circuit
decision, Schuette cited issues
of unequal treatment, which he
argued affirmative action pro-
moted. The state's argument has
received both criticism and sup-
port in the University communi-
ty over the past eight years - and
raised questions of voter disen-
franchisement and protection of
the state constitution, similar to
the gay marriage ban.

Pensioners
Schuette filed to intervene in
the deliberations on behalf of
the city's pensioners, a signifi-
cant group of the city's creditors,
during the June 2013 bankruptcy
settlement case in Detroit.
lie argued that the pension-
ers, who at points in the proceed-
ings were projected to receive
only 66 percent to 95.5 percent
of their pensions had a right to
their pensions under the state's
constitution. This position was
not shared by Detroit Emergency
Manager Kevyn Orr in the city's
original plans to move out of
bankruptcy.
For his actions to protect civil
service pensions, Schuette was
endorsed by the Retired Detroit
Police and Fire Fighters Associa-
tion Tuesday.
"We endorse Bill Schuette for
reelection because he fought for
us, and our pensions, when no
one else did," RDPFFA President
Donald Taylor said in a state-
ment.


PUSSYRIOT
From Page 2A
Alyokhina said having a lawyer
was crucial to her sanity during her
21-month prison stay.
"No other people realize what
it means to have a lawyer in pris-
on," Alyokhina said. "It is the thin
thread that is your communication
to the outside world. He brought me
some newspapers and I read them.
Then, I realized that the past few
days, there had been this weird fog
around me which had been nothing
but people in green uniform. There
was a big world of events out there.
That was always a big surprise."
Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova
said their prosecution highlighted
the poor status of women in Russia
and the shortcomings of what they
see as a broken legal system. Femi-
nism was considered a bad word to
say in the church, and the fact that
the young women are mothers was
emphasized.
"We are bad because we do stuff
like this," Alyokhina said, "instead
of sitting at home cooking soup."

ATHLETICS
From Page 1A
These venues will allow
the University to host local,
regional and national competi-
tions.
Engineering senior Amber
Smith, a two-time captain of
the women's track and field
team, expressed the need for a
space her team can gather and
build a community.
"What I want for this Uni-
versity is to have its athletes
brighten up when they see fel-
low students and families able
to cheer them on at Michigan,"
Smith said. "It will create a
stronger and more commit-
ted fan base, better moral and
greater alumni network."
Strong also noted the new
facility will also be available
to the student body at large for
events and special occasions.
Regent Mark Bernstein (D)
and Schlissel voiced the impor-
tance of ensuring the facilities
are available for every student

on campus.
"I'm pleased that this pro-
posal centers around enhanc-
ing the student experience,"
Schlissel said.
The regents also approved
a proposal to renovate the
aging Intramural Sports Build-
ing. When it opened in 1928,
the iconic Intramural Sports
Building was the first facility
at an institution of higher edu-
cation dedicated primarily to
intramural sports.
The $18.7 million project is
one of multiple upgrades fund-
ed by the Student Life Student
Fee for Facility Renewal initi-
ate.
In April 2013, the regents
voted to administer a-$65 per-
term student fee to fund reno-
vations of campus unions and
recreational sports facilities.
"The IM Building is an
important center for health
recognition and social inter-
action," said E. Royster Harp-
er, vice president of student
life. "The building serves over
one million student (visits)
per year."

The project will reconfig-
ure existing space to create
new exerciserooms, locker
rooms, a larger cardio work-
out area, improved racquet-
ball courts and staff offices. It
will also improve mechanical,
electrical and plumbing work;
lighting improvement and
gymnasium floor replacement
work.
During the public com-
ments portion of the meeting,
LSA senior Jacob Light, chair
of Buildinga Better Michigan,
a group which spearheaded
efforts to update the Universi-
ty's public recreation spaces,
thanked the regents for their
continued support of these
projects.
"Students expect that their
sacrifice of a large portion of
gym space and financial bur-
den born unto them will bring
rewards in the future," Light
said. "We renovate these spac-
es to ensure that high quality
facilities are open for and invit-
ing to all students; irrespective
of race, gender, ability or socio-
economic status."

FOLLOW US ON
SOCIAL .,MED.IA!~-,
Twitter:
@MICHIGANDAILY
Facebook:
WWW. FACEBOOKCOM/
MICHIGANDAILY

Want to help cure the world?
Come learn how GE's prestigious leadership programs
and internship/co-op assignments can do big things
for the globe...and your career.
Tackle key challenges while collaborating with the best
and brightest minds in youp field. Kickstart your career
in an environment where ideas become infrastructures,
and where individual talents combine to build, power,
cure and move the world. Find out how at ge.com/university.
GE offers a great work environment, professional development, challenging careers,
and competitive compensation. GE is an equal opportunity employer. Employment
decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, disability, protected
veteran status or other characteristics protected by law.
Come visit us on:
Monday, September 22, 2014 for the
Engineering Career Fair in the Duderstadt
from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Thursday, September 25, 2014 for the
UMSI Career Showcase in the North Quad
from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.


TOP 5


A


6A "- Friday, September 19, 2014

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

6A - Friday, September19, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

q
I
I

0

.4

UC

a

F

A


The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Friday, September 19, 2014 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Friday, September19, 2014- 7A

RC theater to open

Deutches champions
experimental
format
By COSMO PAPPAS
DailyArts Writer
Theater, like any other artis-
tic medium, makes an argument
about rep-
resentation. RC Deutches
On this
side of the Theater and
Atlantic, a Tanz Tangente
naturalis-
tic function Open
in drama Workshop
- the idea Friday September
that the-
ater repro- 19,8:00 p.m.
duces the Keene Theater
real world Free
by virtue
of an illu-
sion of stage design, acting meth-
ods and other factors - is very
often assumed. Even the device of
"breaking the fourth wall" takes
for granted any "walls" at all. Cer-
tain radical traditions in theater
have attempted to reinvent theat-,
rical practice by challenging these
fundamental assumptions.
Janet Hegman Shier, the
founder and director of the Resi-
dential College's German Theater
(Deutsches Theater), counts the
company as an inheritor of these
rebellious traditions. The Deputsch-
es Theater, which is entering its
30th year this season, began as a
classroomexperience whenShier's
students asked to perform a-more
"typical" play, and has since grown

intoaninstitutionknownfor push-
ing the envelope in aesthetic terms,
withinthe Universityandbeyond.
"In his country there is a ten-
dency, at least in theater, to do
very representational - for me,
very boring - theater, and it's
very different in Germany," Shier
said. "When you go to see a per-
formance in Germany, it's good if
you don't understand everything
that's going on, and I tell my stu-
dents that it doesn't matter what.
language it's in.You're going to get
so much out of seeing it since it's
not so literal"
The Deutsches Theater cham-
pions the experimentation of the
dramatic arts so well known to
German audiences and so obscure
to most American audiences. Thus,
this Friday the doors to the Keene
Theater of the Residential College
will welcome German-speaking.
and non-German-speaking guests
alike for an open workshop with
Tanz Tangente, a Berlin-based
dance company, that specializes
in community engagement and
working with amateur dance stu-
dents.
This event concludes the triad
of events put on the past couple of
weeks by the RC called' "Remem-
ber Me," which also included a
concert by Professor Michael.
Gould,andamultimediaexhibit by
Gould, featuring the poetry of RC
poetry professorKen Mikolowski.
Four dancers from the com-
pany and its choreographer,
Nadja Raszewski, have been
working with the RC's intensive
German students in a two-week
residency, which culminates on
Sept. 19 with the open workshop.

There, students will be working
with and "translating" into dance
and movement a pair of texts by
Ulrike Meinhof, German militant
and journalist, and Elias Canetti,
Bulgarian-born German-language
writer.
"What we try to do is not to
bring out the text in a kind of pan-
tomime, not describe what we just
read, but to associate by move-
ment," Raszewski said. "It means
that what you can see as a public,'
what you can feel, what you can
experience while you see the com-
position - you can make up your
ownworld. So it's not, 'This is what
you should see."'
The notion that dance or theater
trades in "ideas and associations,"
according to Raszewski, rather
than straightforward images, radi-
cally alters the representational
possibilities of a performance. This
dramatic practice emphasizes
more than others the centrality of
the body in theater.
"For my students, even in Ger-
man Theater, we try to get out
of the situation where everyone
resides 99 percent of the time
between here and here (pointing
to her head), since it's so impor-
tant to involve and understand the
body, and ultimately to understand
language," Shier said.
While it may be beyond the
means of most to travel to Berlin
for the express purpose of seeing
plays, this workshop presents an
opportunity for American stu-
dents to upset many of the norms
and standard practices in theater,
internalized by so many, through
the expert guidance of Shier and
the members of Tanz Tangente.

The trouble with
Olivia Wilde's
breast

Have you see
have. The past
internet has be
about Olivia W
photo shoot for
magazine's
September
issue, in
which she
is featured
beastfeeding
her five
month old
son Otis.
Olivia
Wilde: her
name will
forever be

n it? You must
few weeks the
en buzzing
ilde's radical
Glamour
NATALIE
GADBOIS

Z Nation' challenges
typical zombie tropes

synonymous
with the word Goddess.
Beautiful, talented, funny,
smart, formerly married to an
Italian prince and currently
engaged to an American
jester (actor and comedian
Jason Sudeikis, for all you
celebrity gossip virgins),
Wilde is lauded in Hollywood
for her grace and easygoing
personality. And now this,
her public celebration of
motherhood, a valid attempt
to cast away the mindset
that women must be boxed
into categories - mother vs.
sex symbol, ambitious vs.
nurturing - and then shamed
when any of these overlap.
In some ways this cover is
revolutionary, much like when
a very pregnant Demi Moore
posed nude for Vogue in 1991.
Another public disavowal of
anyone who subconsciously
doubts women's complexity.
This is a good thing. I kept
repeating that to myself as I
read more and more articles
with titles like "Wilde stuns
while breastfeeding son,"
and "Olivia Wilde gushes
over being a mom!" It's a
good thing, right? Giving a
woman a spotlight for both
her professional and her
personal life. Removing the
stigma against breastfeeding
in public, and baring skin
not as an act of sexuality
or objectification, but
motherhood and serenity.
If I could sit there and
acknowledge all of these
positive things, then why
was I inwardly so itchy, more
anxious each time I saw that
picture? Something was off.
I spent the better part
of my summer catching
up on old "Parenthood"
episodes with my family.
(I lead a wild life). In an
episode in the third season,
Kristina Braverman (whose


overbearing neediness how far she misses the mark,
normally incurs my strongest how unsuccessful she is
disdain), is deeply relatable at being a woman. Wilde's
as an insecure new mom. photos intone that a real
Weeks after giving birth woman can have it all, and
to her third child, she has must be it all: successful and
to go to her husband's hip nurturing, confident and sexy.
recording studio opening in I know what many people
the Haight. She reluctantly must be thinking. "It's
borrows a dress from her Hollywood, everything is
sister-in-law, feeling out unrealistic." "Women can't
of her skin and unwieldy. compare themselves to her,
At the party, her breasts she's a movie star." And even,
begin leaking milk in front "She looks great, you're just
of her husband's hot new jealous and won't admit it."
assistant, seeping through So I'll admit it: of course
the borrowed dress. Kristina I'm jealous. A woman who
cries from embarrassment, recently pushed a child
from exhaustion, from self- through her vajayjay is now
consciousness and feelings of on a magazine cover looking
inadequacy. better than I will ever look
Nursing Olivia Wilde is - jealousyis only human.
not this. While her photo And no, one Glamour photo
spread is a step forward does not change the course
to re-imagining women of history, nor does it show
as multifaceted workers, us anything about the way
caregivers, artists and lovers, Wilde actually lives her life.
all she serves is to raise She could be just as scared
the standards of perfection and insecure and confused
once again. ClickHole, a as other new moms. But we
subsidiary of The Onion don't get to see that. We
that satirizes sites like see perfection,'the way
BuzzFeed and Gawker, all women could be if they
worded it with blinding tried a little bit harder, if
clarity: "Breastfeeding in they lost one more hour of
Public Should No Longer be a sleep to work off the baby
Taboo For Mothers Who Are weight, if they miraculously
Conventionally Attractive." regained their confidence
(Shout-out to Erika Harwood, to pose for photos. Because
summer Onion intern and Wilde, in both the article
current Daily editor, who and the photo, does not set
herself apart as a glamorous,
Hollywood enigma - no, she
is like every new mom! She
Standards of loves her baby so much she
perfetion ren't breastfeeds him in public and
pere are giggles with him at a diner!
She is no exception, she is just
always helpful. lip r in
& W yS e pU . ike yeryone gy gding
her. How dh m ake
every other ne'w moan eel?

By. CATHERINE SULPIZIO
Daily Arts Writer
When I first started "Z
Nation," SyFy's entrance into
the "Walking Dead" zombie
market, I wasn't sure if I was
watching the latest version of
some "Halo" game or an actual
TV show, Which makes sense,
seeing as it is produced by Asy-
lum Studios, which is respon-
sible for the 'unapologetically
campy "Sharknado" franchise.
Despite these roots and the low
production value, "Z Nation" is
not what Susan Sontag joyfully
called thing as pure artifice.
There is a lot hiding beneath
the much-hyped zombie genre.
Monster genre seems as if it
is constantly fighting an uphill
battle with viewers' respect.
And for some greater reason,
the zombie genre carries more
reflexive disdain than the vam-
pire or supernatural ones. Why
is that? Part of it must be brand-
ing, and the vampire genre has
managed to subvert audience
expectations with shows like
"True Blood" which, at least
initially, changed the direction
from a traditionally singular
study to a social allegory. But
also, the vampire is a human (a
super human, really). Thus, the
vampire accepts individuation,
its monster-ness not subsum-
ing its human-ness. The zom-
bie, on the other hand, resists
that individuation. Its mind-
and therefore its ability for
characterization-is destroyed.
The fear of the zombie is root-
ed in its physical rather than
its psychological menace. Thus
the zombie mob. While vam-
pire genre is man vs. super
man, zombie genre is man vs.
environment.
There must also be teem-
ing social forces that are
unearthed by various itera-
tions of horror. With the
vampire genre, we see youth-
obsession take an immortal
form that would make even the
Kardashians jealous; the ugly
aspects of eternal beauty sym-
bolized by a parasitic depen-
dence on other's lifeblood.
After all, a beautiful surface
lives off the penetrating gaze
of the other, if not some shard
of that reflected identity. Guy
Debord described the recipro-
cal nature of havingvs. defining

beauty in his essay," Society of
the Spectacle." This is also why
there are'lmostfne riampire
outbreak plots - the vampire
A new crop
of horror
programming.
belongs to a dark class of celeb-
rity amid an average world. As
much as it is feared, the vam-
pire is an aspirational figure.
On the other hand, the zom-
bie genre manifests the deep-
set fears of society imploding
on itself. It's similar to the
primordial chill of books like
"Lord of the Flies" and "Heart.
of Darkness," except with the
added layer of uncanny famil-
iarity. In the zombie genre, the
zombie mob isn't some unified
structure; instead it's a barely
contained throng of automa-
tons. Three years past the
Occupy Wall Street chaos (both
inside and out), along with the
well-documented low party
identification of young people
and the surge of breathless
coverage following libertari-
anism's newfound trendiness,
one can read the zombie mob
as Baby Boomer's nightmare
fantasy of Gen Y-ers. Espe-
cially since the narrative of
the zombie genre always rests
in the perspective of uninfect-
ed "sane." Anytime sanity is
labeled by perspective of nar-
rative, there's an ideological
mechanism in place organizing
sanity and insanity.
In denying the mob perspec-
tive (save for exceptions like
Isaac Marion's genre-resisting
novel "Warm Bodies"), we also
miss what could be a vehicle for
some fascinating pondering on
a wide range of philosophical
themes - things like the mind-
body connection or the nature
of simulacra, at the very least.
But I digress, the traditional
zombie plot is represented par
excellence in "Z Nation," i.e.
the plot of survival in a world
where reassuring social order
has collapsed. Though predict-
able, the zombie plot is well
equipped to poke at questions
of the public sphere, whether

it's aware of this fact or not..
For example, in the first scene
of "Z Nation," under flickering
lights, three convicts are read
a hastily-passed order that
waives tester consent for test-
ing new drugs. It's arguably
the most horrifying part of the
episode and provides the half-
monster, half-human who
survives the antidote without
turning into a zombie (unlike
the two others). He's the
unlikely savior of America's
future, abandoned by the gov-
ernment until his body serves
some utility.
Deeper analysis of the seem-
ingly banal reveals much. Can
you watch "Z Nation" for its
video-game style gore and
bombard of nonstop action?
Sure, but it's almost more fun
'to look beneath that and probe
at the plight of the Living Dead.

didn't write this article but to
whom I give credit anyway).
Wilde's photo illustrates a
modern Madonna - her face
calm, her waist already thin,
even her breasts sans stretch
marks. Her baby is naked
and glowing, a paragon of
infant innocence and grace.
What purpose does this
humble-brag serve? What is
the cost that one of the few
public representations of new
motherhood now establishes
even more impossible
standards for women?
Imagine Kristina, exhausted
and soft, still trying to regain
her dignity after her body
has grown and reshaped to
accommodate a-whole person,
reading that article. Seeing

So congrats, Olivia.
Seriously, you seem happy
and your baby is adorable.
You were perfect before, and
now your title can 'include
"Goddess with Babe in
Arms," like a 2nd century
Greek statue. Feminism is
complicated and often at odds
with itself, and navigating
a public image as a woman
is nearly impossible, so you
can't be blamed. Who knows
who is to blame. I'll just
be on the couch, watching
"Parenthood" and eating ice
cream from the carton, in
solidarity with the Kristinas
of the world.
Gadbois is eating ice cream
out of the carton. To join her,
e-mail gadbnat@umich.edu.


Merge your science/engineering
background with management,
leadership ad communication in
professional master's programs!
Choose from 9 engineering and 5 science disciplines offered
at Rice University in Houston, Texas.These programs offer:
" interdisciplinary, non-thesis Master of Science degrees
" course combinations available in your science or engineering
interest areas enriched with options in business,
management, polilcy and communication
" practical work experience opportunities
" compact 2 to 3 semester programs depending on degree selected
SCIENCE
www.profms.rice.edu
ENGINEERING
epmp.nce.edu


p A


I

l


8A - Friday, September 19, 2014

The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

8A - Friday, September19, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

The princess of pop?

TSwift has the
bankable personality
other stars lack
By GIBSON JOHNS
DailyArts Writer
A few weeks ago, Taylor Swift
finally admitted what we've all
known for a while now - that
her music has slowly but surely
transformed from country to
pop. No longer is Swift strad-
dling the often-blurred line that
splits country music from pop 'Hey Stephen"
music, Miranda Lambert from
Katy Perry and Jason Aldean growth as an artist. I can appre-
from Bruno Mars. And for this, ciate country music as much
we should all be thankful, both as anyone, but with her newly-
because of the music she will pro- announced upcoming pop album,
duce in the future and the kind 1989, Swift can stop worrying
we'll no longer be hearing from about filling her country quota
her. and expand the breadth of music
Swift's last album, Red, show- that she allows herself to be influ-
cased her lean toward entering enced by, and thus, the possibili-
the pop realm while still feeling ties of what her music can sound
the need to produce country-ish like will be endless.
records. For every "We Are Never Say what you want about
Ever Getting Back Together" on "Shake It Off," the first single
the album, there was a solid, yet from 1989 and the only offering
safe, country track (see: "Stay we've heard so far, but it's hard
Stay Stay" and "I Almost Do"). to argue that it doesn't bring
Still, Red had some memorably something different to main-
fresh moments like the smash ("I stream pop radio. Depending on
Knew You Were Trouble" - often your views of the track, it's either
noted for its use of dubstep), the gratingly or pleasantly addicting.
perfect sing-a-long ode to your Point being: it's addicting. And
early twenties ("22") and per- that, coupled with the hoopla
haps her best-written song yet surrounding her announcement
(the Jake Gyllenhaal-inspired of the single and album on Yahoo
"All Too Well"). What all of these demonstrate the absolute, com-
tracks had in common was the manding power that she holds;
fact that they were gloriously and "Shake It Off," predictably so,
undeniably pop, despite what the shot straight to No. 1 on the Bill-
genre label on iTunes said. These board Hot 100. Everything she
songs were Swift at her absolute does is undeniably Swift, yet she
new best, and yet, as fans, we remains predictably unpredict-
didn't get a full album of them able, which is not something that
because someone, somewhere can be said about a lot of other
was insisting that her identity pop stars.
still be Taylor Swift: Country Though she's arguably, already
Star. the biggest artist in the world
Let me be clear: I'm notusually this side of Beyonc6, Taylor Swift
(read: ever) one of those people has a real chance to take control
who thinks artists should have to of the pop music scene with her
classify their music into a single upcoming release. Pop is full of
genre. The best albums are usu- solo female artists,yetnone of the
ally those that bend genre bound- big names (again, save for Beyon-
aries and give us something that c6) have produced anything that
our ears have never heard before. memorable in the past year or so.
But, at this point, the classifica- Katy Perry's Prism seemed prom-
tion of Taylor Swift's music as isingly led by "Roar," but the
"country" is simply inaccurate. singles that followed were under-
And it's also what has limited her whelming ("Unconditionally,"

0
I
4

BIG MACHINE

"Birthday"). Lady Gaga's next
release is a standards album with
Tony Bennett, which, though a
novel idea, won't be bringing her
any hit singles. Rihanna's next
album is long overdue, but there's
been no word from her about
when and what we can expect.
And let's not even talk about Brit-
ney Jean. Ariana Grande may be
able to churn out hits, but her
lack of personality and stage
presence is concerning. Meghan
Trainor, whose "All About That
Bass" is currently the No. 1 song
in the country, has yet to prove
that she's anything but a one-hit-
wonder. With Beyonce wrapping
up the Beyonce era, it seems that
Swift is poised to take control of
the airwaves and withher savant-
like songwriting talents and her
knack for giving us music that we
didn't even know we needed, this
can only be a good thing.
Taylor Swift is no longer just
the girl with the guitar singing
about her famous ex-boyfriends
- she's said that the material on
1989 covers a wider range of sub-
jects like her friendships with
other females, family and grow-
ing up - she's now a maturing
pop star capable of real growth
and exploration.
If 1989 ends up being the
album that I and many others
expect it to be, then gone will be
the days of the country duds that
Taylor Swift used as fillers on Red
and we'll finally be ushered into
an era in which she can deliver
the properly well-rounded pop
album we all knew she was capa-
ble of giving us.
Country music and T-Swift are
never ever getting back together.
Like, ever.

ABC
#Eight MonthsPregnant
Diverse programming
carries network TV

By CHLOE GILKE
Daily TV/New Media Editor
At 10 years old, there was no
feeling that could rival the excite-
ment of seeinglJack Bauer's scowl-
ing face in my mailbox. I'd sneak
my contraband issue of TV Guide
magazine back to my room, grab
a colored marker from my back-
pack and pore over my TV nerd's
Bible. The pages sticky with hot
September air, I'd put a green
star next to everything I want-
ed to watch. ("Lost," "House,"
"Veronica Mars," anything on the
WB network.) Obviously, most of
what I circled wasn't appropriate
viewing for a kid, but that didn't
matter. It wouldn't stop me from
sitting on the floor in the upstairs
hallway, watching "Desperate
Housewives" from the open crack
of my parents' door. It wouldn't
keep me from participating in the
joy of network TV pilot season.
With the popularization of
cable television, pilot season
seems endearingly quaint. The
nostalgia of seeing the TV Guide
perched on the newsstand at
Kroger is like going home for the
weekend and remembering that
your dad still likes those Friday
night family dinners at the same

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 37 A muse may 54 Cardiologist's
1 Caesar in "Rise 1 Farm fieldcry inspire them concern
of the Planet of 2 "That's a surprise" 38"Fooled you!" 55 Lakers coach_
the Apes," for 3 Lyricist Gershwin 40 With joy Scott
one 4 Bdlsh subject? 42 Louis _, 57 Nearsighted one
6 Loadleged replaced hythe eponym of the 60 Activity on a mat
g-egg eurKentucky city 62 Image on the
14 Halos 6 Beef. e.g. 45 All square Michigan state
7 Answerto the 47 Lose sleep (over) flag
11 Bolg alternative riddle 50 Square one 65Through
1B Really ticked B Melonlikefruit It Tooth covering B6 "Grossl"
17 Startof a riddle sHeadlight seing 13 Pinch 67 Small opening?
18 "Shirt Front and 10 "Let us part, _
Fork artist the season of ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Well-mannered passion forget
fellows us": Yeats ERN A W M A N HANK S
20 Summertime 11 Singer's asset T H E W H A T S A B 0 1 L
woe 12 Riverrsammal H I C N I C E A N ID E A S Y
23 "_ Shorty": 13Makes a home I N C A P O I O A T H S
Elmore Leonard 21 Egyptian snakes C O 0 L R U N N I N G S
novel 22 Actor Green of WEEP G E O L I P
24 Sursptuous "Rohot Chicken"
meals 24 Doesn'thtake GUA RD A B L E S I N E
27 Some anything in O F F T O A G OO 0STAR T
microbrews 25Fanfare D O E S G I N O TOME S
25 Rm. coolers 2B Tokyo-based a a R 0 R L C Y A N
30Riddleparttwo brewsey SW E T S IXT E N
32 Big piece 28 Bar, in law M A I N E WAR SEX Y
34 Kazakhstan, 31 Suffixnwith Mao
34cAzhsr 033Smashingat the W I C K E D W I T C H S I M
once: Abbr. box office E L M E R S C A L E O L E
3aChevrolestU 36 Singer with the B L E S S J E T E R N E T
Mel-Tones xwordeditor@aol.com 09/19/14

"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
721 S. Forest "Forest Place"
$1500 Limited Passes Remaining
734-761-8000
primesh.com
CAMPUS PARKING $70/MONTH,
near U of M bus. 734-418-2050 or
info@828greene.com 1.

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com !
WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-

pizza place. Oh, yeah, they're still
doingthat.
Though cable has more street
cred (and cursing, beheadings and
boobs), network TV is still impor-
tant. Not only are its ratings con-
sistently higher than those of its
cable counterparts, but network
series are constantly adapting to
new business strategies and find-
ing ways to stay relevant in the
Twitter age. Proclaiming that art
and entertainment can only be
found on channels is incredibly
narrow-minded, and overlooks
the collection of diverse program-
ming found on traditional net-
works.
It's impossible to talk about
21st century network television
without first mentioning the
behemoth of Shondaland. Shonda
Rhimes' production company has
been an ABC staple since 2005,
when Chloe's Green Star List
alum "Grey's Anatomy" pre-
miered. With "Grey's Anatomy,"
Rhimes essentially changed the
face of TV. Where before eve-
ning TV was pogrammed for
men to enjoy after work, "Grey's"
popularized the female-centric
primetime soap. "Grey's" shame-
lessly featured the plot twists and
steamy sexual tension of a day-
time soap opera, but it reached an
unprecedented audience. It won
critical acclaim, Emmy awards
and ridiculously high ratings -
not just among females, but the
hyper-masculine boys in my sixth
grade drama class. The series is
entering its eleventh season, and
shows no sign of slowing down.
"Grey's Anatomy" is .still one of
the most-watched series on tele-
vision.
Along with other shows of its
era, "Grey's Anatomy" proved
that a top procedural series didn't
have to be set in a police precinct
or feature gruff, gun-toting men.
Female friendships, a diverse
and talented cast and whirlwind
romance were enough to draw in
viewers. "Grey's" paved the way
for other female-centric network
TV shows, like "The Good Wife,"
"Revenge" and "Nashville." This
new generation of primetime
soaps blends entertainment and
drama to create unique and com-
pelling television, no matter the
gender of its viewers.
Shonda Rhimes has followed
up on her "Grey's" success with
"Scandal" and the upcoming
"How to Get Away with Murder."
The series star award-winning
actresses Kerry Washington
("Django Unchained") and Viola
Davis ("The Help"), respectively.
The draw ofworking with Rhimes
might be enough to bring these
fantastic actresses to television,
but there has to be something
else at play. Network television
offers an unprecedented vari-
ety of great roles for women of
color. While cable-counterparts
continue to order shows about
angsty white men, ABC is kick-
ing off a trend of providing more
diverse programming. Represen-
tation pays off in higher ratings
- not surprisingly, Black viewers
are likely to tune into shows in
which Black characters play cen-
tral roles. "Grey's Anatomy" and
"Scandal" are especially popular
in Black households, and some of
the other top series for this demo-
graphic include well-knownBlack

actresses as main characters (Tar-
aji P. Henson in "Person of Inter-
est," Nicole Beharie in "Sleepy

Hollow"). Like "Grey's Anatomy,"
these series aren't just popular in
this specific demographic. "Scan-
dal" and "Sleepy Hollow" have
top ratings nationwide.
Other networks are beginning
to follow ABC's successful busi-
ness model. Since TV series that
feature all-white casts tend to be
the lowest-rated, networks are
ordering more showsawith diverse
leads. CBS's summer hit "Extant"
stars Oscar winner Halle Berry
as an independent astronaut, and
Fox premiered the third season of
the raucously funny "The Mindy
Project" "Mindy" is not only the
first American sitcom centered on
an Indian-American woman but is
also led by the only Indian-Amer-
ican showrunner in Hollywood
right now. Diverse casting has
made significant progress since
"Grey's Anatomy" and "Lost,"
and on network TV, you can now
find a materialistic Indian goof-
ball, a gay Latina cheerleader and
a Black leading lady'detective on
primetime. Though stereotyping
isn't completely gone, the variety
of personalities associated with
characters of color is becom-
ing much more realistic. This
isn't your grandmother's net-
work television. While cable lags
behind, network TV is making
great strides in acknowledging its
diverse viewers.
Barring any more discussion of
race and gender, a lot of network
TV shows are just damn good.
"Hannibal" features such stun-
ning visuals and subtle acting
that it's practically unrecogniz-
able as a "typical network show."
There's plenty of violence, more
gut-wrenching than anything
I've seen on "Game of Thrones"
- if you're whining about how
broadcast networks censor gore,
get back to me once you've seen
Mason Verger feed his ownface to
a dog. There's sex, too, but restric-
tions on nudityeliminatethe male
gaze that pervades most steamy
scenes on cable. "Hannibal" aired
a threesome sex scene last sea-
son, and it was actually creatively
filmed and edited (as opposed to
consecutive close-ups of Emilia
Clarke's boobs, which is how we
all know the same scene would
.have been handled on "Game of
Thrones"). Many critics, (includ-
ing this one), list "Hannibal" near
the top of their favorite programs
on television, right up there with
shows like "True Detective" and
"BreakingBad." Itdoesn'tdeserve
that spot just because it's good
"for network." It's fucking great
television - comparable to any-
thing on cable, if not even better.
Network television isn't dead.
It's alive and thriving, though
its face is no longer recognizably
white or male, nor is its program-
ming comparable to whatever
was airing ten years ago. TV
is an evolving creature, and as
cable and streaming have added
new challenges, network TV has
adapted to its new environment.
As I pick up the newest copy of
TV Guide from my mailbox (yes,
I am a college student with maga-
zine subscriptions) and decorate
the pages with green stars, I don't
shy away from making dates for
network shows. So many series,
on countless networks and plat-
forms, are available .to viewers,
but that doesn't mean the tradi-

tional ones are worth abandoning.
Don't count network television
out - she might just surprise you.

0

0

0

41 mystery guest
moniker
43 Highs and lows,
perhaps
44 Suppress
46 KOA visitors
48 Mice, to owls
49 Riddle, part
three
52 Buddy
53 Monkey wrench
wielder?
56 Catch ina web
58 Many a lap dog
59 Coatcloset
locale, often
61 Dropped the ball
63 Selloutsign,
briefly
64 End ofthe riddle
68 Lagoon border
69 Goad, with "on"
70 Heroic stories
71 Like a string
bean
72 Burnt crisp
73 Unauthorized
disclosures

A It VIVVMIiYtVYVIV VIII VVeIMI"z
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
t4 15 16
17 18 19
20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
32 33 34 35 36 37 38
39 40 41 42 43
44 45 46 47 48
49 150 51 0 52.1 1
53 54 55 56 57
58 59 60
61 62 63 64 65 66 6T
68 69 70
77 72 73

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, forma. All Disciplines. PAG
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
H ELP WANTED
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
STAFF MEMBERS needed for local ele-
mentary school 2:30-6:00pm 2-4 days a
week. Reliahle trnsportation required.
Email Rose rhucker)emer h n-schoolor
SUBSTITUTEAND POSSIBLE part-
timeworkavailableatanAnnArborchild
carecenter.Experienceinchildcareisre-
quired. Contact Nancy a1 orosro-
dwig@spaulanarbor.rg
INTERNSHIPS
INTERN WANTED FORtBirmingham
law office for 1-2 years. Must haveat
least BA or BS with strong grades/com-
pt rskls.t'aidPosition. Emuil resume
& transcript to: miclalwoffice@gmailcvo

0

6

©2014TribueContent Agency, LLC

09/19/14


1

r

f

A


:
r

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 19, 2014 -- 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, September19, 2014 - 9A

Coon leads sophomore class

By BEN FIDELMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Adam Coon, like he has
all season, dominated the
competition this summer.
Only this time, he traded in
his maize and blue singlet for
one with "USA" on the chest.
The sophomore was selected
to compete for Team USA in
the FILA World Championships
in Croatia, and was the only
wrestler to enter both the
Greco-Roman and freestyle
tournaments. He took home
bronze medals in both.
Michigan wrestling coach Joe
McFarland wants his team to
learn from all competitions, and
Coon believes he has learned
from last year's postseason and
this summer's international
events. Coon said watching
many of the competing nations,
including Iranians, Georgians
and Russians, allowed him to
see what it was like to have
flawless technique and be extra
aggressive - somethinghe's now
focusing on back in Ann Arbor.
"If I can combine both of
those," Coon said. "I will be
absolutely unstoppable. Perfect,
technique with the aggression
to go with it - that's your
perfect recipe."
Coon's performance was
impressive not only because of
the end result - two medals -
but also how he won them. In the
10 total matches over the course
of both tournaments, Coon went
8-2 with two technical falls and
five pins.
"Those numbers are
nothing less than impressive,"
McFarland. "The way he made
the teams and how he competed
in both the Greco and Freestyle,
which is virtually unheard
of, really says a lot about his
character and the kind of
competitor he is."
After he spent most of his

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
No.1Wolverines
prep fOr Big Ten
By CHRIS CROWDER schools this year. Last month's
For the Daily Michigan Open was a 5K intra-
squad race. Saturday's race will
Though it's just the second be the first 6K competition of
race of the year, the Michigan the year for the Wolverines.
women's cross country team Junior Shannon Osika,
will be thinking of a Big Ten sophomore Erin Finn and
title on Saturday. senior co-captain Brook
Saturday's Big Ten Preview Handler are expected to lead
will be held in Iowa City, the pack for Michigan.
Iowa, the site of the Big Ten "We're interested to run
Championships in November. againstdifferent-coloredshirts,"
After finishing second in the Big McGuire said. "Wisconsin has
Ten behind Michigan State last vastly improved over last year,
year, the Wolverines are hungry. and we anticipate they'll run
"The most important thing three people up front with our
is winning a Big Ten title," said people. We want to see how we'll
senior Alex Leptich. "It brings stack up against them."
excitement to the team unlike The Badgers are ranked No.
anything else we can achieve." 16 in the nation and will give
Their No. 1 Michigan a
ranking hasn't chance to live
gotten in the up to its top
way, though, as "W e're more ranking.
Leptich keeps The
the team on excited to lace Wolverines
track. look good on
"The No. em up and run paper, but
1 ranking is they have
really cool, but for a team score. their sights
it gets pushed on the course
back until and simply
after a Big Ten competing.
meet," Leptich said. "We have set objectives going
Michigan returns all seven of in, but we're more excited to lace
its varsity runners who finished 'emup and run for ateam score,"
first in their regional and fourth McGuire said.
nationally last year. Coach The Wolverines will look to
Mike McGuire has been very continue to motivate and push
pleased with his team's effort each other to win a Big Ten
in the offseason. He said the championship for the second
No. 1 ranking is a combination time in three years.
of where they finished last But Saturday's meet won't
year and progress that several just be a stepping stone toward a
individuals made during track Big Ten championship.
season. It could be on the way to a
The Big Ten Preview will be national title.
an early measuring stick for the
Wolverines as they face Big Ten For weekend sports'stores
foes Iowa and Wisconsin. It's Cheek Michiganaily.com and
their first race against opposing follow @theblockm on Twitter

Adam Coon hopes a successful summer with Team USA at the FILA World Championships will help him this winter.

freshman season as the No. 1 I wrestle with more aggression
wrestler in the heavyweight and more to lose? Yeah."
division, many expected big Coon, along with Dominic
things from him heading Abounader and Brian Murphy -
into the Big Ten and NCAA members of the 2013 recruiting
Championships. To his class - had an immediate
admission, the results of those impact for the Wolverines last
tournaments season.
were Coon led the
lackluster. * group with a
"I was a lot "I Willbe absolutely 32-5 record,
more driven Murphy at
(this summer) unstoppable." 18-9 and
because I had Abounader
such a bad at 16-11.
Big Ten and Abounader
NCAA Tournament," Coon said. and Murphy finished third and
"It fueled my fire. I went after it fourth, respectively, at the Big
even harder and gave it the best Ten Championships.
that I could. Would I say that I It's not uncommon for
wrestled better than I did (in wrestlers to redshirt their
the college postseason)? No. Did sophomore year if they're

coming off a stellar start to their
college career, but all three of
the Michigan sophomores are
coming back in full force for this
2014 campaign.
"We are going to put our best
team on the mat," McFarland
said. "All three of those guys
learned an awful lot, as most
student-athletes do, in their
first year of competition. You
learn where the bar is. The
grind of that first year turns you
into a man."
Coon believes the Wolverines
are going to be a powerhouse
this year.
Crediting tenacity in the
practice room and a great group
of freshmen, he maintains that
the team is going to finish better
than it has recently.


ConfidentM'
journeys East
By ISAIAH ZEAVIN-MOSS is a newfound confidence
For the Daily among the group.
Sarkisian, whose heroic, last-
The Michigan women's minute goal provided plenty of
soccer team drama Sunday night, said that
is hoping to last weekend's victories boosted
buck an early- MiChigan t Michigan's confidence.
season trend Maryland, "It gets everyone amped
as it heads Rutgers up," she said. "It makes us feel
East for a pair a lot more comfortable with
of matches Matchup: ourselves, knowing that we can
against Michigan 6-2; play at the top level and that we
Maryland and Maryland 3-2- can beat teams that are ranked
Rutgers. ; in the top 10."
After a When: Friday Even coach Greg Ryan,
weekend of 4 P.M., who, before last weekend
two thrilling, spoke almost entirely of his
quality TV: BTN team's youth and inexperience,
results - a (Monday) senses an increased, newfound
2-1 overtime maturity and confidence from
victory over his team.
Minnesota and a last-second 2-1 "They're doing a great job of
triumph over No. 9 Wisconsin keeping their eyes on the job
- the Wolverines will try to at hand, taking it one day at a
extend their current four- time," he said.
match win. streak. In many ways, for a young
But it won't team like the
be so easy. Wolverines,
The games the matches
are on the "W e know that immediately
road, where following
Michigan this is the Big great success
is 0-2 this are the most
year, having Ten season, its challenging.
suffered a pair Ryan sees
of shutouts in not preseason." this and has
California at been telling
the beginning his team in
of the season. practice to
Freshman forward Ani focus on its next game and not
Sarkisian said she thinks that to concern themselves with the
those gloomy days are far in the success of last weekend.
past. "I think they are adopting
"It was our effort that that (gutsy) attitude," Ryan said.
was lacking in San Diego," Added senior defender
Sarkisian said. "Maybe we were Keyana Thompson-Shaw: "We
enjoying ourselves too much in like to look at ourselves as the
California. Now we know that underdogs. We have nothing to
this is the Big Ten season, it's lose and everything to gain."
not preseason games. We need Michigan is brimming with
to take everything seriously confidence as they head out on
from here on." this East Coast road trip.
While the Wolverines' "We can go out there and
starting lineup is usually we can beat these teams,"
comprised of mostly new, Thompson-Shaw said.
inexperienced freshmen, the With a smile, she added,
team is coming together. There "Why not us?"

Men's soccer looks to rebound

By SYED FAHD AHSAN
For the Daily
What has been a roller coaster
of a season for the Michigan
men's soccer
team shows no Michigan at
signs of slowing
down as the N'Western
Wolverines Matchup:
visit Evanston Michigan 1-3-
to play 1; N'Western
Northwestern 3-1-2
this Sunday in When: Sunday
what promises 5 P.M.
to be a grueling Where:
game. Evanston, Ill.
Michigan
(1-3-1) comes
into the fixture
winless in its last three games.
Northwestern (3-1-2) would've
entered in similar circumstances
were it not for Wednesday's 1-0
win against Valparaiso, before
which they had one loss and
two draws since the start of the
month.
Both teams have yet to
register a win in the Big Ten and
will need one in hopes of gaining
ground on current leaders Penn
State, Ohio State and Rutgers,
all of which won their opening
matches.
The Wolverines, although
a point above Northwestern
courtesy of a draw against No.12
Maryland, will be hungrier for
the win, having not won since
the end of August. Michigan's
positive outings this season
were a 3-0 win against Southern
Methodist and last weekend's
draw to Maryland.
However, Michigan's most
dominant showing was arguably
last weekend's 1-0 loss to Bowling
Green, when the Wolverines
controlled the game for most of
the 90 minutes and dominated
every statistic other than the all-
important final score.
The defense was fairly solid
and was only occasionally

Michigan men's soccer coach Chaka Daley has reformed the Wolverines' strategy this year with mixed results.
exposed when both fullbacks project of trying to develop a highly composed defensive
would provide attackingsupport. specific possession-oriented style 5-3-2 formation primed for
The midfield looked composed of play for the team. quick counter-attacks and the
and pressed the Bowling Green "We've got a talented batch of quality of forward Joey Calistri
midfield if it ever lost the ball; in young players, and it takes time - the Big Ten's leading scorer
the end, it was just an inability adjusting to a new style of play. last season - who has already
to follow through in front of It's a long season ahead, and this racked up three goals, and the
goal that let the team down. is a long project," he said. Wolverines have no easy task on
For all their possession and all The Wildcats blew open their their hands.
the chances they created, one first two games of the season in Michigan can line up in
decisive counter attack by the spectacular fashion, winning a number of different ways
Falcons decided the game. 2-0 and then 3-0, before going with fifth-year senior keeper
Michigan coach Chaka Daley three games without a win in Adam Grinwis competing with
didn't downplay the importance September. But if Wednesday's budding freshman Evan Louro.
of Sunday's fixture. game proved anything, it's that At the other end of the pitch, it
"There's no substitute for this they are over their rough patch could be junior Colin McAtee
game, and it plays a part in the and are looking like the team or freshman Ahinga Selemani
long season ahead. It's just the they once did. They had five leadingthe attack.
start of the season and it's special shots on target by the end of the The game could potentially be
to play against such a historically first half and remained calm decided by the tiniest of details,
great team," Daley said. defensively after scoring the and with both teams looking
This seasonthough, marks the game's only goal. for no less than a win, Sunday's
beginning of Daley's ambitious Add to this Northwestern's game promises to be a cracker.

NO MATTER WHAT YOU SEE ON SATURDAY,
BE GLAD IT'S NOT 2008.

A


.10A Friday, September 19, 2014

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com I

iDA - Friday, September19, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

0

01

I

A


Preview: Tempo a test

By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
ManagingSports Editor
Will Utah really threaten the
Michigan football team Saturday
afternoon at the Big House?
If you believe the betting lines,
yes.
The Utes (2-0) are just 4.5-point
underdogs after averaging nearly a
point a minute in a pair of blowouts
to start the season. Travis Wilson,
in his third season at quarterback,
boasts the second-highest passer
efficiency rating inthe country and
hasn't thrown an interception.
Receiver Dres Anderson, who
averaged nearly 19 yards per
catch last year, has gotten off to
a similarly explosive start in his
senior season. Two of his three
Im receptions against Fresno State
were for touchdowns, and he has
already accumulated 195 yards.
Because of an early bye week,
Wilson and Anderson had extra
time to prepare to face a Wolverine
secondary that coach Brady Hoke
admitted was "embarrassed"
two weeks ago in a 31-0 drubbing

against Notre Dame. And Utah
has a precedent of winning at
Michigan Stadium, taking down
the Wolverines in 2008.
The Utes run a spread offense,
which Michigan defensive
coordinator Greg Mattison
compared to Indiana's because
of its high-speed tempo. And last
year, the Hoosiers burned the
Wolverines for 572 yards and 47
points, frequently snapping the
ball before the defense could get
fully set.-
But don't necessarily expect the
Utes to roll over Michigan.
As MGoBlog's Ace Anbender
noted, despite Utah's frequent
four- and five-receiver sets, it
utilizes a spread-to-run attack,
meaning it relies on the rush to
set up the pass. In that aspect, the
Wolverines are well-suited; they
have allowed fewer than 100 yards
on the ground in their last two
games combined.
Of the defensive linemen,
senior end Frank Clark could be
Michigan's most effective player
Saturday. He has just two tackles

for loss this season but has become
the Wolverines' most consistent
threat at shedding his blocker and
disrupting a play.
And if Michigan's coaches have
their way, they'll avoid a track
meet between the two offenses
Saturday.
"We've got so much that we
want to accomplish on defense, and
this is the next game," Mattison
said Monday.
Another reason for optimism
for the Wolverines comes in the
quality of the Utes' opponents,
or lack thereof. Fresno State
and Idaho State have only one
combined win - the Bengals beat
Division II Chadron State by five -
and despite Michigan's struggles,
it'll easily be the most talented
team Utah has faced.
But the Utes are no cupcake,
and the Wolverines will have their
hands full come Saturday.
NOTE: Before the game,
a 15-aircraft flyover will
commemorate the centennial
anniversary of the University's
aerospace engineering program.

Q&A: Utes beat writer Ryan Miller

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Michigan's offense will have to keep pace with Utah's quick-strike attack Saturday.
'D' faces challenge

By GREG GARNO
Managing Sports Editor
The Michigan football team
last met Utah in 2008 - a 25-23
loss - when the Utes were a part
of the Mountain West Conference.
Now, Utah is finding its place in
the Pac-12. The Daily spoke with
the Utah Daily Chronicle's Ryan
Miller, an assistant sports editor,
to take a look at the Wolverines'
next opponent.
The Michigan Daily: There's
a lot of hype surrounding Utah
quarterback Travis Wilson.
What does he do so well that has
allowed him to carry the Utes? '
Ryan Miller: Really, he's
playing in a safer passing game.
The new offense put in by
(offensive coordinator) Dave
Christensen has been all about
limiting turnovers. Wilson,
last year, was known to air it
out. If it's an interception, it's
an interception. He'd have six-
interception games.
This year, he hasn't had one
because he's just making safer
throws. The offense is designed
where there's always a check-

down guy, always an easy slant
route. There's a throw to be
made, often for a few yards if
anything else. He's making those
decisions rather than think 'I
gotta go 40 yards.' I think it's
the better decision making and
better offense that'd helped.
TMD: I know it has been
just two games, but has anyone
shown signs of slowing down
Utah's offense?
RM: Right now, it seems like
no one can, but that's really more
of the opponent than anything.
They could have put i up even
more against Fresno State.
I don't really think they've
revealed everything, either. But
they're finally facing a team that
has the athletes to stop an offense
like this. It'll be interesting to see
what Michigan does.
TMD: Utah's defense is a bit
overlooked by its potent offense.
Where do its strengths lie?
RM: Well, at first against
Idaho State, the defense didn't
look - good. But against Fresno
State, they shut them down. The
defensive line, has been, and
always will be, the strength under
(head coach) Kyle Wittingham.

I'd be more concerned about
the secondary. I think they'll be
able to withstand the Michigan
run defense, which will be really
important. If they can hold the
rushing attack then I think they
have a pretty good chance in this
game.
TMD: The Utes enter off a bye
week early in the season. Will
that help them come Saturday or
is that not much of a factor?
RM: Aside from last season,
Wittingham actually had a great
record coming off a bye. But I
really think what will help is
coming off of injuries. They
were pretty banged up after
Fresno State. We know Jason
Wittingham won't be playing
the linebacker, but they hope to
have Gionni Paul coming back
for his first game. Michigan has
the same policy, where Utah just
won't talk about them at all.
TMD: What's your prediction
for Saturday?
RM: I've been going back and.
forth on this all week.
I actually think this will be
the coming-out party of Travis
Wilson. I'llsay a 27-20 victory for
Utah.

By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan pass offense vs.
Utah pass defense
Against Fresno State two weeks
ago, Utah sacked the quarterback
seven times. Defensive end Nate
orchard anchors a Utes' defense
that leads the nation in sacks (5.5)
and tackles for loss (10.5) per game.
On the bright side, the Wolver-
ines should be getting junior wide
receiver Devin Funchess back,
and it will significantly open up
the offense for quarterback Devin
Gardner. And the Utes have only
intercepted one pass over their last
nine games.
Edge: Michigan
Michigan rush offense vs.
Utah rush defense
Utah's rush defense allowed just
55 yards against Fresno State. The
strong performance came after the
defensive line was called "soft" by
Idaho State's coach, following the
Utes' week one performance. The
defense also racked up 13 tackles
for loss.
Edge: Utah

Utah pass offense vs.
Michigan pass defense
Senior receiver Dres Anderson
is a big playmaker and averages
over 16 yards per catch over his
career, so the Michigan secondary
will have its hands full.
But Utah's offense will meet
its first big test against the Wol-
verines' seventh-ranked defense.
Mattison's unit is holding oppo-
nents to 252.7 yards per game and
4.12 yards per play.
Edge: Utah
Utah rush offense vs.
Michigan rush defense
Utah's offense goes beyond its
passing attack - it has three run-
ning backs averaging five yards.
per carry. Combine that with Wil-
son's dual-threat abilities, and the
Michigan linebackers will be on
their toes all afternoon.
But the Wolverine defensive line
is arguably the team's deepest unit
and has held opposing offenses to
an average of 80 rushing yards per
game.
Edge: Michigan
Prediction: Utah 38, U-M 31

-"" 4 FootballSaturday, September 19, 2014




U

7W

U

0W

By MAX COHEN especially for a 'defensive
Daily Sports Editor lineman, is measured as much
by determination as physical
When Ted Ginn Sr. first saw strength. It's about how badly the
Willie Henry, he saw the makings player wants to hit the man onthe
of a football player. He saw a other side of the line of scrimmage,
defensive lineman dripping with the intimidating look on his face
potential, capable of busting when he would do anything to
through opposing offensive lines make the tackle.
and sacking the quarterback. He But for Henry, his first instinct
sawayoungmanwho, ifheutilized wasn't natural aggression. It was
his physical talents, would be to smile.
good enough to earn a scholarship No matter what he's doing, the
playing college football. Michigan redshirt sophomore is
Henry was a sophomore always smiling. From the first time
transfer to Ginn Ginn met Henry
Academy, Ginn's to the last time
school where "le could be a he walked off
he focuses on his field, Henry
educating the vthat p y i always had a big
male youth of atplaysi grin on his face.
Cleveland. The the NFL for "Even when
school doesn't he's serious, he
have athletic 10 years." looks like he's
teams, so Henry playing all the
would play at time," Ginn said.
Glenville High In the
School, where Ginn coaches. testosterone-soaked world of
It seemed like the ideal situation football where coaches demand
for Henry. The coach produces constant aggression and meanness
numerous college football players from their big men in the trenches,
in each class at Glenville and has the feature that most defines
sent a handful of players to the Henry is often misconstrued as a
National Football League. lack of care.
But in football, success, It didn't matter if he was-

running drills, in a meeting or
even getting yelled at by a coach,
Henry's facial expression was the
same. He never stopped smiling
and laughing with his teammates.
"He's a joker," Ginn said. "He's
just a good kid. He's playing
around so much, he's joking
around so much. And I think in
the beginning it kind of hurt him."
During practice at Glenville,
that joking was constant, which
irked Ginn. He felt' as though
Henry's jesting prevented him
from making all of the plays he
could've.
Ginn said Henry's joviality
was a combination of being just a
happy-go-lucky guy and a little bit
of immaturity..
"You could be talking to him
about something serious and he'll
look at you and laugh," Ginn said.
"And it will frustrate you."
In order to fulfill his potential
as a college football player,.Henry
had to shed some of that playful
mentality. And that was a process.
Before his senior year, Ginn
began to see some changes in
Henry. The smile was still. there,
but he began to show some of
the fire and maturity Ginn was
looking for.
Glenville was short on depth on
the offensive line and Henry said
he'd play both ways. He started
on offense and defense that year,
beginning a trend of leadership
from Henry. When it was needed,
he spoke up for the good of the
team.
Ginn said the recruiting process
brought out the seriousness in
Henry, but it wasn't immediate.
During one recruiting visit, Henry
goofed around the entire time.
Then, he really heard it from Ginn.
"I got on him real tough,"
Ginn said. "And that's the time
that I saw he looked real serious,
because he knew I wasn't playing
with him.
"I cut that smile off his face."
Ginn knew Henry could play
in college from the first time they
met, and he wasn't goingto let him
risk anything.
Hepry was serious about
recruiting from that moment
on., Still, he wasn't considered
a can't-miss prospect. His offer
sheet was composed primarily of
schools from the Mid-American
Conference and the Big East
before Michigan offered.
"It was the greatest day of my
life when I got the offer, they
told me that I had the offer from
Michigan," Henry said last week.
"I cherished that moment, put it
in a jar, Coach Hoke would say,
sealed it up."
He didn't wait long to commit,

giving his pledge soon after he
was offered in late January 2012.
Like he did with Michigan
senior defensive end Frank Clark,
another unheralded recruit
from Glenville, Ginn told the
Wolverines' coaching staff about
the potential he saw in Henry.
Michigan asked him what he saw
in his own players, whereas many
college coaches don't make similar
efforts in the recruiting process,
relying on scouting rankings and
film instead.
Because of their faith in Ginn,
the Wolverines found two of their
starters on the defensive line.
But once he was in Ann Arbor,
his easygoing demeanor prevailed
again. He was still joking around,
but this time the stakes were
higher.
"It's a good thing more so
than it's a bad thing," Ginn said
of Henry's attitude. "It's a bad
thing because if you don't really
understand him, you're going to
misread him."
Ginn thinks this negative side of
his playfulness caught up to Henry
a little bit in his first two years at
Michigan. After redshirting his
first year, Henry frequently found
himself on the bench early in his
second season.
When he was on the field, the
coaches noticed Henry didn't run
to the ball on every play and he
wasn't serious enough for their
liking. Once again, coaches felt
as though the effort wasn't fully
there. He needed to mature.
"They don't have time for that,"
Ginn said.
This season, Henry has become
more serious once again, starting
all three games and playing a
major role in the Wolverines'
stout run defense. Hoke says the
6-foot-2, 293-pounder may be the
strongest player on the team.
Last week, Michigan's coaches
noted Henry's increased desire
and maturity. For the first time,
his effort is a constant.
"You'll see (him) running to
the football in times of the game
where he wouldn't have before,"
said defensive coordinator Greg
Mattison.
As with most of his young
players, Hoke thought hearing
Tom Brady and Elvis Grbac speak
to the team - as well as watching a
video of Richard Sherman talking
about preparation - helped Henry
understand the responsibility
that comes with playing college
football.
In practice in the offseason,
defensive line coach Mark Smith
and Hoke pushed Henry every
day. They too didn't want to see
his potential go to waste.

To Henry, it felt differently than
it did when his coaches previously
demanded more.
"When you were immature, you
feel like they're picking on you,
but as you grow you see that they
just want the best for me," Henry
said.
This newfound maturity
brought out the best in Henry.
Instead of resting after drills or
going to the locker room early,
he did extra pushups and wind
sprints to become a better player.
The smile hasn't disappeared,
though. When he speaks with the
media, he flashes a toothy grin,
revealing his braces.
But because of Henry's
newfound dedication, Ginn
envisions a new future for his
former player, one that goes
beyond playing in college.
"He could be a guy that plays in
the NFL for 10 years," Ginn said.
That would give Henry yet
another reason to smile. This time,
his coaches would loin right in.

FILE PHOTO/Daly
Henry made the All-Big Ten Freshman Team last year after redshirting in 2012.

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
At 6-foot-2, 293 pounds, Henry may be the strongest player on the team, according to Michigan football coach Brady Hoke.

ALLISON FARRAND (TOP) AND PAUL IHERMAN/Daily
Henry has appeared in 15 games, making nine starts. He was one of Michigan's bright spots in the blowout at Notre Dame, recording three tackles and a quarterback hurry in helping to limit the Irish's rush offense.

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Ted Ginn Sr. urged the Wolverines to recruit Henry and Frank Clark when they played for him at Glenville High School.

2 1 FootballSaturday, September 19, 2014

The Michigan Daily, www.michigandaily.com 1 3


