b&e lfliiian 4&iIlj

Anm Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, February 6, 2014

michigandaily.com

FOLLOW THE MONEY


GOVERNMENI
Funds for
higher ed.
increase in
new budget

Lawrence Porter, the assistant national secretary of the Socialist Equality Party, speaks about the political conspiracy behind Detroit's bankruptcy on behalf
of international Youth and Students for Social Equality in the League Wednesday.
BUSINESS
Liquor store closes doors

Gov. Rick Snyder's
budget for public
universities grows
by $80.3 million
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
On Wednesday, Michigan Gov.
Rick Snyder (R) announced his
executive budget proposal for the
2015 fiscal year in a presentation
to a joint session of the Senate
and House Appropriations Com-
mittees.
The budget, which totals
$52.1 billion, includes significant
increases in several areas such as
K-12 education, as well as propos-
als for tax relief and assistance
for Detroit during bankruptcy its
proceedings.
Public universities were rec-
ommended to receive a substan-

tial 6.1-percent funding increase
amounting to $80.3 million,
which represents both the larg-
est increase in higher educa-
tion funding since 2001 and a
structural reversal from the
15-percent decrease in education
funding Snyder proposed in 2011
during his first year as governor.
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-
Ann Arbor) said the increase in
education funding, along with
proposed tax relief measures,
represented some of the major
differences between the gover-
nor's latest budget proposal and
those from previous years.
"You can tell it's an election
year with how different this bud-
get is from the previous budgets
I've had the opportunity to vote
on," Irwin said. "We're actually
seeing education get the money;
we're actually seeing tax relief
being targeted more broadly
rather than just at wealthy indi-
See BUDGET, Page 3A

B
0
By
"S
plast
Fron
ary. J

lue Front shop inventory this past week, Blue
Front locked its doors to the
wner says rent Ann Arbor community after
more than two decades of busi-
was too high ness.
The 701 Packard Street con-
HILLARY CRAWFORD venience store, recognizable by
Daily StaffReporter its blue awning and cone-shaped
roof, sold beer, wine and other
TORE CLOSING" signs convenience items. In 2005,
ered the door of the Blue owner Suresh Bhagat bought
t party store in Janu- the establishment, which was
After selling the last of its founded in 1988.

Bhagat acknowledged that
although rent has not changed
in the last few years, business
has declined. Inability to make
up for the price of rent was a
primary factor in the store's clo-
sure.
"Rent was too high - that's
why I closed the store," Bhagat
said. "That's it."
Robert Kesto, who owns two
University-area liquor stores,
said smaller businesses like Blue

Front lack the luxury of being
able to lower their prices and
make up for the losses.
"You can't lower your prices
so much to stay in business on
campus, because rent is so high,"
Kesto said. "So you have to run it
as if there's no competition."
Kesto owns Champions Party
Store at 1227 South University
Avenue and State Street Liquor
at 340 South State Street.
See STORE, Page 3A

HEALTH

HEALTH
CVS'removal
of tobacco gets
mixed reviews

Students weigh in
on the convenience
store's historic move
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily Staff Reporter
CVS Caremark, the nation's
largest second-largest drug
store chain, announced
Wednesday that it would stop
selling tobacco products in its
7,600 stores by Oct. 1, becom-
ing the first drugstore chain to
adopt such a policy.
Under the new policy, CVS
estimated that it will lose out
on approximately $2 billion of
annual tobacco-related rev-
enue. However, this figure is
only a fraction of its $123 bil-
lion in annual sales, according
to reports from 2012.
Mike DeAngelis, director of
public relations for CVS Care-
mark, said the financial losses
linked to tobacco sales aren't
a huge concern, adding that
health is the company's main
focus.
"Pharmacies are becom-
ing more involved in chronic
disease management to help

patients with high blood pres-
sure, high cholesterol and dia-
betes," he wrote in an e-mail
interview. "All of these condi-
tions are made worse by smok-
ing and cigarettes have no place
in a setting where healthcare is
delivered."
Robert Winfield, the Uni-
versity's chief health officer,
said reducing access to tobacco
products will positively affect
communities nationwide. He
called tobacco a "substantial
killer" and said any means to
reduce its use could be benefi-
cial.
Winfield acknowledged that
CVS's decision to take tobacco
off the market won't stop every-
one from smoking, but this kind
of policy coupled with commu-
nity pressure may change the
minds of some smokers.
"When we were deciding
to have the campus become
smoke-free, we knew that we
would be addressing the com-
munity issue because we were
going to change the environ-
ment and make it a less wel-
coming place for people to
smoke," Winfield said. "The
fact that CVS is choosingto not
See CVS, Page 3A

CAMPUS LIFE
Greek orgs.,
PULSE host
health fair to
aid students
Program aims to
increase awareness
about diversity of
services available
By JULIA LISS
Daily StaffReporter
As studentsbraved the blustery
weather, others manned stations
throughout Central Campus dedi-
cated to promoting health and
we.lness.
The Greeks for Wellness divi-
sion of PULSE, a student-run
organization sponsored by Uni-
versity Health Service, held a
health and wellness fair Wednes-
day afternoon. Called "7 Wonders
of the Wellness World," the event
featured stations around Central
Campus focusing on major health
issues that college students often
face.
The stations focused on seven
significant health issues for stu-
dents, including mental health,
academics, body image, sexual
health, healthy relationships,
nutrition and exercise.
The stations were spread out
See GREEK, Page 3A

TRACY K/Oaily
Michigan forward Glenn Robinson III scored 23 points to lead the Wolverines toa 79-50 win over Nebraska.
Student disabilities office
celebrates 40th anniversary

Panelists discuss
center's progress,
future initiatives
By CHARLOTTE JENKINS
Daily StaffReporter
The Office of Services for
Students with Disabilities is
celebrating its 40th anniversary
thisyearwith aseries of presen-
tations. SSD collaborated with

the Career Center Wednesday
to present "Navigatingthe Road
to Work: Making the Connec-
tion Between Students with
Disabilities and Employment."
The event, which was held in
Hatcher Graduate Library, fea-
tured panelists from the Uni-
versity and companies to advise
students with disabilities.
Ashleigh Maynor, career
consultant at the Career Center
and liaison between SSD and
the Career Center, helped initi-

ate the collaboration between
the two offices.
"I noticed students coming
into the Career Center with alot
of questions about talking about
disability with an employer,"
Maynor said.
Maynor said she hopes the
event will begin a collaborative
initiative that will educate the
University community about an
increasingly common issue.
She added that the program
See DISABLED, Page 3A



WEATHER H 1:13
TOMORROW 0 LO: -3

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail The Filter: Rethinking Justin Bieber
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICH IGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS .........................2A CLASSIFIEDS ............... 6A
Vol CXXIV, No, 62 SUDOKU..................... 2A SPORTS ....................... 7A
@2014TheMichiganDaily OPINION ..................... 4A B-SIDE ...................1 Bt
minligondoily.com

I

A

I


2A - Thursday, February 6, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
ilhe fiiigan Dailij
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshohin@ntiihigondoaiycom kvoigetmn@michigandaily.com

From home plate to in the clouds

Derek Kerr earned his under-
graduate degree in aerospace
engineering in 1986 and his MBA
in 1991, both from the University.
He is currently the chieffinancial
officer for American Airlines. He
met his wife of 21 years during
their time in graduate school at
the University and his daughter is
an LSA freshman. He and his wife
are also involved with the Univer-
sity's new Victors for Michigan
campaign.
Whatwereyou involved in
during your time at
the University?
I was at the University for
undergraduate and graduate

school. I studied Aerospace
Engineering (as an) under-
graduate and received an MBA
in graduate school. During my
undergraduate years, I played
on the varsity baseball team and
was a member of Phi Delta Theta
fraternity.
How do you think the
University's education
prepared you for
your currentjob?
My Michigan education gave
me the technical and financial
skills I use in my job today. It also
taught me how to perform in a
group environment and effec-
tively work with all sorts of per-

sonalities. Also, as an athlete, I
learned to manage my time and
work with the team to meet our
goals. These abilities have served
me well over the years.
What is your fondest memory
about your time here?
My fondest memory of my
undergraduate years was learn-
ing I had made the varsity base-
ball team. I was with my friend,
Chris Brewster (who ran track),
when I found out. My -fondest
memory of graduate school was
meeting my wife, Carolyn, whom
I have been married to for 21
years.
-ALEXANDRA DITOMMASO

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt. 3
Corrections
correctionsqmichigandaily.con
Arts Section
onos@nichigoedaity.eoe, oiisniheeddio
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmaitcom
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Pag
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@m ichigan da ily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
LSA senior Heather Barlow and LSA senior Rachel
Gefen discuss stress relievers for students at a Greek
life health station in the Union Wednesday.
CRIMENOTES

Welcome to Crying over
the club spilled oil

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Kremerata Beginner
Baltica meditation

WHERE: 613 Oxford Rd.
WHEN: Wednesday at
1:30 a.m.
WHAT: A subject reported
he had fallen on an icy
sidewalk, University Police
reported. The subject did
not sustain any injuries.
We're on the
same team!
WHERE: Ann Street
WHEN: Tuesday at
about 1 p.m.
WHAT: A University bus
and a University service
vehicle reportedly collided
into each other. No injuries
were reported. The accident
was handed over to the Ann
Arbor Police for response.

WHERE: 1300 Block Beal
Avenue
WHEN: Tuesday at 8 a.m.
WHAT: Aquantity of oil
was spilled, likely from a
vehicle that had already
departed, University Police
reported. No liquid made it
into the drain system.
Full stop
WHERE: 200 Fletcher St.
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 2:20 a.m.
WHAT: A driver was
arrested during a traffic stop
for possession of alcohol as
a minor and possession of
what was suspected to be
marijuana, University Police
reported. He was processed
and released, pending war-
rant authorization.

WHAT: Violinist GidonKre-
mer and his chamber ensemble
Kremerata Baltica honorsthe
centennialofBenjaminBrit-
ten's birth. Tickets start at $10.
WHO: University Musical
Society

WHAT: The weekly event
will cover basic meditation
skills to relieve stress and
anxiety. Participants come
on a drop-in basis.
WHO: Counseling and Psy-
chological Services

NBC reported snowboard-
er Shaun White has bowed
out of the slopestyle event
at the 2014 Sochi Games. White
said he will solely focus on "try-
ing to bring home the third
straight gold medal in halfpipe
for Team USA."

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:IanDillingham,SamGringlas,WillGreenberg,RachelPremack
andStephanieShenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Annabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michael Sugerman
Megan McDonaldand
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Ziiga Managing SportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
andDanielWasserman
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim) and Jason Rubinstein
.ohn Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
Akshay Seth ManagingArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.com
SEN IOR A RTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Har wood and
SSSTNT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircol, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathewand
Paul Sherman ManaEgin dhotorEditors photo@michigandaily.com
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Allison Farrand, Tracy Ko, Terra Molengraff and Nicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasquezManaging Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand AliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan MagazineEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPTY AAHINEDTO0R a adwn and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Amy Mackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopy Editors copydesk@michigandaiy.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandDavidNayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi DerasmO Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daily OSsN 0745967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter terms by
students at the University o Mihigan Onecopy is available free o charge to alreaders. Additiona copies may
be picked up at the Daiysoce fr $2. Subscriptions for fall term starting in September viaU.S.mal are$110.
Winter term (Januaryth shroug pis y15yearong(SeptemberthroughAprit)is$195.University affiates
are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus subscriptions for fall term are $35. Subscriptions must
be prepaid, The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

WHEN: Tonight at7:30 p.m. WHEN: Today from 5:30 Por this week's b-side,
WHERE: Hill Auditorium p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union, ink mmber
Antinuclear writer of the ComCo"improv
Writer to writer of
lecturecomedy troupe, the oldest
WHAT: University profes- (and best) humor group at
sors discuss the process, the University.
WHAT: Noriko Manabe, challenges and expectations FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE PG.1B1

assistant professor of music
at Princeton University,
leads a lecture on music
in the antinuclear protest
movement of post-
Fukushima Japan.
WHO: Center for Japanese
Studies
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Working Building, Rm. 1636

of being a writer and being a
reader of student writing.
WHO: Sweetland Center for
Writing
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Literati Bookstore
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Fans of Kraft Food are
in a state of distress after
Velveeta and Polly-O
string cheese experienced
a shortage of cheese, ABC News
reported. Kraft said the shortage
is due to a "premature spoilage"
and "minor manufacturing
challenges."

MORE ONLINE Love Crime Notes?
Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

Utah district explains why $2 .
school lunches were seized

Cafeteria manager for that I am sorry," Orton's tice when students don't have
report says. "No child will have lunch money.
district supervisor their meal tray taken away ever Several dozen parents attend-
again." ed the meeting, and some said
on paid leave during To avoid that happening the report was vague and that
i e .i again, Orton said they've cre- the cafeteria worker put on
nvestigation ated new communication guide- leave was being scapegoated,
lines for kitchen managers. The The Salt Lake Tribune reported.
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) - A district also plans to notify par- Some parents urged district
Utah school district that came ents when their balance is at leaders to hold Orton and his
under fire for taking away $10, when its' empty, and then staff accountable.
$2 school lunches from some every day after as it accrues a "The lunchroom staff should
40 students whose parents negative balance. not be held accountable for the
owed money on food accounts The incident occurred Jan. policies implemented by their
are vowing to make systemic 28 at Uintah Elementary when supervisors," said Lynn Lonar-
changes to ensure it never hap- students trying to buylunch had do, who said her daughter's
pens again. their meals thrown away, anger- lunch was confiscated last week.
Salt Lake City School Dis- ing parents and stirring outrage But Heather Bennett, board
trict child nutrition department around the country. The district vice president, said the move
director Kelly Orton on Tuesday put a cafeteria manager and a wasn't disciplinary.
night delivered a brief, prelimi- district supervisor on paid leave District Superintendent
nary report to the school board as the investigation got under- McKell Withers said the leave
pinning the incident on viola- way last week. is typical during investigations
tions of agency procedure and The report didn't indicate and was meant to protect the
a failure to notify parents that whose decision it was to toss the affected workers from threats.
their children's lunch accounts lunches. Police investigated several
were empty or in the negative. The children who had their threatening phone calls made
"We took food trays away meals thrown out were given to the school following the
and embarrassed students, and milk and fruit, a standard prac- incident, but determined they
were not credible, Salt Lake
City School District spokesman
Jason Olsen said. School offi-
cials cited privacy concerns in
not identifying the two workers
on leave.
Bennett and other board
1 3 6 5 members said they were as upset
as the parents who attended the
5 9 4 6 3 meeting.
"We share your real horror
at the specific happening that's
9 1 8 brought us here," she said.
Under board member ques-
6 9 4 5 tioning, Orton said his depart-
ment didn't properly tell parents
1 9 3 about a new electronic payment
system, and he promised efforts
to prevent meals from being
9 2 8 tossed again. He said the inves-
tigation was ongoing and his
2 9 8 1 report wasn't definitive.
Many parents were unaware
3, 7 65of the system swap that makes
it harder to set up email alerts
about balances, Orton said,
5 2 6 whereas the old system auto-
matically sent out messages.
He said the new system is more
cost-efficient and processes
payments quicker.

Eric Heinze, Political Science and International Studies Prof. of the University of Oklahoma speaks at the Human Rights in
Conflict Series in Rackham Auditorium Wednesday.
Syria and South Sudan the focus
of human rights and norms talk

Panel examines
role society plays in
humanitarian issues
By MAYA KALMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Building on the conversation
about the ethics and politics of
humanitarian intervention in
Syria and South Sudan, Human
Rights Through Education host-
ed a panel discussion with about
50 attendees Wednesday evening
in the Rackham Amphitheater.
The panel featured Megan
Schmidt, outreach officer at
International Coalition for the
Responsibility to Protect, an
organization of NGOs that advo-
cates increased for human rights
measures, and Eric A. Heinze,
associate professor of political
science and international and
area studies at the University of
Oklahoma.
The hour-long discussion
began with an introduction by
Schmidt, who joined the panel
via Skype, where she described
the goals of the ICRtoP. The
RtoP movement aims to protect
populations from genocide, war

crimes, crimes against humanity
and ethnic cleansing, Schmidt
said.
She also described the criti-
cal role civil society plays in
responding to violations of
human rights and the difficulty
in finding an adequate way to
respond to these violations.
"This really serious response
gap left the international com-
munity to essentially choose
between the lesser of two evils,"
Schmidt said. "So you have on
the one hand doing nothing,
largely in part to the principle
of non-interference, or on the
other, misuse of military force."
Conceding that many
advancements have been made
in addressing issues of human
rights violations, Schmidt said
there are still many pressing
challenges ahead, including rais-
ing awareness, monitoring indi-
cators of human rights violations
and assisting in recovery efforts.
The discussion continued
with a short lecture by Heinze,
who discussed the internal and
external dimensions of human
rights. Heinze described the
internal dimension as "the
state's responsibility to protect
its own people," and the external

as "the international communi-
ty's responsibility to assist other
states in developing the capacity
to prevent those sorts of atroci-
ties within their own boundar-
ies, as well as the international
community's responsibility to
protect people in other coun-
tries."
Heinze also discussed the
establishment of international
norms of human rights and the
conflict between adhering to
those norms while maintain-
ing state sovereignty. He added
that because these standards of
expected conduct aren't bind-
ing for governments, violations
of human rights are allowed to
continue.
"Just because the norm pro-
hibiting torture is frequently
violated, (it) doesn't mean it
doesn't exist," he said.
He also addressed the ques-
tion of when humanitarian inter-
vention should take place, adding
that this shared responsibility
by the global community con-
flicts with the principle of state
sovereignty. Sovereignty - the
principle that governments have
the right to act as they please
within their nation's boundaries
See RIGHTS, Page 3A

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 6, 2014 - 3A


CVS
From Page 1A
carry tobacco is really an inter-
face between the community and
policy. They will influence people
by making it harder to get."
Although LSA sophomore Jor-
dan Roth is a regular cigarette
smoker, he said he supports CVS's
decision to halt tobacco sales.
"I'd have to go ahead and be a
hypocrite and say that it's admi-
rable if it's for reasons like not
wanting kids to smoke," he said.
"I smoke myself and I don't think
I should and I don't think other
people should."
CVS's decision stands in
stark contrast to its competitor,
the Walgreen Company, which
appealed and managed to over-

turn a San Francisco anti-tobacco
sales law in 2008. CVS is second
only to Walgreens in retail loca-
tions nationwide, but analysts say
CVS leads in sales. Target was the
last major chain to cease tobacco
sales in 1996.
Locally, this policy change
may push more Ann Arborites
to buy their tobacco products
at smaller convenience stores
and drugstores like Walgreens,
which opened a location in Janu-
ary near CVS. Local Walgreens
management was not available
for comment.
Bill Gee, an employee at State
Street Liquor, said he doesn't
expect CVS's policy change to
increase traffic to the liquor
store, which does sell tobacco
products. He added that people
who smoke cigarettes will simply

find other places to buy them.
However, J Evitts, a cashier
at the 7-Eleven on State Street,
said the store sells a lot of tobac-
co products and affirmed that
CVS's new policy will help sales
at 7-Eleven.
Roth, the student, said he likes
the familiarity of local businesses
and shops for his cigarettes at an
Ann Arbor convenience store.
His retailer will occasionally pro-
vide them for a discounted price.
However, he added that he would
consider shopping at Walgreens,
which is closer to his house, and
likely sells its cigarettes for lower
prices.
According to a 2009 study by
the Center for Global Tobacco
Control, less than 5 percent of
national cigarette sales occur in
pharmacies.


er convenience store with a
STORE liquor license. Campus Corner
From Page 1A sells liquor in addition to beer
and wine, which are Blue Front's
sole alcoholic wares. Campus
Last year, Bhagat said he Corner Owner Gus Batwo said
asked the landlord of the prop- the ability of small stores to pay
erty, Jill Warren, for lowered rent is a growing challenge.
rent and renovations to areas of According to Batwo, Ann
the building. Business revenue Arbor has given too many busi-
alone could not pay for neces- ness licenses to drug stores such
sary repairs to the property. as CVS, which opened in 2011,
"I asked the landlord to and Walgreens, which opened in
remodel part of the building and January.
she refused," Bhagat said. Unlike local liquor stores,
He added that there were no drug stores do not make their
disputes between the business money by selling alcohol. Batwo
and Warren. She also owns the said students may walk to CVS
two apartment units above Blue for groceries and other goods,
Front. but liquor stores have a more
Across the street from Blue comprehensive selection of alco-
Front is Campus Corner, anoth- hol.

Although individual stores
must compete against cheaper
prices, they have held onto their
niche within the Ann Arbor
community.
"To tell you the truth, Cham-
pions and State Street Liquor do
not compete against our compe-
tition," Kesto said. "Our compe-
tition competes against us."
Kesto said the owner of a
small business must understand
his surrounding area. The fear of
competing against larger chains
often discourages newcomers
from opening individual stores
in the downtown area.
"Some customers believe in
local stores and mom-and-pop
party stores," Kesto said. "We
really appreciate their support
for usand their business."

BUDGET
From Page 1A
viduals."
During his announcement,
the governor linked this year's
increase in higher education
funding to Michigan's improved
financial situation, calling the
initial cut in 2011 one of the tough
choices that had to be made in
light of budget deficits.
In response to questions from
state representatives after the
announcement, State Budget
Director John Nixon said the
governor's office didn't necessar-
ily see the decrease in education
funding - among other areas
- as a permanent decision, and
wants to work on bringing them
back up.
"We'd like to at least get them
to back to the level where we
were before the governor took
office," Nixon said.
The proposed increase comes
with one main condition: Univer-
sities receiving increased state
funds mustkeep tuition increases
at or below 3.2 percent. Along
with performance measures,
tuition caps have become fairly
common stipulations for higher
education funding in the state in
recent years.
Last summer, the University's
Board of Regents approved the
lowest tuition increase in 29
years: 1.1 percent for in-state stu-
dents and 3.2 percent for out-of-
state students.
In the fall of 2012, the Univer-
sity received an additional $1.1
million from the state for keeping
tuition increases below 4 percent.
In a statement released
Wednesday, Cynthia Wilbanks,
vice president for government
relations, characterized the
increase in funding as great news
for higher education accessibility

and affordability.
"State investment in higher
education is a smart investment
in the future of Michigan," Wil-
banks wrote. "Of course, we also
have to do our part in higher edu-
cation. That includes continuing
to trim costs, finding more effi-
cient ways to operate and seeking
the support of donors.
She added that in the past
10 years, the University has cut
ongoing costs by $256 million and
is committed to cutting anoth-
er $120 million in the next five
years.
In addition to pursuing cost-
containment strategies, Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
has frequently lobbied state legis-
lators to restore funding to insti-
tutions of higher education.
Mike Boulus, executive direc-
tor of the Presidents Council,
State Universities of Michigan,
said the increase - though it
didn't restore funding to where it
was in either 2001 or 2011 - was
nonetheless an important step in
restoringstate support.
"This has to be looked at as a
strategic reinvestment in higher
ed," Boulus said. "It's going to
take more thanone year to restore
higher ed funding to levels they
once were. We understand that."
K-12 education and the city
of Detroit also received signifi-
cant boosts in funding. In K-12
education, an area in which the
governor has recently been fac-
ing heavy Democratic criticism
because of previous funding cuts
- the extent of which are disput-
ed - Snyder proposed a 2.8-per-
cent funding increase toward
per-pupil allocations and retire-
ment funding. For Detroit, the
governor proposed a $350 million
investment over 20 years to ease
pension issues with the city's
bankruptcy settlement.
A $103 million tax relief initia-
tive for lower- and middle-class

families was also proposed, while
$120 million was allocated to
Michigan's Budget Stabilization
or "Rainy Day" fund.
Donald Grimes, senior
research specialist for the Uni-
versity's Center for Labor Market
Research, said in an e-mail state-
ment that maintaining rainy day
funds is especially important for
states and municipalities.
"Since states and local govern-
ments are limited in their ability
to borrow money, when they suf-
fer a recession they must have
sufficient 'savings', the rainy day
fund, to sustain operations dur-
ing a period of increased demand
for social services," Grimes
wrote. "Neither Michigan nor
most other states had nearly
enough 'savings' during the most
recent recession."
Irwin said overall, he was glad
to see causes like universities
and early childhood education
in Wednesday's budget proposal,
but he added that there are many
aspects of economic recovery
that the governor's budget didn't
address.
The governor has focused
much of the last month on build-
ing his reelection campaign
around the state's recovery, call-
ing Michigan a "comeback state."
"The governor is doing some
good things with this budget,"
Irwin said. "But I think it's a little
frustrating to hear all the happy
talk about the Michigan economy
when we still have so many fami-
lies that are struggling, we still
have high unemployment, and we
still have schools that are packed
with too many kids and colleges
and universities that are at his-
toric low levels of funding, even
after this increase."
The budget will not be official
until each appropriations mea-
sure it contains is passed by the
legislature, which typically takes
several months.


DISABLED
From Page 1A
aims to ease students' fears about
having a disability by educating
them about available resources
and how to navigate finding a
career after graduation.
The question and answer por-
tion of the presentation demon-
strated this anxiety. One student
asked whether he should disclose
his ADHD when applying to jobs.
Another student asked how he
should handle his dyslexia if he
is asked to read or use numbers
suddenlyduring a job interview.
SS was established in 1974
following the passage of the
Vocational Rehabilitation Act.
Section 504 of that act states
any institution that receives any

federal funding must provide
accommodations for students
with disabilities.
Caleb Adams, career-planning
coordinator at Peckham, Inc. in
Lansing, said it is important that
students learn how to navigate
the job pool with a disability.
"There is a growing number of
employers now who are actively
recruiting people with disabili-
ties," Adams said. "Right now,
there is a mismatch in supply and
demand."
Adams added that the stigma
of disability is decreasing.
"Most employers are realizing
they already employ people with
disabilities," Adams said. "It's
nothing new or different than
what they're already doing."
SSD Director Stuart Segal said
the job of SSD is to serve both the

institution and the students.
Segal said he is concerned that
students who have disabilities
are unaware of the office and
that they might be entitled to
academic accommodations that
they're not receiving. The great-
est challenge for these students,
he said, may be the fear of dis-
cussing their disabilities because
they think that they will not be
accepted.
Adams said this fear should
ebb as disability becomes less of
an issue in the future.
"I am hoping that within 10
years, the question about why
should an employer hire a person
with a disability will be absurd,"
Adams said. "It will be ridiculous
to question that and select some-
one out of a job because they have
a disability."

@MICHIGAN DAILY
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER!
YOU WON'T REGRET IT
(UNLIKE THE CHEESY BREAD YOU ORDERED LAST NIGHT)

Start Your Career in Accounting.


RIGHTS
From Page 2A
- makes humanitarian inter-
vention even more difficult.
Heinze added that while
important progress has been
made in strengthening interna-
tional norms of human rights,
there is much work still to be
done.
"At least as it pertains to
humanitarian intervention, my
observation is that RtoP hasn't
really changed the consensus
that much," Heinze said.

However, he stressed the
importance of educational events
on human rights intervention.
"I think events like this are
critically important to rais-
ing awareness on these issues,"
Heinze said. "It's one thing to be
aware of what RtoP is. It's anoth-
er thing to have knowledge about
some of the challenges associated
with it."
LSA junior Courtney Rygalski
said the panel offered interesting
ideas about how political entities
face issues of morality related to
human rights.
"I don't think there's an easy
solution but I think that debate

will help make it better than the
situation is right now," she said.
Another event organizer, LSA
junior Shelbie Rose, said she
hopes to "be able to educate the
wider campus on humanitarian
intervention because it's such a
relevant topic right now."
LSA senior Allison Punch,
another event organizer, noted
that the event presented two dif-
ferent perspectives on the topic
of human rights.
"But unfortunately we haven't
been able to hear from the voices
of people who are directly affect-
ed by these atrocities that we're
seekingto prevent."

WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK!
WE PROMISE WE'RE REALLY COOL AND FUN
AND NOT AT ALL LIKE ALL OF THOSE ANNOYING FRIENDS
THAT MAKE YOU CRINGE WHEN YOU LOOK AT YOUR NEWSFEED
(AND WE NEVER EVER DO DUCK FACE)

The D'Amore-McKim MS in Accounting/
MBA for non-accounting majors:
. Earn two degrees in just 15 months.
" Complete a 3-month paid residency at a leading
accounting firm.
. History of 100% job placement.
Take the first step.
Visit us online or at an information session near you.
Learn more about the program and upcoming events
at msamba.northeastern.edu
j Become our fan on Facebook,
facebook.com/northeasternuniversidymsamba

GREEK
From Page 1A
between the Central Campus
Recreation Building, the Shap-
iro Undergraduate Library, the
Michigan Union and Chemistry
Atrium, with each station's loca-
tion corresponding in some way
to the issue being addressed. The
mental health station was in the
Union, where the Counseling
and Psychological Services office
is, while the academic stress
station was in the UGLi, where
many students do homework and
study.
At each station, students were
given pamphlets with informa-
tion pertaining to that specific
issue and related wellness tips,
as well as lists of on-campus
resources available to them.

Every station had free give-
aways, most of which were
donated by various campus orga-
nizations. The Alumni Center
donated Blue Books for the aca-
demics station, Sexperteam, an
student organization dedicated
to educating others on sexual
health, donated free condoms
for the sexual health station and
Body Peace Corps, a program
aimed to promote positive body
image, donated bracelets.
LSA senior Heather Barlow,
one of the coordinators of the
fair, said the goal of the event was
to put a positive spin on common
wellness issues and to promote
the various resources available
on campus.
"The amount of health
resources we have is unbeliev-
able and a lot of people don't
know about all of them," Barlow
said.

She added that the event was
the first of its kind, and depend-
ing on how things go, it may
become an annual event. It's also
the first time the Greek commu-
nity and PULSE have put on a
campus-wide program together.
"The event isn't directed
towards just Greeks but we're
showing that Greek (community)
as a front is committed to pro-
moting health and wellness on
campus," Barlow said.
LSA senior Rachel Gefen,
president of PULSE, said she
believes the first event was a suc-
cess. Though there were flyers
and a Facebook event advertising
the event, Gefen said the major-
ity of the people who stopped by
the stations were students who
happened to be passing through
the building, all of whom were
"really friendly, interested and
engaged."

msamba.sortheasters.edu
617.7.324
gspa (ses.edu

Schoolof Business
D'Amore-McKim
Northeastern University


I

A __

I


4A - Thursday, February 6, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University ofMichigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Clearing the air
Smoking ordinance should be approved to promote community health
nn Arbor City Councilmember Chuck Warpehoski proposed an
ordinance Monday night to extend existing prohibitions and create
new ones for outdoor smoking in Ann Arbor. It proposes to ban
smoking within 20 feet of entrances, windows or ventilation systems of
city buildings and the Blake Transit Center, within 20 feet of bus stops and
in parks or portions of parks where the city administrator has approved a
sign prohibiting smoking. The ordinance should be approved because of its
potential to increase the city's air quality and public health.

Lifting a weight off men's shoulders

en million people will suf-
fer from an eating disorder
in their life. 43 percent of
college-aged stu-
dents report hav-
ing body image
issues, and 33
percent of col-
lege students use
unhealthy weight
control behaviors.
Those are MI E
scary statistics, MICHAEL
but here's some-
thing even scari-
er: these statistics
apply exclusively to men.
Now, some may argue I'm only
presenting certain statistics to
make male eating disorders appear
more problematic .- arguing that
only 10 to 15 percent of anorexia
and bulimia casualties are males.
Since anorexia and bulimia are
the two most acknowledged eating
disorders, it appears that men
actually represent a small minority
of sufferers. But this statistic
actually shrouds the truth.
The ideal male body image dif-
fers from the female because males
want to gain weight. As stated by
the National Eating Disorder Asso-
ciation, the ideal male body image
is muscular. Just as girls are soci-
etally pushed to look skinnier,
guys are societally pushed to look
muscular. Therefore, men having
low anorexia and bulimia percent-
ages makes sense since minimizing
caloric intake would only hinder
a male from achieving a "perfect"
muscular body. We see this when
examining binge eating, a form of
eating control that would aid in
gaining muscle. This is something
40 percent of men suffer from, a
disorder in which men and women
suffer in similar percentages.
Binge eating isn't the only
eating disorder males suffer from.
Many suffer from eating disorders
not given a definition. The guy
consuming unhealthy amounts of
workout supplements has an eating
disorder. The guy who eats a ton of

protein-dominant foods yet - even
though he intakes 3,500 calories - is
terrified to eat a 150-calorie cookie
has an eating disorder. The guy
who goes to the gym so much that
it influences his grades and social
life has a serious body image issue,
signaling an eating disorder.
Considering so many suffer, why is
no one talking about this? The answer
is rather intuitive. Our society tells
guys to be tough, so guys think that
seeking physical or psychological
health for body image issues deflates
their masculinity. But this is creating
a huge issue; the guys suffering are
too afraid to break social standards to
get help.
We need to be talkingabourthis.
After hearing these statistics,
hopefully it's easy to identify guys in
your life that could have an eating dis-
order. Think about your friend whose
entire life seems driven by gaining
more muscle. Sure, you and all your
friends joke about his abundance of
supplements, overeating and obses-
sion with the gym, but have you ever
questioned whether he actually has
a serious problem? That underneath
the chiseled pecs lies a crushed heart
and damaged self-esteem? Because,
he could be suffering.
And this doesn't account for the
men that have body image issues but
not eating disorders. 43 percent of
men suffer. That's almost one in two
men. Think about your guy friends
that everyone perceives as the "thin
guy." I'm sure many people mention
how skinny he is, and I'm sure that he
takes the jokes. But, underneath the
laughter, he could hate his appear-
ance. And think about the guys who
are - for lack of better term - a little
bigger. How many times have you
brought their size up? How many
guys do you know who are waging
an emotionally charged, exclusively
internal war against their body?
And this low self-esteem isn't
totally self-induced. Take a look
at any magazine cover and you'll
undoubtedly see a picture of Ryan
Gosling, Zac Efron or Channing
Tatum. They're definitely attractive,

but their body types are simply
unattainable for guys without
naturally muscular builds. There's
nothing wrong with emphasizing
their attractiveness, but we shouldn't
only emphasize the attractiveness
of one body type. We should glorify
every body type. Just like there's a
push to portray other women's body
types, there needs to be a push for
other male body types.
And while we're on the topic of
women's body issues, the silence over
male body issues could definitely be
contributing to women's. From my
experience, the guys holding them-
selves to unrealistic expectations
pressure girls to fit society's unreal-
istic beauty definition. Why would
they do otherwise? If they're pour-
ing hours into the gym and consum-
ing 4,000 calories to look their best,
they're gonna expect girls to look
their best. I'm not condoning their
actions, nor am I claiming this is the
case with every judgmental guy, but
in treating the males suffering from
body image issues, we would make
serious strides in helping women.
Now, I don't think that men want-
ing to be muscular is necessarily
bad - eating healthy and exercising
regularly is good for you. And not all
men that work out and eat protein-
dense diets have eating disorders and
body image issues. However, a man's
desire to change his body needs to
be self-driven. It should be a per-
sonal goal that he wants to achieve,
not a push to fit societal norms. He
should love seeing progress and self-
improvement, not feel shame over
feeling distant from his goals. This
issue is huge - for both men and
women. I've seen a lot of Facebook
posts, blog posts and articles about
improving women's body image, and
that's great, but we need to change
the movement from women-exclu-
sive to everyone. Body image issues
and eating disorders are a societal
problem, and they won't improve
until we help everyone suffering.
-Michael Schramm can be
reached at mschramm@umich.edu.

Warpehoski said he wrote the ordinance in
response to complaints about smoking in parks
and bus stops and from businesses that are
located near popular smoking areas. Currently,
there is an ordinance banning smoking near
building entrances, but only the Washtenaw
County Health Department can enforce it. Under
the new ordinance, police will have the power to
write citations for violations for as much as $50
if the smokers refuse to comply. During Monday
night's council meeting, Warpehoski asked for
the official ruling to be postponed, saying he
wanted more time to finalize it and talk with
the Park Advisory Commission. The council will
revisit the issue on March 3.
The proposed policy would benefit the citi-
zens of Ann Arbor who do not smoke and do not
want to be exposed to secondhand smoke. While
one has the right to smoke or not smoke, there
are not always opportunities to avoid second-
hand smoke in public places. Bus stops are often
crowded and those in that areahave to be in close
proximity to other riders for upward of 15 min-
utes. Furthermore, disallowing smoking in con-
gested areas of public parks allows more citizens
to enjoy the area and will protect children who
frequent the parks. Smoking is a personal choice
and the right to make that choice should not be
unnecessarily encroached on. However, the
health rights of others are just as important, and
no one has the right to infringe on those of others.-
The new policy looks out for the well-being of
Ann Arbor citizens while allowing ample legal
outdoor areas in which to smoke. Parks will not

automatically receive a no-smoking sign, and in
some cases only parts of a park will be designated
as non-smoking. If enforced, the ordinance will
protect everyone in the designated areas from
secondhand smoke, which poses significant
health risks. According to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control, exposure to secondhand smoke can
raise a non-smoker's risk of developing lung can-
cer by 20 to 30 percent and raise the likelihood of
having a heart attack. Having children exposed
to secondhand smoke in playgrounds, parks and
bus stops is especially troubling. It can lead to
coughing, induce an asthma attack, and,ifpersis-
tent, might inhibit lung development.
Despite the health consequences of tobacco,
the decision of whether or not to smoke is still
a personal one. For that reason, Ann Arbor,
or any other area, should not implement a
full smoking ban. The value of this proposed
ordinance lies in its efforts to limit secondhand
smoke in areas where escaping it would be
unreasonably difficult. Other areas should be
preserved as smoker-friendly. There is no need
to limit smoking on all outdoor public property,
and doing so would violate the rights of smokers.
Instead, the city should make every effort to
create outdoor smoking areas and allow smoking
where doing so would not violate the rights of
non-smokers with a need to use the same space.
The city council should approve the ordinance
in order to create a safe environment for city
children, citizens and visitors. A cleaner Ann
Arbor would improve its image, citizen health
and usage of certain businesses and parks.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Rima Fadlallah, Nivedita Karki, Jordyn Kay, Kellie Halushka,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
MELISSA SCHOLKE |
Redefining victory
CY/

At eight years old, a tiny girl with blonde
mop-top hair discovered the pinnacle of
her klutziness. It was a time marked by the
purchase of my first pair of ice skates and the
recurring formation of purple splotches on
my skin. I blame every bump, bruise and fall
upon one event - the Winter Olympics. While
I abhorred the unending stream of sports
that usually hypnotized my brothers, I loved
watching the Olympics. Watching the graceful
routines of figure skaters - such as Michelle
Kwan - enchanted me. I revered the athletes
and desperately wished for the agility to mimic
those magnificentspins and jumps. One decade
later, I - as a mildly cynical college student -
no longer see the Olympics for its former glory.
The beauty, the majesty and the skill have all
faded into a bleak tundra of injustice.
Young men and women who once sat
crossed-legged in front of their parents'
televisions and dreamed of hitting the slopes
or gliding on Olympic ice are now being denied
their rights as athletes - and more importantly,
as human beings. Athleticism and international
cooperation are supposed to be the focus of the
Winter Games. Likewise, sexual orientation
has nothing to do with athletic talent. However,
Russian President vladimir Putin changed the
rules when he signed legislation that instituted
a ban on the circulation of any "propaganda of
nontraditional sexual relations" in 2013. Under
these rules, any public display illustrating
membership in or support for the LGBTQ
community in front of children could result in
a prison sentence.
Gay athletes at the 2014 Winter Olympics,
held in Sochi, Russia, are now expected to face
the irony of hiding part of their identity while
they are watched on one of the world's biggest
stages. Despite the rage and discrimination
athletes and LGBTQ advocates feel, the
International Olympic Committee has already
warned athletes against protests by citing Rule
50 of the Olympic Charter. This rule states, "No
kind of demonstration or political, religious or
racial propaganda is permitted in any Olympic
sites, venues or other areas." Yet, the IOC has
had little problem glossing over another section
of the charter that prohibits discrimination
in the games. According to principle six, "Any
form of discrimination with regard to a country

or a person on the grounds of race, religion,
politics, gender or otherwise" is not accepted in
the games.
Technically, the selection of Sochi as the
host city occurred in 2007 - before this
debacle of humanity became an issue - and
this fact allows me to swallow a bit of the
IOC's hypocrisy and apathy. However, I
refuse to believe Putin's reassurances that
gays present at the Olympics "should feel at
ease." It's utterly naive to expect anyone to
feel at ease when their voice is stifled in front
of the world. When a single display or a simple
acknowledgement of one's sexuality could
upheave long-held aspirations and years of
rigorous training, how can the IOC and Putin
expect athletes to passively participate?
They won't. Passivity is the last thing I hope
to see when I turn on my television later this
month. Despite efforts to quell the protests,
some athletes are willing to risk their chance
at a medal. Also, advocates spectating at the
games will likely prepare to face the possibil-
ity of arrest. I'm thrilled to see the national
response to this blatant disregard of human
rights. In particular, I support President Barack
Obama's decisions tobe absent from the games
and to include three "out" former athletes in
this year's U.S. delegation. Future protests
in the Olympic realm should follow a similar
example and be performed with a good combi-
nation of respect and radicalism.
Even if these protests are received horribly
and cost the United States a few medals,
Russia and the rest of the world need to
recognize Olympians are not merely objects of
entertainment for spectators. They're human
beings with voices and basic rights. This year, I
want to see the Olympics transform into a venue
for equality as well as an exhibition of amazing
talent. I hope to see role models of tolerance and
activism that the public will wholeheartedly
wish to mimic - especially those children Putin
desperately wants to "protect." If spectators
and athletes take a stand, the greatest victory
will not happen on the ice or the snow. Instead,
the true accomplishment will happen within
the minds of the audience members watching
their favorite athletes compete.
Melissa Scholke is an LSA sophomore.

Taking a closer look at the ACA
n his State of the Union as people ages 18 to 29, reported concerning pre-existing conditions
Address last week, President that they heard about the ACA and gender throughout the State of
Obama attempted to instill through the media. Only one out the Union, announcing, "Because
public confi- of every four young Americans of this law, no American - none -
dence in his said they discussed the law with a zero - can ever again be dropped
administration friend or through social media. Our or denied coverage for a preexisting
and assert exec- young generation has cultivated an condition like asthma, or back
utive authority environment in which our opinions pain, or cancer. No woman can
by pledging to rely primarily on, and ultimately ever be charged more just because
advance a highly become congruent with, what is she's a woman." The definition of
contested agen- presented by a new era of coverage a pre-existing condition extends
da with renewed that thrives on ratings and conflict. to include psychiatric diagnoses,
force. Among his LAUREN These news sources are comprised a stigmatized resume blemish that
priorities was MCCARTHY of and led by professionals much our formerly hindered applicants in
the inevitable senior who bear different financial obtaining both employment and
endorsement standings, job security and familial insurance coverage. Under sec.
of health care reform, focusing on responsibilities than students. As 2705 of the ACA, which went into
benefits of the law that have already a result, their coverage will reflect effect Jan. 1, mental health services
begun to positively impact Ameri- concerns that correspond withtheir are now classified as among the 10
cans, as well as its potential to pro- own, addressing the immediate "Essential Health Benefits."
tect Americans from unforeseen, consequences and neglecting to At the National Conference on
crippling medical expenses. discuss how policy changes such Mental Health in June of last year,
Likening health care reform to as the ACA will impact our up-and- President Obama asserted, "In any
economic security, Obama asserted, coming generation. given year one in every five adults
"That's what healthinsurance reform I challenge my fellow millenni- experience a mental illness ... 45
is all about - the peace of mind als to review the Affordable Care million Americans suffer from
that if misfortune strikes, you don't Act and gauge its impacts free from things like depression or anxiety,
have to lose everything." Though media commentary, editorial analy- schizophrenia or PTSD." Subse-
the Affordable Care Act is a topic of sis or scrutiny. In doing so, college quently, the 2013 American College
severe criticism for its immediate students will come to realize both Health Assessment reported that
impacts and initial oversights, many the existing and succeeding ben- a combined 56.1 percent of college
Americans fail to view health care efits that President Obama proudly students suffer from pre-existing
reform from a broader perspective. announced in his address. conditions, 13.3 percent of which
As Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodg- As the President stated last week, fall under psychiatric diagnoses -
ers (R-Wash.) noted in her GOP "Already, because of the Affordable a consistently escalating statistic.
response - amidst also providing Care Act, more than three million In the most recent annual report,
her prosaic personal backstory - Americans under age 26 have the University of Michigan's Coun-
for some Americans, their previ- gained coverage under their seling and Psychological Services
ous health insurance policies were parents' plans." Prior to the ACA, Center reported scheduling 17,208
canceled because they failed to children could receive coverage clinical appointments during the
meet the law's new benefit stan- through their parents' insurance 2011-2012 school year, a number
dards. These standards are neces- until they were 25, but only if that has increased by 9.3 percent
sary in order to, over time, facilitate the child was a full-time student, since 2008. A CAPS study con-
a higher degree of quality, acces- disabled or otherwise a dependent ducted from 2004-2010 shows that
sibility and affordability of health of their parents for tax purposes. nearly one-third of Michigan stu-
care in the United States. Atten- The amendments made by the ACA dents have reported having some
tion to detail has skewed public did away with technicalities and form of a psychiatric diagnosis.
opinion of this stipulation. Many stipulations, and allow all children Critics of the ACA specifically
blame the ACA for the loss of their to remain covered by their parents argue on behalf of "healthy, young
original providers, but employers plan until they are 26. Americans," claiming they should
and insurance agencies frequently In 2013, the official unemploy- not be forced to purchase health care
tweak their coverage in ways more ment rate for graduates under age they do not need. However, statistics
advantageous for themselves, vio- 25 was 7 percent, but that statistic suggest that idealized perception
lating the law's new standards and did not reflect the expansive num- of "healthy, young Americans" is
consequentially leaving consumers ber of post-grads who are under- flawed. If 56.1 percent of millennial-
without the healthcare coverage to utilizing their educations. Termed aged people can already benefit from
which they were accustomed. "mal-employment," the number of these provisions included in the
Yes, I am aware that the Affordable college-educated workers under ACA, their peers are not far behind.
Care Act's implementation has been 25 who are working in positions Looking past the hyperbolized media
problematic thus far. Yes, I understand that do not require a degree tops 36 criticism, the scandalized website
that many Americans are aggravated percent. As the job market remains blunder and the general attacks
and unenthused, but repealing the law increasingly saturated and young on the Obama administration, it is
altogether will harm the United States adults either struggle to find a sus- evident that the Affordable Care Act
far beyond these first few months of tainable position or aim to increase and its prospective intentions will
logistical frustration. their employability by pursuing a provide long-term, low-cost health
Following Obama's re-election graduate degree, sec. 2714: Exten- care that serves substantial benefits
in 2012, a study conducted by sion of Dependent Coverage proves to young people.
Harvard University's Institute of crucial for our generation.
Politics discovered that more than President Obama also - Lauren McCarthy can be
two-thirds of millennials, defined emphasized the statistics reached at laurmc@umich.edu.

91

s



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 6, 2014 - 5A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
DNR culls 160
trees for new Belle
Isle state park
The Michigan Department
of Natural Resources says it has
completed the clearing of at least
160 hazardous trees on Detroit's
Belle Isle as the state prepares
to take over management of the
park next week.
The 982-acre Detroit River
island opens Monday as Michi-
gan's 102nd state park. The state
will operate it under a long-term
lease from the city of Detroit.
The DNR's Forest Resources
Division staff has spent the past
several months examining the
island's trees and identifying at
risk of falling and injuringvisitors.
A video that the department
released Wednesday shows dead
trees that towered over play
areas until crews felled them.
ROCHESTER. Minn.
Would-be burglar
apparently scared
by singing fish
Big Mouth Billy Bass appar-
ently got the best of a would-be
burglar in Minnesota.
Authorities in Rochester say
the motion-activated singing
fish apparently scared off an
intruder who tried to break into
the Hooked on Fishing bait and
tackle shop.
The novelty bass had been
hung near the door and would
start singing "Take Me to the
River" whenever someone
entered the shop.
The Olmsted County Sheriff's
Office says the fish was found
on the floor after the intruder
knocked it down while breaking
the door to get in late Sunday or
early Monday.
Sgt. Tom Claymon tells the
Star Tribune the would-be bur-
glar left without stealing any-
thing, including cash that had
been left in "a very visible spot."
CHICAGO
Seemingly endless
winter creates salt
shortage
As piles of snow grow taller
during this seemingly endless
winter, the mounds of salt for
spreading on the nation's icy,
slushy roads are shrinking,
forcing communities to ration
supplies or try exotic new ice-
melting substances.
Cities have already gone
through most of their salt
well ahead of the time they
traditionally really need it -
when the coldest part of winter
gives way to temperatures just
warm enough to turn snow into
freezing rain and sleet and roads
into ribbons of ice.
"If we don't get the salt, at

some point people are going to
be sliding all over the place like
what you saw in Atlanta," said
Julius Hansen, public works
director in the Chicago suburb
of Glen Ellyn, citing last week's
television images of thousands
of motorists getting stranded on
ice-covered roads in the South.
TEHRAN, Iran
Iran: U.S. wishes
won't come true'
at nuclear talks
Iran's foreign minister said
Wednesday that Washington's
"wishes are unlikely to come
true" in talks between the Islam-
ic Republic and world powers
over its nuclear program, the
government's latest apparent
attempt to deflect criticism from
hard-line skeptics who say that
President Hassan Rouhani will
give up too much for too little
in upcoming negotiations over a
final comprehensive deal.
Mohammad Javad Zarif
indicated the U.S. wanted Iran to
give up major parts of its nuclear
program but said such demands
won't be carried out.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

State legislators
push for more
dlgital privacy

AILEEN ANDREWS/AP
In this Jan.11 photo, Dennis Olsen measures a fissure which he said was about an inch wide and at least eight to10
inches deep, in his rural driveway following a frost quake in Waupun, Wis.
Mysterious noises revealed
to be result of 'frost quakes'

CC
quc
ST
Herrc
then
sound
dropp
roof o
Th
years
said,
anyth
As.
Mo., I
Sund:
many
stran,
flashe
Sci
nity e
phen
quake
moist
denly
condi
or be
froze:

Rare weather terious noises that range from
an earthquake-like rumble to
)nditions cause sharp cracking sounds some-
times mistaken for falling trees.
ake-like weather This winter has been ripe for
frost quakes, known technically
phenomena as cryoseism. Temperatures
have been frigid, but occasional
LOUIS (AP) - Chuck warm-ups have allowed for
on heard the loud thud, thawing. And the temperature
another and another. It swings have sometimes been
led like someone was abrupt.
ting big snowballs on the That was the case last
fhis home. weekend in Missouri, where
e house is more than 100 temperatures in the 40s on
old and creaks, Herron Saturday gave way to single-
but he had "never heard digit readings by Sunday night.
ing like that before." In Mark Twain's hometown
his neighbors in tiny Paris, of Hannibal, Mo., 100 miles
huddled around televisions north of St. Louis, police and
ay for the Super Bowl, emergency dispatches received
were startled by similar several calls within about two
ge noises. Some even saw hours. Facebook feeds were
rs of light and called 911. filled with worries.
entists say the commu- Some people compared the
axperienced a rare natural noise to a sonic boom that rattles
omenon known as a "frost windows, said Michael Hall,
," which happens when executive director of the 911
ure in the ground sud- center that covers the Hannibal
freezes and expands. If area. Others described it as
tions are just right, the soil sounding like "somebody
drock breaks like a brittle banging on their house."
n pipe, generating mys- Missouri isn't alone. Frost

quakeswere reportedlastmonth
in Canada and in several other
states - Indiana, Michigan,
Ohio, Wisconsin.
In DeKalb, Ill., Lisa Kammes
and her family were getting
ready for bed earlier this winter
when the loud popping noises
began.
"The louder ones sounded
like somebody was throwing
snowballs at the house,"
Kammes said.
Neighbors heard noises too,
and several contacted police.
"It wasn't the regular noise
you hear when your house is
creaking, blowing in the wind or
ice is breaking," Kammes said.
The light flashes reported
by some people are believed to
come from electrical changes
that occur when the freezing
compresses rocks.
Robert Herrmann of the
Saint Louis University Earth-
quake Center said frost quakes
are far different from real
earthquakes. Tremors typi-
cally occur a mile or two under-
ground. Frost quakes are near
the surface and do not show up
on seismographs.

Police groups
complain that laws
will hinder success
of crime-solving
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP)
- Angry over revelations of
National Security Agency
surveillance and frustrated with
what they consider outdated
digital privacy laws, state
lawmakers around the nation
are proposing bills to curtail the
powers of law enforcement to
monitor and track citizens.
Their efforts in at least 14
states are a direct message to
the federal government: If you
don't take action to strengthen
privacy, we will.
"We need to stand up and pro-
tect our liberty," said Republican
Missouri state Sen. Rob Schaaf,
author of a digital privacy bill.
Policegroups,however, saythe
moves will in some cases hinder
efforts to deter or solve crimes."t
would cripple law enforcement's
ability to do investigations," said
Bart Johnson, executive director
of the International Association
ofChiefs ofPolice.
Proponents say the measures
will overhaul the definition of
digital privacy and help increase
oversight of specific surveillance
tools that law enforcement
agencies have been using in the
states that critics say mirrors
federal surveillance technology.
The bills include a Colorado
proposal that would limit the
retention of images from license
plate readers, an Oregon bill that
would require "urgent circum-
stances" to obtain cellphone
location data and a Delaware
plan that increases privacy pro-
tections for text messages.
Republican and Democratic
lawmakers have joined in pro-
posing the measures, reflecting
the unusual mix ofpolitical part
nerships that have arisen since
the NSA revelations that began
in May. Establishment leader-
ship has generally favored the
programs, while conservative
limited government advocates
and liberal privacy supporters
have opposed them.
Supporters say the measures
are needed because technology
has grown to the point that
police can digitally track
someone's every move.
Devices such as license plate
readers and celphone trackers
"can tell whether you stayed in a
motel that specializes in hourly
rates, or you stopped at tavern
that Lasnude dancers," said David
Fidanque, director ofthe American
Civil Liberties Union ofOregon.
"It's one thing to know you
haven't violated the law, but
it's another thing to know you
haven't had every one of your
moves tracked," he said.
As for digital privacy, bills
promoting broader protections
against email surveillance have
popped up recently in various
states with varying results. One

proposal became law in Texas
last year, but a similar measure
was vetoed in California where
the governor said it was too
onerous for police to follow.
But proposals focused
specifically on police
surveillance are a new variety.
Schaaf's proposal for a legisla-
tively mandated ballot measure
in Missouri would add electron-
ic data to a list of property pro-
tected from unreasonable search
and seizure. If it passes, it would
go before voters in November.
"The people in Missouri, ifthey
get the chance to approve it, will
send a message that other states
can, and must, do the samething,"
Schaaf said. "We can't wait on
Congress to pick up the ban ner."
In Indiana, legislators have
put forward a bill that would ban
the warrantless use of a portable
device that can track cellphone
movements within a mile, as
well as the numbers of incoming
and outgoing calls and text
messages. Indiana lawmakers
also want to use warrants to
limit the use of tracking devices
and surveillance cameras.
"You could get to the point
whereyou're just trackingevery-
one's car just for the fun of it,"
said Republican Rep. Eric Koch.
Clatsop County, Ore., District
Attorney Josh Marquis said the
legislators' concerns are mis-
placed. He said state agencies
aren't collecting the kind of
metadata the NSA collects and
bills curtailingthe abilityoflocal
authorities to gather intelligence
could do more harm than good.
Under NSA surveillance
programs that NSA analyst
Edward Snowden revealed, the
agency sweeps up information
about millions of Americans'
phone calls: the number called
from, the number called and the
duration of the call.
That information is stored
at NSA facilities until a secret
court known as the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court
gives intelligence officers
permission to examine the
phone call if investigators
believed there was a connection
to a terrorist. Another similar
program examines Internet data
and email traffic.
"People think of the NSA as
this group of agents trotting
the globe, snooping on people,"
Marquis said. "That's not the
case. They're geeks and analysts.
They don't want your data.
What they're looking for is four
numbers in Lahore, Pakistan."
Instead, local lawenforcement
agencies are usingthe technology
to run surveillance on drug
cartels or lure sex predators into
online communication that leads
to an arrest, Marquis said.
After months of NSA revela-
tions, President Barack Obana
last month proposed changes
that would require bulk tele-
phone data collected by the NSA
to be stored outside the govern-
ment to reduce the risk of abuse
and put limits on the number of
people who could be watched.

TV's "Science Guy" Bill Nye speaks during a debate on evolution with Creation Museum head Ken Ham, Tuesday, Feb
4, 2014, at the Petersburg, Ky. museum.
BiI Nye and Ken Ham face
oft in debate about evolution

Debaters fear for "The Bible is the word of God,"
Ham said. "I admit that's where I
country's future start from."
Nye delivered a passionate
if children adopt speech onscience and challenged
the museum's teachings on the
other's views age of the earth and the Bible's
flood story. Like most scientists,
PETERSBURG, Ky. (AP) Nye believes there is no credible
- True to his passionate and evidence that the world is only
animated TV persona, "Science 6,000 years old.
Guy" Bill Nye tapped on the "If we accept Mr. Ham's point
podium, threw up his hands and of view ... that the Bible serves
noted that science shows the as a science text and he and his
Earth is "billions and billions" followers will interpret that
of years old in a debate at a for you, I want you to consider
Kentucky museum known for what that means," Nye said. "It
teaching that the planet's age is means that Mr. Ham's word is
only 6,000. to be more respected than what
Nye was debating Creation you can observe in nature, what
Museum founder Ken Ham and you can find in your backyard in
promoting science in the snappy Kentucky."
way that made him a pop culture The event drew dozens of
staple as host of "Bill Nye The national media outlets and about
Science Guy" in the 1990s. 800 tickets sold out in minutes.
The event was meant to Ham said ahead of the debate
explore the age old question, that the Creation Museum was
"How did we get here?" from the having a peak day on its social
perspectives of faith and science. media sites.
Ham, an Australian native who "I think it shows you that the
has built a thriving ministry in majority of people out there,
Kentucky, said he trusts the story they're interested in this topic,
of creation presented by the Bible. they want to know about this,

they don't want debate shut
down," Ham said before the
debate.
At times, the debate had
the feel of a university lecture,
with slides and long-form
presentations.
Responding to an audience
question about where atoms
and matter come from, Nye
said scientists are continuing
to find out.
Ham said he already knows
the answer.
"Bill, I want to tell you, there
is a book that tells where atoms
come from, and its starts out,'In
the beginning ...,"'Ham said.
Nye said there are plenty
of religious people around
the world who don't question
evolution science.
"I just want to remind us all
there are billions of people in the
world who are deeply religious,
who get enriched by the
wonderful sense of community
by their religion," said Nye,
who wore his trademark bow
tie. "But these same people do
not embrace the extraordinary
view that the Earth is somehow
only 6,000 years old."

I


6A - Thursday, February 6, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

fiA - Thursday, February 6, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Military scandals
cause leaders to urge
reform in ethics

Cheating, fraud,
sexual assault all
cited by Defense
Secretary as issues
WASHINGTON (AP)
- Concerned that ethical
problems inside the military
might run deeper than he
realized, Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel ordered service
leaders Wednesday to add
urgency to their drive to ensure
"moral character and moral
courage" in a force emerging
from more than a decade of war.
Almost a year into his tenure
as Pentagon chief, Hagel had
been worried by a string of
ethics scandals that produced
a wave of unwelcome publicity
for the military. But in light
of new disclosures this week,
including the announcement of
alleged cheating among senior
sailors in the nuclear Navy,
Hagel decided to push for a
fuller accounting.
Last month the Air Force
revealed it was investigating
widespread cheating on
proficiency tests among nuclear
missile launch officers in
Montana, and numerous senior
officers in all branches of the
armed forces have been caught
in embarrassing episodes of
personal misbehavior, inside and
outside the nuclear force. The
Air Force also is pursuing a drug
use investigation.
At the same time, hundreds
of soldiers and others are
under criminal investigation
in what the Army describes
as a widespread scheme to
take fraudulent payments and
kickbacks from a National Guard
recruiting-program. - - -
The steady drumbeat of one
military ,ethics- scandal after
another has caused many to
conclude that the misbehavior
reflects more than routine lapses.
"He definitely sees this as a
growingproblem,"Hagel'schief

spokesman, Navy Rear Adm.
John Kirby, told a Pentagon
news conference Wednesday
after Hagel met privately with
the top uniformed and civilian
officials of the Army, Navy, Air
Force and Marine Corps.
"And he's concerned about
the depth of it," Kirby said. "I
don't think he could stand here
and tell you that he has - that
anybody has - the full grasp
here, and that's what worries
(Hagel) is that maybe he doesn't
have the full grasp of the depth
of the issue, and he wants to
better understand it."
Hagel's predecessor, Leon
Panetta, had launched an effort
to crack down on ethics failures
more than a year ago, and the
matter has been a top priority for
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, Gen. Martin Dempsey,
for even longer.
Kirby said Hagel has come
to realize that he needs to
investigate as well.
"We don't fully know right
now what we're grappling with
here and how deep and serious
it is," Kirby said. "And I think,
you know, for a leader at his level
with the responsibilities that he
carries every day. not knowing
something like that is something
to be concerned about. And he
wants to know more."
Hagel believes that the vast
majority of military members
are "brave, upright and honest,"
and he is encouraged by efforts
already under way to curb
misconduct, including sexual
assaults, Kirby said.
But Hagel told the service
leaders Wednesday that he
"also believes there must be
more urgency behind these
efforts" and that all Pentagon
leaders must "put renewed
emphasis on developing moral
character and moral courage in
our force.'
Kirby was asked whether
Hagel believes ethics lapses are
a symptom of over-use of the
military for the long wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.

"He believes that that is a
factor that should be looked at,"
the spokesman said.
A significant portion of
the concern about military
misbehavior is aimed at two
segments of the nuclear force:
the Air Force's land-based
nuclear missile corps, and the
Navy's training program for
operators of nuclear reactors
used as propulsion systems for
submarines and aircraft carriers.
Neither of those fields was directly
involved in significant ways in
either of the wars since 2001.
The Navy announced on
Tuesday that it had opened
an investigation into cheating
allegations against about 30 senior
sailorsrepresentingaboutone-fifth
of its instructors at a Charleston,
S.C.,-basedschoolfornaval nuclear
power reactor operators.
Unlike an Air Force cheating
probe that has implicated nearly
100 officers responsible for land-
based nuclear missiles that stand
ready for short-notice launch,
those implicated in the Navy
investigationhaveno responsibility
for nuclear weapons.
The Navy said its implicated
sailors are accused of having
cheated on written tests they
must pass to be certified as
instructors at the nuclear
propulsion school. A number
of them are alleged to have
transmitted test information
to other instructors from their
home computers, which if verified
would be aviolationofrestrictions
on the use and transmission of
classified information.
The matter is being probed by
the Naval Criminal Investigative
Service.
Separately, Kirby announced
that the Pentagon has picked
two retired officers to lead an
independent review of personnel
problems inside the Air Force
and Navy nuclear forces. They
are Larry Welsh, a former Air
Force chief of staff, and John
Harvey, a retired Navy admiral
and nuclear-trained surface
warfare officer.

Violin virtuoso and Grammy award winner, Itzhak Perlman, left, is seen holding his 1714 Soil Stradivarius violin and review-
ing the music with Conductor Per Brevig in rehearsal with the East Texas Symphony Orchestra, at the University of Texas.
Robbers steal 299-year-old,
$5 million Stradivarius violin

Known as one of the
best, instrument is
one of only 600 to
850 remaining
MILWAUKEE (AP) - Vio-
lin virtuoso Frank Almond was
walking to his car after an eve-
ning performance at the Wis-
consin Lutheran College when
someone jumped out of a van,
shocked him with a stun gun and
seized the rare and extremely
valuable Stradivarius on loan to
him.
The robber got back into the
waiting vehicle, which sped off.
Almond, who'd been knocked
to the ground, wasn't seriously
hurt. But he was devastated by
the loss of the violin, which was
crafted in 1715 and has been
appraised for insurance purposes
at $5 million.
The brazen Jan. 27 crime set
off a frantic search and raised
questions about why someone
would steal an item that would be
nearly impossible to sell. Would-
be buyers in the tiny market for
rare violins would certainly know
it was stolen, and keeping it in
hiding would mean never getting
to show it off.
The case in which Almond
kept the instrument was found,
and the Milwaukee Symphony

Orchestra announced someone
was offering $100,000 for the
instrument's safe return. But
there weren't any breaks in the
robbery until this week, when
prosecutors confirmed Wednes-
day that three people had been
arrested in connection with the
theft.
However, Police Chief Ed
Flynn said at an afternoon
news conference that authori-
ties haven't recovered the violin,
and he hoped the reward would
induce the public to come for-
ward with tips.
"It's a reasonable supposition
that it's still in our jurisdiction,"
Flynn said. He declined to go into
detail.
Kent Lovern, a Milwaukee
County assistant district attor-
ney, said he didn't expect a charg-
ing decision would be made
before Thursday.
Flynn said the suspects were
two men, ages 41 and 36, and a
32-year-old woman. He wouldn't
say how police tracked them
down, but he said there was phys-
ical evidence linking them to the
crime.
Flynn also wouldn't speculate
on a motive, although he said the
suspects seemed to be working
for themselves, not on behalf of a
larger art-theft ring. He also said
one had a previous association
with art crime.
The violin is known in musi-

cal circles as the "Lipinski"
Stradivarius. Its previous own-
ers include virtuoso Giuseppe
Tartini, who was known for his
"Devil's Trill" Sonata, and Polish
violinist Karol Lipinski.
It was passed down through
generations, eventually landing
with the heirs of Estonian violin-
ist Evi Liivak, according to Stefan
Hersh a Chicago-based violin
curator who helped restore it to
playing condition after it was
removed from storage in a bank
vault in 2008. The current own-
er's name has not been revealed
publicly.
Hersh, a friend of Almond's,
said he used to watch how care-
fully Almond would care for the
violin. While some musicians
see their instruments as objects
or tools, Almond understood
the historical significance of the
Lipinski, Hersh said.
"He had a special case made
for it, he kept it highly protected
in his car, he never let it out of his
sight," Hersh said.
"As a performer nothing shakes
him, but after the theft he was
highly shaken. I've never known
him like that."
A message left for Almond
through.the Milwaukee-Sym-
phony Orchestra wasn't immedi-
ately returned Wednesday. Police
have asked that he not speak to
the media while the investigation
was goingon.


RELEASE DATE- Thursday, February 6, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 61 Slogan sites 27 Like most 47 Big name in
1 Easter season: 62 See bawdy films IRAs
Abbr. 60-Across 28 Lays Sown the 48 Rustle
462-Across coat law 49"Take
7 Interest fig. DOWN 33 Fig. on26- 50 Aflame
10 Long, on 1 Bit of Down 51 Angst-filled genre
Molokai mudslinging 36 Dave in 52 Killer Birds, e.g.
11 Experience with 2 Frui tof ancient 38 Groom with 53 Calendar abbr.
enthusiasm Persia care 54 Recipe
13 Pi follower 3 Vatican Palae 43 Unmoving instruction
14 "Out" crier painter 44 Hull stabilizers 55 Soft murmur
15 Chic "Bye" 4 Pet rocks, e.g. 46 "_ bien!" 56 Barrel at a bash
16 Charged 5 News agcy.
particle since 1958 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
17 Detoxplace 6 Regretbitterly A D DI L M OID E S M A
19 Bridal 7 Preceding C R ElEs OTJR O N E A T
emanations 8 Numbskull C
21 Reminiscent of 9 Bunches CYNM TNEIN A NE
venison 11 Daedalus' HM 0T L AIGE E
22 Dweeb creation
23 Red state? 12 Combativeness TK I T A SLYE
26 Easy gaits l8 Cremona TK0S SN0 1
290iven ahand artisan T 0 A I E RE
30 Annabella of 20 Red Square S P A 1 R I I I E B I
"TheSopranos" honoree DRU TIEA LDNEWS
31 Chasedl(after) 23 Lacking WON BY AN E 1 A
32Whirling purpose S T AR TV P MEND
34 Farmfeed 24 Juice extractor OH BROT H E R R D I
35 Computertthat 25Grab, as a line I 0 E R c R E H I L L 0
once came in drive EPEE ISAY ASYET
"flaoors b 26 D.C. network xwordeditor@aol.com 02/06/14
37 Biscuit, mayhe 12 3 4 5 6 7 11
38 Strokes a 62- 1 2 5 a 5 5 v 5 0
Across 112 13
39 Greek cheese
40 First name in 14 16
one-liners 1 18 19 20
41 Actress
Charlotte et al. 2122
42 Fountain near
the Spanish 23 24 20 25 27 28
Steps 29
44 Buddy
45 'acte 1 52 33 34
48 Flute part
50 Big enchilada 35 us 37 o
57 Babysitter's 40 41
handful
58 New evidence 43 44
may lead to one
59 Fawn spawner 4s on en an
60 With 62-Across, so n51 525354 55s6
a hint to the
starts of this 7 5859
puzzle's four
longest Down so en 2
answers By Jitloenny and JeffrChen 02/06/14
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, LLC

DOMINICK'S FT/PT. CALL 734-
834-5021.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking forthelp in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Stafl, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
TICKETS & TRAVEL
LIVE CONCERTS
BEACH PARTIES
11300-AM 0
FOR R ENT
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. 1
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777

Google rea
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com agreem ent
Site to institute
1721 CHURCH - CENTRAL
CAMPUS! Across from East Quad! significant changes
Fall 2014 - 1 bedroom and efficiency 0
apartmentavailable. Free heat/water/- in search results
parking! 734-320-1244
www.churchstreetrentals.com
BRUSSELS (AP) - The
$1400 FOR A FULL 2 bedroom at For- European Union's antitrust
est Glen Apts. Price includes FREE watchdog on Wednesday
BEAT, I parking spot and furniture,. acdgenoa
$1400 for the whole apanment!!! accepted "far-reaching"
Call us to tour your new home today. concessions offered by Google
734-761-2680. to settle allegations it is
$400 OFF abusing its dominant position
First 10 rentals in Internet searches, bringing
on the three-year-old case close to
Selected Units an end.
At
UniversityTowers Google would significantly
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom change the ways it displays
w/ FREE HEAT as some search results in Europe
low as $1635.00. Great location, .
Great Service and Great RATES!! in favor of its competitors.
www.universitytowers-mi.com But reaching a settlement will
734-761-2680 spare the company a longer
*AVAILABLE FALL2014* antitrust procedure that could
Large 3 bdrm. house. have resulted in fines of up to
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn. 10 percent of the company's
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876. annual revenue, or about $5
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus billion.
1037 Packard - $2500/m+ utils. 2 bath, EU Antitrust Commission-
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991. er Joaquin Almunia said he's
"strongly convinced" the U.S.
pu, 10 0 Cd E Fun Dr. $ 0oh am- company's proposals - its third
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer. attempt to address the competi-
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991. tion concerns - are sufficient.
ARBOR PROPERTIES "This is an important step
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown, forward," he told reporters in
Central Campus, Old West Side, Brussels.
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014. Google's proposals will
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com now be sent to the 18 origi-
EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014. nal plaintiffs for evaluation
$655-$1395, showings avail. M-F before the Commission makes
I am-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice. a final decision in the coming
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm months. Initial reactions from
plaintiffs and consumer groups
SPRING BREAK-SPI, TX. Sleep 6 were unanimously negative, but
pyl. Next to waler park. Ph/1st 24/7: luisadhwscofen
866-943-6362ext. 3.condorenlal@bor- Almunia said he was confident
der-tech.com for rental. the deal with Google will be
upheld.
THE 2ND FLOOR Under its latest proposal,
NEW Luxury Apartments, Go
Right on S. U. / Central Campus. ogle will commit to display
Apartments come with the BEST results from three competitors
Service, Amenities and All at in a similar way to its own when-
REASONABLE RATES ever it promotes its specialized
www.The2ndFloorSU.com search services like Google

ches legal
twith EU
shopping, restaurant or hotel
searches. It will also label more
clearly search results stemming
from its own services to allow
users to distinguish between
natural search results and those
promoted by Google.
A shopping search for a gas
grill, for example, would yield
two boxes of the same size and
position at the top of the search
results page, one showing three
"Google shopping results"
and immediately to the left
of it three results labeled
"Alternatives", according to
an example provided by the
Commission.
At present, only Google's
own results are displayed
prominently above all other
search results. The changes will
also be valid for search results
displayed on mobile devices.
"Without preventing Google
from improvingits ownservices,
it provides userswith real choice
between competing services
presented in a comparable way,"
Almunia said.
The results from three
competing search providers
would be chosen using Google's
web search algorithm and,
in most cases, other search
services would have to pay for
their placement through an
auction mechanism - a solution
that competitors and consumer
groups alike criticized for
strengthening Google's already
dominant position.
The EU commission last year
threw out two sets of proposed
concessions by Google because
they were deemed insufficient.
"We will be making
significant changes to the way
Google operates in Europe," said
Kent Walker, Google's general
counsel. Google declined to
discuss financial repercussions
of the decision.

I

I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 6, 2014 - 7A


Peppers, eight other
recruits commit to'M'

We
secur
16th-i
Here'
and h
Jal
N.J.)
overa
Pey
is the
the N
impa
in hi
Armo
returt
block
lined
Wh
snaps
year,I
at th
retur;
corne
Taylo
Blake
the si2
to con
Dr
Mich
No.8.
Ha
fell of
with
enroll
still o
inthe
Re:
Chess
sopho
yards
wide
a pa;
Devin
betwe
receiv
wideo

By JAKE LOURIM pounds) already has the size
Daily Sports Writer for college football. The tough,
physical lineman can use his
:dnesday, the Wolverines strength for both run and pass
ed the rest of their protection. He also started the
ranked recruiting class. Under Armour All-American
s a rundown of each of them Game.
ow they fitinto the rotation: With the proper technique
improvement, Bushell-Beatty
brill Peppers (Paramus, has an outside shot at providing
- No.1 cornerback, No.2 immediate help to a unit that
all (ESPN): struggled mightily in 2013. With
ppers (6-foot-1, 205 pounds) fifth-year senior Taylor Lewan
star of the 2014 class for graduating, the line will lack a
Wolverines. He made an clear leader but the Wolverines
ct on both sides of the ball have several players with
gh school. In the Under experience who can step in.
ur All-American Game, he
ned two kicks for 65 yards, Ian Bunting (Hinsdale,
ed a field goal and even Ill.) - No. 6 tight end, No. 200
up at quarterback. overall (ESPN):
ile Peppers could see some Bunting (6-foot-6, 223
on the offensive side next pounds) has good hands and
he projects as a cornerback body control, making him a great
ie next level. Michigan pass-catching tight end. He
ns both of its current struggles with blocking, though,
rbacks, junior Raymon with a smaller frame.
r and redshirt sophomore The Wolverines already have
Countess, but Peppers has three established tight ends in
ze, athleticism and instincts Funchess - when he plays tight
mpete for a starting spot. end - sophomore A.J. Williams
and freshman Jake Butt. Bunting
ake Harris (Grand Rapids, won't see much game action early,
.) - No. 10 wide receiver, but he'll have an opportunity to
5 overall (ESPN): get stronger as a tight end.
rris (6-foot-3, 172 pounds)
f the radar a bit last season Maurice Ways (Beverly
a hamstring injury, but he Hills, Mich.) - No. 59 wide
ed early at Michigan and is receiver (ESPN):
ne of the top wide receivers Ways (6-foot-4, 193 pounds)
class. fits the mold of Michigan coach
dshirt freshman Jehu Brady Hoke's tall wide receivers.
on (221 yards) and His smooth stride and good
more Dennis Norfleet (46 hands make him a viable pass
) are the only returning catcher at the next level.
receivers who caught He isn't as heralded a prospect
ss last year. Sophomore as Harris, but he has the ability to
Funchess, who split time gain separation from the defense.
een tight end and wide Whether he can get onto the field
'er, will be in the mix at next year remains to be seen, but
iut along with sophomore he could compete.

Noah Furbush (Kenton,
Ohio)-No.21insidelinebacker
(ESPN):
Furbush (6-foot-4,235 pounds)
has good size for his position.
He's a hard-hitting linebacker
with good closing speed.
Early enrollee Michael
Ferns, a 6-foot-3, 228-
pound linebacker from Saint
Clairsville, Ohio, is the higher-
ranked prospect at his position.
With junior starter Desmond
Morgan and sophomore backup
Joe Bolden also returning at
middle linebacker, early playing
time for Furbush seems like a
bit of a stretch.
Jared Wangler (Royal
Oak, Mich.) - No. 71 outside
linebacker (ESPN):
Wangler (6-foot-1, 215 pounds)
has good athleticism, allowing
him to defend from sideline to
sideline. He's a solid tackler, but
he could add muscle early on to
become a contributor.
Like Furbush, Wangler isn't
as highly ranked at his position
as Chase Winovich. With
fifth-year senior Cam Gordon
leaving, Wangler and Winovich
could compete for backup reps
behind redshirt junior Jake
Ryan, and then for a starting
spot in 2015.
Brady Pallante (Naples,
Fla.) - No. 117 defensive tackle
(ESPN):
Pallante originally planned
to be a grayshirt, enrolling this
year but not participating in team
activities until 2015.In November,
he reclassified, meaning he'll be
on scholarship this fall.
No. 7 defensive tackle Bryan
Mone, an early enrollee, is the
more seasoned prospect, so
Pallante (6-foot-1, 278 pounds)
could take a year to develop.

Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison (left) and head coach Brady Hoke (right) have excelled on the recruiting trail.
A small, but eficient class

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan's recruiting season
featured the flirtations of a star,
the (literal) feasting of a defensive
tackle and some innovating with
hedge trimmers, but by 10:53 a.m.
Wednesday, the Wolverines had
their 2014 class.
National Signing Day was
a quiet one for the Michigan
football team, which will add just
16 recruits, the lowest total in
more than a decade. With limited
spots in this year's class, the
Wolverines addressed nearly all
of their needs and added one of
the nation's best talents in Jabrill
Peppers. But Michigan did whiff
on a few big-name targets that
would've pushed the class into
the elite level.
ESPN, which ranked
Michigan's class 16th nationally,
is highest on the class, followed
by 247Sports (20th) and Rivals
(31st). Peppers is the only five-star
recruit, and the three recruiting
services give Michigan between
six and 10 four-star-rated players.
Seven players have enrolled early
for the 2014 winter semester.
"Actually, I'm a huge fan of this
class," 247Sports's Steve Lorenz
said. "They really did a good job
of mixing guys that can come in
and play early with under-the-
radar sort of guys."
Peppers, the explosively
athletic athlete from Paramus
Catholic (N.J.), is the crown
jewel. Peppers hinted late last fall
that he would consider visiting
other schools, but he stuck with
Michigan and faxed in his letter
of intent at 8 a.m. Wednesday.
The question now is how to
use him. Peppers played on both
sides of the ball in high school,
and his athletic ability and what
Michigan outside linebackers
coach Roy Manning called
"Olympic speed" make him a
versatile weapon.
Manning told MGoBlue.com
that both Peppers and Michigan
would be open to playing
anywhere. At a press conference
later Wednesday, Michigan
coach Brady Hoke indicated he'd

be a defensive bac
"Let's get hin
let him be a corn
Hoke said. "Do I
talented? There'
Can he return ki
Yeah. I don't thi
doubt about it. A
be a plan some'
offensively? Ther
let's let the kid w
go to a class duri
and be a freshmai
Peppers has go
bulk of the atten
indicated five or
could
contribute
next season.
Lorenz said
the likely
candidates are
Peppers; tight
end Michael
Ferns; two
wide receivers,
most likely
early enrollees Dr
Freddy Canteen;
Bunting; and di
Bryan Mone.
For a smal
Wolverines recru
Michigan direct
personnel Chris
Michigan had ext
but opted to
potentially foro
class. And though
failed to add a f
targets, they ad
less-touted, recru
Mone, a de
who is listed at
pounds and w
rather large mea
December, topp
list, according to
"He was pret
No. 1 overall guy
recruiting boardI
said. "He was the
offered. They h
higher ontheir bo
tackle than anybo
And then there
Noah Furbush -,
pound linebackei
Ohio - who(
major contributo
seasons. Hoke pro

k first.
a in here and
er for a while,"
think he's very
s no question.
cks? Could he?
nk there's any
nd could there
where for him
e could be. But
alk on campus,
ng the summer
n.",
arnered a large
tion, but Hoke
six freshmen

attitude, citing the time last
season Furbush removed a cast
from his hand using some hedge
clippers.
"He thought he should do
that, but I wouldn't recommend
it," Hoke said.
Aftertheverbalcommitmentof
Peppers in May, some recruiting
services ranked Michigan's class
near the top of the country, and
several additional big names
loomed. Defensive end Da'Shawn
Hand, considered by some to
be the best player in the class,
appeared to be a Michigan lean,
and defensive

Amara Darboh, who had foot
surgery before last season. Still,
Harris has a chance to compete
for playing time immediately.
Lawrence Marshall
(Southfield, Mich.) - No. 13
defensive end, No. 121 overall
(ESPN):
Marshall (6-foot-3, 228
pounds) needs to get a bit
stronger at Michigan, but his
quickness off the edge makes him
a formidable defender. He's also a
strong tackler against the run.
The Wolverines return junior
starters Brennen Beyer and
Frank Clark at defensive end, as
well as backups Mario Ojemudia
and Chris Wormley. Early on,
Marshall might struggle to
earn playing time, but he could
develop into a strong defender.
Juwann Bushell-Beatty
(Paramus, N.J.) - No. 11
offensive tackle, No. 142
overall (ESPN):
Bushell-Beatty (6-foot-7, 330

end Malik
McDowell
"The only need was also
considering
they missed on was Michigan.
defensive end." Ultimately,
Hand
committed
to Alabama,
citing its
*ake Harris and engineering program, and, on
tight end Ian Wednesday, McDowell picked
efensive tackle Michigan State.
"I think the only need they
1 class, the missed on was defensive end,"
ited efficiently. Lorenz said. "Missing on
tor of player McDowell and Da'Shawn Hand
Singletary said was a huge blow."
ra scholarships The top two recruits in the
hold them, state of Michigan ended up at
a deeper 2015 the Wolverines' biggest rivals:
the Wolverines McDowell to the Spartans and
ew high-profile cornerback Damon Webb to
ded coveted, if Ohio State.
its. Webb committed early, but
fensive tackle Michigan's 7-6 campaign in
6-foot-4, 328 2013 could have impacted some
'ho shared a late decisions. Singletary said
d with Hoke in he didn't think the 2013 season
ed Michigan's became an issue. Lorenz agreed.
Lorenz. "I would say the effects
ty much their actually have already been worse
on their entire for the 2015 class," Lorenz said,
for '14," Lorenz adding it would cause recruits to
e first guy they wait longer before committing.
tad him rated "1 think with Hand it may have
ard at defensive played a role. The thing about
)dy." McDowell, I don't necessarily
are players like think that it was a success-on-the-
a 6-foot-4, 229- field type situation that maybe
r from Kenton, pushed McDowell to Michigan
could become State. it didn't hurt, but I don't
rs within a few that's really what necessarily his
aised Furbush's primary concernwas."

AUSTIN BIGONEY/The Crimson White
Offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier could use Jabrill Peppers in his system.

CLASS OF
2014 E!!IA -



8A - Thursday, February 6, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

No contest: Wolverines blow out Huskers

ByNEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily SportsEditor
By the time the late-arriving
Crisler Center fans even got to
their seats, they may as well
have picked right back up and
turned for the exits, because the
Michigan men's basketball team
had all but locked up its ninth
conference
win of the NEBRASKA 50
season. MICHIGAN 79
The
10th-ranked Wolverines
started hot Wednesday night
and got even hotter as the first
half went on. They used 8-0,
12-0 and 15-0 runs throughout
the first half to open up a
30-point lead and cruised to a
79-50 win over Nebraska (3-6
Big Ten,11-10 overall).
"As soon as Michigan came
out and made their barrage of
threes, it felt like we tried to
match them," said Nebraska
coach Tim Miles. "You can't
match Michigan. You just gotta
endure the punishment they're
going to give you for that time.
Hopefully it subsides."
At one point in the second half,
the lead reached 41 points.
With an early start and Ann
Arbor roadways filled with heaps
offreshsnow,theonlycontestleft
to play by the time fans arrived
was Zak Irvin vs. Nebraska,
The freshman guard, having
drained four 3-pointers, led that
battle 16-15 with three minutes
remaining in the first half before
a 5-0 run by the Cornhuskers -
with Irvin on the bench - gave
them a 21-16 lead at the half,
"We had a whole bunch of
turnovers and rushed shots
early," Miles said. "Those are
all bad offensive decisions
that lead into really difficult
defensive situations. And so
Irvin's just running down like
he's in open gym."
After scoring just 52 points on
18 made field goals three days ago
against Indiana in Bloomington,
Michigan (9-1, 17-5) had 49

TRACY KO/Daily
Sophomore forward Glenn Robinson Ill scored a game-high 23 points.

points on 15 makes at halftime.
Sophomore guard Caris LeVert
kicked off the game with two
straight 3-pointers, and then
the rest of the team chipped in.
Michigan made nine 3-pointers
in the half and 13 in the game,
their most since a December
blowout over Houston Baptist.
The defensive performance
also produced an opponent's
lowest output since November.
"We were a little angry
about that (Indiana) game,"
said sophomore forward Glenn
Robinson III. "We tried to get
as much anger out as possible on
defense as you can. I think we
did a great job of that. It's hard to
hold a team under 50."
Nebraska has given the Big
Ten all it can handle this season,
beating Ohio State, Minnesota
and Indiana, and coming
within one point of knocking
off Michigan in January. The
problem for the Cornhuskers is
that those games have all come
at home in Pinnacle Bank Arena,
and Michigan wasn't about to
head there for a second trip.

"I wanted a huge boulder on
our shoulders after that loss
(to Indiana)," said Michigan
coach John Beilein, who was
celebrating his 61st birthday.
"You only have so many
opportunities to win the Big
Ten Championship and it
comes every game in these little
pieces. So come in there with a
chip on your shoulder. Anger,
mad - whatever. Just come in
and get done what you have to
get done."
The laughter gave Michigan
a chance to put up some stellar
individual performances.
Robinson broke out of a 3-point
shooting funk to tiea career-high
23 points, making 3-of-7 from
beyond the arc.
While Irvin cooled off in the
second half, his 16 points were
the most of his Big Ten career.
LeVert tied a career-high five
assists to add to seven boards.
Most went well for Michigan
on Wednesday night, but
unfortunately for Irvin, the
Cornhuskers beat him handily in
the end, 50-16.

Irvin, Michigan
bury Nebraska with
barrage of treys,
move to 9-1 in
Big Ten play
By SIMON KAUFMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Three weeks ago, the
Michigan men's basketball
team held its breath as the ball
spun around the rim while time
expired in its game against
Nebraska. The ball popped out
and the Wolverines escaped
Lincoln unscathed.
Wednesday night, the
rematch was over at halftime,
when Michigan headed
into the locker room with a
comfortable 27-point lead
over the Cornhuskers. The
10th-ranked Wolverines scored
just four points in the final 10:34
and still won, 79-50. The huge
differential, and easy win, came
thanks in large part to superb
3-point shooting from Michigan
(9-1 Big Ten, 17-5 overall).
BY THE NUMBERS
Michigan vs. Nebraska
Ttl 13
Total3-pointers, the most the
Wolverines have tallied in aNigTen
game this season,
100
Freethrowpercentage,helping
Michigan jumpout to a big lead.
Pitsttd21.
Points scored by Nebraska inthefirst
halt. Irvin had16.
4
Points in the final 10:34 for the
Wolverines, which stilliwon by29.

Irvin said.
"I definitely
didn't see that
ball going in.
,.. Once I made
the first one,
my teammates
were justtelling
me to keep
shooting it,
and it just gave
me a lot more
confidence,"
The lucky-
bounce
3-pointer set Irvin
strong run at the
half. Michigan
defensive stops on1
possessions and I
two more 3-point
other side. At the
last trey, the 6-foot-
singlehandedly our
Cornhuskers (3-6, 1
had just 15 points
minutes left in the f
Irvin wasn't th.
enjoying his time
arc - sophomore
LeVert and Robi
knocked down thr
own from beyond th
Robinson led ti
scoring with 23 poin
8-for-14 from th
was the first time

Leading the charge was
freshman guard Zak Irvin, who
contributed 16 points on 6-of-
11 shooting - just the second
time he's scored more than 15
points in a game. Irvin entered
the contest midway through the
first half to replace sophomore
forward Glenn Robinson III
and made an immediate impact.
He knocked down a jumper
before nailing two 3-pointers in
his first three minutes.
Later in the first half, he
had the ball beyond the arc
again and fired another 3-point
attempt. The ball hit the back
of the rim, sat on the front and
then dropped in.
"I knew it was gonna be my
night when that happened,"

December that Robinson had
scored more than 20 in a game,
and he attributed the sharp
shooting to an adjustment he
made in his technique earlier
this week.
"Shots just fell," Robinson
said. "I told you guys my shots
were gonna fall. I had no doubt
in my mind. My teammates did
a great job of passing me the
ball when I was open, and I shot
it with confidence."
The Wolverineswererelieved
to finally see their shots start
to go in after shooting just 40
percent against Indiana earlier
in the week and hitting just
three 3-pointers in that game.
"We had better pace, better
spacing out," LeVert said,

comparing
Wednesday's
win to
"Once I made the loss at
Indiana. "We
the first one, my took easier
shots today."
teammates were The trio
of Irvin,
teing me Robinson
keep shooting." and LeVert
to kcombined
for ten of
Michigan's
13 treys -
n up for a the most they've made in a
end of the Big Ten game this season. The
made two spot-on shooting beyond the
the ensuing arc - particularly from Irvin -
Irvin made was certainly enough to please
ers on the Michigan coach John Beilein
time of his on the night he celebrated his
6 guard had 61st birthday.
tscored the "To have a guy come off the
1-10), which bench and do that," Beilein said,
with three before pausing. "Truthfully
irst half. when that ball goes in the air
e only one - because his delivery is a little
behind the unique - it's like you don't
guard Caris know what's gonna happen, and
nson each it's been going in at 40 percent,
ee of their so I just close my mouth and say
e arc. 'Keep shooting, Zak."'

he team in
its, shooting
e field. It
since late

For more coverage
Check MichiganDaily.con
throughout the day foraupdates

Give your Valentine a gift that everyone will see

ICE HOCKEY
Hyman starring oretoo ed
third line with Motte, Moffatt

Buy a Cupid Gram from

Deadline: 3:00pm, Monday, February 10th
Cost: Only $5
Publication Date: Friday, February 14th
Recipient's Email Address:_
Text: -IDDDL][F-]lIIII[]]L
IF]L D]] IIII[I]LI[]L]F~
FI]DELEIL][]ILIIII[II]
[IIDIDDI[][FIFI][]LIIL]
Please stop by The Michigan Daily office at
420 Maynard (behind the LSA building) with
this form and $5. CASH ONLY PLEASE.
if you wish to pay by credit card,
simply scan the QR code and you
will be taken to The Michigan Daily's
online store to place your order. [

Junior's move back
to center sparks
Michigan offense
By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
One month ago, Michigan
hockey coach Red Berenson
was trying to dig his team out
of a four-game losing streak. He
sat down to tweak his lines, and
ended up finding an answer. His
name is Zach Hyman.
The answer has been there
all season. He's not in the
shadow of his teammates and
not always on the score sheet,
the junior forward has earned
his start in all 22 games.
Berenson says Hyman is one
of the hardest-working players
on the Wolverines' roster, and
that much has been evident
during the team's current four-
game winning streak.
The streak began on Jan. 23
against Michigan State. That
day, Berenson decided to move
sophomore forward Boo Nieves
from his traditional center spot.
Hyman replaced Nieves by
making the move from wing to
center, and it has worked out just
as Berenson might have hoped.
"Back at center, he's more
mature, more responsible and
more confident at both ends of
the ice," Berenson said.
With Hyman centering the
third line between freshman
Tyler Motte and senior Luke
Moffatt, the performance of
all three players has quickly
escalated. Hyman and his
linemates combined for four
goals in two games against

Wisconsin last weekend and
supplied high energy in the
offensive zone.
"We've been working down
low on the opponents real well,"
Moffatt said. "Even in the State
weekend, we didn't produce on
the score sheet, but we did have
a lot of good in-zone offense
on them, and a lot of sustained
pressure down low and cycling."
During the two-game sweep
of Michigan State, Hyman had
several chances that refused to
hit twine. The red iron around
the netting acted as more of a
stoplight than anything when
two point-blank opportunities
from the slot clinked off
the post in the first period.
Even then, with frustration
inevitably creeping in, Hyman
remained composed.
More than a week later, he
crashed the net in the second
period of last Friday's 3-1
victory over Wisconsin and
jammed home a rebound for his
first goal in seven contests.
"He's getting chances, and
now it seems his line has got
some chemistry," Berenson
said. "I'd like to see Zach keep
hammering pucks at the net,
and I think the more he does,
the more he'll score."
Hyman played center for the
majority of his youth hockey
career, and he stayed there for
the beginning of his freshman
campaign. But his defensive
inconsistencies pushed him away
from center and to the wing.
Hyman has progressed
well throughout his career,
gradually proving why the
NHL's Florida Panthers drafted
him in 2010. His teammates
now label him one of the better

two-way players on the team.
The junior's speed and ability
to play both high and low in
the defensive zone have been
trademarks to his success.
"Red preaches defense, and
that's what I've been trying to
get better at ever since I got here
as a freshman," Hyman said. "I
think it's improved greatly from
the start of my freshman year to
the start of this year."
He's found his way back in a
familiar niche as a center man,
and it's been beneficial for all
aspects of the Wolverines'
game. He looks comfortable
there but says he'll play
whichever position Berenson
finds most fitting.
This week, Berenson called
Hyman the catalyst of his line,
and he's earned that praise. Not
much about his game is flashy,
but he grinds the opposition in
the offensive zone and seems
to get to the right places at the
right times.
With just two goals in 22
games, his emergence doesn't
mean filling up the stat sheet
every night, but that's just fine
by him.
Michigan already has proven
goal scorers, at least recently.
The Wolverines need Hyman
to supply what he's been doing
for the past four games - and
all season, really. They need his
work ethic to shine through,
because that effort can go a long
way in bringing out the best in
players around him.
Hyman's a big believer that
when you work hard, good
things will happen. He's back
to working as a center, and
great results have been coming
Michigan's way ever since.

Each Cupid Gram purchased gives
you the chance to win dinner for two
at Maiz Mexican Cantinal
4855 Washtenaw Ave. Ann Arbor
__ 4,

maiZmexiCancom

Did you wear jorts yesterday?
TWEET US PICTURES SO WE CAN LAUGH AT YOU
@THEBLOCKM


For Internal Use
Gram#_ Ad# Student Group Ad taken by

r'


i


the b

-side

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com fIThursday, February 6, 2014


COMEDY AND
CMARADER

Exploring the University's
OLDEST AND BEST
improv comedy troupe

BY MAYANK MATHUR, DAILY ARTS WRITER

Eight students from varied aca-
demic disciplines meet in the Uni-
versity Activities Center room on
the fourth floor of the Michigan
Union to indulge in a common
passion for improvisational com-
edy. Starting their rehearsal with
a warm-up ritual, they form a cir-
cle and begin stomping their feet
on the ground and snapping their
fingers, creating a rhythmic beat
while dishing out improvised rap
to accompany it. The room swells
with a palpable energy, infecting
the performers and the audience,
appropriately prefacing the rest of
the rehearsal period. Eight seem-
ingly different individuals func-
tion as a single entity of laughter
and joy, creating a dynamic atmo-
sphere in which everyone in the
room thrives.
This is ComCo, advertised by
its members as the University's
"oldest and best improv comedy
troupe." Formed in 1979, the group
performs through an eclectic
range of mediums, such as improv,
sketch, song, dance and the occa-
sional short film. However, the
group's chief medium of craft is
improvisational comedy.
Business junior John Dennehy,
president of ComCo, explained,

"Improv comedy is the process of
creating something out of noth-
ing. We take in a little nugget of
information from the audience
and create sketches, scenes and
characters and use them as a base
for our performance."
At present, the group consists
of 10 members, nine of whom are
active on campus. Over the years,
ComCo has undergone significant
change from its original setup.
Dennehy explained that in
the late '90s, ComCo brought in
comedian Andy Dick to perform
at the Univirsity. However, Dick
"bombed" tie show, setting off a
feud between the head of ComCo
and the University Activities Cen-
ter, its parent group, and ComCo
lost most of its funding as a result.
The group had to downscale
its operations in order to func-
tion primarily as an improv com-
edy troupe as opposed to a sketch
comedy group that employed writ-
ers, singers, directors and actors.
Given that the group having to
diminish its repertoire and mem-
bership, recruiting new members
is still a laborious task.
ComCo recruits annually in the
fall semester so that new members
have the entire year to get to know

the rest of the group in order to
assimilate comfortably without
disturbing the group dynamic.
LSA junior Merranda McLaughlin
stressed the importance of estab-
lishing a comfort level with the
new members of the group.
"We're not looking for a specific
type of person," McLaughlin said.
"While recruiting, we ask our-
selves if we would like to hang out
with these people as friends and
that becomes a major criteria."
"One of the things that I look
for is commitment," Dennehy
said. "Being part of ComCo is a
four-year commitment; it's not
something you can do for a while
and leave."
Both members agreed in say-
ing that debating the pros and
cons of each auditioning member
is an integral part of the recruit-
ment process. Dennehy went on
to say that incumbent members
put in a lot of effort into recruiting
new ones since they realize how
important it is to pick the people
they like.
"Sometimes, the only thing stop-
ping us from going on about decid-
ing who to accept is the fact that the
Union closes at 2 a.m.," he said.
See COMCO, Page 4B

0

I


2B -- Thursday, February 6, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, February 6, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Braving the Arctic
col d conditions
ofAnn Arbor

baked.-buzzed. bored.
in this new series, three daily arts writers
in varying states of mind visit the same
place and write about their experiences.
this week's destination:
Yeezus

L ast Tuesday, Jan 28,
the University of
Michigan canceled
classes due to poor weather
conditions. The decision broke
the Univer-
sity's 36-year
streak of
not closing
classes due
to weather.
Some alumni
were upset,
personally JOHN
offended you BOHN
could say, BOHN
that they had
to brave the
weather in years past whereas
present classes supposedly
dare not tread.
I can't help but think, how-
ever, that their visceral reac-
tion to these events could only
emerge from a fundamental
misunderstanding of the situ-
ation. Given the real underly-
ing causes of the cancelation,
however, it may be the bravery
and strength of these fearless
winter warriors that is needed.
First off, the canceling of
classes was not a "snow day."
On this point, the alumni and I
agree. As we all noticed, there
was a shining sun that Tues-
day and no snow in sight, save
what was already frozen to the
ground. A more appropriate
term might be "global warm-
ing induced freeze-over." I
stress the term "global warm-
ing" over "climate change,"
one, because the situation is
more dire than mere "change,"
and secondly, because it is
the melting of polar ice caps
due to rising global tempera-
tures that allow frigid arctic
winds to drunkenly swerve
south into Ann Arbor during
the winter months. While I'm
sure it was a playful comment
that our alumni made - claim-
ing that Wolverine territory
extends into the Arctic - it
is true, in a horrible turn of
events, that Arctic territory
has extended into so-called
"Wolverine territory."
As much as Big Oil has tried
to literally buy the truth about
"climate change," securing
a monopoly in the market of
ideas by funding think tanks
that pump out an impressive
amount of analyses denying
global warming (and there-
fore helping to secure the
continuance of our environ-
mentally destructive oil-based
economy), everyday anxiety
grows within the scientific
community. I'm not an alarm-
ist in stating these facts. It's
become common recourse
at conventions, as highly
respected journalist Naomi
Klein has shown, for climatol-
ogists among others to discuss
more immediate responses to
climate change than presently

employed due to growing fears
about passing a sooner-than-
expected threshold for human
life on Earth.
Ever since the NSA docu-
ments leaked, as The Guard-
ian reported this summer, it's
been no secret that even the
military, since 2006, has been
preparing to combat and sup-
press what it fears will be a
rise in "civil disturbance" over
encroaching "environmental
destruction" and its ensuing
"cataclysmic mega-disasters"
(to borrow the military's poet-
ic language). Given the pro-
liferation of papers at science
conventions with such color-
ful titles as "Is Earth F**ked?
Dynamical Futility of Global
Environmental Management
and Possibilities for Sustain-
ability via Direct Action Activ-
ism," the military might not be
too far off in its paranoia. Of
course, granting the military
legitimacy in its fears is to
ignore the sheer comedy of its
intervention to stop protests
rather than the destruction
of the conditions for life on
Earth.
If nothing changes in our
present economic system and
radical shifts in global climate
systems inevitably generate
a scarcity of resources, only
the strong, and the strongest
of the strong at that, would be
able to persist under the living
conditions on an Earth that
has become two degrees hot-
ter than any previous period in
human history. The military, in
that future, could undoubtedly
use the company of our furious
alumni, and the alumni would
need them just as well. Togeth-
er, they would certainly be the
promised children of a new
world order. Funded by the infi-
nite coffers of American budget
deficits, the military would
provide its members with ben-
efits and access to resources
and technologies unheard of
in our neoliberal order. Such
connections would certainly
allow anyone to march to class
in arctic weather and remain
healthy - physically and psy-
chologically - in those final
moments of humanity before
it's self-catalyzed extinction.
Just as well, since not every
Tom, Dick and Mary would do
well in that environment, even
if life were eked out for several
more decades. The end of life
on earth can really take its toll!
But not on a Wolverine! (Go
Blue!)
So please, take Ann Arbor
back from our feeble hands.
Honestly, many of us probably
wouldn't want it. In the short
term (before martial law goes
into effect, of course) many
more of us just simply wouldn't
be able to afford living here.
With rents spiraling out of

control as the University and
city government make cozy
accommodations for wealthier
and wealthier students, the
increasing frequency of "polar
vortexes" could hurry along
the processes of gentrification.
(Admittedly, there is most like-
ly a threshold where enough of
the population has died that a
money economy becomes obso-
lete and living space in Ann
Arbor becomes more available,
but until that point, things
would certainly continue on in
the direction of gentrification.)
In this brave new world, to
not be a weakling who fails to
attend class, one would need a
steady, high income to afford
housing close in proximity to
one's destination so as to avoid
the 15 to 30-minute exposure to
Arctic winds that could result
in frost bite; or, if one is at a
considerable distance, be able
to afford reliable transporta-
tion into town from afar. See-
ing how the Ann Arbor City
Council continues to prolong
a decision on extending AATA
services countywide, the exclu-
sion of many from attending
the University would increase,
as they cannot afford to pay
for classes and the expenses of
driving to them. This is to not
even go into, it must be said,
the plight of University faculty
and staff and wage laborers of
Ann Arbor who must commute
to their jobs downtown in these
conditions.
Can you handle
some killer
satire? Huh?
Can you?!
With that said, our brave
alumni and whoever else
remains in Ann Arbor during
the end times - the military,
the wealthy, those much older
alumni who speak about how
much colder it was "back then,"
and probably those mythic law
students who, rumor has it,
sued the University for closing
classes in the '70s ... enjoy!
I'm sure, of course, that it will
be beautiful. I'll never forget the
trees of Ann Arbor burgeoning
with a thick layer of snow, and
the large, solemn icicles that
hang from the rooftops with
a sublime indifference to the
human life below. Hopefully
those left will be able to appre-
ciate the beauty of those coming
winters. Maybe Chris Traeger
and Ann Perkins
Bohn is getting his Jonathan
Swift on. To encourage him,
e-mail jobohn@umich.edu.

.0

I It all starts when we're on the porch, I'm midway through doing my thing,
and a girl asks me to help her move her car. Much pushing and awkward slip-
page later, and we're almost ready to getgoing with the Yeezus.
Except - well, you don't really realize this until your assignment is solely
listen to something and get baked, but nobody just stares at a wall and listens
to music for an hour. People are active creatures. And, considering we've all
heard Yeezus innumerable times since it came out, it's not that exciting to sit
down in the living room and just watch each other listen to music.
So, we end up playing "Mario Kart" with Kanye's synths beating in the
background. It's kind of a trippy experience - I'm racing in this colorful
wonderland, Kanye is screaming and rapping about his massage, someone is
shooting lightning at us. The game is fun, though, I'm getting pretty into it -
holy crap, I have ashot at 1st? One race left.
Aaaand the last track of Yeezus comes to a close. What? How did that hap-
pen? Somehow, during our two four-race cups, we managed to listen through
all 40 minutes ofKanye's latest and greatest. No, that won't do - we'll just put
it on again so we have something to write about.
So we're halfway through a game of Euchre before I realize again, crap, we
forgot to listen to the damn album again. I mean, it's still on, with "Guilt Trip"
fading away, but do I just drop out completely whenever Yeezus is playing?
Makes me wonderwhat's goingthrough myheadwhenever I walkto class.
- DAILYARTS WRITER
we went to noodles & co because that is exactly the perfect place to start
a night. i was pretty excited because i hadn't even seen Jerry in like amonth
and a half I was also pretty excited because i wasdrunk. so. after noodles, we
go to espresso because EVERYONE WANTED TO, we were all on the same
page and brianne got a hot chocolate that was like the best she has ever tasted
which was incredibly surprising and heart breaking at the same time. then
we got to jerrys house only his roommate, or maybe friend, was stuck in the
driveway so everyone was helping her, except brianne and i, because we went
inside because it was FREEZING. Then elliot came in asnd was like "MARIO
AKRT LET'S PLAY" and brianne and i had noooo idea how to do it but we
did except i beat her because i was in 11th place and she was in 12th. yeezus
was playing in the background--that's the point of this whole BBB, so yeah. It
was lively. It was background music to our fun. Then we played Euchre and
Dylan (shit i hope that's his name) and i won. Then we played....assholes and
prisoners, and i also won. so. NEVER PLAY ME IN CARDS I WILL WIN. I
love Yeezus because it's such a classic even though it's been like seven months
since it's come out.It was agood time.
-ANNA SADOVSKAYA
By the end of"Black Skinhead," I've drowned twice, knocked into four pen-
guins like bowling pins and hurtled over the edge of a cliff thanks to a swerv-
ing Baby Luigi. Yet, I am the sober one here.
Camped out around "Jerry" 's TV with controllers in hand, we abandon
Yeezus-fest for a round or three of Mario Kart. Granted, Kanye West has his
place at Jerry's side, demanding the delivery of his damn croissant from the
confines of Jerry's laptop, but I'm too preoccupied with selecting the perfect
vehicle for Princess Daisy to notice. I settle for a peach-tinted motorbike,
feeling confident in my tasteful ode to "Bound 2," and quickly speed into the
ocean to drown.
I never said I was good at anything.You understand, don't you, Kim?
An hour later, Yeezus is on itsthird round, I'm still No.13 on the scoreboard
and Jerry and Anna are arguing over whether this circular, brown blob of a
character is a duck.
"I'm tellingyou," Annainsists, "It's aduck."
"Ducks don'tlook like that, Anna!" I say, "It's like a coconutwith legs."
"You're a coconut with legs," she whispers. I can't win, not at races or
Drunk-Anna logic.
Jerry scrolls back to "On Sight," and, for a fourth time, we try to listen to
Yeezus.
... Instead, we play euchre at Jerry's dining table as Kanye continues to
bemoan, again, "I'm in it and I can't get out." As Jerry's partner on a team los-
ing1:6, Iunderstand Kanye's pain.
"Ohhh," Jerry whines, slapping his cards onto the table in defeat, "Oh, fuck
a duck."
- BRIANNE JOHNSON


GET TURNT.
WE ARE.
@MICH IGAN DAILY

EPL.
Whether it's rooting for the
competingteam,watching the
commercials or even just eating
the nachos,
mostpeople A
can findsome
funintuningin New Girl
every year on
Sunday night Season 3
to watch the Episode14
multi-million Fox
dollar produc-
tion that is the
Super Bowl unfold. This year, its
the post-game episode of"New gl
Girl"provided the same kind an
of entertainment, drawing25.8 he
million viewers for 30 minutes G(
of laughs.
If the opening scene featur- by
ing Schmidt, Winston and Nick b)
debating the correct pronun- cc
ciation of the word "panties" se
didn't do it for you, hopefully, bo
Jess'entrance and announce- in
ment, "We're going to a party Je
at Prince's!" did. The central sit
conflictof the episode reveals tit


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Talking funny
with Robert Siegel
Local student 7

Thursday, February 6, 2014 - 3B

What the Grammys
should have looked like

thought she could
interview former
Onion editor
ByERIKAHARWOOD.
Senior Arts Editor
The University has been boast-
ing of an impressive alumni net-
work since its inception. While
passing through campus on a
prospective student tour, an over-
enthused undergrad is bound
to list off a marginal number of
names - including James Earl
Jones and the fictional Dr. House
- from the exhaustive list.
The broad list of successful for-
mer students adheres to no spe-
cific college or major. But comedy
on campus in particular, whether
defined as being a hobby or profes-
sional pursuit, has been establish-
ing budding talent for decades.
When Rob Siegel, screenwriter
and former editor in chief of The
Onion, graduated from the Univer-
sity in 1993, he wasn't convinced
that his interest in comedy would
take him anywhere.
"I didn't really have much of a
plan," Siegel said. "But I was just
trying different things that I
liked."
What he liked was comedy and
journalism. Siegel's four years at
the University were spent dab-
bling in journalism, while work-
ing for The Michigan Daily.
"I (wrote) for sports, but if I
could do it again, I'd probably do
arts." and experimenting with
different forms of comedy Sie-
gel "took a few pathetic stabs at
stand up at the student Union."
While the comedy scene at the
University was flourishing at the
time, the future editor in chief
didn't always align himself with
it.
"There was a (comedy) scene
I wasn't one of the main people. I
remember Jon Glaser was there.
The Sklar brothers were there.
There was a little bit of a scene,
which I wasn't very much a part
of," Siegel said.
Following his college girl-
friend to Madison, Wis. after
graduation, Siegel began free-
lancing around the city when he
came upon The Onion, a local
satirical newspaper.
"I was like, 'What the hell is
this? This is awesome.' So I called
them up and just started writing
very soon after that," Siegel said.
Although The Onion now
houses itself in Chicago and has
cultivated its own alumni net-
work of writers, it started out
small.
"When I started, it was maybe
six or seven of us, and we would
meet at somebody's house and
assign stories," he explained. "It
was a very weird thing. I don't
think any of us really had any
plans for it. We just all liked it,
thought it was fun. It was more
like a band. That was kind of the
comedy equivalent of jamming in
your garage."

COURTESY OF ROBERT SIEGEL
This is where we normally put a humorous cutline of our own devising.

The turning point for the paper
happened in 1996, when The.
Onion made its fated transition
online. Within the first month of
the site being up, it was featured
in an issue of The New Yorker.
"At the time I was living in
Madison, and I went to my (five-
year high school) reunion. You
know, people ask you what you're
up to, and I said,'well, I'm writing
for this comedy publication based
out of Madison, Wis," and it was
really pretty sad-sounding," he
explained. "And then once it went
online, suddenly you could say,
'Well, I'm writing for The Onion'
... You're not just writing for the
people of Dane County, Wis.
You're writing for the world."
Most writers who leave The
Onion face a typical trajectory
of continuing comedy writing in
TV or film. Siegel recalls flipping
through the channels to find an
old intern starring on the MTV
series "Human Giant."
"I just saw it and I said, 'Holy
shit! That's our fucking intern,
Aziz!" Siegel explained, referring
to "Parks and Recreation" star
and prominent stand-up Aziz
Ansari, who was an NYU stu-
dent during his short stint at The
Onion.
But after Siegel left the pub-
lication in 2003, he followed an
atypical path - dramatic screen-
writing. Although he would go on
to write screenplays such as the
2008 Academy Award-nominat-
ed "The Wrestler," the transition
into his next career move wasn't
as swift.
"When I was at The Onion and
I filled out my taxes, under pro-
fession I would put 'comedy writ-
er,' because that's what I thought
of myself as," Siegel explained. "I
didn't really hit my stride with
screenwritinguntil I moved away
from overt comedies," he admit-
ted.
Siegel described his attempt
at comedic screenplays as "shitty

versions of Judd Apatow movies,"
and cites his breakthrough in
screenwriting as "Big Fan," a dark
comedy he started writing dur-
ing his tenure at The Onion. The
film, starring Patton Oswalt play-
ing an intense New York Giants
fanatic, also marked Siegel's first
time directing and producing.
"(Big Fan is) uncompromised.
It's exactly what I wanted," Sie-
gel said, describing it as the proj-
ect he's most proud of. "I wasn't
writing for another director, I
wasn't writing for a studio that
gave me notes. It's pure in that
I had total creative freedom."
Despite dabbling in all areas
of entertainment, his work on
"Big Fan". has inspired him
to pursue darker, character-
driven projects inspired by his
favorite movies, which typically
involve "fucked-up loners wan-
dering the streets of New York
City."
The fucked-up-loner films he
refers to come from some of the
filmmakers he admires moost:
Martin Scorsese, Robert Alt-
man and Paul Thomas Ander-
son - writer/director types
"you can't write a movie for."
With a couple of projects in
the works that Siegel "probably
shouldn't talk about ... which
is stupid," he hopes to further
craft a signature that is all his
own. To become the next "self-
contained auteur."
Five years have passed since
"Big Fan," and since Siegel has
last been at Sundance Film
Festival, but things are start-
ing to be set in motion. As he
prepares for his next projects
with a couple of other talented
names, Siegel's organic, uncon-
ventional path seems to be tak-
ing him in the direction of those
he admires, but in his own way.
"The best thing to do is to fol-
low that path and try to do the
same," he explained. "Create
my own universe."

he Grammys and hip
hop have a well-doc-
umented and compli-
cated history. The Grammys were
years late in even acknowledging
the genre and
have consis- - - .
tently reward-
ed popular
and fleeting
artists over
legendary t
ones (Nas has
never won in JACKSON
18 nomina-J
tions). The HOWARD
strained
relationship
became even tenser a few weeks
ago when Macklemore won the
three big rap awards - Best
Rap Album, Best Rap Song and
Best Rap Performance. What
really irked hip hop fans, myself
included, was not; necessarily
Macklemore himself - his musi-
cal talent is serviceable and his
cultural and commercial impact
is undeniable - but rather the
artists he beat out for his awards,
namely Kendrick Lamar and his
magnificent debut album. Even
more, worthy artists like Kanye
West and Drake lost out, while
projects by J. Cole and Pusha T
were barely acknowledged or
ignored completely.
The Grammys have never been
perfect, but its hip hop selec-
tions are consistently abysmal
and unrepresentative of what hip
hop fans are truly listening to and
appreciating. So, if you couldn't
already see where this was going,
I've decided to give my own ver-
sion of what the rap at the Gram-
mys should actually look like,
using the same four categories,
time frame (November 2012 to
November 2013), eligibility (i.e.,
no mixtapes. Sorry, Chance the
Rapper) and a realistic approach
to what types of artists and proj-
ects the majority of fans listen to.
Without further adieu...
Best Rap Performance
"Bitch, Don't Kill My Vibe"
- Kendrick Lamar
"Tom Ford" - Jay Z
"Worst Behaviour" - Drake
"New Slaves" - Kanye West
"Levels" - Meek Mill
Winner: "New Slaves"
"BestRap Performance"always
confused me, because I thought it
was more or less the same as "Best
Rap Song." But in a genre like rap,
where delivery and, well, per-
formance is so vitally important,
the award actually becomes very
relevant. Kendrick harmonizes
and raps in a variety of flows, Jay
Z effortlessly throws swagger
and dismisses Molly in favor of
"Tom Ford," Drake passionately
stunts in an instantly quotable
way (WORST!) and Meek Mill
schools his haters and raps as if
"Levels" is the last song he will
ever make. But on "New Slaves,"
Kanye gives the performance of
a lifetime. His ruthless and biting
message, palpable anger and reli-
giously fervent delivery, border-
ing on full-blown lunacy, makes

"New Slaves" a groundbreaking
and gothic masterpiece.
Best Rap/Sung Collaboration
"Power Trip" - J Cole
featuring Miguel
"Bound 2" - Kanye West
featuring Charlie Wilson
"Bad",- Wale
featuring Tiara Thomas
"From Time" - Drake
featuring JhendAiko
"One of Those Nights" - Juicy J
featuring The Weeknd
Winner: "Power Trip"
Rap/sung collaborations had
been a staple of hip hop long
before the Grammys started
acknowledging them in 2002 and
still play a vital role in rap music.
This year proved just as chock-
full of great collabs. Kanye hear-
kens back to his old music with
the help of Gap Band-founder
and soul legend Charlie Wilson;
Wale truly masters the balance
between sexual and sentimental
with newcomer Tiara Thomas on
the mattress-squeaking "Bad,"
Drake and Jhen6 Aiko explore
troubled relationships over soft

samples and intruding noises, Big
Sean and Jay Electronica deliver
excellent verses on the 7-minute
"Control" only to be destroyed by
Kendrick's now infamous decla-
ration-of-war against all rap kind
and 2 Chainz says things that nor-
mal people simply can't say while
embodying luxury to its fullest
with help from a tropical beat and
floating chorus from the legendary
Pharrell. And then there's "Blood
on the Leaves." The perfect rep-
resentation of the "new" Kanye,
the track miraculously combines
TNGHT-infused trap thunder,
auto-tune wailing and a power-
ful Nina Simone sample to create
a magnum opus that will go down
as one of the major musical feats
of this generation from one of the
best to ever do it.
Best Rap Album
Drake -Nothing Was the Same
Kendrick Lamar
-good kid, mA A.d city
Kanye West - Yeezus
J Cole -Born Sinner
PushaT - My Name is My Name
Winner: good kid, m.A.A.d city

pianose
The WE
deviant
createa
to a cra2
nonethc
its Ste
and ru
self-pro
from a
while a
ently so
less st
Miguel'
chorus
song ce
nition.
"Mo
Lan
"Nt
"Cont
Kendric
"Fe
Winne
Okay
was tou
ible tr
year, an
feels w
five tra
nificant
commul
exceller
crafted
which a
flips as
Houses
melancl
rick to
tapose I
and for
of the b
memor3
money,
mind-b
gar co

and snaps, and Juicy J and Now, the big one. All five of
eeknd - two of the most these artists are rap superstars in
artists in popular music - their own right and crafted exem-
haunting and explicit ode plary projects. Drake combines a
zy night out."Power Trip," diverse sonic landscape and his
eless, is incredible. With always-notable wordplay into a
vie Wonder-esque flutes heartfelt, confident and radiant
mbling synths, J. Cole's album. Kanye cements his role as
duced single stands alone the most polarizing but also bril-
nything else on the radio liant and innovative musical cre-
Iso harnessing an inher- ator of the past decade with an
ulful quality. Cole's effort- inconceivable new genre of indus-
orytelling coupled with trial-electronic-Chicago drill-soul
s pained and love-laced rap, J. Cole finally produces a per-
work to create a timeless sonal, lyrical and cohesive project
rtainly deserving of recog- with impressively few guests that
lives up to his unrelenting hype
and Pusha T manages to legiti-
Best Rap Song mately establish himself as a solo
artist with a refteshing take on
ney Trees" - Kendrick his perfected craft of drug tales,
mar featuring Jay Rock threats and bravado boosted by
Blood on the Leaves" an all-star roster of producers and
- Kanye West guest stars. But for all the unde-
umbers onthe Boards" niable talent assembled in this
- Pusha T group, goodkid, m.A.A.d city wins.
rol" - Big Sean featuring Easily. Through a collection of
k Lamar & Jay Electronica brazenly original yet relentlessly
ds Watching" - 2 Chainz cohesive tracks, Kendrick weaves
featuring Pharrell a coming-of-age classic ripe with
loss, sex, family, friendship and
r: "Bloodonthe Leaves" identity. Signed to a major label
with a legendary mentor in Dr.
I'm not going to lie. This DreKendrick nonetheless refused
ugh. Hundreds of incred- to conform and instead created the
acks are released every best rap debut since 50 Cent's Get
id naming one as the best Rich or Die Tryin' (also supervised
'rong. Nonetheless, these by Dre) and a generation-defining
cks not only attracted sig- classic whose message and impact
attention in the hip-hop somehow extends far beyond the
nity but also are simply borders of Compton and into the
it, innovative and fine- hearts and minds of music fans
songs. "Money Trees," everywhere.
lmost took the cake for me, So there you have it. And if
seemingly unusable Beach you're wondering why Mackl-
ample into a pounding and emore isn't on any of these lists,
holy soundscape for Kend- take a moment and listen to good
recap his adventures, jux- kid, m.AA.d city - or to any of
Halle Berry and Hallelujah the other winners for that matter
Jay Rock to unleash one - and let me know if you're still
rest guest verses in recent confused.
y. Pusha T snarls about
drugs and success over a Howard is looking to change
lowingly sparse and vul- the system. To join him, e-mail
mbination of drums, vocal jackhow@umich.edu.

MUSIC VIDEO REVIEW

Justin Bieber's latest music
video release since his bout in
jail inadvertently portraysboth
the cool and
creepysidesto B
today's "hook
up culture." Confident
Thevideo (f.Chance
starts off with
Justin noting a The Rappe)
hot girl passby
late at night. Justin Bieber
He immedi- Island Defl)am
ately drops his
bag to follow
her down a dark hallway. After,
the music briefly cuts out for an
admittedly creative pickup line,
when the cute chick stops to
purchase some Takis at a coun-
ter - which seems to appear out
of nowhere. Here, the camera
immediately cuts to a shot of
her derridere. Easy there, Biebs.
Justin then proceeds to fol-
low the girl through an alley
way where a group of backup
dancers forms behind him. At

first it appears a little stalker-
like, but it grows tasteful as it
becomes highly reminiscent
of Michael Jackson's infamous
"Thriller" video.
Cutaways alternate between
this scene and a few other sets,
the main one featuring a single
beam of light illuminating a
dark set where Justin and some
dancers shows off some fresh,
well-choreographed moves.
Unfortunately, the darkness
has a way of highlighting how
ridiculous he looks in his low-

isLAND DEF JAM
hung skinny jeans.
Chance the Rapperbriefly
enters the video and - not
surprisingly - adds a trippy
elementby doing some silly
dancing.
As seems to be the trend, the
video closes after Justin makes
out with his (love?) interest.
While "Confident," might be a
little much in a few spots, it's
definitely a positive step toward
more reasonable, artistic music
videos from Bieber.
-KENNETH SELANDER
-Y


4B - Thursday, February 6, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, February 6, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

COMCO
From Page lB
LSA sophomore Guy Madjar
and LSA freshman Sam McMul-
len are both in their first year as
ComCo members. Sitting along-
side seasoned veterans Dennehy
and McLaughlin, they talked
about their efforts to get into the
group. They explained that stu-
dents are invited for an initial
round of auditions, which are
followed by a callback round.
"The callbacks are really
scary, because going in you know
that everyone who got a callback
is really funny," McMullen said.
"I remember staying up all night
after the callbacks, waiting for
the e-mail from ComCo ... when I
got it, I danced around my room
and woke up my roommate," he
said.
The auditions are designed
to let students showcase their
comedic talents in front of
ComCo members. Incum-
bent members are always on
the lookout for a student who
brings a unique quality that the
group might be lacking. Mad-
jar explained that despite being
nerve-wracking, the auditions
are a lot of fun. The real key to
having a successful audition,
though, is to just have a good
time and enjoy what everyone
has to offer.
The comfort and friendship
that exists within the group
was evident when senior mem-
bers Dennehy and McLaughlin
praised Madjar and McMullen
for their performances while
auditioning.
"The thing that really
impressed me about Guy was
that he was so into what other
people were doing in their audi-
tions," Dennehy said. "He was
laughing the hardest and was
really having a great time, which
is important because it showed
that he was really involved in the

process."
"Well, Sam got in because he's
just so adorable," McLaughlin
joked. "And obviously, he was
really funny."
However, is being funny the
same as being a good improv per-
former? An understanding of the
subtle but important difference
between having a good sense of
humor and being a good comic
is crucial in understanding the
talent that it takes to improvise
during a performance.
"I feel like having a good sense
of humor is different from being
good at improv," Dennehy said.
"I have a lot of friends who are
funny in a group, but I'm not sure
if that means that they'd be good
improvisers."
He went on to say that improv
comedy requires a distinct skill
set because performers have to
constantly think on their feet
and react to the actions of other
performers.
"It's very different from mak-
ing fun of someone or cracking a
joke with friends," he said.
The group agreed that improv
comedy is not necessarily for
everyone, since it's not as easy
as it looks and requires the
rare ability to perform without
rehearsal.
"I think everyone is funny; it's
just that some people have to do
less to show that they're funny,"
McLaughlin said.
LSA sophomore Michael Duc-
zynski spoke about how improv
requires performers to be funny
even when they don't feel like
performing.
"There are days when you
know, you're just not feeling
funny," he said. "However,
you've still got to think about
the scene and just act."
Improv comics have to be
constantly mindful of the pres-
ent situation without thinking
too far ahead. Pondering over a
future scene is futile since the
performers themselves don't

know what's in store for the rest
of the performance, given the
improvised nature of the set-
ting.
"I'm always thinking about
what's happening in the scene
right now; I can't really afford to
think about what's going to hap-
pen or what might be funny,"
McLaughlin said.
Confidence usually plays a
very important role in all per-
forming arts. As evidenced by
the discussion that took place
in the group, improv comedy
and confidence are very closely
related.
"I would say that confidence is
extremely important in improv,"
Dennehy said. "It's not so much
as thinking, 'Oh, I'm funny,' but
knowing that you have a unique
skill set and you have the ability
to exercise it."
"I had major confidence
issues earlier on and that real-
ly affected my performance,"
McLaughlin said. "Sometimes
after shows, audience members
would come up to me and say,
'Put yourself out there more ...
you're funny."'

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily

Despite being nerve-wracking, ComCo auditions are an enjoyable time for all involved.

Othe
ing the
perforn
that kn
ence to
results
that do
mance
enj
Denr
spoke a
es the e
right at
forman
ing. Th

r members agreed, say- have the same starting routine,
audience knows when along with the same concluding
sers are nervous, and routine, so that the show can be
owledge causes the audi- constructed on the support of a
also get nervous. This strong and familiar anchor.
in a downward spiral "Our energy levels are really
oesn't help the perfor- high before the show, and that
go anywhere. helps us to perform with a kind
of reckless abandon," Duczynski
said.
Audience interaction is an
riends who integral part of an improv per-
joy laughing formance, especially since per-
Oy formers are expected to feed off
together. audience suggestions that pro-
vide the fuel for their sketches.
A positive interaction will aid
the performers in their efforts,
nehy and Duczynski but what happens if the audi-
bout how the group fort- ence isn't enjoying the show?
nergy levels to hit a high "You can't really think about
the start so that the per- that in the moment," McMullen
ce is off on a good foot- said. "At some point you've got
ey said all shows usually to think, 'screw it,' and just get
on with it."
"The important thing is that
we need to enjoy what we're
doing on stage," Dennehy added.
"Even if they don't find what
we're doing funny, we still do."
He went on to say that he's
never really experienced a bad
audience, and everyone ends up
having a really good time.
Members of the group agreed
in saying this is part of the rea-
son that ComCo calls itself the
"oldest and best improv com-
edy troupe" at the University.
They argued that their longev-
ity is a testament to the fact
that they've been able to con-
sistently perform at a high level
while attracting large groups
of audience members. During
performances, members try to
challenge themselves with their
humor, refusing to take the easy
way out when audience mem-
bers prompt them to make obvi-
ous jokes.
The group is aware that com-
NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daiy edy has a far more potent func-
with their humor. tion than facilitating laughter,

so whether the jokes are pre-
dictable or fall under the cat-
egory of highbrow comedy, they
have the power to influence an
audience. Members were con-
scious of the fact that by being
improv comics, they can cater
to an audience of about 400
people and say things that they
normally wouldn't be able to say
in their daily lives. One of the
pleasures of being a perform-
ing comedian is the liberating
release of mental censorship
that otherwise binds people in
social interactions.
Art & Design freshman Sarah
Sherman said, "When we're per-
forming, we can talk about things
that have social relevance with-
out really having to think about
it. We can discuss certain issues
that make people listen."
"It's kind of like being the joker
in a Shakespeare play," McMul-
len said. "Although sometimes
Shakespeare was censored, the
joker was allowed to say what he
wanted and people would listen
because he was funny.",
Finally, the group addressed
the apparent irony of performing
extensive rehearsal sessions for
something as inherently sponta-
neous as improv comedy.
"I've had people accuse me of
rehearsing for an improv show in
the past," Madjar joked.
However, members of the
group stressed that while they
might practice routines in
rehearsal, the content of the
routines and the actual come-
dic interaction that takes place
between the performers and the
audience is always authentic
and spontaneous. Rehearsals are
important not only because the
members get to practice their
comedic skills, but also because
they can test what might or might
not work in a live performance.
Rehearsals also function as the
space in which members provide

their input in order to improve a
performance; however, they are
careful not to be overly critical of
each other.
"We don't usually say, 'Hey
that's not funny' or 'I don't like
that,"' McLaughlin said.
"The rule is that if at least one
person laughs, it's funny," Madjar
added.
McLaughlin also explained
that one of the most important
rules of improv is that performers
aren't allowed to explicitly dis-
agree with one another.
"Even during a performance,
we're supposed to say 'Yes ...' and
then suggest something contrary
if we feel the need to disagree ...
negating someone completely
gets us nowhere," she said.
Rehearsals also give members
a unique space in which to bond
and get to know each other on a
deeper level, which helps tremen-
dously with their performance.
The rehearsals reveal that the
members aren't just performers
who happen to share the same
passion for improvisational com-
edy -they are friends who simply
enjoy working with each other,
who are aware of the diversity
of humor that exists within the
group and are comfortable with it
letting them direct their actions
in a performance.
Talent, confidence and com-
fort are the ingredients for a good
improv show. A few minutes of
rehearsal are enough to convince
viewers that ComCo has all of
this and more, earning the right
to call itself the "oldest and
best" improvisational comedy
troupe at the University.
There's something wonderful
about watching truly uninhib-
ited performances consumed
in unbridled enthusiasm - it
reminds the audience how liber-
ating and how important it is to
let yourself go from time to time
and just ... enjoy.

During performances, ComCo members try to challenge themselves to be truly uninhibited

THE D'ARTBOARD \
Each week we take shots at the biggest
developments in the entertainment world.
Here's what hit (and missed) this week.
9/11 truther interrupts
Super Bowl MVP's
post-game interview

Design by GabyVasquez

p

i


