Ub~e ffid~igan 0aimj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, April 9, 2014

michigandaily.com

Minimum
wage efforts
continue on
'U' campus

T Oiur1MOU ay
Brad Kelly of YRLK performs at "We Can All Change The Story: A Celebration of Hope," a free concert for suicide prevention at Michigan Theater Tuesday.
v s

Raise Michigan
coalition calls for
$10.10 per hour,
echoing Obama
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
Long before President Barack
Obama visited campus last week,
activists were laying the ground-
work for a proposed increase in the
minimum wage.
A coalition of groups collectively
called Raise Michigan announced
plans Jan. 27 to put a question
to raise the minimum wage on
November's ballot, launching a
campaign which started as an
exploratory ballot committee and
eventually became an organized
force across the state, including at
the University.
To put the proposal on the bal-
lot, the group will have to collect
a minimum of 258,088 signatures,
which is equal to 8 percent of
the voters in the last gubernato-
rial election, from across the state

before May 28. Coalition leaders
have indicated that they want to go
above that threshold, with an ulti-
mate goal of 350,000 signatures.
Should the group collect enough
signatures, the proposal will then
go before the state legislature,
which has 40 days to approve it.
Evan if they don't approve it out-
right and make it into a law, the
initiative will go on the ballot.
Engineeringsenior Ryan Moody
and LSA junior Eleni Kastanis,
who are gathering signatures in
the Ann Arbor area as interns for
Michigan United, one of the groups
in the Raise Michigan coalition,
said the coalition's goal for the area
is 10,000 signatures. Moody, who
coordinates on campus efforts,
said her hope is that 6,500 of those
signatures will come from the Uni-
versity community.
The pair currently has over
1,500 signatures from the area,
though exact numbers are diffi-
cult to discern because the peti-
tions are disseminated so widely.
Around 500 of those have come
from campus.
Moody said they are confident
See WAGE, Page 3A

Celebration of
Hope encourages
suicide prevention
ByALYSSA BRANDON
For the Daily
Various University student
groups entertained a crowded
Michigan Theatre Tuesday
night with powerful perfor-
mances through song, dance
and spoken word in the show-

case "We Can All Change the
Story: A Celebration of Hope."
The Counseling and Psycho-
logical Services Student Advi-
sory board collaborated with
Central Student Government
to develop an event to advocate
for the end of student suicides
at the University.
Asattendeeswalked through
the doors of Michigan Theater,
they were met with dozens of
CSG and CAPS staff members
passing out wristbands, post-
cards and free pizza. CAPS also

had a booth where students
could write encouraging words
on wooden tiles to hang around
campus.
LSA senior Carolina Ray-
zel, who is a member of CSG's
Health Issues Commission and
served as a member of the plan-
ning committee for the show-
case, said the event aimed to
educate students about psycho-
logical services available at the
University.
"We hope this event will
start a dialogue about the stu-

dent suicide issue on campus,
as well as bring an awareness
to the different resources for
mental health that are available
on campus," she said before the
start of the program.
The showcase featured local
artist YRLK performing his
original guitar compositions
and Music, Theatre & Dance
graduate students Jonathan
Hulting-Cohen and Jennifer R.
Ellis playing the musical piece,
"Moments of Hope" on clari-
See PREVENTION, Page 3A


IN REMEMBRANCE
Student passes
awayin car crash
while abroad

FREE CONE DAY

LSA junior honored
for her involvement
in campus community
By WILL GREENBERG
Daily News Editor
A University student died in a
car accident Monday while study-
ing abroad in South Africa.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald confirmed the passing
of LSA junior Rachel Smylie in a
statement Tuesday. Smylie was in
a car with members of her study
abroad group while on a spring
break trip to a national park in
northern Namibia at the time. He
said there are no other reports of
fatalities from the incident and no
other University students were in
her group.
Smylie had been studying in
Cape Town, South Africa with the
Council on International Educa-
tional Exchange. While the pro-
gram is run outside the University,
Fitzgerald said many University

students participate in it.
As a student, Smylie was highly
involved in volunteer work both in
Ann Arbor and Cape Town, work-
ing at the local HIV/Aids Resource
Center in Washtenaw County and
doingsimilar work in South Africa.
She was also active in her sorority,
Alpha Phi, serving as house man-
ager last year. She was also selected
as one of the Rho Omegas, a group
that helps new members through
the Greek recruitment process.
Business sophomore Elizabeth
Griffith, Alpha Phi president,
released in a personal statement
Tuesday lauding Smylie's friend-
ship and involvement on campus.
"Rachel had an amazing spirit
and a presence that captivated
everyone around her," she wrote.
"She is veryloved and missed dear-
ly."
After taking his class "Memoir
and Social Crisis" last fall, Smylie
developed a close relationship with
English Prof. Ralph Williams. Wil-
liams said Smylie would often meet
him during office hours for dis-
See STUDENT, Page 3A

LILY ANGELL/Daily
Hundreds of students and Ann Arbor residents gather at the State Street Ben & Jerry's for the annual Free Cone
Day Tuesday, a tradition started in 1979.
Prof. selected for Internet
Hall of Fam'204class

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Brandon
discusses
ticketing
policies
Central Student
Government hosts
Athletic Director
By KRISTEN FEDOR
Daily Staff Reporter
Though the Central Student
Government encouraged the
implementation of new football
season ticket policy, the final
meeting of the year indicated
more conversations with the
University Athletic Department
are on the horizon for the future.
Athletic Director Dave Bran-
don and Hunter Lochmann,
senior associate athletic direc-
tor and chief marketing offi-
cer, spoke to the CSG assembly
Tuesday night at their weekly
meeting. Lochmann delivered a
review of the past year, followed
by a question and answer ses-
sion between representatives and
Brandon. Representatives ques-
tioned Brandon on an array of
See BRANDON, Page 3A

Researcher aided
online initiatives
to increase global
access to data
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily Staff Reporter
Douglas Van Houweling,
associate dean for research
and innovation at the School

of Information, visited Hong
Kong Tuesday to be inducted
to the 201 4Internet Hall of
Fame.
The Internet Hall of Fame
celebrates individuals who
have made extraordinary
contributions to the creation
and progression of the Inter-
net. The Internet Society
inducts 24 members selected
across 13 different countries
annually. Van Houwelingwas
inducted as a Global Connec-

tor, a category that recog-
nizes individuals who have
helped expand the Internet
on a global scale.
Van Houweling previously
served as chairman of the
board of MERIT, a Michigan
statewide computing net-
work. At the request of the
National Science Foundation,
he worked to rebuild its over-
loaded, dysfunctional net-
work - NSFNET - that was
See INTERNET, Page 3A


od

WEATHER HI 66
TOMORROW Lo:32

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-411s or e-mail Tech Tuesday: Chasing J.A.R.V.I.S.
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEW S .........................2A ARTS...........................5A
Vol. CXXIV, No. 98 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS.......A.....6A
©204 TheMichiganDaily OPINION......................4A THE STATEMENT..........16
michigondoily.com


t


2A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

The IfichipanlBailyj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41e-415 ext. 1251 734-418-4i15 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandailyeom

Harvard Law School under investigation

A complaint filed against
Harvard Law School over its
handling of sexual assault is
still under investigationby the
Department of Education's
Office of Civil Rights, The
Crimsonreported Tuesday.
Since the initial complaint
filed by Wendy Murphy, a
professor at the New England
School of Law, which sparked
the original Title IX investi-
gation, other parallel reports
have been filed.
Murphy said in her com-
plaint the process of hearing
sexual assault cases should
include a "preponderance of
evidence" to meet the stan-
dards of other Ivy League

schools. All but two Ivy
League schools have adopted
the standard, with Yale Uni-
versity being the most recent.
In 2010, Yale faced simi-
lar challenges but eventu-
ally came to an agreement
with their own Office of Civil
Rights. John L. Ellison, for-
mer secretary of the Adminis-
trative Board at Harvard, said
that Harvard should learn
from Yale's case.
"Harvard says they have
zero tolerance for violence
against women. Then why
do they refuse to apply the
preponderance standard of
proof?" Murphy wrote in an
e-mail to The Crimson. "The

effect of such a rule is tanta-
mount to declaring the word
of a woman less valuable, less
credible and less worthy than
the word of her attacker."
If the school's disciplin-
ary system for treating and
addressing sexual assault
cases is found to be insuffi-
cient, the Law School could
lose federal funding.
Feminist discusses rape
culture at Brown
University
During Brown Univer-
sity's March Against Sexual
Assault on Saturday, feminist
activist and writer Jaclyn

Friedman spoke to univer-
sity students, the Brown Daily
Herald reported.
The university student
group Stand Up! invited
Friedman to speak to por-
tray the voices of under-
represented groups in the
discussion of sexual assault,
including people of color,
the LGBTQ community and
men.
Friedman said because
of the caricature of rap-
ists being monsters or clear
dangers to society, victims
often do not recognize more
common perpetrators like
friends, relatives or acquain-
tances. She also discussed

R0 te',. gdtc m

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

~lf .Discussion on The weakness
Spartan down Inremembrance the Christian of the will
BY SAM GRINGLAS BY ALLANA AKHTARI

what constitutes as con-
sensual sex, describing it as
a "creative, collaborative"
action, which requires con-
stant communication.
"If you are not willing to
be present for your partner,
you do not have business
having partnered sex," she
said.
Friedman also shared her
own experiences with sexu-
al assault during her time at
Wesleyan University, where
she struggled to speak up in
fear of harming her college's
reputation.
-ALLANAAKHTAR
IAR E TH INGS YOU
A Pew Research Center
study revealed the per-
centage of stay-at-home
moms increased for the first
time in decades. In 2012, 29
percent of mothers did not
work outside the home, com-
pared to 23 percent in 1999,
the Pew Center reported.
This week's issue of
The Statement features
a collection of all the
best photos that appeared in
The Daily this year - from
exploring glaciers in Argen-
tina to Obama's visit.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
A passenger arriving
at the John F. Kennedy
International Airport
in New York attempted to
smuggle seven pounds of
cocaine hidden within frozen
meat, the Associated Press
reported. He now faces fed-
eral drug smuggling charges.

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
ars@michigandaily.com
Spnrts Section
sports@sichigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editnnial Pate
opisio@nmicigandaily.eom
Photography Sectin
photomichigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Buddha

An apparent Spartan fan
was punched by passersby
in the Diag early Sunday
morning. The subject was
yelling "Go Green! Go
White!" when two males
approached and punched
him several times, sending
him to the hospital.

Students from the
University's Hillel read
the names of Holocaust
victims aloud on the Diag
during a two-day long
memorial event sponsored
by Conference on the
Holocaust, a Hillel student
group.

WHAT: Learn how an
Asian sage became a medi-
eval saint.
WHO: Center for South
Asian Studies
WHEN: 4 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Audi-
torium

Lecture on
THA E[ LTER VI fO international
Always listening Festival footage .
BY STEVEN TWEEDIE BYVIRGINIA LOZANO health polcy

WHAT: Unpack the con-
ditions that enable self-
control and discover how to
master willpower in policy
and everyday life.
WHO: Department of
Philosophy
WHEN: 4 to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Audi-
torium
Brown Bag
performance
WHAT: Enjoy solos per-
formed hy local musicians.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: 12:15 p.m.
WHERE: Henry F.
Vaughan School of Public
Health Building
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
errorinthe Dailyto
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenniet~atas Managng ewesEditor jcalas@michigandailycome
SENIORNEWS EDITORS:Ian DllnghamSam Gringlas,WillGrenberg RcePremack
A5515T5NNEWS E ITORS: AllanaAkhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michae Sugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Zthiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIO SeORTSrEDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
Jnhn lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com5
AkshaySeth ManagingArtsEditors ksemi higandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
Alec Stern
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathewand
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Patrick Barron and Ruby Wallau
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:AllisonFarrand,TracyKo,Terra Molengraffand Nicholas
Willams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabrielaasquez Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy MackensandAliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan MagazineEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingtCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandDavidNayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Anal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
DnutSnlonnUniveesityAcousnsnagseer
Leah Lois-Prescntt cinssified Manage r
Lexi DerasMO Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OliviaJones Layout Manager
,stuent s a h nvrityofnMihigan. Oe snvalIaefeef are toaller. Addiionl copema
epiedupatheDlysofcef orS2.Ssctonsallterm stngiSAp be ,vU.S . i$110
Wite rtermd. (he h thlgAil is $ 115,be aos h(Sspted rughs Al)h ss195.Unestyafliates
beeaid TeMichiO~ga, n aly s emerofT As~ociaedPesnd sThesocia,,ted Ceiate Press

Voice controls and voice
assistants such as Siri are
exemplary of the always-
listening media culture.
While some people embrace
the innovation, others are
"creeped out" Soon, we
may be approaching the
technology of J.A.RV.I.S.
from Iron Man, Tweedie says.

Colorful puppets took to
the streets of Ann Arbor
Sunday afternoon for one
of the first festivals of
spring. Check out the Daily
video staff's clips from
FestiFools, featuring plenty
of foolery and larger-than-
life creatures and figures.

WHAT: Professors discuss
the successes and failures
of health policy in different
European countries. Lunch
will he served.
WHO: School of Public
Health
WHEN: 12 to 2 p.m.
WHERE: Henry F.
Vaughan School of Public
Health Building

Medical Schools develop President-elect to deliver

innovative curriculum

Sept. inauguration speech

'U' one of eleven school in the country partici-
pating, the University's plan
institutions was one of the 11 chosen by the
AMA. Each winning college
participating in received a $1 million grant to
implement their proposal over
collaborative effort five years.
Susan Skochelak, AMA group
By AMABEL KAROUB vice president for medical edu-
Daily StaffReporter cation, said though each school
will implement its own plan,
At an all-day conference there will be regular communi-
Monday, representatives from cation between institutions. She
11 medical schools from around said the AMA hopes the best
the nation came together at the practices will spread to medical
University to discuss the future schools throughout the nation.
of medical training in the face "What's happening with
of a rapidly evolving healthcare these 11 schools is they're real-
system. ly trying out new prototypes,"
The American Medical Asso- Skochelak said. "They're shar-
ciation assembled the conven- ing and learning with each
tion as part of an initiative other so that one school on its
called "Accelerating Change own doesn't have to reinvent
in Medical Education," a com- the wheel."
petition challenging schools Rajesh Mangrulkar, associate
to create their hest proposal dean for medical student educa-
for innovative medical train- tion, said the University's plan
ing. With nearly every medical involves restructuring medical
--.5O

education to ensure each stu-
dent gains vital knowledge and
abilities within their first two
years of school. Currently, he
said students do not gain this
core information until they're
about 75 to 85 percent into their
education. For the latter half of
medical school, students will
focus on their intended spe-
cialty.
"Consolidating that core
then allows the student to enter
into professional development
branches," Mangrulkar said.
"They can really deliberately
dive into areas of medicine they
are most interested in and can
envision a career in."
The University's plan will
also emphasize leadership
skills. Every student will be
assigned into an "M Home,"
a type of learning communi-
ty. These groups will provide
coaching, advising and mentor-
ship over the course of each stu-
dent's education.
Because the long-term effects
of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act on the"
U.S. healthcare system remain
largely unknown. Mangrulkar
said doctors-in-training must
be prepared for unexpected
hurdles.
"At Michigan, we believe
every graduate should be a
problem solver, who could then
walk into that environment and
be able to say, 'alright, this is
what's working, this is how we
need to do things differently,' "
he said. "Right now I just don't
think we have that in our medi-
cal schools."
From the start, a main con-
cern associated with ACA imple-
mentation was an increased
patient volume. This could
lead to a shortage of doctors or
increased wait times as seen in
the similarly-structured Mas-
sachusetts healthcare reform
package of 2006.
Mangrulkar said the Uni-
versity's plan would allow cer-
tain students who demonstrate
See CURRICULUM, Page 3A

Official community
celebration planned
for Schlissel at
Hill Auditorium
By CLAIRE BRYAN
Daily StaffReporter
Let his term begin.
The University has sched-
uled the official inauguration
of University President-elect
Mark Schlissel for Sept. 5 in
Hill Auditorium.
Though Schlissel will begin
his presidency July 14, the
event will celebrate the begin-
ning of his tenure as the Uni-

versity's 14th president.
Schlissel, current Brown
University provost, was
appointed to the presidency
by the University's Board of
Regents in January. He will
succeed University President
Mary Sue Coleman, who will
retire in July after 13 years in
the University's top position.
The inauguration will
include a ceremony, a variety
of discussions and an after-
noon celebration open to the
University and the Ann Arbor
community.
Barbara Ackley, assistant
vice president for develop-
ment, international giving
and presidential development
activities, will lead the inau-

guration's planning.
"We are thrilled to have this
opportunity to bring together
the University and broader
community to celebrate the
arrival of Dr. Schlissel," she
wrote in a statement.
Presidential inaugurations
are common rites of passage
for entering leaders of higher
education institutions.
Former University Provost
Phil Hanlon was inaugurated
in a ceremony last year when
he became the president of
Dartmouth University and
Coleman delivered an inaugu-
ral speech in Crisler Arena in
March 2003.

Iraqi clashes prevent voting
in parts of Anbar province

Fierce fighting
between troops and
militants places
election in jeopardy
BAGHDAD (AP) - Iraq's elec-
toral commission said on Tues-
day that there will be noballoting
in parts of the Sunni-dominated
Anbar province engulfed in
clashes between security forces
and al-Qaida-inspired militants.
Since late December, the west-
ern Anbar province has seen
fierce fighting between govern-
ment troops and allied tribal
militias on one side, and militants
from the Islamic State of Iraq and
the Levant, an al-Qaida spin-off
group, on the other.
The militants have seized and
are continuing to hold parts of
the provincial capital, Ramadi,
and nearly all of the nearby city
of Fallujah.
The exclusion of major Sunni

cities such as Ramadi and Fallu-
jah - where most of the fighting
is underway as Iraqi forces try to
wrestback areas overrunby mili-
tants - from the April 30 voting
for Iraq's new parliament could
deepen Sunni fears ofbeing mar-
ginalized by the country's Shiite
majority.
In a press conference in Bagh-
dad, a member of the Indepen-
dent High Electoral Commission,
Muqdad al-Shuraifi, said the
"commission cannot send its
employees and balloting-related
equipment, as well as logistics, to
the areas where security opera-
tions are underway."
He did not specifically name
the areas seized by the militants
but assured families displaced
by the fighting that they will be
allowed to vote in areas deemed
"safe" or in parts of the province
where they found shelter or in
other provinces where some of
them ended up.
According to the United
Nations, about 400,000 people

have been uprooted by the ongo-
ing violence in Anbar.
More than 9,000 candidates
will vie for 328 seats in the par-
liamentary elections, the first
balloting in Iraq since the with-
drawal of U.S. troops in late
2011.
Also on Tuesday, gunmen in a
speeding car shot and killed six
men gathered in a street outside
the city of Mosul, about 360 kilo-
meters (225 miles) northwest of
Baghdad, a police officer and a
medical official said.
The men were two brothers
and four of their cousins, and it
was not clear why they were tar-
geted, said the officials, speak-
ing on condition of anonymity as
they were not authorized to talk
to the media.
Later, near the city of Misha-
da just outside the capital, a
suicide bomber rammed an
explosive-laden car into the
main entrance of a police sta-
tion, killing four and wounding
seven, officials said.

t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday April 9th, 2014- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday April 9th, 2014- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
GLEN ARBOR, Mich.
Shipwreck washes
up on lakeshore
The harsh winter and Lake
Michigan waves have revealed
the wreck of a large boat along a
northwestern Lower Peninsula
beach that may be more than 100
years old.
Ward Lamphere told the Tra-
verse City Record-Eagle that he
was walking about a mile north
of Glen Arbor in Leelanau Coun-
ty on March 31 when he saw a
40-foot-long string of large, worn
wooden objects poking out of the
sand. Body text.
The wreck is north of Sleeping
Bear Dunes National Lakeshore,
but will be included in a database
maintained by the park museum
that includes 13 othershipwrecks.
NEW YORK
Man wrongfully
convicted released
From the day of his 1959 arrest
in a deadly New York City shoot-
ing, Jonathan Fleming said he had
been more than 1,000 miles away,
on a vacation at Disney World.
Despite having documents to
back him up, he was convicted of
murder.
Prosecutors now agree with
him, and Fleming left a Brooklyn
court as a free man Tuesday after
spending nearly a quarter-centu-
ry behind bars.
Fleming, now 51, tearfully
hugged his lawyers as relatives
cheered, "Thank you, God!" after
a judge dismissed the case. A key
eyewitness had recanted, newly
found witnesses implicated some-
one else and prosecutors' review
of authorities' files turned up
documents supporting Fleming's
alibi.
DONETSK, Ukraine
Ukraine subdues
pro-Russia protests
Ukrainian authorities moved
to quell pro-Moscow uprisings
along the Russian border with
mixed results Tuesday, retaking
one occupied regional headquar-
ters and watching protesters con-
solidate their hold on another.
In a third city, Luhank,
Ukraine's Security Service said
separatists armed with explo-
sives and other weapons were
holding 60 people hostage inside
the agency's local headquarters.
Those occupying the building
issued a video statement saying
they want a referendum on the
region's status and warning that
any attempt to storm the place
would be met with armed force.
The Ukrainian government
and the U.S. have accused Mos-
cow of fomenting the unrest as
a pretext for another Russian
military incursion like the take-
over of Crimea last month. Up
to 40,000 Russian troops are
massed along the Ukrainian bor-

der, according to NATO.
PRETORIA, South Africa
Pistorius evokes
sympathy in trial
A subdued Oscar Pistorius
on Tuesday described dinner at
home, chatting and looking at cell
phone photos with Reeva Steen-
kamp on the last night of her life.
Then he erupted in anguished
howls and heaving sobs while
testifying at his murder trial
about the moments when he says
he realized he shot his girlfriend
through a closed toilet door.
In a dramatic scene before the
packed courtroom Tuesday, Pis-
torius left briefly at one point to
change out of his dark suit and
into a white shirt and shorts, sim-
ilar to the clothes he was wearing
when he killed Steenkamp.
Prompted by his lawyer, Pisto-
rius then took off his prosthesis
and stood on his stumps by the
bullet-marked toilet door, which
has remained in the courtroom
for much of the trial. It appeared
to be an effort by the defense to
illustrate what they describe as
the Olympian's vulnerability at
the time of the shooting.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

WAGE
From Page 1A
they will reach their goal, espe-
cially in the wake of Obama's
visit, though they are currently
behind where they'd like to be.
"It's like something rolling
down a hill; at first, it's a little
bit harder, just because nobody
really knows or cares," Moody
said. "Now that people are start-
ing to hear more about it, I truly
believe it's picking up momen-
tum. I don't think it'll be hard
to overcome the small deficit we
have now."
Running parallel to Raise
Michigan's efforts is a bill in
the state House which has been
stalled in committee since 2013.
The bill includes a proposed
increase of the minimum wage
to nine dollars. Michigan's mini-
mum wage is currently $7.50 per
hour- 15 cents above the Federal
minimum.
Raise Michigan's ballot initia-
tive first proposed an increase to
nine dollars but is now pushing
for an increase to $10.10, in line
with President Obama's national
push for a federal increase to
$10.10.

State Rep. Adam Zemke
(D-Ann Arbor), one of the co-
sponsors of the legislation, said
he doesn't see the bill mov-
ing forward in the near future
due to opposition from House
Speaker Jase Bolger (R-Grand
Rapids) and other Republican
legislative and executive lead-
ership. He said the initiative is
a welcome addition to the over-
all campaign to raise the mini-
mum wage.
"I think that running things
in tandem, both on ballot mea-
sures and through legislative
processes, is always a wise idea
to account for things like issues
gettingstalled in the legislature,"
Zemke said.
Along with opposition in the
legislature, the measure also has
not proven to be popular among
business groups in the state.
Michael Marzano, Small
Business Association of Michi-
gan Grassroots coordinator and
policy adviser, said many of his
22,000 plus members are not
happy about the proposed wage
change.
"Ifit goes up to $10.10, we look
at it like this; if you're only able
to pay employees 15 dollars an
hour for a wage, and you have

to choose between hiring two
people an hour at the current
minimum wage versus hiring
one person at $10.10, it's going
to decrease their output and not
enable them to invest in more
technology and more workers
to increase their productivity,"
Marzano said.
Several other groups, includ-
ing the Michigan Restaurant
Association, have also raised
concerns about a decrease in pro-
ductivity.
On campus and in the greater
Ann Arbor area, Moody and
Kastanis said they've mostly
received positive reactions to the
initiative.
According to Kastanis, though
University students may not have
the experience of being a mini-
mum wage worker firsthand,
many still find a connection to
the issue.
"There are alot of people who
know people; they have family
members, friends, that have gone
through this, " Kastanis said.
"This affects everyone - your
neighbors, your friends, your
community, the campus overall.
It's literally an issue about every-
one, even if it doesn't affect you
personally."

STUDENT most deeply is her enormous return in safety.' It breaks my
From Page 1A human sympathy: she felt from heart that she could not do that
the inside of others' lives, with last."
principled and active care," The Alpha Phi sorority sisters
cussions that went beyond the Williams wrote in an e-mail hosted a candlelight vigil at their
curriculum, diving deeper into Tuesday. "My last message to house late Tuesday night com-
certain authors, sharing per- her was one written in late Jan- memorating Smylie's life and her
sonal stories and offering book uary and ended with a farewell impact on the University com-
recommendations to each other. which I often give my students: munity.
"What remains with me 'Go in happiness, stay in joy, and
INTERNET NET, the Internet was mainly own networks.
used by universities for research Van Houweling now serves
From Page 1A purposes and by national defense as the CEO of Internet2, a com-
agencies. Van Houwelingworked munity of scholars dedicated to
designed to connect supercom- with both MERIT and the Uni- the advancement of technology.
putingsites around the country. versity to brainstorm ways to He served as a member of the
Information Dean Jeffrey make NSFNET more efficient National Academies Panel on
MacKie-Mason said withoutVan while asking private corpora- the Impact of IT on the Future
Houweling, the Internet would tions like IBM and MCI to build of the Research University. He
continue to be a closed, research- hardware and routers for the co-authored the book "Higher
based resource. His work with network. Education in the Digital Age,"
NSFNET helped open the Inter- Following Van Houweling's and is a professor in the School of
net to public spheres around the efforts, the new NSFNET's con- Information.
world. nectivity grew by 400 percent His other awards include
"He was the visionary for put- per year for seven years. By 1992, the EDUCAUSE 2002 Excel-
ting together the organization over 6,000 networks were con- lence in Leadership Award, the
and the actual national back- nected and by 1994, networks Iowa State University John V.
bone so that the Internet could were in place in 93 countries Atanasoff Discovery Award and
become public that everyone can were connected. the Indiana University Thomas
use rather than a few number By the time NSFNET shut Hart Benton Mural Medallion.
of researches," MacKie-Mason down in 1995, many commer- Hereceivedhisundergraduate
said. cial companies started to pay for degree from Iowa State Univer-
Prior to Van Houweling's their connections and private sity and his Ph.D in government
involvement in rebuilding NSF- corporations had launched their from Indiana University.
PREVENTION Michigan Haley Williams also Commission, said suicide and
From Page 1A discussed their experiences other mental health issues are
with mental health concerns. difficult to talk about, but dis-
Williams spoke of how los- cussing it is crucial to finding
net and harp. The event also ing her father at the age of four solutions.
included LSA junior Madelyn took a toll on her mental health "Hopefully, with our pro-
Grant and LSA senior Joshua throughout her childhood. She gram we can build a strong
Ross who sung renditions of Bill said her past is what inspired platform, and we can all work
Withers'"Lean on Me" and Sam her to build her platform goals together to help people to help
Cooke's "A Change is Gonna as Miss Michigan to address others," she said.
Come." childhood grief. Beyond the event itself, CAPS
Hosted by radio host John The showcase ended with a also encouraged students to
Bommarito from Ann Arbor's call for University students to continue the conversation about
107one, he told guests about work together to end student student suicide prevention
his own battles with depres- suicide on campus. Engineer- through the Twitter hashtag
sion. Former Michigan football ing sophomore Shannon Guo, a #WeCanAllChangeTheStory.
player Will Heininger and Miss member of CSG's Health Issues
and then you apply to medical ing admissions," he said.
CURRICULUM school, you don't have to take As for residency, Skochelak
From Page 2A the exact same four years ... said Graduate Medical Edu-
It's less about shortening it and cation is amending the resi-
exceptional ability to graduate more about making sure people dency process to better fit the
early. can move along when they're changing landscape of medi-
Skochelak said there should ready to move." cine.
be increased flexibility in the The changes will also alter "There are already a few
time doctors must spend in the admissions and residency pilot projects where residency
training. process. Mangrulkar said the starts earlier," she said. "They
"If you think about it, nowa- Medical School seeks students also have to find ways to be
days many students are coming who will develop into prob- more flexible, just like the
(to medical schools) that aren't lem solvers as well as "change- medical school curriculum is
right out of pre-med," Skochelak agents." getting more flexible. We know
said. "If you're a physical thera- "We're in the process of it has to change, it's a big job
pist or a biomedical engineer relooking at everything, includ- though."
FOLLOW THE MICHIGAN DAILY
ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
AND 'LIKE' US ON FACEBOOK
FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY

(We're really informative and stuff.)

BRANDON However, Brandon said stu-
dents remain a priority for the
From Page lA Athletic Department. He said
the multiple changes to ticketing
issues, including football ticket policies reflect that.
prices and alcohol in Michigan "Why in the world would I
Stadium. have gone through all that pain
Lochmann lauded CSG exec- and agony?" he said. "We could
utives for the persistence that have painted some pictures up
resulted in the successful elimi- in the bleachers that were empty
nation of general admission and during the game."
development of a new ticketing Several representatives also
policy. raised questions regarding
However, when the discus- possibly allowing alcohol for
sion opened to the assembly, sev- purchase inside Michigan Sta-
eral representatives challenged dium. LSA representatives said
Brandon on some remaining allowing alcohol could keep
flaws perceived in the new tick- people from tailgating exces-
eting policy, launching a discus- sively before arriving at the
sion of additional changes to the game.
overall relationship between the Brandon said the addition of
student body and the Athletic alcohol would risk the safety
Department. of the attendees. He said the
Law student John Lin, a Law number of people taken to the
School representative, pressed hospital and treated for alcohol
Brandon on the current price poisoning is disconcerting, and
of student season football tick- the sale of alcohol at the stadium
ets. Lin said he has seen a sharp would only make the problem
rise in prices since his time as an worse.
undergraduate. "As long as I have a say, there
Tickets cost $240 for the 2011 will be no alcohol in Michigan
season. This year, student foot- Stadium," he said.
ball season tickets will cost $295, Brandon added that the sale
the same as the 2013 rate. of alcohol at the Winter Classic,
The discussion did not reveal and potentially at the upcom-
any plans to lower ticket prices ing Real Madrid vs. Manchester
for students. Brandon said stu- United soccer game, will be per-
dent tickets are already about mitted because it involves a non-
half the price of those for non- University sporting event.
students. Brandon and Lochmann both
Brandon provided sugges- said they appreciate student
tions for how students who can- input and were open to collabo-
not afford season tickets could rating more with CSG in the
acquire tickets if they want to. future.
He said thousands of student "We're not perfect, but our
tickets go unused every game, intentions are good," said Bran-
addingthat students could easily don.
acquire one of these tickets that After Brandon and Loch-
go to waste for as little as $5. mann left, Proppe addressed
Public Policy junior Carly the assembly in the executive
Manes, an LSA representative, communications portion of
objected to Brandon's reasoning. the meeting, the last time he
She said student ticket holders would address the assembly as
who decide to forgo the game president. He encouraged rep-
can afford to sell the tickets to resentatives on student govern-
other students for a lower price. ment next year to keep working
Manes added that this is often a towards increasing studentinput
last minute decision by the stu- in the administration.
dent not to attend. "As well-run an institution as
Several representatives it is, sometimes it makes really
echoed Manes' concerns and bad decisions," he said.
asked Brandon if he had any Proppe cited the new football
plans to implement programs ticketing policy as an example
for students with financial need. of the power of student input,
Brandon responded by saying adding that CSG can do more to
students can go to StubHub to incorporate the student voice in
purchase cheaper tickets. the future.
GM fined for not
fully complying
with investigation

Agency admin. say
company will pay
$28,000 in fines
DETROIT (AP) - A govern-
ment safety agency is fining
General Motors $7,000 a day,
saying the company failed to
fully respond to its requests
for information about a faulty
ignition switch by an April 3
deadline.
The National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration said
in a letter to GM on Tuesday
that the company already owes
$28,000 in fines, and they will
accrue at $7,000 per day until
it provides all the requested
information.
In February, the agency
began investigating whether
GM was slow to provide infor-
mation and respond to prob-
lems with the switch that has
been linked to at least 13 deaths.
GM has admitted knowing that
the switch was defective at
least a decade ago, but failed to
start recalling 2.6 million com-
pact cars worldwide until this
year.
In a two-page letter to GM
North America vice president
and legal counsel Lucy Clark
Dougherty, NHTSA's chief
counsel, O. Kevin Vincent, said
the company frequently stated
that it did not respond to all
the agency's requests because
of an investigation being done
for GM by former U.S. attorney
Anton Valukas.
But Vincent objected, say-
ing GM's reasoning wasn't
valid. "Mr. Valukas' investiga-
tion is irrelevant to GM's legal
obligation to timely respond
to the Special Order and fully
cooperate with NHTSA," he
wrote.

The fines are a sign of a
deepening rift between GM
and the safety agency. Dur-
ing congressional hearings
last week, NHTSA Acting
Administrator David Fried-
man blamed GM for a failure
to act sooner to warn consum-
ers about the faulty switches.
Friedman testified that GM
had information connecting
defective switches to the non-
deployment of air bags, but
didn't share it with the agency
until last month.
GM said in a statement it
has fully cooperated, and will
keep providing responses as
soon as they are available. "We
will do so with a goal of being
accurate as well as timely,"
the statement said, giving no
indication of when GM would
fully comply. GM said it has
produced nearly 21,000 docu-
ments totaling over 271,000
pages.
Vincent did acknowledge
that the safety agency had
agreed to extend the deadline
on certain technical questions,
but criticized GM for failing to
answerquestions that weren't
technical in nature. He said
there were several unanswered
questions about the approval of
changes in the suspect ignition
switch.
NHTSA told GM that it was
aware of GM's approval of a
design change on April 26,
2007, and the agency asked
the company if there were any
other changes. But Vincent's
letter said GM did not answer
the questions.
"It is deeply troubling that
two months after recalling the
vehicles, GM is unwilling or
unable to tell NHTSA wheth-
er the design of the switch
changed at any other time,"
Vincent wrote.

'4

A

I


4A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

}Jbe 1iIidiian 0aUlow
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Investing in safety
The University should promote and enforce ethical business practices
University President Mary Sue Coleman renewed her pledge that all
University licensees - companies that brand their products with
University-licensed logos - must ensure safe factory conditions
for their workers. Under Coleman's instruction, all licensees must sign the
Accord on Fire and Building Safety or provide equal or superior solutions
to protect workers. This agreement between Bangladeshi factory managers
and unions makes great strides in protecting workers' rights in the
country. Last April, a factory collapse in Bangladesh killed 1,000 workers,
prompting the University's chapter of United Students Against Sweatshops
to raise awareness about difficult and often unsafe working conditions. The
University has a responsibility to protect the workers from whom it directly
or indirectly profits. While it is commendable that Coleman renewed this
effort, the University needs to take further action to promote worker safety.

The least boring story ever told

In my memory, there is a place
where sun-bleached hills
fade into darkening skies and
nothing but wild
grass and the
slow surrender
of late August
exist for hours in "
any direction.
I am seven
years old and I
hope the mem-
ory of that day JULIA
never fades. ZARINA
From the win-
dow I carefully,
comprehensively commit every
detail of the scene to heart, to a long
and frequently revisited internal
encyclopedia of everything I think I
need to be a person. "Summer, noun
(verb??)" means eternal petitions to
be taken to the swimming pool and
barefoot investigations of pressing
neighborhood mysteries (when you
are seven years old there are always
pressing neighborhood mysteries).
My entry for "what I want to be
when I grow up" is "ASTRONAUT",
followed by a long, crossed-out list.
"Favorite animal" also has a defini-
tion ("ELEPHANT," no crossed-out
list), as do a number of other items I
consider to be life defining.
Some words I don't quite know
how to define.
Here, along with the word "love,"
are four golden and pristine passport
photos - Mum, Dad, brother, sister
- and a picture of the Graceful and
Mysterious Andromeda Galaxy,
carefully gleaned from a class trip to
the planetarium.You can'tlove space,
a teacher tells me, you can really like
space, but you can't love it. Love is
something you have for people. I
think I understand and respond in
turn by categorizing my love, but I
keep my memory of the Andromeda
Galaxy just in case.
Memory to me is an activity, not
an incidental occurrence, and I am
obsessed with remembering. As
someone trying to be permanent in
a life that refuses to be, it is how I
have always defined myself.At seven,
I have never lived in one city for
longer than 18 months; I learn new
rules and languages as quickly as I
unlearn old ones. At each new school,
I have a quiet contempt for the other
kids whose first memories were
only a few years ago. I tell myself I
remember because they don't have
to. If they want to go home, they can
walk out of the classroom, through
the neighborhood where they took
their first steps, and into the house
they've known since birth. "Home"
to me is another concept I don't quite
know how to define - it exists in the
present only when I call it to mind,
a patchwork collage of desert cities
and crowded souqs, colored-in after
the fact with Technicolor hues that
represent my best estimate of reality.
Inside the house that day, dust

specks flash lazily in the last rays of
dusk, like fireflies drunk on the lon-
gest days of summer. I stop focusing
on the scene outside and turn to plas-
tic biscuits on tiny porcelain and tea
dispensed in equal measure with the
wisdom of my grandmother.
I am certain she was born from
the pages of my favorite fairy tale.
I am Cinderella and she is my fairy
godmother, saving me from the
wicked injustices of the playground,
delivering me from the death grip (a
medically debatable self-diagnosis)
of the summer flu with magic soup
concocted from ancient recipes,
transforming the kitchen into a
ballroom and sending me off to dance
away the night in thrift store skirts
and heels five sizes too big.
At seven years old, I am prone-to
perfectionism and wild temper and
she alone lets me rage when these
two qualities inevitably conflict:
when something I've worked on
doesn't go according to plan or when
I feel somebody has wronged me.
Through her I come to understand
the contradiction of life, singular in
its truth, that in the struggle is the
validation and satisfaction.
She aloneis responsible forhelping
me define many of the ideas I keep in
my memory. She tells me how to dye
eggs (wrap in onion skins and boil
in water). She tells me about fashion
(sales at Nordstrom, if you can find
them), about strategies for beating
her in Riu Rau (impossible, there
are none), about boys (stay away from
them until MUCH older) and about
her childhood (war).
She is endlessly complex - grace-
ful and tough, funny and grieving,
brilliant and loyal. She is a refugee,
butshe is no one'svictim. Shehas lost
everything - her home, her parents,
her country, her child - but still she
is capable of a love stronger and more
impartial than any other. I picture
us in the future, laughing together,
drinking tea from tiny porcelain,
remembering, as always. I am older
but she is the same, my universal
constant in my ever-changing world.
In America, death doesn't happen
in polite company. It happens in
stale, shuttered rooms, in lowered
voices that fall heavy on hands held
over children's' ears, and in distant
countries far beyond the reach of
our manicured suburbias. Dying
is the bitter flaw in the American
dream, our final concession, our
ultimate shortcoming. We remain
optimistic about our immortality, as
though this possibility alone gives
meaning to our work. If we can't live
forever, we will create something
that does. Would we exist as boldly
and determinedly if, instead of the
familiar words "I am the master of
my fate; Itam the captain of my soul",
"Invictus" had been written instead:
"I am the interpreter of my past; Ilam
the master of my present; I am the
captain of my soul, but I will die"?

As a child, I never had to be told
about death. No long talks or kind
euphemisms precipitated my under-
standing of the matter. It seemed a
foregone conclusion and I accepted it
as the inevitable outcome of an exis-
tence not unlike any other. The leaves
fell at the end of summer, the sun sets
at the end of the day and fairytales
always concluded with an elegantly
flourished "happily ever after." My
contention, my rage, my tears at
my grandmother's death were not
directed at the reality of death but at
the inexplicable injustice in timing I
believed the universe had commit-
ted. She was invincible, she was my
constant. We deserved longer.
Under "life," I filed a single
thought: sometimes you don't get
to finish the story; you just have to
close the book.
With the first real days of spring
blooms the inevitable realization
that everything comes full circle.
Today, I sit inthe new and wonderful
sunlight and listen to my friends
reflect on our time here at Michigan,
a countdown that runs faster with
every passing day.
Weren't we just 18, scared and
excited to unpack our cheap, coor-
dinating dorm decorations? Did
we waste our time here? Did we
join enough clubs and take the
life-changing classes we'd always
planned? How much smarter and
worldly would we be if we had paid
attention in lecture? Did we stay up
talking until sunrise enough times?
Are we the people we wanted to be?
We are caught in the balance of an
uncertainty that stretches as far into
our pasts as it does into our future.
There's an unspoken understanding
that somehow, at 22, poised precari-
ously on the brink of some unknown
future, our lives as we know them
are sealed fates. We need more time
to spend all night celebrating and
telling our friends we love them. We
need more time to figure things out.
We need more time.
Today, I still struggle with
definitions. It is the rare concept that
can be precisely and permanently
summarizedinasingleword.Butthis
uncertainty no longer bothers me. In
order to have a neat and predictable
definition for every occurrence - a
life with no revisions, amendments
or reconsiderations - we would need
to be born with all the knowledge
and experiences of every person who
has ever lived and will ever live in the
future. And even then?
When I think about being seven
years old, living in stories and memo-
ries, the alternative to our uncertain-
ty is an existence more terrible than
any other. Ourlives would be a book
with no beginning, no plot and an
infinite, repeating ending. It would
be the most boringstory ever told.
- Julia Zarina can be reached
at jumilton@umich.edu.

While this particular accord is limited to
conditions in Bangladesh, and it exists basically
to promote a greater human-rights and labor-
rights awareness. In 2011, Nike, which is one of
the more popular vendors of licensed college
apparel, was accused of deceiving laborers in
Indonesia about the working conditions, wage,
overtime laws and the implementation of
higher costs of living near factories. Nike also
allegedly illegally forced laborers to work more
than 40 hours per week with extremely low
wages. In 2013, Adidas, one of the University's
main licensees, was accused of worker abuse
by USAS. The company refused to reimburse
$1.8 million in legally mandated severance to
the 2,800 former workers in Indonesia after
one of its contractors closed under suspect
circumstances. In addition, many factory
workers are young women and girls who are
exposed to hazardous working conditions. By
creating standards by which companies must
treat their employees, and by threatening to
not do business with those that do not adhere
to them, Coleman has set a high bar for other
colleges and universities.
Thoughthe University'sdirectiontoaddress
human-rights and labor-rights issues seems

appropriate, makingcompanies signthe accord
may not be enough to ensure compliance. The
President's Advisory Committee on Labor
Standards and Human Rights advises "the
University concerning policies and practices
to ensure that corporations engaged in the
manufacture of licensed goods, bearing
the University of Michigan name and/
or logos, are not engaged in unlawful or
unconscionable labor practices." While an
advisory committee is important, there also
needs to be a mechanism that the University
can use to investigate suspected human rights
and labor standards violators perpetrated by
major business partners. The University must
monitor companies that have signed and will
sign the agreements to abide by approved
standards to ensure their factory workers'
labor conditions and minimum-wage issues
have been appropriately remedied.
While the University may not have
sufficient market power to coerce labor rights
violators to comply with our standards, it,
does have a responsibility to only support
ethical companies. The University should
continue to set positive examples in ethical
business practices.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Edvinas Berzanskis, David Harris,
Rachel John, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble,
Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu,
Meher Walia, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
MEHER WALIA I
Evaluating GSJ training

BLOOD DRIVES UNITED|I
Bleeding for equality

I walked into my classroom on the first
day of classes. It's at an annoying time, 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m. twice a week. My GSI introduced
himself. He seemed nice; I was just thankful
he spoke fluent English. The next class,
there were four or five new students in my
class. They introduced themselves and my
GSI asked them out of curiosity why they
transferred to this inconveniently timed
class. They said that their former GSI had
told them, no, encouraged them to transfer to
a different section. They explained how their
GSI said that he didn't know English well and
that he had never taught Calculus before. He
said there were parts of the course he did not
like to teach, so he was just going to skip them
over. He warned that they better transfer to
another section if they could.
This may have been one example, but it is a
widelyknownfearthatapplicants are scared to
enter a section or class in which their GSI does
not speak English, or has had little experience
teaching. At atop university like the University
of Michigan, considered a "public Ivy" and
being rated as #22in universities worldwide, it
is a shame that students are afraid they might
enter a classroom where their GSI does not
speak English. Especially in a difficult class,
such as Calculus I, it is vital that a GSI not only
speaks understandable English, but also can
effectively teach. The math department is one
of the best in the country, but with its stellar
reputation comes a tendency to be extremely
difficult for even the best mathematicians. If

students cannot even rely on having a decent
teacher to teach them, the chances for them to
succeed in that class are not high.
Students at the University are smart and
capable, as only 36.5 percent of students are
accepted. They are obviously hardworking.
Students deserve to feel safe signing up for
any section, and not nervous that they might
not get a good grade because are they not
properly being taught. In addition, University
tuition is extremely high, especially for out-
of-state students. Students deserve to know
they are going to have good GSIs.
One solution to this is possibly altering the
way GSIs are trained. The University claims
their goals in training GSIs are to "ensure
that the information GSIs receive and the
skills they are taught apply specifically
to their fields" and that "to stress the
importance of good teaching by using skilled
faculty, the GSIs' role models, to develop and
run the training sessions." Though these are
important, because the University is a diverse
school, GSIs come from diverse backgrounds
as well. University needs to ensure that GSIs
not only are highly skilled in the subject they
are teaching, but that they are proficient in
English so they can effectively communicate
with their students. Hopefully if the
University takes a better-rounded approach
to teaching their students, students will be
more successful in their courses.
Meher Walia is an LSA freshman.

Every two seconds someone in the
United States needs blood, meaning
that more than 41,000 blood
donations are needed daily. In fact,
the number of Americans needing
blood each day is roughly equal to the
number of students attending this
University. An estimated 38 percent
of the U.S. population is eligible to
donate, but only about 10 percent of
the population actually does so on an
annual basis.
Under the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's current policies
that govern blood donation,
any male who has had sex with
another male (MSM) since 1977 is
permanently banned from donating
blood. This policy dates back to
1983, when some patients being
treated for hemophilia started
displaying AIDS-related symptoms
after receiving routine blood
transfusions. The FDA did what
it could at the time: ban the group
of people most likely to spread the
HIV virus. Today, MSM remain the
group most heavily affected by HIV
in the United States, estimated to
represent approximately 63 percent
of new HIV infections each year.
While the MSM population has
been linked to a higher prevalence of
certain diseases like HIV, both blood
testing efficacy and methods have
greatly improved since 1977. It is
estimated that the HIV transmission
risk from a unit of blood has been
reduced to about one per two million
units of blood. Every pint of blood
collected in the United States is now
tested for at least eight different
diseases - including HIV, HTLV,
hepatitis B and C, West Nile virus,
Chagas disease and syphilis. The
health history questionnaires and

blood tests may not seem adequate
independently, but they represent
some of the many layers of screening
methods that exist to further reduce
the risk of transmitting diseases.
These methods must continuously
be improved in order to increase the
safety of the blood supply.
While the intention of the
current policy is to identify risky
behavior, the reality is that it is
discriminatory and inadequate. The
current health questionnaire used
during the prescreening process
before donation specifically singles
out those who identify as MSM,
while failing to address other risky
behaviors among individuals of
all sexual orientations, such as
unprotected sex, anal intercourse
or having multiple sexual partners.
The FDA considers risky behavior
to be associated with MSM as an
entire social identity, which is why
it is included in the behaviorally
based questions. Though the MSM
population is at a greater risk for
HIV, there are low-risk individuals
who identify as MSM who should be
allowed to donate if they otherwise
meet the eligibility criteria
of the FDA.
Blood Drives United, the
University student organization
that runs the annual Blood Battle
competition against the Ohio State
University, as well as the Face Off
competition against Michigan State
University, is taking action to create
greater public awareness about the
policy and the need for reevaluation
of donor eligibility criteria. It is
our hope that revised prescreening
questions canserveto deferhigh-risk
individuals while including low-risk
individuals without an explicit focus

on sexual orientation. BDU seeks
to educate students, faculty, staff
and community members about the
policy and build support for a broad
movement addressing this injustice
by providing a productive way for all
to participate.
BDU will host a sponsor
blood drive in partnership with
various student and community
organizations from 2 to 8 p.m.
Tuesday, April 15 in the Michigan
Union. This drive format, which
allows individuals ineligible to
donate because of the policy to
bring an eligible individual to
give blood on their behalf, serves
as a productive way for all to
participate. This will demonstrate
that without this policy, potentially
twice as many pints of blood
could be collected, and thus a
greater number of lives could be
saved. A sponsor drive promotes
awareness about this policy and
advocates for policy improvement
while still placing an emphasis
on the overarching goal of
collecting blood.
The day after the sponsor drive,
Wednesday, April 16, BDU will be
holding an informational discussion
at the Ginsberg Center regarding
the MSM policy in order to continue
raising awareness and progress
with this initiative. All who have
questions, comments or an interest
in this social issue are encouraged
to attend. If you are unable to attend
these events but would still like to
be informed about our campus and
community efforts, please contact
blooddrivesunited@umich.edu.
This viewpoint was written by
members of Blood Drives United.

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, April 9, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomWednesday, April 9, 2014 - 5A

EVENT PREVIEW
'The Gondoliers'
to be modernized

Examining the future
of voice-assist tech

Students to
perform Gilbert and
Sullivan classic
By GRACE PROSNIEWSKI
DailyArts Writer
From "The Simpsona" and
"Frasier," to "The West Wing"
and "How I Met Your Mother,"
references to
the theatrical
worksofGilbert UMGASS
and Sullivan PresentS
continue to The
appear in
contemporary Gondoliers
popular Thursday
culture.
Librettist and Friday
W.S. Gilbert at 8 p.m.
and composer Saturday at
Arthur Sullivan 2 p.m. and
partnered 8 p.m.
together to Sunday at
create some of 2p.m.
the best-known
theatrical Mendelssohn
productions of Theater
the Victorian- $10 Students;$20
era. During
their time GeneralAdmission
together,
Gilbert and Sullivan wrote 14
comic operas, including "HMS
Pinafore," "The Mikado" and
"The Pirates of Penzance."
The works of Gilbert and
Sullivan are performed all over
the world by various theater

companies, such as Ann Arbor's
own University of Michigan
Gilbert & Sullivan Society
(UMGASS). Founded in 1947,
UMGASS brings together
students, faculty and community
members with a passion for
the theater in order to stage
two full productions of Gilbert
and Sullivan operettas at the
Lydia Mendelssohn Theater.
UMGASS's first production of
the year is "The Gondoliers,"
one of Gilbert and Sullivan's last
highly influential works.
"The Gondoliers" tells the
tale of two newly married
Venetian gondoliers who are
unexpectedly told that one of
them is the lost King of Barataria.
Unfortunately, no one, except the
gondoliers' absent foster mother,
knows which one of them is the
legitimate heir. Complicating
matters, the lost heir was wed
in infancy to the daughter
of a Spanish Duke, meaning
that one of the gondoliers is
unintentionally committing
bigamy.
The two gondoliers travel to
the kingdom of Barataria to rule
jointly in the hope of settling
the unrest in the land. However,
their Venetian wives follow them
shortly after, causing a series
of misunderstandings, class
struggles and unrequited love.
All of this action is set to the
infectious tunes emblematic of a
Gilbert and Sullivan production.
Thomas Cilluffo, a junior at

the School of Music, Theatre
and Dance, serves as the artistic
director for this production of
"The Gondoliers."
"We've set the opera in a
contemporary setting utilizing
the old city of Venice, with a
modern European setting and
characters, and we have it set
during 'Martedi Grasso' (Mardi
Gras) andtheCarnivalofVenice,"
Cilluffo said.
"We make use of Venetian
Masks and glamorous costumes
as well as contemporary street
costumes," he continued.
"The second act takes place
in the South Seas fictional
setting of Barataria, which we
have compared to the French
Polynesian island of Tahiti, South
East Asian influences mixed with
a tropical regal court setting."
Whether you're a seasoned
Gilbert and Sullivan fan, or you're
a newbie to the theater, UMGASS
hopes to provide a unique
performance for everyone.
"My hope is that the audience
will get a different experience
than they might expect from a
Gilbert and Sullivan production,"
Cilluffo said.
"I'm hoping the modern day
take on a classic operetta will
allow audiences to be whisked
away to the romantic city Venice
and also to the remote South
Seas kingdom of Barataria," he
continued "and watch as a cast
of zany individuals discover their
place in life."

Will Siri-like
technology reach
J.A.R.V.I.S.-level
capacity?
By STEVEN TWEEDIE
Daily Arts Writer
As someone who actively
looks forward to what mind-
blowing technology the future
will someday offer, it can be
easy to overlook the glimmers
of the future nestled within
our present.
For example, some people
still don't realize that if
you own an iPhone and the
included Apple earbuds,
it's possible to be walking
along, hold a button on the
headphones to bring up Siri,
tell her to play your favorite
song, and just like that you're
enjoying music without ever
taking your phone out of your
pocket.
Voice assistants in
particular - whether it be
Apple's Siri, Android's Iris,
Microsoft's Cortana, or even
the voice controls on the XBox
One - are quickly closing
the gap between robotic
schedule-setter and the
drool-inducing J.A.R.V.I.S.
system in "Iron Man." The
only problem is, you never see
Tony Stark pressing a button
to talk to J.A.R.V.I.S in the
movies. You hear J.A.R.V.I.S
respond naturally when he's
addressed, passive until
required to be active. The
missing link that Siri and all
the rest don't have? Always-
on listening.
But people don't like their
devices listening all the time.
It creeps them out, bringing
to mind a "Nineteen Eighty-
Four"-esque world where
the NSA's PRISM program
might be tuning in too. This
has put tech companies in a
tough spot. On the one hand,
the fewer steps it takes to
communicate with a device
the better - the experience
is much more natural. I'd
rather be walking around
with my headphones on and
nonchalantly mention that
I'm in the mood for some Daft
Punk and have Siri pipe in and
ask "Which album?" We're not
there yet.
The downside to this type
of technology? Holes in device
security could potentially
lead to malicious software
tapping into your microphone
and, in theory, some massive
data collection program could
circumvent any safeguards

APPLE

You can't help me with the real things, Siri.


in the name of national
security. Luckily we've never
encountered something like
that before.
Microsoft began testing
these waters when it first
announced the Xbox One's
voice control features, which
would enable users to turn
on their Xbox by simply
saying "Xbox On." A useful
feature, but one that requires
the Xbox's microphone to
always be listening for those
magic words. Outlash from
the gaming community was
swift, and Microsoft later
clarified that the feature,
called "instant-on," would
only listen for those exact
words and could be turned
off. The general reaction,
however, demonstrated how
many (perfectly justifiable)
reservations people have
regarding always-listening
devices.
The biggest issue with
always-listening technology is
where all of that white-noise
data goes, where it travels,
where it's stored, and who
has access and authorization
to listen. Microsoft insists
the voice data it receives is
stored locally on each Xbox,
nothing is shared between the
Xbox and Microsoft. That's
a tough sell though, and one
that requires a certain degree
of trust.
Apple has taken a similar
but slightly more transparent
approach to the data its new
fingerprint sensor stores on
the iPhone 5S, called Touch ID.
The way it works now is that a

mathematical representation
of your fingerprint's unique
features is stored in what Apple
is calling a "Secure Enclave"
- an isolated portion on your
iPhone's internal computer
chip that's walled off from
iOS 7 and Apple's servers. It's
a bit like your own personal
off-line diary that only you
have the key to. It's certainly
a promising step in the right
direction, and Apple could
theoretically utilize their
Secure Enclave to bring Siri
to life further, enabling her to
listen in with a J.A.R.V.I.S.-
like capacity, but refusing to
share what she hears with
anyone but you. The problem
is that Siri currently sends
every single word you say to
her back to Apple's servers
where it's analyzed to help
improve Siri's responses ...
and you need to be connected
to the internet for Siri to even
work.
We still have a few laps
until we catch up to the
fictional J.A.R.V.I.S.'s level of
comprehension and security,
but I predict a second wind.
People can be reasonable. If
tech companies can present
a compelling argument for
an always-listening device
and back it up with a secure
storage architecture for the
necessary peace-of-mind,
then we may well see the Xbox
Two or iPhone 7 bundled
with a J.A.R.V.I.S.-level voice
assistant.
Until then, we'll just have
to be content to press an extra
button or two. Oh, the horror.

KOBALT
Say hello toze new Etta James.
Martina McBride covers soul
classics on 'Everlasting' LP

By JOSH FRAZIER
Daily Arts Writer
Martina McBride is a full-
blown country music superstar
and has the accolades to prove it.
The four-time
CMA Female +
Vocalist of the
Year has been Everlasting
nominated for
14 Grammy Martina
Awards over
the span of 12
studio albums. Kobalt
In recent
years, her star
power has waned as younger
hit-makers like Taylor Swift
and Carrie Underwood have
become legitimate pop icons.
In an attempt to stay relevant to
her fair-weather fan-base, the
47-year-old vocalist is releasing
Everlasting, a collection of
covers of soul and R&B songs.
A cover CD allows McBride
to show off her tremendous
voice without, of course, having
to go through the process of
creating her own material.
Instead, she borrows from
a library of classic tracks,
opening with a lackluster cover
of Aretha Franklin's "Do Right
Woman, Do Right Man," and
continuing from there. McBride
shoots for lofty goals with her
modern-day interpretations of
these beloved songs, but she's
ultimately unable to deliver an
album worth listening to. Her
takes on Elvis Presley, Sam

Cooke and Otis Redding are
inspired renditions, but they do
little to improve on the original
hits.
Everlasting often finds
McBride out of her comfort
zone while putting her own spin
on the'sound of Motown and
R&B legends. It's encouraging
to see an artist take such a risk
at this point in her career, but
12 albums deep, McBride's
attempt to diversify her sound
falls flatter than her cover
of "In the Basement" by Etta
James. The song is a duet with
Kelly Clarkson, and while both
are clearly talented singers,
neither can match the energy
of the original and the twangy
cover has little of the original
soul feel.
McBride's voice sounds
strong throughout the album,
but each song sorely lacks the
soul present in their original
iterations. The album's highest
point comes at McBride's
cover of Van Morrison's "Wild
Night," which has also been
covered by John Mellencamp,
among many others. The
biggest strength of the album is
its live instrumentation, which
is refreshing in the age of
digital production. Each song
was rerecorded by McBride's
backing band, led by legendary
producer Don Was, who has
worked with everyone from
Elton John to Bob Dylan to The
Rolling Stones.
Hearing enthusiastic live

guitar work trumps piped-in
backing tracks any day of the
week, and this nostalgia factor
is Everlasting's biggest asset.
McBride's curated tracklist
shows her excellent taste in
R&B music and exposing these
old tunes to a new audience
isn't the worst thing in the
world.
McBride can
sing her heart
out, can't fit into
R&B staples.
Though there isn't much
replay value in Everlasting,
there are undoubtably fans of
both soul music and country
musicthatcould find something
worthwhile in it. McBride's
attempt at covering a litany of
classics may not go perfectly
smoothly, but it is clear that she
has the vocal chops to take on
this challenge. As she moves
into the twilight of her career,
the mother of three keeps
innovating and keeps singing
her heart out. Everlasting won't
have as large of an impact as
some of her career's largest
hits, but it shows that despite
her age, McBride is still a
welcoming, powerful presence
behind a microphone.


Summer t: May 20-June 27 Summer 2: June 3o-August 8
Why choose
Sumer Term
at BUN
Academic excellence
BU is highly ranked nationally and internationally.
Extensive choices
Find more than 700 undergrad and grad courses.
Ideal location
Boston is the top U.S. city for students
(QS Best Student Cities).
Register today: bu.edu/summer
Boston University Summer Term

RI

A


6A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Be a human
being, not a
human doing

Aspart of the Minor
in Writing program
at the University, I
took a class called "Art of the
Essay," which not only sup-
plied me
with ample
sentence
structure
and gram-
mar skills for
future col-
umn craft-
ing, but it CARLY
was just one KEYES
of those real
academic
experiences. I felt almost as if
we were more of a young club
of passionate ultra-literate
people who met twice weekly
to tell stories and talk about
all aspects of the written word
instead of just being a bunch
of undergraduates seeking
credits.
But, every week, twice a
week, as we entered the class-
room and casually checked in,
we all reported feeling two
things: busy and tired. If I
could have a dollar for every
time ... seriously.
It's far too easy to get swept
away in the faux allure of
being chronically busy and
constantly tired, morphing
into a human doing rather
than remain a human being,
and I am the guiltiest offender
when it comes to busyness and
self-inflicted fatigue.
Ihave a hard time saying no
to an academic or professional
commitment because some-
how I believe that if I'm busier
then it means I'm accomplish-.
ing more in life; if I'm tired
at the end of the day it means
I'm getting stuff done. Lately,
I've been taking on so many
creative projects, on top of a
full load of classes, that it's

resulted in a rest schedule of a
sporadic napping rather than
habitual sleeping.
Even now, I'm writing this
column entirely more last
minute than I typically like,
because I'm so damn busy
and tired ... and you are, too,
aren't you? It's that time of
year again. Final papers, final
exams, final projects - a slew
of final tests to gauge just how
well we've paid attention over
the semester.
But if there's one thing I've
learned, it's that some things
are just more important. I'm
not saying don't prepare for
your finals; I'm just saying
as you trudge this road to a
happy destiny, keep things in
perspective.
This past weekend, I had
two events planned that I'd
been looking forward to for
weeks, even months, and
when I realize that they had
come up already, my first,
inherent, fear-based reaction
was: "I might be too tired and
busy to go ..."
The first was a Pistons
game, and while I don't really
care for professional basket-
ball, I was going in a suite
with three of my best friends
in recovery who all live about
an hour away, and I don't get
to see them anywhere as much
as I'd like. The second was
a concert in Detroit, namely
Taking Back Sunday and The
Used, two bands my little sis-
ter and I have each cherished
for over a decade. My sister
also happens to be moving
to California in the fall, so I
knew that, after the summer
ends, this concert might be
one of our last together for a
while.
I went to the basketball
game; I went to the concert.

Did this take time? Yes. Hours
of my time that I could've
technically been using to
write pages for my full-length
script that's due in ten days or
editing my feet upon feet of
16mm footage or writing this
column. But taking a break
from being busy and tired
brought me exactly what you'd
expect: pause, energy, oppor-
tunities to breathe again.
Take time
to reset and
restore your
inner being.
For the first time in a long
time, I laughed and cheered
and jumped and sang and
danced, and I returned to my
previous state of busyness and
tiredness just a little more
free and invigorated. So, as
this is my last health and fit-
ness column of the semester,
I will leave one last piece of
direct advice: As you venture
into the end of April, tired and
busy, and then dive into your
summer internships and occu-
pations, to become even more
tired and even busier, don't
forget about your purpose.
Ask yourself if what you're
constantly working towards,
what you're constantly doing,
is worth it. And then, take in a
game, a concert, a movie, any-
thing ... to restore the human
being.
Keyes wants you to be all
forms of healthy. To tell her
about your progress, e-mail
cekmusicgumich.edu.

VAGRANT

Bart Simpson grown up.

Spotify, who am I?!?

By YARDAIN AMRON
DailyArts Writer
Dear Spotify,
It's 2 a.m., the lights are off, I'm
alonenaked, drinkingbourbonon
the rocks (plastic cup), and wow,
I texted my ex-girlfriend from
9th grade "I'm sorry for every-
thing." I don't know how any of
this happened. Last thing I recall
is coming home from Broomball
practice three hours ago (fully
clothed), and turning you on. I
think I wanted some new music
and you're always so helpful. We
have such similar taste! That's
all I remember though; the rest
is like a scratched CD that won't
play. I know this sounds crazy,
but the same thing happened last
week when I put on some Billie
Holiday - only difference being
when I came to, my clothes were
soaked in milk, I had soap in my
hair, and I was singing along to "I
Just Can't Wait To Be King," from

Call:a#734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay~gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, April 9, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Lead-in for bird or
walk
4 Nervous and
irritable
9 Thai rash
13 MusicianTumer
14 Words Alice read
onss cake
15 Month in Madrid
17 Waist bag
19 Once more
2 nIts bet": "No
risk"
21 Everlasting, to a
poet
22 Cal. entry
25 Herbal remedy
for indigestion
27 Custard dishes
'30 Rinenisn NW
France
31 'The Star-
Spangled
Banner," e.g.
32 Countdown-
ending namers
33 Leveling wedge
37 Pen name
38 Renege
41 Amin of Uganda
42 Twice vier
44 Word of surprise
45 Zee: area
where the Hudson
River widens
47 Taj Mahal home
49 Heavenly higher-
ups, in
Christianity
50 Piece ofLe
Creuset
cookware
54 Chess piete
55 Peoplewith skill
56 Place to store
valuables
59 Station
SI Senseof humor
64 Old hat
65 Popeye creator
Segar
66 Type of museum
67 Kane's Rosebud,;
e.g.
68 Nobel-winning
Irish poet
69 It may needa
boost
DOWN
1 Peanut butter
brand

2 Alias, for short
3 Hankering
4 They may be
done by ones
who have gone
too far
5 Family nickname
6 Support crews
7 Game show
personality
8 "BWar": Shatner
series
9 Defeated
10 49-Across, por
ejemplo
11 Soul partner
12 Puzzle video
game with three
heroes
1tTopdraft status
18 "Of coumsel"
21 Along the way
22 Red Sea porton
is own gulf
23_ Wars: Rome
no. Carthage
24 Tuners concern
26 Words to
Nanette?
28 Playboy
nickname
29 Political fugitives
32 Island
instrument
34 River horse

35 Snake River 49 Verse segment
state 50 Hula Hoop et al.
36 Belaruscapital 51 "Golden Boy"
39 Tide type dramatist
40 Roofer's supply 52 India neighbor
43 Stage in afrog's 53 Small egg
life 57 Workbook
46 Medicare section chapter
for physician 58 Strong alkalis
servicesa SI030Rock' star
48 Destroyed the 61 Be indebted to
inside of, as a 62 Pick on
building 63 Outer: Pref.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

HELP WANTED
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
ANNOUNCEMENT
OPEN HOUSE
This Thursday, 4-10-14
from3 -S5PM
Food, Fun & Tours
Take a tour to see our new Remod-
eled apartments and enjoy free food
anti drinks.
*Limited Apartments Left*
University Towers & The 2nd Floor
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
734-761-2680
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
!Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com !
** AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
4 Bedroom House. Near B-School.
$2000/month. Call: (734)223-7777
4 BDRM HSE Sooth Ceotral Campus
1037 Packard - $2450/m+utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2300/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com

EFF. & I Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$770-$1030, showings avail. M-F
I Oam-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
HALF OFF SALE
HALF OFF SECURITY DEPOSIT
HALF OFF PROCESSING FEE
HALF OFF IST MONTHS RENT
*Limited Apartments Left*
University Towers & The 2nd Floor
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536S.ForestAve.
734-761-2680
NOW AVAIL. FOR FALL 2014!
Fully furnished 2 bdrm apt - heat, wa-
ter, and parking included. A/C and laun-
dry avail. Contact 734-904-6735.
STUDIO'S ONLY $1,195.00!
*ONLYa Few Left*
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536-. Forest Ave.
734-761-2680

the Broadway s
I'm scared,
know where It
anymore. Who
Vincent MMo
ing, some song
Should Someh
have clicked hit
there for me to
me cry! I mean
dig it. His voic
Wait ... how di
soft and raspy?
thataboutmyse
the only onev
me. How did Ig
Please help,
A lost user
PS. And hurt
to end! Whatsh
Dear Userna
hipsterBoy19
Thank you f
tify! I am sorry
Your request f
been received.
been created fo
My initial d
Spotify Sugge
Symptoms inc
identity youc
often triggered
ance on my n
Studies have sa
edly clicking
after "Related
to "episodic
loss of (one's)n
have referencet
within my ser
three hours so
self. The result
accompanied by
11:01 p.m.:
"The Wolves (A
Iver.
11:02 p.m.: Yt
"Single Repeat"
12:13 a.m.: Al
analytics highl
most recurren
might have bee
bother me," re
- you clicked'
Carey and playe
12:15 a.m.:
"Moodagent,"
"angry" (other
"sensual," "tent
for a custom p
to best fit your
song "Babez for
ist Lordi.
12:17 a.m.: Y
video of you s
chorus ("Babe:
bitches for lunc
friend list. Do y
lection of this?
the video show:
compression sh
Between 12:
a.m.: You went
binge. You pla
ists," Canniba
Fetus and Cattlt
"Starred" song
Within" byHa
12:35 a.m.:
ist Angel Ols
"Starred," son
which I first "
you" on March:

soundtrack. mode. Your profile suggested you
Spotify. I don't would enjoy the song's opening
end and you begin lyrics: "Everything is tragic, it all
o is this "James just falls apart" Fun Fact: Angel
rrow" you're play- Olsen is only three degrees ofsepa-
"And If My Heart ration away from Bon Iver!
ow Stop"? I must 12:40 a.m.: You shared song
m, but you put him "Wasting My Young Years" by
click! Stop making artist London Grammar on Face-
, I guess I sort of book with accompanyingmessage:
e is soft and raspy. "Anybody know any reputable
d you know I like stores that sell zebra snuggies and
I didn't even know tubs of B&J's Phish Food for a rea-
lf. I feellikeyou're sonable $$$?" (The post has no
who really knows likes or comments, but you must
et here? know that).
12:45 a.m.: You played "Starred"
album "All of a Sudden I Miss
Everyone" by artist Explosions In
The Sky ("Related Artist" to Bon
y, the song's about Iver). You played song "What Do
ould I play next??? YouGo Home To?" five times more
thanthe restofthe album.
*** 1:20 a.m.: You answered ques-
tion posed in previous song by
me: playing song "To Be Alone" by
94, "Related Artist" Ben Howard.
1:45 a.m.: You "Followed" my
or contacting Spo- profile (follower #3,581,751!) and
for your concern. sent me "Starred" song "From
or assistance has Eden" by Hozier with accompany-
Case #65859 has ing lyrical message: "Babe, there's
r you. something lonesome about you,
iagnosis is one of something so wholesome about
stion Syndrome. you, get closer to me." My job is to
lude the loss of please you hipsterBoy1994. Check
describe and are "Discover" mode for new "Recom-
I by an over-reli- mendations for you" based on said
music suggestions. lyrical excerpt that "you might
hown that repeat- like."
"Related Artist" 1:55 a.m.: You clicked "Related
Artist" may lead Artist" Lucy Rose and then "Relat-
blackouts and/or ed Artist" James Vincent McMor-
musical identity." I row. It seems you copied his artist
d your data points profile picture to your hard drive
vers over the past and set it as your desktop back-
you may find your- ground. Is it his thick beard or
s are copied below flannel shirts you like? (Please
rmy extrapolation: provide feedback so I may improve
You played song: future recommendations).
ct I and II)" by Bon Mood analytics [songTitles
+ genreTags + lyric analysis /
ou changed setting currentWeather (Ann Arbor: 3
on. degrees Fahrenheit)] suggest you
fter 21 plays - (my have, in fact, already developed
ight that the two Spotify Suggestion Syndrome.
tt lyrics, "What Quite a severe case might I add. If
n lost" and "Don't I was human, the ideal emotional
peated 420 times) balance to generate in response
'Related Artist," S. to stated diagnosis is a mixture of
d song "Broken." sadness and pity followed shortly
You clicked App by a "longer than usual" hug (If
and selected you believe this to be inaccurate,
options included please provide feedback below).
der," and "happy") I can provide none of those. But I
playlist I analyzed would suggest for treatment ofSSS
profile. You chose a steady dose of song "Medicine"
Breakfast" by art- by Daughter - a "Related Artist"
to Bon Iver it just so happens!
ou sent a Snapchat That's only my recommenda-
inging said song's tion.

xwordeditor@aoltcom

0409/1

4

i

WANTED: 2013 MICHIGANEN-
SIAN Yearbook. Will pay up to $120 -
depending on condition. Call Mark at
734-418-4115 ext. 1246.
WENSA MAK TIS'
IN
DO THE
CROSWOR

z for breakfast /
ch") to your whole Best,
'ou have any recol- Spotify
(If at all helpful,
s you only wearing P.S. Ple:
orts at this point). below to g
22 a.m. and 12:35 - your pet
on a death metal be kept cur
yed "Related Art- course;)
1 Corpse, Dying
e Decapitation.You P.P.S. PIE
"666 - The Enemy inquiries w
nmerfall. to change
You played art- worse. The
en from playlist discover t
g "White Fire," song was7
Recommended for not Compt
22 from "Discover" vibe?

ase click on the link
ive me your feedback
rsonal information will
nfidential at all times of
ease subject all further
ith your case number.n
course, for better or
question is, when you
hat your favorite rap
made in Copenhagen,
on, does that kill your

By BerniceGordon
(c)2014 Tribune Content Aenncy,LLC

04/09/14


A

At


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, April 9, 2414 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, April 9, 2014 - 7A

Driesenga, Betsa continue
dominance on the mound

LUNA ANNA ARCHEY/Daily
Ffth-year senior Ben Ballantine will earn the starting nod Thursday when the Wolnerines welcome Nostre Dame.
M'eyes Irish rematch

By ZACH SHAW Dame, Illinois or the New
Daily Sports Writer York Yankees, we still have to
compete and play our game."
Nearly halfway through the The desire to win is
Big Ten season, the Michigan showcased in Bakich's decision
baseball team is still searching to list senior right-hander and
for its identity. season-long ace Ben Ballantine
During the first eight games as the starter.
of their After struggling in Friday's
homestand, 7-6losstoMinnesota,Ballantine
the Wolverines Notre Dame is looking to accomplish exactly
showed at Michigan what he did against Notre Dame
glimpses of on March 1, in which he pitched
greatness on Matchup: 5.2 shutout innings, striking
the mound, at 10-20; out six while allowing just five
the plate and Michigan baserunners in Michigan's 4-2
in the field. But 14-17-1 extra-inning victory.
after dropping When: Offensively, the Wolverines
two of three Wednesday have improved from their slow
to Minnesota, 7 P.M. start to the season. Quality
Michigan is Where: tay at-bats - ones that result in
still looking to Fisher Stadium hitting the ball hard or getting
consistently on base via a walk - have been
put all Radi e.com increasingsteadily, culminating
the pieces in a season-high 53 percent
together. of plate appearances against
Before going back on the Minnesota.
road, the Wolverines (4-5 Big Michigan went 1-2 against
Ten, 14-17-1 overall) will play the Golden Gophers, but was in
once more in Ann Arbor, this contention the entire weekend
time in a rematch against Notre against one of the many talented
Dame. And though the game Big Ten teams.
has no impact on either team's "We were two hits away from
conference title aspirations, going 4-0 this past week, but
Michigan coach Erik Bakich things didn't go our way and
isn't taking any breaks. we ended up 2-2," Bakich said.
"Conference game or non- "It was our best quality at-bat
conference game, it's still a weekend of the season, we did
game," Bakich said. "It doesn't a nice job of putting the ball in
matter to me - we still want play, and that was reflected in
to win. I don't care if it's Notre the runs we scored and hard

contact we made. More often
than not, that will result in
success for us."
Success against the Irish (1-14
ACC, 10-20) will require more
than just luck. After facing No.
1 Florida State, Notre Dame will
seek revenge in Ann Arbor with
more hunger and experience.
"We both had the same
struggles early on," Bakich said.
"We were both getting new
fields during the offseason, and
didn't get the same amount of
reps that either of us would've
liked.
"The game was early in the
year, but it went into extra
innings and was a pretty evenly
matched back-and-forth game.
"Playing in the ACC, they
don't have the record they want
to have. But they're certainly
going to be battle-tested,
and we expect it to be a good
opportunity to compete."
Before returning to the Big
Ten slate, the Wolverines will
look to put it all together to end
their homestand on a strong
note - and perhaps finally find
their identity. According to
Bakich, the formula is simple.
"We know what we do when
we win," Bakich said. "We force
a lot of contact on the mound,
play good defense, and we get
timely hits and have a lot of
quality at-bats.
"When we do that, we're
undefeated."

Pair of aces
combines for five-
inning one-hitter
By JAKE LOURIM
Daily Sports Writer
Freshman. right-hander
Megan Betsa pitched a no-hitter
last week against Detroit.
Tuesday against Western
Michigan, the Michigan
softball team switched it up - it
tried for a combined no-hitter
between Betsa and junior right-
hander Sara Driesenga.
The Wolverines would have
gotten it had it not been for a
one-out bloop single in the fifth
inning.
That's how things have been
in the circle for the past month
- anyone coach Carol Hutchins
puts out there, including junior
left-hander Haylie Wagner,
does the job.
"It definitely gives us a huge
advantage when there's three
of us," Driesenga said. "When
we're all healthy, that gives
(Hutchins) more options. We
could just split games and we'd
be still effective if all three of us
are feeling good."
Tuesday, Driesenga and
Betsa stretched Michigan's
streak of innings without an
earned run to 28. If not for a
second-inning error by senior
first baseman Caitlin Blanchard
on Sunday against Ohio State,
the Wolverines would not have
given up a run since March 29.
Even then, Wagner went
out with a 12-run lead in the
fifth inning and, according to
Hutchins, was just trying to
end the game before the rain
postponed it. Before that, the
streak stretches back to the
previous weekend.
Wagner pitched a complete-
game one-hitter Saturday
against Ohio State and
continues to lead the Big Ten
with a 0.94 earned-run average,
so Hutchins decided heading
into Tuesday's game to split the
innings between Driesenga and
Betsa.
"I wanted her and Sara both
to get some innings today and
just keep working on their

game, regardless of what their
opponent was doing," Hutchins
said. "We can't control the
opponent, so just control what
you do and your pitches."
Because Hutchins has
divided the innings for most of
the season, the Wolverines have
only one of the Big Ten's top
19 pitchers in innings pitched.
They do, however, have three
of the top six in earned-run
average.
After a slow start, Driesenga
has given up only one run
in her past 25.2 innings. She
retired nine of the 10 hitters she
faced Tuesday and did so even
more efficiently than Sunday
against Ohio State. Including a
first-inning, seven-pitch walk,
Driesenga got ahead of eight of
10 hitters.
Betsa has started a hot streak
more recently. In the first Big
Ten outing of her career, she
walked two and gave up two
earned runs in one-plus innings,
getting pulled after a solo shot
to lead off the second inning.
The following weekend at
Penn State, Hutchins started
Wagner twice and Driesenga
once, sitting Betsa the whole
weekend.

around for her. Since then, the
freshman hasn't surrendered
an earned run and has struck
out 22 in 13 innings, making her
arguably the most dominant of
the three in the past week.
"I think she got determined,
and I don't know if that Penn
State weekend affected her, but it
was intended to," Hutchins said.
Betsa has changed her
routine a bit, throwing bullpen
sessions with a blue cutout
to simulate a hitter. She also
started coming in on Mondays,
normally the team's off day.
Tuesday, a flyout to left field,
grounder to third and bloop
single were the only balls in play
in two innings against Betsa.
The freshman fanned four,
mixing up the pitches and
throwing her live rise-ball up in
the strike zone.
A five-inning one-hitter
against Western Michigan
hardly translates to success
down the road - as Driesenga
said, it's sometimes hard to play
at 100 percent all the time.
But after a brief shake-up
in the first two weekends of
the Big Ten season, Michigan
appears to have three of the
best pitchers in the Big Ten in

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Carol Hutchins rotates three pitchers who rank in the Pig Ten's top six in ERA.

WOMEN'S GOLF
Wolverines suffer setback
at Web.com Intercollegiate

Michigan fini
15th of 18 tear
Florida tourna
By NATHANIEL Cl
Daily Sports Writ
It was a rough two
the Michigan wome
team.
One week after
second at the Hoya Inv
the Wolverines
themselves in 17th place
teams following Mond
at the Web.com Interc
in Jacksonville, Fla.
Despite a comeback
all Michigan could mus
tiefor15thinits lasttou
before Big Ten Champi
"We didn't
exactly bring
our best to this
tournament,"
said Michigan e
coach Jan
Dowling. Ou
Freshman
Grace Choi tc
was the
Wolverines'
best
performer, but even
only able to climb as
a tie for 50th place ou
100 golfers with a total
227. Her bright spots
scoring 75 in both of
two rounds with birdie
18th hole.
Senior Lauren Groi
an especially disap
tournament, especiall

shes her recent success. Fresh off
her runner-up finish one week
ns in ago, she managed to tie for 52nd
place with 228, which included
iment 11 bogeys and three double
bogeys. She did, however,
LARK manage five birdies including
er one on the 8th and 9th holes in
the first round.
days for "Neither (Choi nor Grogan)
n's golf could say that it was their best
round," Dowling said. "But this
placing tournament did show both of
itational, them the things they needed to
found work on here in the next two
eout of18 weeks."
ay's play Sophomore Catherine Peters
ollegiate finished in a tie for55th with 229,
mostly due to an 80 in the first
Tuesday, round with two double bogeys
ter was a and one triple bogey. She turned
rnament things around in the second
onships. and third rounds with scores
of 75 and 74,
respectively,
"W e didn't which led the
team for that
XaCtly bring stretch.
Senior
.r best to this Yungee
Lee fell the
)urnanent." farthest of
Michigan's
golfers. She
placed into
she was a tie for 76th with 233 after
high as finishing 10th last week. She did
at of the notch four birdies during the
score of tournament, though, including
featured one on the 17th hole of the third
the first round.
s on the But it was fellow senior
Alyssa Shimel who had arguably
gan had the toughest day of any of the
pointing Wolverines. An 83 in the third
y given round that was devoid of birdies

dropped her to a tie for 78th
with 235. Beforehand, she led
Michigan with a score of 152
after the second round.
"The third round definitely
got away from (Shimel),"
Dowling said. "She can take back
some confidence, though, in that
she had two decent rounds."
In spite of this week's
lackluster tournament,
Dowling was pleased with the
Wolverines' overall progression
this season. She commended
the cohesiveness of the team
and pointed out that Michigan's
average scores have been much
lower in the spring than they
were in the fall. After playing
five tournaments in the past
six weeks, the Wolverines will
certainly appreciate the two-
week break before Big Ten
Championships.
Nevertheless, Dowling
stressed that minor adjustments,
not major changes, are key
to success in this year's
championships.
"Sometimes, when you play
a lot of tournaments, you fall
back into old habits, which was
part of what happened the past
two days," Dowling said. "The
break will be good in that it will
allow us to catch up on sleep
and make the adjustments that
we need to make for Big Ten
Championships."

I

,


8A - Wednesday, April 9, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Streak reaches 16: Michigan mercies WMU

All nine starters
get hits in mercy-
rule victory over
in-state foes
BY MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Though the lineup card coach
Carol Hutchins submitted
before
Tuesday's WESTERN 0
Michigan MICHIGAN 8
softball
game was different than usual,
'the final score looked much the
same.
The Wolverines (9-0 Big Ten,
30-6 overall) toppled Western
Michigan, 8-0, in a mercy-rule
victory that lasted just five
innings. Junior right-hander
Sara Driesenga started the game
in the circle and pitched three
reno-hit innings before yielding
to freshman right-hander
Megan Betsa, who capped off
the shutout.
Mercy-rule winshave become
old hat for this Michigan team.

which has ended 11 of its past
14 contests - all of them wins
- by way of the run rule. What
was impressive about Tuesday's
win, though, was the way the
Wolverines' scoring was spread
out.
All nine starters earned a hit,
and Michigan's eight runs came
from seven different players.
"I feel like we've got a lot of
depth," Hutchins said. "It was
really good to get some kids in
there like (sophomore second
baseman) Kelsey Susalla, who
just can't get enough at-bats
from me."
Hutchins shuffled the lineup
card before the game, giving
starting nods to Susalla and
freshman first baseman Kelly
Christner. Also in the lineup
was freshman third baseman
Lindsay Montemarano, who has
started 32 games this season,
but taken just 52 at-bats.
All three were slotted at the
bottom of the order, but none of
them played like it.
Christner got on base in
both of her plate appearances.
Montemarano and Susalla each
hit 1-for-3 and scored runs,
while each flashed the leather
on line drives early in the game.
Add in senior Caitlin
Blanchard, who moved behind
the plate Tuesday from her
usual post at first base, and
Michigan's six-through-nine
hitters batted 5-for-10 with
three runs scored and a walk.
The top of the order did its
share too, cranking out eight
RBI and hitting .583 on the
night.
"It doesn't matter where
people are at in the lineup,"
Driesenga said. "There's no
weak spot.
"Everyone's going to get it
done no matter where they are."
Michigan opened the game
strong, using two RBI doubles
from sophomore left fielder
Sierra Lawrence and senior
designated player Taylor
Hasselbach to open up a 3-0

lead after the first.
Those three runs would have
been plenty for the Wolverines,
as Driesenga allowed only one
baserunner in herthree innings.
Instead, Michigan continued
to pour it on, loading the bases
to start the second inning and
tallying three more runs.
The Wolverines' leadoff
hitter, senior center fielder
Lyndsay Doyle, came to bat in
each of the first three innings -
a sign that things were on their
way to getting ugly at Alumni
Field - as Michigan wore down
Western Michigan in the eight-
run onslaught.
The Broncos, though,
inserted freshman Erin
Binkowski to pitch the bottom
of the fourth, and she ended
the inning before any further
damage could be done.
Still, the stellar pitching
performances of the day
belonged to Driesenga and
Betsa who kept Western
Michigan from contention by
combining to allow only one hit
on the night.
Mostly, though, both pitchers
were just glad to get a game in
during the middle of the week
between series against Ohio
State and Michigan State.
"It keeps my arm loose and
gives me an opportunity to face
batters other than ours," Betsa
said.
Added Driesenga: "You
always want the ball and always
want to be there getting better."
Betsa and Driesenga have
shored up some control issues
recently, and both now appear
to be pitching with more
confidence.
Between the two right-
handers and junior lefty Haylie
Wagner, the Wolverines have
allowed only one run in their
last five games.
That's because right now, it
doesn't matter who Michigan is
sending to the circle, or to the
plate. The scoreboard looks just
as lopsided every time.

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Freshman right-hander Megan Betsa hasn't allowed an earned run in any of her last three outings for the Wolverines,
DURING MICHIGAN'S WINNING STREAK:
The Wolverines have outscored their opponents 140-19
Michigan has pitched a shutout in six of the last eight games
Sara Driesenga has posted a 0.33 earned-run average
THEY SAID IT-

"We can't control
the opponent,-
so just control
what you do."

Carol Hutchins
Sara Driesenga

"We could just
split games and
we'd still be
effective."

SAVE BIG before Spring Commencement!
Guaranteed LOWEST PRICES ON CAMPUS
Purchase your CAP & GOWN,
ANNOUNCEMENTS, DIPLOMA FRAME and
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CLASS RING!
Official Sponsor of Grad Extravaganza
Graduation brings many changes. Your checking
account doesn't have to be one of them. Talk to
a TF representative today!

A,

-4


8B


On Thursday, Oct. 24, Army ROTC cadets lift a weight together as a part oftthe CrossFit workout drills, intended to t
work.

KO/Day VmAnLOZNO/Daiy
am- Ashlee Baracy, Miss Michigan/Miss America 2008, walks the runway during the
fashion show at the Maize and Blue Go Pink fundraiser on Friday, Oct.17.




23 WednedayApri 9, 014 / Th Staemen

I Wednesday, April 9, 2014 // The Statement E3

Dear readers,
I wish I could properly find the words to describe to you
what the experience is of being a photographer. To explain
the phantom itch in your fingers of pressing a shutter even
when a camera isn't strapped around your neck. To be a
chaser of moments. To find inexplicable joy in shadows,
light and lines. To see life through a frame, constantly
composing. But if I could find these words and be able to
artfully string together a sentence to describe a moment,
then perhaps I would be in the wrong section. Ultimately,
this is what photo staff does with our cameras: We are
storytellers.
To be a staff photographer is to be on the frontlines.
It s not about staying in the shadows, but instead, it is
about connecting with your subjects in order to create
photographs with meaning, emotion and integrity. Our
staff photographers spend all day searching for the
perfect frame. They lug cameras to class, run beside
football players and push through rowdy crowds. It's not
only their technical talent which makes them great, but it's
also their ability to see the world through their own lens.
So instead of words, I present to you a collection of
photographs.
Yours truly,
Ruby Wallau
Magazine Photo Editor
COVER BY RUBY WALLAU & AMY MACKENS
THE statement
Magazine Editor: Photo Editor: Managing Editor:
Carlina Duan Ruby Wallau . Katie Burke
Deputy Editors: Illustrator: Copy Editors:
Max Radwin Megan Mulholland Mark Ossolinski
Amrutha Sivakumar Editor in Chief' Meaghan Thompso
Design Editr Pcr

Protesters stand on the steps of the Hatcher Graduate Library during the 43rd annual Hash Bash on Sunday, April 6.

ALLISONeFARRAND/bal,
Kinesio ogy sophomore Capri'Nara Kendall in a protest organized by the Black Student Union in front of Hil Auditorium on Monday Jan. 20. The speakers made demands concerninf thei campaign, "Being Blac at
the University of Michigan. ,"and gave university officials seven days to respond

a After eeven years, Donna Raifser , ya', Juies t are married at Vi 'av County Court
S',ii '


IMS

I WenesayApri 9,201 // he tatmen

cr. maosnu ..neuoer
-pso tai an -Neanesc av.F

.rriovascuyar Center of he rver y of Michigan

On Saturday, Feb. 15, LSA junior Haley Pfeil, LSA senior Mara Rubin and LSA senior Mark Byron play with Johntez Williamson, one of the chidren that the Dance Marathon at the University of Michigan
for in order to improve the quality of life for children with disabilities.

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Ann Arbor residents William and Sarah Dodds watch the newly opened Snake versus Dinosaur exhibit at
the Museum of Natural History on Sunday, Feb.16.

NcHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily
Chance the Rapper hypes up the crowd during his concert at Hill Auditorium on Saturday, March 22.

Freshman Danielle Williams goes up for a rebound during a Michigan vs. Wisconsin basketball game on Kaitlyn Weaver and Andrew Poje perform at FrenchieSkate on Sunday, March 9, at Yost Ice Arena.
Thursday, Jan. 9. Proceeds benefited North Star Reach, a camp for kids CS. Mott Children's Hospital.

RYAN REISS/Daily
Elementary school students Jadyn Freeman, Zoey Taylor and Sara Finachea experiment with chemicals
and food dye to make 'elephant toothpaste' during FEMMES - Females Excelling More in Math,
Engineering, and the Sciences - at the Medical Science Building in November.

Students gather outside the Lincoln Memorial during the government shutdown in Washington, D.C. on
Tuesday, Oct.15.


4B 4 T

Wednesday, Apri19,2014," SB

I TRESA MAi HEW/Daily
Don Pablo, an assistant tour group leader at the Perito Moreno Glacier in Argentina, makes his way down the
glacier's side over winter break this year.

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Freshman Cameron Stitt swims the 400 yard Individual Medley during the Wolverine's 172-103 win over
Michigan State on Saturday, Feb. 8.

LSA sophomore Fatima Chowdhury holds a sign during the Central Student Government meeting which moved
to the Rogel Ballroom after CSG chambers reached capacity on Tuesday, March 18.

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily Students packed the IM Building at the University on Wednesday, April 2, to see President Obama's speech Tight end Devin Funchess leaps over an incoming Ohio State player during the
St. Vincent performs at a concert at the Majestic in Detroit, Mich., on Sunday, April6. ,on raising the minimum wage. University at Michigan Stadium on Saturday, Nov. 30. Ohio State defeated Mic

ADAM GLANZMAN/Oaily
game against Ohio State
higan 42-41.


