~1ie k1lian 0.aig
()NE1 H UNDETWENTYa FU YEASF Eebuay ITO1IALF EDOM
___ Monday, February 17, 2014

Ann Arbor, Michigan

michigandaily.com

CAMPUS LIFE
Week of
events to
recognize
body image

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
LSA junior Haley Pfeil, LSA seniors Mara Rubin and Mark Byron play with Johntez Williamson at Dance Marathon. The event raised money to improve the quality
of life for children with disabilities at the Indoor Track and Field Building Saturday.

Over 17 years, $5M
Dance Marathon est student-run nonprofit orga- However, this year the group
nization in Michigan, with reached its all-time goal of
participants stand over 1,000 student participants raising $5 million throughout its
throughout the year. With 17 17 years at the University.
for 30 hours for years on campus, the organiza- "The goal is to establish a soli-
tion raises money and promotes darity between the participants
awareness for . rehabilitation of our organization to really
therapies at the University's C.S. show our support for the kids
By EMILIE PLESSET Mott Children's and Von Voigt- that we stand for, who maybe
Daily StaffReporter lander Women's Hospital and can't stand for themselves, while
Beaumont Children's Hospital in putting ourselves as much as we
For 30 hours this weekend, Royal Oak. can in their shoes," LSA senior
University students busted a Throughout the year, and over Molly VandenBerg, Dance Mar-
move. the course of the 30-hour event, athon communications chair,
The University's Dance Dance Marathon members said.
Marathon held a two-day party raised $446,399.57, which was Many dancers form Marathon
this weekend at the Indoor Track less than last year's $516,701.13 teams with various other
Building, where 700 students total. Last year, the event took organizations on campus.
stood on their feet for charity. place in April, giving the organi- Teams raise money and earn
Dance Marathon is the larg- zation more time to raise funds. team points by participating in

raised
Marathon events throughout
the year, including a pumpkin
carving event and a charity ball,
where participants interact with
the families and kids benefiting
from the organization.
While many other universi-
ties hold Dance Marathons, the
University's Marathon main-
tains a tradition of standing for
30 hours. Northwestern Uni-
versity's marathon also lasts
30 hours, and the University of
California, Los Angeles' event
lasts 26.
Brownstown Township resi-
dent Laura Calvin, whose fam-
ily benefited from the funds
raised from the Marathon, said
See MARATHON, Page 3A

Body-Peace Corps
creates Eating
Disorder Week to
raise awareness
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
The Body-Peace Corps, a
student-run organization,
along with MBody and
University Health Services,
kicked off this year's Eating
Disorder Awareness Week
with a Valentine's Day-themed
event on the Diag Friday, and a
Twitter campaign Sunday.
The campaign for awareness
comes a week before National
Eating Disorder Awareness
Week, which is Feb. 23 to March
1. It also falls during a larger
month-long push - February
is Eating Disorders Awareness
Month.
On campus, the week has

been held consistently for the
past decade, though its sponsors
have changed from year to year.
In the past, it's been run through
Counseling and Psychological
Services and the University.
LSA sophomore India
Peterson, Body-Peace Corps
event chair, said the week is
necessary at the University
because it helps remove some of
the stigma surrounding eating
disorders and helps students
form more positive body images.
"It's really important because
a lot of people have the wrong
view of eating disorders and
they don't know all the facts,"
Peterson said. "It'sjust important
to promote positive body image
beyause I know that especially
with the media, especially on
college campuses, a lot of people
struggle with having a positive
image."
The Valentine's Day event,
called "Trash Your Trash Talk,"
was sponsored in .partnership
See BODY-PEACE, Page SA


BUSINESS
3D printing
business opens
in Ann Arbor

Local store to
appeal to needs of
residents, students
By RACHEL PREMACK
Daily News Editor
Most 3D printing businesses
cater to engineers, hobbyists and
other tech-savvy folks with thick
wallets. However, this is not
the case at the recently opened
Thingsmiths.
Owner Owen Tien said he
opened the State Street business
last month to cater to anyone
with an interest in 3D printing.
"It doesn't matter if it's
sketched on a napkin," Tien said.
"We'll do our best to make sure
it's good for our customer."
Napkin-sourced designs are
not hypothetical. Art & Design
sophomore Rachel Snyder, who
assists with 3D modeling at
Thingsmiths, said she recently
helped a customer produce his
napkin schemes in two weeks.
"I find it actually really
exciting," Snyder said. "I think
the big' responsibility that I

have as a designer is to make
someone's creative idea a reality
and help them make exactly what
they wanted, exactly what they
envisioned."
Few 3D printing stores exist to
serve the average consumer. Even
fewer exist in brick-and-mortar
forms.
Thingsmiths fulfills both
of those rarities. Thingsmiths
opened last month and joined
what Tien estimated to be fewer
than 50 physical 3D printing
shops in the United States.
Tien said the Ann Arbor
location was ideal for attracting
tech-aware customers. He also
considered Bloomfield Hills
and Grand Rapids as potential
locations.
Most 3D printing shops are
online. They won't explain how
the 3D printing process works,
how to submit your ideas in the
requisite computer-aided design
format or a host of other techie
complications. There are barriers
for the Average Joe to explore
the much-hyped world of 3D
printing.
"It seemed to me that there
See PRINTING, Page SA

Ann Arbor residents William and Sarah Dodds watch the newly opened Snake vs. Dinosaur exhibit at the Museum
of Natural History Sunday.
,Ancient fossils fro-m India
on display in U' museum
67 million-year-old thanks to a University paleon- paleontological items, and a
tologist's discovery, it was an touchable cast of the fossil slab.
specimens include actual event that happened 67 The fossil's journey to the
million years ago. University was a long one.
primitive snakes Jeffrey Wilson, associate Wilson's colleague, Dhananjay
professor of earth and environ- Mohabey, discovered the
By TOM MCBRIEN mental sciences, delivered the fossil in western India in 1981
Daily Staff Reporter William R. Farrand Memorial but did not realize that snake
Lecture, this year titled "India bones were present. Decades
A young dinosaur pokes out before the Himalayas: When later, Wilson heard about the
from its shell, only to be met by snakes ate dinosaurs" about his piece and, upon examining it in
an 11.5-foot-long snake rearing fossil discovery, which is now a 2001, was the first to notice the
back to devour it. Just at the cli- permanent exhibit at the Uni- distinctive snake spine bones.
max, both are almost instanta- versity of Michigan Museum of "From this time in history,
neously covered by a mudslide, Natural History. we only have about five exam-
preserving them for millions The exhibit includes a life- ples of snakes with bodies, and
of years. This may sound like size model of the scene by artist this is going to be the sixth,"
a B-movie plot summary, but Tyler Keillor, who reconstructs See FOSSILS, Page 5A

HOSPITAL
Transplant
recipients
set world
record
Highest number of
heart beneficiaries
honor American
Heart Month
By KAITLIN ZURDOSKY
Daily StaffReporter
More than 100 heart
transplant * recipients set
the Guinness World Record
Friday for the most heart
transplant recipients
gathered together.
The University of Michigan
Health System partnered
with Donate Life Coalition of
Michigan to assemble the 132
recipients, transplant staff and
families at Art Moran Buick
GMC in Southfield, Mich. The
date was set in observance of
American Heart Month and
Valentine's Day.
"It's a great way for us to
share with the world how posi-
tive organ donation can be,"
said Sherry Johnson, director of
the gathering and volunteer at
See TRANSPLANTS, Page SA



WEATHER HI: 34
TOMORROW LO 25

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Arctic Monkeys impress with mix of material
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS........................2A CLASSIFIEDS-............6A
Vol.CXXIV, No. 69 SUDOKU.....................2A ARTS..... .... ....7A
©2 4 heichigarDaly OPINION.....................4A SPORTSMONDAY.B.........1
michigondoily.com


4


2A - Monday, February 17th, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, February 17th, 2014 ~N'ev The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Atlcioian~ailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBYVOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 125 734-41e-415 ese. 1241
pjahahin~dmioligandaily.cem kvoigewan@michigandaily.cam

Michigan Yellow Cards replaced

40 YEARS AGO THIS WEEK
(FEB. 21,1974)
After a vote among graduate
students defeated a call to strike
sponsored by the Graduate,
Employees' Organization, the
group elected to seek recognition
as a union representing teaching
fellows, research assistants and
staff assistants.
The strike was intended to
help GEO members negotiate
with the University on financial
and fringe benefits for graduate
student instructors. The GEO's
conversion to a union ensured
recognition the Michigan
Employment Relations
Commission and permit'
negotiations with the University.

24 YEARS AGO THIS WEEK 10 YEARS AGO THIS WEEK
(FEB.21,1990) (Feb. 20, 2004)

The University began issuing
non-transferable photo IDs
that also served as real cards.
The new system served as a
response to a number of problems
with University yellow cards,
including the problem of theft.
The new cards were modeled
after yellow cards and combined
the functions of those used in
the College of Engineering and
the Ross School of Business. The
cards included a magnetic strip
that allowed students to purchase
meals in dining halls, check out
books from the library and enter
laboratories and other University
facilities.

Supporters of the Lecturers'
Employee Organization
rallied in front of the Fleming
Administration Building
before the weekly scheduled
University's Board of Regents
meeting of the week.
The rally's goal was to
highlight support for increased
benefits and job security for
non-tenure track faculty at the
University. Other concerns
included higher wages and
increased representation in
University policy-making.
- MAYA KALMAN

Newsroom
734-418-4ns opt.3
Corrections
corrections@nichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
,por@,,schigadaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmait.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
EditorialPage
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classiied@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

LSA freshman Samantha Newton has a Valentine's
Day date with Art & Design seniors Callie Stewart
and Tara Ellis on the Diag Friday.

i

CRIME NOTES
League larceny In a scrape
WHERE: The Michigan WHERE: Church Street
League carport
WHEN: Thursday at about WHEN: Friday at about 3
9:10 a.m. a.m.
WHAT: A subject was WHAT: A car was found
reportedly disrupting with deliberate scratches
ongoing events and on the sides,University
possibly attempting to steal police reported. It is said
property, University police to have occurred between
reported. He was given a 7 p.m. and 3 a.m. There are
warning and released. currently no suspects.
Obstruction of Did they yell
justice Timber?

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Career advice Inequality

seminar
WHAT: Frequently asked
student questions about
academics and careers will
be addressed.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from10 to
11:30 a.m.
WHERE: Comprehensive
Studies Office, Angell Hall
Dance
performance
WHAT: University Dance
Department students
attending the American
College Dance Association's
regional conference will.
perform a preview of the
works they are performing
at the event.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre, & Dance
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Dance Building,
Studio A

lecture
WHAT: University
professors will discuss
how college systematically,
maintains inequality for
women.
WHO: Institue for
Research on Women and
Gender
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Lane Hall
History recital
WHAT: Students and
faculty will performa
musical history of the Star
Spangled Banner.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre, & Dance
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Stamps Audito-
rium, Walgreen Center
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

T H RE THIN GS YO U
An inmate escaped from
a prison in Florence,
Ariz. to be with his girl-
friend on Valentine's Day
Friday, CNN reported. The
prisoner, Joseph Andrew
Dekenipp was taken back
into custody three hours
after his escape. .
The No. 15 Michigan
men's basketball lost
to No. 21 Wisconsin
Sunday. Forward Frank
Kaminsky led the Badgers
with 25 points and 11
rebounds.
a> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY
In a speech Friday at a
conference for LGBTQ
youth, actress Ellen
Page announced that she is
gay, CNN reported. Page said
in the speech that she was
inspired to come out by fel-
low actress Laverne Cox and
football player Michael Sam.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lennitentatas Manauging NewEtditor jnatfun@nichigondaity.con
SENIO NEWS EDITORS:Ian Dlingham Sam Gringlas, WillGreeber, ahel Pn mck
and Stephanie shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar,,Yardain Amon, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michael Sugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Ztiga ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily,com
SENIO SP REDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbachb, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
an nail asr anno Len,,Oie dani, ne,
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth ManagingArts Editors akse@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,ErikaHarwoodand
ASnTNT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard,Gillian.akab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathewand
Paul Sherman ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SnnoENORPHOT OIORS: PtrickBarn n,,,,dnRbywaau
SISTANT PHO EDITORSison randTracy Ko,TerraMolengraffandNicholas
Willams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela Vasquez ManagingDesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: AmyMackens
tarlina Duan MagazineEdiS r nstatement@moihigandaily.com
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau.
STATEMENTDESIGNEDITORAmyMackens
MarklOssatinski and Meaghan
Thompson MnaginCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily,com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandDavidNayer
Austen Hufford OnlineEditor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
DougSolomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasMO Local Accounts Manager
Hilary WangNational Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum ProductionManagers
Nolan Loh special Projects Coordinator
Nana KikuchiFinance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The M'chiga" Dai'y ('SSN0745-967 is "uished Monday tho"gh Fiday d"ri"gthefaland wite' terms by
students at the Uive'sit snfMichiga .O"nec opy is aval'ble'ee ofchage to a"laders.Addtio"a coes may
be picked up at the Dailys ofice for $2. Subscriptions for fal term. starting in September via U.S. mail are $110.
Winter term (January through April> is $11, yearong (September through Apri) is $19. University afilates
are subject to a reduced subscription rate. On-camps subscriptions for fall term are $3s. Subscriptions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

WHERE: Campus Safety
Services
WHEN: Friday at about
8:40 p.m.
WHAT: A warrant was
canceled for a subject after
he was arrested for failure
to appear after driving
with a suspended license,
TUninersitv nolien,'nrnetnr

'WHERE: Noble House, 615
Oxford Street
WHEN: Saturday at about
2:40 a.m.
WHAT: A suspect reported
medical injury after
recovering from a fall,
University police reported.
The extent of their injuries
isn nkrnonne this time.

Recent Florida verdict
revisits self-defence issue

Like Zimmerman,
Dunn is charged
with the murder of a
black teen
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) -
A verdict in the city of Jackson-
ville is again raising the issue of
self-defense and race in Florida,
just seven months after George
Zimmerman was acquitted in
the shooting of a black teenager,
Trayvon Martin.
Michael Dunn, a white
47-year-old software developer,
could face 60 years in prison
following his conviction
Saturday on multiple counts of
attempted murder for shooting
into a carful of teenagers outside
a Jacksonville convenience store
in 2012. Jordan Davis, a black
17 year old, was killed in the
shooting, but the jury couldn't
reach a verdict on the first-
degree murder charge against
Dunn. A mistrial was declared on

that count.
The verdi
delivered in
when he wa
the shootin
old Martini
miles south
Like Zim
he felt his lii
he fired the
suggested t
see it that w
Followint
loud music
that Davis
he shot at t
handgun -
and thought
the car.
Legal exp
at least one
believed Dt
being scare
self-defense
few shots,
After more
deliberation
jury could
degree murs
"Althougi
dence suppc

0'

that the jury felt that Dunn was
ict is a far cry from one proper to stand his ground as to
the Zimmerman case, Davis, but his shooting of the oth-
us acquitted in July in ers in the car was excessive," said
ag death of 17-year- Kenneth Nunn, a law professor at
in Sanford, about 125 the University of Florida.
of Jacksonville. Nunn and other experts said
umerman, Dunn said Sunday that it's possible the jury
fe was in danger when was confused regarding first-de-
shots. But the verdict gree murder and the concept that
he jury struggled to it must be "premeditated."
ay. Another area of confusion for
g an argument over the general public is Florida's
coming from the car stand your ground defense law,
was in, Dunn said which was a flashpoint during the
he car with his 9mm Zimmerman case and, to a lesser
he said he was afraid degree, in this case.
t he saw a shotgun in Zimmerman told police he shot
Martin only after the African-
erts say it's likely that American teenager physically
member of the jury attacked him.
unn's story - about Martin's family and supporters
d, pulling a gun in say Zimmerman, who identifies
* and firing the first himself as Hispanic, marked
which killed Davis. Martin as a potential criminal
than 30 hours of because he was black.
is over four days, the In both the Dunn and
't agree on the first- Zimmerman trials, lawyers
der charge. decided not to pursue a pretrial
h I don't think the evi- immunity hearing allowed by
orts this, it is possible Florida's stand-your-ground law.
A, But in each case, jurors were told
by the judges that they should
acquit if they found the defendant
had no duty to retreat and had the
right to "stand his ground:'
That phrase is part of standard
instructions given jurors when
they weigh a case involving a
claim of self-defense.
3 But the state's stand your
ground law was technically not
part of either trial.
d"Dunn's attorney argued self-
defense, which has been around
forever," said Miami defense law-
yer and former assistant U.S. At-
torney David Weinstein. "I think
people will say that because some
of the language from the stand
your ground statute gets embed-
ded into the jury instructions,that
stand your ground has an effect."
Judge Russell L. Healey could
impose a 60-year sentence -
state statutes call for a mandatory
minimum sentence of 20 years on
each second-degree attempted
murder conviction.
But the Florida Supreme Court
could reduce the total sentence
to 20 years if it decides that
consecutive sentences are not
appropriate when the sentences
arise from one criminal episode,
said Weinstein.

Eruption debris is
used as a valuable
construction
addititive
SIDOMULYO, Indonesia (AP)
- The ash and debris that Indo-
nesia's Mount Kelud blasted from
its belly brought death and mis-
ery, and disrupted international
air traffic. But for many of the mil-
lions of people cleaning up in the
wake of the explosive eruption,
it was also a money earner and a
shot of life for their crops.
"This is a blessing of the
disaster," said Imam Choiri, a
farmer who was scraping up
the ash from the road to use as
fertilizer on his small vegetable
plot a few kilometers from the
crater of the rumbling mountain.
Choiri said locals believe the ash
helps drive away pests from crops.
The eruption of the 1,731-meter
(5,680-foot) -high mountain on
Java island late Thursday was
one of the most dramatic to hit
Indonesia in recent years, with
ash falling as far as 600 kilometers
(370 miles) away.,
Four people, including a
97-year-old woman, were killed
when the roofs of their homes

caved in under the weight of ash.
More than 100,000 people were
evacuated to temporary shelters.
On Saturday, scientists said
Kelud's activities were dying
down, in line with its reputation
as a mountain that blows its top
dramatically but then quickly
settles down for another 10 years
or so. But authorities warned
that water from its crater, along
with rain, could bring deadly
landslides of fresh ash and rocks
down river beds into villages and
valleys.
Army troops enforced a
ban on people returning to
houses within 10 kilometers
(6 miles) of the volcano, but
many people sneaked back to
check on livestock and clean up.
Authorities were finding it hard
to prevent people from returning,
given the money farmers stand
to lose by staying away, and said
about 56,000 people remained in
89 shelters.
"Our cows need to be milked.
If they aren't, they can get sick
and die," said Marjito, who was
riding on a motorbike with his
wife to his village around 5 kilo-
meters (3 miles) from the crater.
"We have so much work to do,
including running and hiding
from security officers," said his
wife, Dinayah. Like.many Indo-
nesians, both go by a single name.

Volcanic ash and debris are
also prized in the building
industry because they make
especially strong cement, and
sand diggers can charge almost
twice as much per load than they
can for regular sand. Scores of
diggers were collecting the fresh,
easy-to-dig sand, packing the
windfall into bags or onto trucks.
"Kelud is a valuable source of
livelihood to me and my family,"
Harjito Huda, a sand miner from
Ngancar village, said.
Transportation Ministry
spokesman Bambang Ervan said
that the Juanda international
airport in the country's second-
largest city, Surabaya, resumed
operation late Saturday along
with three others in Malang,
Semarang and Cilacap.
A total of seven airports on
Java - Indonesia's most densely
populated island and home to
more than half of the country's
240 million people - had been
closed because of ash on the
runway and on planes.
Three other airports in
Bandung, Solo and Yogyakarta
are scheduled to reopen later
Sunday or Tuesday at the
latest, Ervan said. The Darwin,
Australia-based Volcanic Ash
Advisory Center informed that
the conditions in Indonesia are
safe for airlines, he said.
'k

A rescuer carries a child to a truck for evacuation following an eruption of Mount Kelud, in Malang, EastlJava, Indonesia, Sat-
urday. The powerful volcanic eruption on Indonesia's rost populous island blasted debris 18 kilometers into the air Friday.
IndonesianNP volcano brings
death and economnic benelfit


I 3A - Monday, February 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

Dancing the night gaway

VIRGINIA LOZANO AND VICKI LIU/Daily
(1 ,2, 5, 6 and 7) Students at the Dance Marathon stand for 30 hours to raise money to improve the quality of life for children with disabilities Saturday.
3) LSA junior Alexandra Soos hula hoops Saturday at the Indoor Track and Field Building. (4) LSA sophomore Allison Mayer dances with Mott's hospital
patient at Dance Marathon.

MARATHON
From Page 1A

the events held throughout
the year allowed students to
personally interact with the
charity's recipients.
"They get an idea what
the kids go through,
especially my son," Calvin
said. "This is a good way
to see how he would feel
even after maybe a six-
hour day and how he gets
exhausted."
Many students and
parents visited participants
throughout -the event to
show the dancers support.
"We want people to see
what we do," VandenBerg
said. "We find that that is
more meaningful and helps

inspire them to donate." interacting with the over their feet.
In addition to-last families by playing "You just keep
minute donations by basketball, soccer, video persevering," LSA junior
visitors, participants were games and earning points Erin Figley said. "You have
encouraged to use social with their teams. to look at the kids who
media to share a donation At night when the struggle with these things
website link. Some students families left, the Marathon and take into account
on the Marathon leadership threw a rave to boost morale everything they have to go
team also stood on street and energize dancers after through and overcome."
corners during the event to a long day on their feet. In the final hour of
collect more donations. "There was a rough the event, participants
Over varying intervals patch but the rave built me performed the line dance
of time, Marathon leaders back up," LSA senior Kallie they learned throughout
taught participants parts Alpiner said. "You hit a the 30 hours. Many dancers
of a line dance that encom- wall but the rave pushes cried and hugged each other
passed multiple songs you over it and everyone when the total amount of
from artists including one is supporting. It's for the money that had been raised
Direction, Dream Street, kids." was announced.
Grease and Luke Bryan, Toward the end of the "Watching all the fami-
which they would perform marathon, participants lies and all this hard work
in the last hour of the event. began to feel the pain of we've been doing is culmi-
In addition to learning standing all night. Many nating in this event," LSA
the line dance, dancers students brought tennis freshman Wendy Wismer
spent the 30 hours balls and PVC pipes to roll said. "It's amazing."

Study ID: HUM00058635 IRB: IRBMED DateApproved:1/6/2014 Expiration Date: 1/5/2015
EVER HAD A CONCUSSION??
Participants needed for a study on the
long term effects of concussion

Who: Males and females in their 40's & 60's
who had a concussion(s) from sport or
recreation when 18yrs or younger
Activities: walking, hand and foot
coordination & reaction time test
Test Duration: 1 session, 2.5 hrs
Payment: $50
Contact: Doug Martini at (734) 615-9330 or
neurotraumalab.umich@gmail.com

HUM00058635
NEUR -
RESERCH AATY

A*


4A - Monday, February 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Monday, February 11, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycon

itmitigan 4a1,6,1
Edited and managed by students at
the University ofMichigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A SMART(er) option
Michigan should pass bill for a more affordable student loan plan
ast Tuesday, state Sen. Jim Ananich (D-Flint) and state Rep. David
Knezek (D- Dearborn Heights) introduced a proposal that may
lift the burden off some low- and middle-income Michigan college
students. The proposal, called the Smarter Michigan and Retaining
Talent Tuition Program, would provide college students interest-free
loans if they agree to pay a small percentage of their income back after
graduation. Michigan legislators should work to pass SMART because it
provides a more reasonable approach to paying student loans and could
make college more accessible.

The failure of emergency management

SMART will begin as a five-year pilot
program with $2 million of loan funding. The
loans will be given to 200 in-state students
whose adjusted gross income is less than
$250,000. Half of the students awarded would
attend an in-state public university, while the
other half would attend an in-state community
college. if more than 200 eligible students
apply, then students will be randomly chosen
out of a lottery. Loans will not exceed the cost
of tuition. For every year a student receives
the loan, they will have to pay back five years'
worth of payments. If the student went to a
community college, they wit have to pay 2
percent of their adjusted gross income, while a
public university student wottld pay 4 percent.
Community college students can't take out
more than three years' worth of loans, and
public university students can't take out more
than five. Since these rates are fixed, and the
repayments stop after 15 or 25 years depending
on the school type, this means some students
would pay less than they took out, and others
would pay more, depending on their post-
graduation income. The program requires that
all awarded students must maintain at least
a 2.5 grade point average, which ensures that
students spend their time in classes instead of
juggling multiple jobs.
This forward-thinking plan will benefit
college students and the state economy because
it prevents lifelong debt by cappingthe number
ofyears a student will have to pay backthe state.
As of 2013, 62 percent of Michigan students
graduated with an average amount of $28,840
in debt. This becomes even more problematic

for students who continue their education, or
have a reasonable gap between graduation and
their first job. Unlike normal loans, repayments
for this loan will start once the student starts a
job and earns an adjusted gross income above
the federal poverty level. This makes it much
more feasible for a recent graduate to pay back a
large sum of money right after they enter their
first full-time job.
College could become more accessible to
lower-income students with this program, and
has proven to do so in other countries. With a
degree, students will be able to go into higher-
paying fields and pay back into the system,
making it self-sustaining over time. Countries
like the United Kingdom and Australia have
student repayment programs in place for their
entire country. In Australia, the payment
repayment program has been very successful,
as "it has financed expanded access to higher
education, contained tuition subsidy costs to
taxpayers and managed risk for students and
graduates. There is no such thing as student
loan default in Australia."
Students should not be discouraged from
obtaining a college education because of the
price. Michigan should pass this proposal
while putting forward even more legislation
that makes college more accessible and less
of a debt trap. While the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act passed under
Obama's administration has the ability to help
many students and control student debt, state
legislators need to do their part to provide
their students with more opportunities for an
affordable college education.

espite the
rounding
better kno
latest rendition
of the emergency
manager law -
there's an intui-
tive appeal to
state-financial
oversight for
manycitizens.
Local leaders,
even more than
their federal and
state counter-
parts, are inca-
pable of fiscal
responsibility - wh
reasons or general i
at least that's the do:
However, accord:
and local leaders-
there's another stor
Peck, a profe
University of Br
delivered an insigh
sponsored by the I
Urban Studies on J
the decenralizati
policies in the wal
States' most recen
in 2007-2008. The
a graduate-studen
University, facilit
focused on the sha
Detroit and other r
To Peck, though
ety have paid a pri
Recession," none h
quite like local gov
decliningtax reven
to tighten budgets,
simultaneous reduc
sharing, local offi
forced to utilize ext
This reality args
true in Michigan
else in the country.
across the state h
under emergenct
since 2009. Curre
state treasurer Kev:
reviewing three a
finances - Highla
Park and Royal Oak
One audience m
Peck's talk le
credibility, direct
additional perspecti
Karen Majewsk
Hamtramck since
much experience as
with state-appoin
financial manager
Square took ove
manager of Hamtra:
it became the seco
has entered emerge
since 2000. Majewsl
coincides with both
"We're stuck bet
a hard place," Maj
the audience. "We
to maneuver. The
controlling our fins
come dictated from
Majewski hig
sentiment that lo

controversy sur- unfairly portrayed as negligent
Public Act 436 - and incompetent.
wn as Michigan's "Anything that we do is the result
of our mismanagement, and our dys-
functional politics," Majewski said.
"'We can'tcgovern ourselves'is the nar-
rative that's been put out to the people
and I think that's been accepted."
Despite dramatic revenue decline,
especially in hard-hit cities like
Hamtramck, citizens still expect
the same quality of services. When
ALEXANDER those services aren't provided, little
HERMANN consideration is given to local leaders'
condensed toolkit - and rightfully so.
Additionally, Majewski suggested
that emergency managers are, at
ether for political least theoretically, responsible for
ncompetence. or correcting these perceived failings.
minant narrative. In other words, the EFM instructs,
ing to Jamie Peck obstructs or nannies - depending
across the state, on your view - municipal officials
y worth telling. to prevent the reoccurrence of past
ssor from the mistakes oncegovernance isreverted
itish Columbia, to local control.
tful presentation "If this narrative is that local
Detroit School of government is incapable ofmanaging
an. 31 regarding itself, then in theory the emergency
on of austerity manager comes in and is our trainer,
ke of the United right?" Majewski said. "But in reality
t financial crisis those decisions are made and those
Detroit School, cuts are made, or those budgets are
t group at the made - essentially all decisions are
:ates dialogues made ... without the engagement at
red problems of any level of elected officials. ... In
st-belt cities. reality on the ground that mentoring
all sectors in soci- and that engagement does not
ce for the "Great happen. So it really is a dictatorship."
as footed the bill In an interview with the Daily
ernments. Facing last Thursday, Majewski provided
ues and pressures her specific frustrations. Simple
coinciding with communication with Square has
tions in revenue even been difficult.
cials have been "Emergencymanagers don'thave to
reme measures. answer in any way to the elected offi-
sably holds most cials," Majewski said. "Since (Square)
than anywhere came in on July 1st, we have seen not
Here, seven cities one single number - no budget infor-
ave been placed mation at all has been given to us."
y management Similar issues have arisen in
tly, Michigan's other cities. Emergency managers in
in Clinton is also Pontiac, for example, ultimately cut
idditional cities' part-time city councilmembers' pay to
nd Park, Lincoln zero, and never restored their salaries,
Township. citingcthe council's lack ofcooperation.
ember attending Financial managers similarly reduced
t considerable Flint City Councilmembers' annual
experience and pay from $20,000 to $7,500.
ve to his claims. in practice, how can any mentoring
i - mayor of relationship develop when an obvious
2005 - has as antagonismpermeates cityhall?
anyone working of course, local officials - usurped
ited emergency by Lansing in their own eyes - are
s. When Cathy frequentlyreluctanttoworkwithstate
r as financial appointees. Butcthat isn't always true.
mcklast summer, Hamtramck City Council actually
nd time the city requested emergency management,
ncy management hopingthe appointee would use their
ki's stint as mayor broad powers to puthe cityon better
crises. fiscal footing.
ween a rock and Regardless, any instruction from
ewski said from financial managers isn't translating
have no room into sustained success. Two
forces that are Michigan cities have departed a state
ncial possibilities of financial emergency and then have
above." later re-succumbed to emergency
hlighted the management - Hamtramck lastyear
cal officials are and Flint in 2011. A third's return,

Highland Park, seems inevitable.
So how do we make emergency
managers under Public Act 436 more
accountable to citizens' long-term
benefit? Fortunately, barriers to
improvingthe existinglaw are simple.
For one, locally elected officials
should have more say in their
emergency manager appointment -
increasing the likelihood of creating
a positive working relationship with
local officials. Along those lines, it
might be more palatable at times
to temporarily grant local mayors
themselves - still responsible to
voters - with the powers of financial
managers. As Majewski pointed out,
emergency managers oftentimes
have never run a city.
Second, the governor needs to
mandate regular reporting to local
officials - entirely nonexistent
currently - to facilitate some level of
mentorship and a smooth transition
back to local government.
"One would hope that the
emergency manager would be
workingtoward aseamlesstransition
- so that when she walks out the
door, you're already up and rolling,"
Majewski said. "But that doesn't
have to happen. ... We could do such
a better job if we were informed and
partof the decision-making process."
And shouldn't that be the
point? Ultimately local control
will be restored, ideally on better
fiscal footing. Anything less is an
unquestionable affrontto democracy.
But even that's been uncertain
at times. In Pontiac, for example,
emergency management ended last
August, but oversight persisted from
the "receivership-transition advisory
board" with the authority to approve
all municipal contracts, hiring and
spending. One member of that board
is Pontiac's former antagonistic
emergency manager Louis Schimmel.
Critics contend that this consti-
tutes nothing more than continued
state control - without the supposed
legitimacy of financial emergency.
But what are our alternatives?
Peck and Majewski think they have
the answer.
Bailout.
And though the word has developed
a negative connotation in our lexicon,
we previously used other words to
describe the same phenomenon -
revenue-sharingkey amongthem.
"Our revenue-sharing has been
cut to the degree that the narrative
now has become absolutely one of
bailout," Majewski said at Peck's
presentation. "Promises that were
made to municipalities decades
ago and then slowly clawed back
- there's no recognition that those
promises were ever made. Now
in order for us to reclaim those
promises, we're coming begging and
our requests are delegitimized."
"The austerity is the new norm."
- Alexander Hermann can be
reached at aherm@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
KARIN LAVIE I
Pathos for philanthropy

THE UNITED COALITION FOR RACIAL JUSTICE
No more excuses

"Sign up for the bone marrow registry, it
only takes five minutes!" For a week I stood
eagerly beside Be The Match's table in Mason
Hall promoting the organization's bone
marrow registry. As people walked by, some
smiled, most ignored me and some shuddered
at the misconceived notion that I was going
to strap them down and give them a spinal
tap. Most people don't know what our bone
marrow registry is or are stuck on false
misinterpretations about it from watching
too much "House" or "Grey's Anatomy."
When students approach the table, I tell them
that bone marrow transplants are potential
lifesavers for people with leukemia, lymphoma
or other blood-borne diseases, used often as a
last resort. Registering is as simple as filling
out a form and having a quick cheek swab, and
the information is saved on a database until
you are 61 years old. If they find that you are
a match, which is pretty rare, there is a new
donating procedure that is just as easy as giving
blood, used far more frequently nowadays.
Even people familiar with bone marrow will
be surprised about how easy and painless new
technology has made donating.
I find that because of this new technology,
registering for, and if possible, donating
bone marrow, is the easiest way to help save
someone's life. However, in order to have
someone sign up and help, they have to
feel emotionally drawn to the cause. They
have to hear someone's story or feel the
grave importance of signing up. To expand
the registry, we rely on our most effective
technique: education. Once people hear about
the new procedure, they are likely to sign up,
but getting them to listen to my spiel remains
difficult. Recently, Michigan won a battle
against Ohio State University by signing up
more people for the registry. We collected
300 names and though this is an amazing
victory, the number could be so much higher.
Education and raising awareness comes
with its own challenges of being active and
assertive in public. During the drives, I feel

like a saleswoman, reading the body language
of the listener and knowing what to say to
make them feel the importance of the cause.
I thrive off the rush when someone signs up,
knowing I've made a tangible difference. It
feels even better when someone comes to the
table to inform me that they've been called to
be someone's match.
Volunteering through education doesn't
feel like raising money, where the donor often
doesn't know exactly where their money
is going or how it will be used. Of course,
fundraising is an excellent way to make a
difference - nothing would advance without
a financial push - but talking with people
from the community is a more direct effort to
help those in need. Personally, I feel invested
in a cause once I know more about it. Through
education, I realize the potential to make a
direct impact on someone else's life. It is a
different type of commitment than merely
buying a cookie at a bake sale and forgetting
about the cause 10 minutes later. Bone marrow
registry members turn off their apathy and
invest themselves in knowledge. Because
they stop to listen, they become larger than a
dollar in a cash box - they strengthen their
empathetic fibers for the good of humanity.
Every swab increases the chance of saving
someone's life and, because finding a match is
so rare, there is a potential for a special, deep
connection with the possible recipient.
Education doesn't only come through
standing at a table and being aggressive to
passersby. Next semester we are planning on
havingapanel discussion andbringingspeakers
who have donated or received donations. We
are also planning to possibly reach out to high
school students so people can be aware from
an earlier age. There are so many creative ways
in which to spread awareness. You just have
to be creative enough to get people to listen.
Education is the gateway to developing passion
and getting those philanthropic results.
Karin Lavie is an LSA senior.

Quick! When was the last time
that the University of Michigan had a
10-percent Black student enrollment?
That was a trick question:
the answer is "never." But many
may answer "before Proposal 2,"
which reflects the mainstream
University narrative on the current
crisis in minority enrollment. The
Proposal 2 narrative champions
the University and attributes major
setbacks in minority recruitment
to the passing of the 2006 ballot
initiative, which effectively banned
race-based affirmative action in
Michigan public institutions.
For example, according to a recent
article on the #BBUM demands,
President Coleman claimed that the
administration has "both hands tied
behind(its)back"andwill"waitforthe
Supreme Court." Proposal 2 has acted
as an excuse for the administration to
shield its poor record on diversity.
This narrative paints the
administration as hamstrung by law
and therefore unable to successfully
create a diverse and inclusive campus.
It spotlights the University's Supreme
Court affirmative action cases to
portray the University as a leader in
diversity rather than a place which
has consistently lagged behind its
so-called "peer institutions."
Thus, this narrative depicts
decreased minority enrollment as a
new problem rather than a historical
and enduring reality.
What has been framed as a singular
cause and effect is actually a longer,
two-part process: an initial drop
in enrollment of underrepresented
minorities from 1997-2006 and a
second decline from the time of
Proposal 2 to the present. While Black
enrollment did drop significantly in

the years immediately after Proposal
2 - from nearly 7 percent to under 5
percent in 2010, where it has remained
ever since - it was preceded by an
extenuated drop intheyears prior.
When President Bollinger arrived,
Black enrollment under former
President Duderstadt's Michigan
Mandate had reached an institutional
high of nearly 9 percent. This was the
closest Michigan has ever come to the
elusive 10 percentdemand ofthe Black
Action Movement in 1970.
But asthe institutional commitment
to diversity waned, minority
enrollment followed suit.
As Proposal 2 came into effect, the
nearly 9 percent high point of 1996
had already droppedtof6.8 percentin
2007, suggesting that changes before
the implementation of Proposal 2
caused this initial drop. Since then,
the University has proclaimed itself
a warrior for affirmative action: In
Provost Pollack's university-wide
e-mail, she reiteratedthat"Michigan
has a proud history of fighting for
social justice, including taking the
fight to promote diversity all the
way to the U.S. Supreme Court." But
again, this relies on the nearsighted,
myopic view.
There are ways in which
Proposal 2 has had devastating
effects on underrepresented
minority enrollment.
Latin@ enrollment has been a
neglected topic because enrollment
numbers have not noticeably dropped.
However, its steadiness appears less
reassuringwhenwe take Latin@ state
and national population growth into
account. Between 2000 and 2010,
Michigan's population remained
relatively constant, while the Latin@
population in the state grew nearly

35 percent. Yet that rise has yet to be
reflected in admissions figures.
Perhaps the most silenced narrative
of all is the one regarding Native
American enrollment,whereProposal
2's effects are most devastating. In
2009, 254 Native American students
were enrolled at the University, a
number that would face a 71-percent
decrease over the three following
years. In 2006, Native Americans
comprised 1 percent of the total
enrollment, 0.7 percent in 2009, and
a mere 0.2 percent ever since 2010. As
bothoftheseexamplesshow,Proposal
2 did have devastating effects on all
underrepresented minorities, a side of
the story that is often obscured by the
mainstreamnarrative.
Immediately after the passage of
Proposal2in2006,President Coleman
assured the 2,000 activists gathered
on the Diag: "I will do everything
that's legal to help us attract minority
students. But it's already having a
chilling effect."
In reality, that "chill" was nearly a
decade old then, and now approaches
two decades.
So when Provost Martha Pollack
admitted that the "percentage of
underrepresentedminoritystudents
on campus has fallen noticeably
in the last few years," we must ask
ourselves: "Are they recycling the
old Proposal 2 narrative of recent
decline and a willing, but hampered,
administration?" It has been nearly
20 years since the University made
a true institutional commitment
to diversity. It is time to move
beyond equivocations.
This article was written
by members of the United
Coalition for Racial Justice.




5A - Monday, February 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

The Thing-O-Matic, an experimental 3D printer used before the 3D printing lab came into being, sits as a museum piece in A 3D plaster model of Bo Schembechler sits ina glass case in the 3D printing lab at the Duderstadt center, courtesy of artist
the 3D printing lab in the Duderstadt center. It is suitable for hobbyists and was used to experiment with the idea of using John Thomas.
3D printing for practical uses.
A new endeavor open to the Average Joe

Digital fabricatian specialist Shame 'rady demxnstrates hem en axe a handheld An abject is printed for a team daub in a rxhbtcs campetitixn in the 3D prirnting lab Digital labrication specialist Shamn Orady examines a fanctianing madel salar
laser scanner mhich is ased tx create 3D cormpater mnadels at narixas xbjects in in the Daderstadt center. panel that was made in the 3D printing lab in the Daderstadt center.
the 3D printing lab in the Daderstadt center.

PRINTING
From Page 1A
should be a process where
someone with no experience with
3D printing or no experience with
the CAD stuff could walk in and
have a conversation with someone
and discuss what they want to
have," Tien said.
Located on State Street,
Thingsmiths is in a small room
above Five Guys. Printed objects
sit on shelves around the room
- a multicolored rocket, a tiny,
detailed Eiffel Tower and even
a small bust of a Thingsmiths
volunteer. With aprinterrunning,
the smell of a glue gun lingers and
it sounds vaguely like a Clinton-
era Ethernet connection.

Those printers, Tien said, are
similar to industrial models -
minus a few hundred thousand
dollars. Nevertheless, he said the
printers have 90 percent of the
capability of the arm-and-a-leg
ones.
"A lot of it is a difference
in volume and a difference in
precision," Tien said. "If you're
prototyping an automotive
engine, you need the accuracy
to be down to 10 microns and
you need to be able to print a
250-pound piece. The average
consumer is not gonna do that."
The low-cost printers allow
the products to remain relatively
cheap. For instance, a custom-
built iPhone case costs about $10.
That's one thing the average
customer might like from a 3D

printer. Custom-made cookie
cutters, jewelry and figurines are
other options. Most prominent
is the potential 3D printers have
for fixing or tinkering with
household objects. Tien said
custom-made fixes for a broken
or off-kilter object is where he
sees 3D printing integrating itself
most prominently in the typical
consumer's life.
"The end target is the average
person on the street," Tien said.
"They'll say, 'I broke this part, I
need it fixed by tomorrow. I could
order it through Amazon and
maybe have it in a day, or I could
have it in an hour."'
Synder added that 3D printing
could help eliminate the custom
of tossing broken objects. Along
with making it easier to fix broken

objects, Synder said 3D printing
can make objects more personal-
ized, more sentimental and more
likely to not end up in America's
growing landfills.
"You can throw away your
blender because it's a blender,"
Synder said. "It doesn't work,
why would you fix it? But you'd
never throw away that treasured
stuffed animal."
Allowing people to select
their color and monogram their
products will ensure they will
hold on to them, which is possible
with 3D printed products.
"Creatingmore personalization
in the manufacturing business,
getting people to be really
attached to their appliances or
new technology, they're gonna
wanna fix them more often

instead of just throwing them
away," Snyder said. "3D modelling
offers a really new exciting
possibility in that field because
you can personalize products."
However, 3D printing is still
relatively unknown. That lack of
awareness, Tien said, is his busi-
ness' key issue. He said he became
interested in it in his early adult-
hood, during his college years at
Grand Valley State University and
running a coffee shop in Midland.
"I mean it is cool, right?" Tien
said. "I'll be honest, I like shiny
new things. I just am one of those
people."
He chuckled and added that he
was also inspired by Robohand, a
3D-printed medical advancement
that's helped over 200 people
globally.

"It's one of those great exam-
ples where the average guy has a
problem, collaborates with some-
one across the world online and
comes up with a solution that's
being spread around the world
and actually helping people," Tien
said. "It's hard not to fall in love
with that sort of narrative."
That echoes the story that
Snyder has seen in her time at
Thingsmiths. She said 3D printing
is enabling people who lack
manufacturing or design training
like her and her peers.
"I think to some extent every
person is a creator is a designer,"
Snyder said. "Realizing that we
all have that responsibility and
thinking of smarter solutions
working with everyone can really
make that difference."
to donate, we can do something
with these numbers and help
these numbers diminish for
sure," Johnson said.
Donor registry is open at
giftoflifemichigan.org and
wolverinesforlife.org.


TRANSPLANT
From Page 1A
Donate Life Coalition of Michi-
gan.
Recipients, 58 of whom
received heart transplants from
the University, hailed from
many transplant centers. Other
facilities present included
Cleveland Clinic Transplant

Center, Henry Ford Hospital,
William Beaumont Hospital,
DMC Children's Hospital of
Michigan, Spectrum Health
and Cincinnati Transplant
Center.
This accomplishment was
also a tribute to American
Heart Month, which celebrated
its 50th anniversary this year
after being signed into law by
President Lyndon Johnson in

1964.
Setting the record required
detailed criteria requested by
the Guinness World Record
organization including medical
proof from each recipient and
representatives from each
center. Official counts were
made in a specific manner to
ensure that the world record
was broken.
"We want to show how

important is to get people
involved in signing up on the
registry and making their
wishes known," Johnson said.
As a representative of Donate
Life Coalition of Michigan,
Johnson's goal was to spread
organ donor registry awareness
as a result of the gathering.
Currently, there are 3,000
people in Michigan waiting for
an organ transplant. One organ

donor can save the lives of
eight people, and with eyes and
tissue donations, one person
can improve the lives of up to
50 people.
"If we can make people aware
of how important it is to sign up


FOSSILS
From Page 1A
Smith said, explaining the rarity
of the fossil.
Wilson and Mohabey named
the snake Sanajeh indicus,
meaning "ancient gape from
India." This name comes from
the fact that the snake had its jaw
BODY-PEACE
From Page 1A
with student organization Do
Random Acts of Kindness. It
encouraged students to build a
more positive self-image through
writing negative thoughts and
feelings about their bodies
on pieces of paper and then
crumpling them up and throwing
them away. Volunteers also
handed out free flowers with
inspirational quotes attached.

hinge in front of its neck, instead
of behind the head as many
modern snakes do. As a result, it
could not open its mouth as wide.
Wilson added that not many
people realize that dinosaurs
could be prey for other types of
animals. This specific dinosaur,
a sauropod, would likely have
grown to be about 70 feet in
length. However, at the time of its
Peterson estimated that about
700 flowers were handed out
throughout the day, and said that
most participants had a positive
reaction to the event.
"Almost every person that
participated in the 'Trash Your
Trash Talk' activity commented
on how much they enjoyed it,
and what a good idea it was," she
said.
On Sunday evening, the
group moved their efforts into
the virtual sphere, starting a
Twitter campaign for students

death, it was only 19.6 inches long.
This research fits into Wilson's
larger question about how India's
migration across the world
affected its biodiversity. At the
time that this fossil was created,
India was likely a solitary island
just north of the equator.
By studying fossils from
different time periods, Wilson
and other paleontologists can
to tweet messages of hope and
inspiration, as well as personal
experiences about eating
disorders and eating disorder
recovery, under the hashtag
#EDUM -Eating Disorders at
the University of Michigan.
Peterson said the group chose
to add a virtual component to
the week because of the amount
of time college students spend
online.
The Body-Peace Corps, along
with MBody and the University
Health Service, will continue

compare the animals to their
counterparts in Asia and North
America, among other continents,
to infer evolutionary relationships
hundreds of millions of years ago.
The new exhibit comes as
part of the current LSA theme
semester, "India in the World."
The Museum of Natural history
will have another exhibit opening
March 15 called "Wild India."
to host events through Friday.
Planned activities include
workshops on mindful eating,
a documentary screening and a
crafting night.
The groups will conclude the
week with the implementation
of Operation Beautiful, a project
that encourages students to write
positive post-it notes.
"People can look out for
inspirational uplifting mes-
sages that we're going to be
posting all around campus,"
Peterson said.

A COMEDY BY NOEL COWARD
One of the world's
most hilarious classics,
this tale of a weekend
getaway gone awry has
charmed audiences


6A - Monday, February 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Snake-handling pastor
dies from reptile bite

Man refused
medical treatment
after bitten during
church service
MIDDLESBORO, Ky. (AP) -
Jamie Coots, a snake-handling
Kentucky pastor who appeared
on the National Geographic
television reality show "Snake
Salvation," died Saturday after
being bitten by a snake.
Coots was handling a
rattlesnake during a Saturday
night service at his Full Gospel
TabernacleinJesus Name Church
in Middlesboro when he was bit,
-another preacher, Cody Winn,
told WBIR-TV.
"Jamie went across the floor.
He had one of the rattlers in his
hand, he came over and he was
standing beside me. It was plain
view, it just turned its head and
bit him in the back of the hand ...
within a second," Winn said.
When an amhilance arrived at

the church at 8:30 p.m., they were
told Coots had gone home, the
Middlesboro Police Department
said in a news release. Contacted
at his house, Coots refused medi-
cal treatment.
Emergency workers left about
9:10 p.m. When they returned
about an hour later, Coots was
dead from a venomous snake bite,
police said.
In January 2013, Coots was
caught transporting three
rattlesnakes and two copperheads
through Knoxville, Tenn.
Wildlife officials confiscated the
snakes, and Coots pleaded guilty
to illegally wildlife possession.
He was given one year of
unsupervised probation.
Coots said then he needed
the snakes for religious reasons,
citing a Bible passage in the book
of Mark that reads, in part: "And
these signs shall follow them that
believe; In my name shall they
cast out devils; they shall speak
with new tongues; They shall
take up serpents; and if they drink

any deadly thing, it shall not hurt
them; they shall lay hands on the
sick, and they shall recover."
Coots said he took the passage
at face value.
"We literally believe they want
us to take up snakes," Coots told
The Associated Press in February
2013. "We've been serpent han-
dling for the past 20 or 21 years."
After he was bitten Saturday
night, Coots dropped the snakes, but
then picked them back up and con-
tinued on. Within minutes, Winn
said Coots headed to the bathroom.
His son, Cody, told the
television station his dad had been
bit eight times before, but never
had such a severe reaction. Cody
Coots said he thought the bite
would be just like all the others.
"We're going to go home, he's
going to lay on the couch, he's
going to hurt, he's going to pray for
a while and he's going to get better.
That's what happened every other
time, except this time was just so
quick and it was crazy, it was really
crazy," Cody Coots said.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, left and Israeli Labor party lawmaker Hilik Bar attend a meeting with adelegation of
mostly Israeli university students and activists at the presidential headquarters in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Sunday.
0 0
Palestinian president shows
flexibility on refugee issue

Four South Korean tourists
killed in Sinai bus bombing

First visitor attack
in a decade may be
linked to al-Qaida
CAIRO (AP) - An explosion
tore through a bus filled with
South Korean sightseers in the
Sinai Peninsula on Sunday, killing
at least four people and raising
fears that Islamic militants have
renewed a bloody campaign to
wreck Egypt's tourism industry.
The bombing near the tip of
the Red Sea's Gulf of Aqaba was
the first attack against tourists in
Sinai in nearly a decade.
There was no immediate claim
of responsibility. But the blast
bore the hallmarks of attacks
blamed on the al-Qaida-linked
militant groups that have been
battling government forces in
Sinai's restive north for years.

At least three South Korean
tourists were killed and 12
seriously wounded, according to
Egyptian security officials. The
Egyptian bus driver was also
among the dead, the officials said.
"I am deeply saddened by the
incident," Tourism Minister
Hesham Zazou told state TV.
The Egyptian presidency called
the attack a "despicable act of
cowardice" and vowed to bring
the culprits to justice.
Egypt's vital tourism sector,
which normally accounts for about
11 percent of the economy and 20
percent of all foreign currency
revenue, has been badly hit by the
deadly turmoil that has roiled the
country since the 2011 revolt that
overthrew ruler Hosni Mubarak.
Sunday's blast came as signs of a
slow recovery in the industry were
emerging, especially at Red Sea
resorts in Sinailike Sharm el-Sheik.

"The sad consequence for
Egypt is that this takes the
tourism industry and devastates it
for years into the future," said Jon
Alterman, director of the Middle
East Program at the Center
for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.
Egyptian security officials said
they believe the blast was caused
by either a car bomb or a roadside
bomb that was detonated by
remote control.
Rescue workers found the
remains of four and perhaps five
people, according to Khaled Abu
Hashem, the head of ambulance
services in southern Sinai.
In Seoul, the foreign ministry
said in a text message that 31
passengers from a church in
Jincheon were being led by a
South Korean tour guide. Two of
its citizens were killed and nine
wounded, the ministry added.

Abass said he
doesn't want Israel
overwhelmed
RAMALLAH, West Bank
(AP) - The Palestinian president
on Sunday reassured a group of
young Israeli activists visiting
his West Bank compound that
he has no intention of flooding
Israel with Palestinian refugees
- his most ambitious attempt
yet to directly influence Israeli
public opinion over the heads
of a largely hard-line Israeli
leadership.
President Mahmoud Abbas
made a series of conciliatory
statements on some of the most
sensitive issues in peace talks,
including alleged Palestinian
incitement against Israel and
recognition of Jewish suffering
in the Holocaust, as he sought
to rally support for U.S.-backed
peace efforts.
Abbas delivered his message at
a sensitive time in the peace talks.
The sides have been conducting
behind-the-scenes negotiations
for nearly seven months. With
an April target date approaching,
there have been no signs of
progress. The talks have been
marred by finger pointing, with
both sides accusing each other of
hindering the negotiations with

1
1
1
1
1
121
2
2
2,
2'
2
2'
31
3
3,
3!
3'
31
31

RELEASE DATE- Monday, February 17,2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 32 Cake decorator 44 What haste
1 Tubers rich in 1 Discipline asnt 33 lcolar's deg. maes
beaecarotene mats 30Tina Fey attribute 45 Fall boomer
5 Wasn't indecisive 2 Many an 36 Joumeyto 46 Andean alpacakin
10 Bouillabisse, e.g. Bgyptian Mecca 47 U. of Maryland
4Taken bymouth, 3 Red Planet 37 Longtime team
as medication explorer Yugoslav 48 Leaves out
5 Mrs. Gorbachev 4 Shifty president 52 Fast foodrtycoon
6 Dancer-turned- 5 Borneo 39 Shade provider Ray
spy Mata primates 40 Hazy 53 Vegging out
7 Favorite Hall of 6 "Sit!" 42 Tried to hitlin 56 Weed killer
Famer of the 7 10 percent paintball 57 39-Down with
preh Sn church donation 43 Except if cones
9 Tablet with a 0 Oppositest ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
"'mini' sersion HNH
0 Tummym les 9Periodbeforethe L I S A B ON B T U P F OR
1 Egyptian cross Renaissance A T 0 N 0 M Y S 0 A V E
with a top loop 10 Avoid as duty P L E A S U c U I S E S
2 Black belt activity 11 Spanishfinger A NN T
4 Favorite Hall of food
Famer oftthe 7th 12Verse writer's 0 M G OB B Y I D 0
U.S. president? muse P T ETA S BS BO UT
7 Opposite of vain 13 Add a lane to, as c L U B M I I R H O N B
8 "How awful!" a highway L E I A K A E L
9 Greets with a 18 Animal houses a L I T S N B H M A T H
hand gesture 23 Back woe c H A P S A A I IS A A C
p Hoks sidekick 25 Paradise lost H A Y B I N 0 0 L I
3ChapSlickltarget 26 Leap
4Forewaming 27 Mother lto baby B E B O No N S c c 0 1
) Visisthe mail 29Bowluover 5SIT1 5 00NBI H A N I S
7 Computer 30 emalepig TA TBR LONDONBY
support person, 31 Bubbly citrus IS N E A K A E A C 0
9 end seate drink xwordeditor@aol.com 0217/14

rigid demands.
Speaking to some 300 Israeli
university students and activists,
Abbas signaled new flexibility
in one of the thorniest issues
of the conflict: Palestinian
refugees' "right of return" to lost
properties in what is now Israel.
"I am not looking to drown
Israel with millions of refugees
to change its nature," Abbas said.
"We want to put the problem on
the table and find a creative solu-
tion... you will be satisfied and we
will be satisfied."
The fate of the Palestinian
refugees is one of the most
emotional issues in the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict.
Some 700,000 Palestinians
either fled or were expelled from
their homes during the war sur-
rounding Israel's establishment
in 1948. Today, the number of
refugees and their descendants
number about 5 million people,
spread mostly throughout the
West Bank, Gaza Strip and neigh-
boring Arab countries.
In Israel, there is a broad
consensus against accepting a
large-scale resettling of these
refugees in any future peace deal,
fearing they would dilute Israel's
Jewish character.
Israeli leaders have long
demanded that the Palestinian
leadership publicly renounce the
right of return, and say refugees
should be resettled in a future
Palestinian state or offered
compensation.
In Palestinian society, though,
there is an overwhelming
demand for refugees to be able
to return home. Abbas is himself
is a refugee from what is now
Safed in northern Israel, though
he has said he has no intention of
seekingto live there.
The refugee issue is one of the
Palestinians' most important
cards in the peace talks, and
something that is unlikely to be
addressed until the final stage of
negotiations.
Taysir Nasrallah, the head
of a committee representing
Palestinian refugees, said "no
one can concede" their rights
and said Abbas' comments were
politically motivated. "We will
retain these rights no matter how
long it would take us to achieve
them," he said.
Kerry is expected back in
the region in the coming weeks
with a proposed outline of a final
peace deal. By hosting the Israeli
delegation, Abbaswasattempting
to reach out to the Israeli public,
where skepticism about reaching
an agreement remains high.
Sitting in front of a large
poster of a dove soaring over the
ancient walled city of Jerusalem
with a Palestinian flag attached
to its wings, Abbas ran through
a list of oft-repeated Israeli max-
ims questioningthe Palestinians'
readiness to make peace.
Addressing a common Israeli
notion that the Palestinian leader
speaks moderately to Israelis
and foreign leaders but takes
a tougher tone with his own
people, Abbas said, "We don't
have two languages. We speak in
one language. we have nothing to
hide."
As for the common saying by
Israeli leaders that the country
does not have a true partner for
peace, Abbas said, "I am your
partner."
Israeli leaders often accuse

the Palestinians of promoting
incitement and hatred in
textbooks and official media.
"This is true. It exists," Abbas

said regarding incitement,
without elaborating as to what
kind.
But he said Israel refused an
offer to establish a joint commit-
tee with the Palestinians and the
U.S. to address incitement in both
Israeli and Palestinian societies.
Abbas seeks the West Bank,
east Jerusalem and Gaza Strip
- territories captured by Israel
in 1967 - for a Palestinian state
alongside Israel. He has said
he would be willing to alter the
border with "land swaps" to
allow Israel to keep some of the
Jewish settlements it has built.
Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu wants to
retain parts of the West Bank
and opposes any division of east
Jerusalem, home to sensitive
religious sites. Israel withdrew
from Gaza in 2005, and Hamas
militants subsequently seized
control of the area.
The Hamas takeover, which
was followed by years of rocket
attacks on Israel, has raised fears
that the West Bank could follow a
similar path if Israel withdraws.
Abbas said Palestinians seek
a demilitarized state, which
he said proves Palestinians do
not seek violence with Israel.
He also rejected claims that a
book he published in the 1980s
denied the Holocaust. "I know
millions of Jews were killed in
the Holocaust," he said.
While claiming east
Jerusalem as the Palestinian
capital, Abbas said he wants it
to function alongside Israel's
capital, keeping Jerusalem as
one undivided city. "What is
the problem with that? This is
coexistence," Abbas said.
As for claims in Israel that he
rejected a generous peace offer
from former Israeli Prime Min-
ister Ehud Olmert in 2008,Abbas
said peace talks fell through
because "Olmert fell" out of
power. Olmert resigned amid
corruption allegations. "We had
to go back to square one," he said.
In a question and answer ses-
sion, Israelis asked repeatedly if
he would be willing to recognize
Israel as a Jewish state, one of
Netanyahu's key demands.
Abbas has rejected the
demand, saying it would
undercut the rights of refugees
and Israel's own Arab minority.
But he said if Israel received such
official recognition from the
United Nations, he would accept
it as well.
The audience of young
Israelis, mostly affiliated with
dovish political parties and
coexistence activities, greeted
Abbas' comments with multiple
bursts of applause. Israeli Labor
party lawmaker Hilik Bar, who
organized the event, called the
meeting "unprecedented."
It was only a decade ago that
the Muqataa, the Palestinian
government headquarters where
they were visiting, was under
siege by the Israeli army.
Today, the army keeps
Ramallah, the administrative
and financial capital of the West
Bank, off-limits to Israeli Jewish
citizens, making Sunday's trip a
firstvisit for many of the Israelis,
who took photos of themselves
next to Palestinian flags inside
the Muqataa.
"You need to pinch yourself,"
Amir Rosenthal, 26, a philosophy
and economy student at the

University of Haifa, said about
meeting Abbas. "It's real. He's
friendly, he wants peace, and I'm
here in Ramallah."

SPRING BREAK-SPI, TX. Sleep 6
ppl. Next 10 water park. Ph/txt 24/7:
866-943-6362 ext. 3. condorental@bor-
der-tech.com for rental.
LIVE CONCERTS
BEACH PARTIES
800-648-4849
r. 1
1.88A M Opnhsmr

' NORTH CAMPUS B-2 Bdrm, t
Riverfraat/Heat/Water/Parkig.
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 t
$1485 FOR A FULL 2 bedroom at For-
est Glen Apts. Price includes FREE
HEAT, 1 parking spot and furniture.
$1485 for the whole apartment!
Call us to tour your new home today.
734-761-2680.
$40011OFF
First 10 renals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1665.00. Great location,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
*AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Puckard - $2500/a +utils.2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
4 BDRM HSE, Puller by North Coa-
pu, 1510 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/a +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. I & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$655-$1395, showings avail. M-F
IOam-3:30pm w/24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLP RATES
www.The2ndploorSU.com

40 Acted without
speaking
41 British rule in
India
42 'The
Bachelorelte"
contestant, e.g.
44 Favorite Hall of
Famer of the
17th and 36th
U.S. presidents?
49 Catching some
z's
50 Shed skin
51 Tackle a slope
54 Celebrity
55 Favorite Hall of
Famer of the
38th U.S.
president?
58 Fill-in worker
59 Greek is
60 Revered one
61 Historicotimes
62 Midterms and
finals
63 Tour de France,
e.g.


i I

1 2 4 s e 14 5r a 9 10 11 12 10
14 15 16SEVCS
24 2THESIS EDITING.LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All Disciplines.
2s so r s 1 532 734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
se 39 aoH ELP WANTED
41 4 3
44 45 46 47 4
49 151 WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
4 ns so sn Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
58 58 eu Shops are looking for help in all areas:
616263Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
By C.C.surnikel2 4 ing, bo s, & discounted meuls. (906)-
(e)2014 Tribune Content Agency,LLC B2/17/141847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com



Monday, February 17, 2014 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


The bold women
of 'Broad City'

Surf boart. UNIVERSAL
'Endless Love' a familiar
yet endearing adaptation

Cliches abound in Wilde, "The Three Musketeers")
just graduated high school with
Feste's forbidden exceptional marks, exceptional
looks and what seems to be an
love story exceptional future at Brown
University. The only problem is
ByANDREW MCCLURE that she has zero friends. That's
Daily Arts Writer not hyperbole; "zero friends,"
as in some classmate asks her at
One thing's for sure, "Endless commencement to take a group
Love" is a 100-minute-long version picture, just without her in it. That
of what you thought it was going to sort of "zero friends." Instead, she
be: a privileged spent all four years handholding
and virginalC+ with her family, whose eldest son
Ivy-bound belle passed away a few years prior, and
with a bad case Endless Love sticking her nose in textbooks.
ofdickbag daddy Brunch at the country club is
issues falls Quality16 where Jade reveals what she really
despairingly for and Rave 20 wants as a graduation gift. As she
the plain-white- longingly gazes out the window at
tee-to-dinner, Universal the valet dude David(Alex Pettyfer,
working-class "Magic Mike"), he softly meets
tough guy. The non-erect script her eyes, and she says, "I want a
trips over its pseudo-erection of graduation party, with all of my
unneeded subplots, a sappy middle -classmates invited." Tall order
school soundtrack and, really, a for a girl who knows nobody -in
love that seems endless only if you her class. Well, guess what, David
unambiguously define "endless" exercises his social puppeteering
as "eh, er, about two months." and the party's a huge hit. Love
That said, the hilm still holds some sparks between the two teens and
redeeming value in its approach a summer full of quixotic water
and twists. I balloon fights and Abercrombie-
Jade Butterfield (Gabriella like hide-and-seek games in

the woods kicks off Alas, the
dickbag dad (Bruce Greenwood,
"Star Trek") will have none of it!
"You'll be a failure, just like your
father," the dad tells David during
some "important" scene.,
Notwithstanding its outward
shittiness, like -unwarranted
plot decisions and lazy, mawkish
scripting, the movie softens
the histrionic blow via clever
character flaws and moments of
spellbinding effect. But this effect
is both a blessing and a curse -
while it adds layers to a thinly
veiled script, it also complicates
the narrative in a "huh, what
the fudge" fashion. in the end,
though, certain characters, like
the receptive fathers of the two
lovers, provide ace perfornances
as men with dark pasts trying to
make the future a little brighter.
Despite its palpable campiness
and the fact that it cutely released
on Valentine's Day, the "Endless
Love" films of the world still
merit a bookshelf in the library
of romantic sensibilities. Unless
you're asexual, a nihilist or
just think whatever mom and
dad had back in the day was
manufactured-by-the-state

bullshit, the idyllic romance
titillates us in a way-few films
can - in an existential, ."I know
I probably won't ever have this,
but it's OK to dream" way. These
"shitty roms" matter because
they say what no other film genre
or sensibility has the brass balls
to say: We know you all want
this, so here's Exhibit A. Fuck
naturalism, this stuff might make
you laugh but it also makes you
think about what could have
been and what could be, whether
you're a romantic or a stone-face
pretending not to be a romantic.
Filmmaker Shana Feste
("Country Strong") knows what
she's doing when she decides on
a "feel this way" soundtrack, or
a romantic climax at the airport,
or a punk slugging away at a
punching bag in an unfinished
garage. She understands that it's
"bad"by commercial, middlebrow
standards, but she doesn't
care. Because "Endless Love"
isn't about avoiding derivative
plot placement or sexy lensing,
it's about feeling nostalgia at a
distance from reality - something
supposedly we are too refined or
intellectual to experience.

1
not ex
idea of
charac
should
like. T
stoner:
they're
slacker
they're
fuckup
But Ila
and Ab
of Com
Centra
new "I
City"a
lightin
and qu
my fav
Ilan
creatio
Abbi J
and Ab
as thei
and or
produc
webse
before
help of
Poehle
Fict
two be
smoki
in New
als in I
TV co
shouts
episod
confid
of HB(
carto
third e
to a dy
full of
up a p
crush
manne
woma
sits at
ing Gr
face a
rulesv
wacky
explod
gate.
But
somew
Abbi s
er and
comed
of self
the pil
two of
physic
year. S
in sha:
her if s
awkw
Ilana a
buddy
stand-
Buress
pretty

wo of television's they dagger each other on the
strongest new female floor.
characters might And every week, Glazer gives
actly fit the conventional a performance that's equal
what a "strong female parts bizarre and brilliant, say-
ter" ing lines in strange cadence
look for little reason other than it's
hey're ' hilarious (I could listen to her
s; rendition of "sa-haand-wich
sha-hop" on a loop forever).
s; And let's face it, Comedy
Central's original program-
5. ming is a pretty dick-centric
na landscape. "Broad City" -
bi along with Amy Schumer's
sedy wonderfully vulgar "Inside
il's UPADHYAYA Amy Schumer" - is changing
road the game. "Broad City" gives
ire us stoner chicks who can get
ig up the comedy scene dirty - sometimes, literally, as
ickly rising to the top of with the most recent episode
orite ladies list. "The Lockout," during which
a and Abbi are the fiery Ilana and Abbi become home-
ns of Ilana Glazer and less after a series of unfortu-
acobson. Real-life Ilana nate events that includes bug
bi are UCB vets who star bombs, a creepy locksmith and
r eponymous characters a very nice immigrant family
iginally developed and armed with Mace. During their
ed "Broad City" as a bout with homelessness, Ilana
ries from 2009 to 2011 eats garbage bagels. Garbage!
bringing it - with the Bagels! It resonated with my
f executive producer Amy friends and me so much that
r - to Comedy Central. we actually screamed when
ional Ilana and Abbi are Lincoln asked her if she was
st friends clawing and indeed eating garbage bagels.
ng their way through life We see dude characters
York City. "Millenni- doing things like this all the
NYC" isn't exactly a new time - on "Bored to Death,"
ncept, but "Broad City" "It's Always Sunny in Phila-
boldly from its very first delphia," "Workaholics" - but
e that it's fresh and self- Ilana and Abbi don't let their
ent. It trashes the realism femaleness confine them to
D's "Girls" in favor of expected or accepted roles.
nish surrealism. In the They certainly aren't the first
pisode, Abbi has to travel female characters to chal-
'stopic island on a boat lenge notions of what women
twins in order to pick can and can't do in comedy:
ackage for her neighbor- "Bridesmaids" was hailed as a
from the UPS warehouse glass-ceiling-crunching raunch
d by a terrifying old fest (though I found this
a named "Garol," who claim hyperbolic and largely
a folding table shovel- unfounded; the real com-
eek yogurt into/on her edy gender norm challenger
nd takes U.S. postal came a year later with Leslye
ery seriously. it's weird, Headland's "Bachelorette.")
humor that "Broad City" But "Broad City" does give us
les with right out the two strong female characters
who aren't role models and
never claim to be - two strong
female characters who appear
at first to embody the Type A
Atypical Shy Girl and the Unpredict-
s t able Party Girl, but who turn
s e h out to be much more complex
and plural than that, especially
when they're together.
while their world is ' Whoever said strong female
rhat dreamlike, Ilana and characters had to be stain free?
eem very, very real. Glaz- "Strong" here should mean
Jacobson harness the well-written, honest, magnetic.
.y with a steadfast sense Ilana and Abbi are all three
-possession. As early as and more, because female
ot, Jacobson whips out characters shouldn't have to fit
the best moments of neatly into little stock boxes.
al comedy I've seen all They should be able to put
he literally slinks away weed in their vaginas or debate
me after someone asks whether they'd rather have
he's a mom and later, Janet Jackson or Michael Buble
ardly maneuvers around go down on them. Also: Gar-
and her dentist/hookup bage bagels.

'RoboCop' reboot makes a case for itself

BySEAN CZARNECKI
DailyArts Writer
This year's least-desired
remake, "RoboCop," is both
underpinned and undermined
by its decision
to do away B-
with the dark
and campy RoboCop
touches of the
1987 Paul Ver- Quality 6
hoeven origi- and Rave 20
nal. Director Columbia
Josa Padilha
("Elite Squad:
The Enemy Within") makes his
RoboCop sleek. He replaces the
original's jointed movements
with agility and realism. He
neuters it of ultraviolence. He
adds in naturalism, CGI instead
of claymation. It was wise on
Padhila's part to understand
the impossibility of imitating
Verhoeven. Here is a remake
admirable in its efforts, com-
petent, oftentimes cerebral and
talky, sometimes even great.
But for the most part, it lacks a
style strong enough to warrant
resurrecting a classic, whose
unique character had made it so
memorable.
"RoboCop" is, of course, the
futuristic story of a Detroit
cop named Alex Murphy (Joel
Kinnaman, "The Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo") who is killed
by gangsters and brought back
to life through technology.
Omnicorp, a multinational
corporation, creates an
armored suit to which they
fuse what's left of his body
and consciousness, a suit that
will be a powerful weapon for
the police and a political tool
for Omnicorp's monetary gain.
Murphy must fight crime-
ridden Detroit and he must
fight for his own humanity and
bring justice to the guilty.

Lincoln (played by
up comedian Hannibal
, who steals the show
much every week) as

Upadhyaya is enjoying some
garbage bagels. To join her,
email kaylau@umich.edu.

COLUMBIA

Checking errthang like I'm on parole.
For a relatively straightfor-
ward plot, "RoboCop" loses its
way in Joshua Zetumer's script
(his first). Fastidious conversa-
tions account for huge amounts
of the 118-minute runtime;
often the film feels much longer.
The political and philosophi-
cal scope of their conversations,
wisely disguised in the form of
corporate politics, is commend-
able, tackling everything from
invasion of privacy to existen-
tialism to the military industrial
complex. As much as I enjoyed
watching Samuel L. Jackson's Pat
Novak, a caricaturized conserva-
tive TV pundit, which reminds
audiences of this prolific actor's
comedic talent just as "Django
Unchained" had, "RoboCop"
plays out more like the cable
culture it skewers so deliciously.
Its messages, repeated time and
time again, leave little room for
interpretation. Said simply: This
movie is too cerebral for its own
good. Thankfully, there is plenty

of wry humor to balance out the
weighty musings of its players.
But Padhila and Zetumer add
such sentiment and longing to
this story. Their most effective
scene comes when Murphy asks
Dr. Dennett Norton, played by
Gary Oldman ("Lawless") with
warmth and earnest idealism,
to remove his suit so that he can
see his body. The result is stun-
ning and horrific: Piece by piece,
machines pull the suit apart to
reveal a glass jar of gore and ver-
tebrae, swelling lungs, a severed
hand. "Holy Christ," Murphy
says. "Holy Christ, there's noth-
ing left." Later, behind closed
doors, the men who control
Murphy - he's only a product
of Omnicorp - discuss among
themselves his humanity; Ray-
mond Sellars, CEO of Omnicorp,
(Michael Keeton, "The Other
Guys")' reaches the conclusion
that this is only a machine who
thinks he's Alex. (Again, this is a
long, long conversation.)

Philosophy aside, as an action
film, the theatrics and gymnastic
gunplay lack the bite, the
intensity you've been waiting for.
And coming from the director of
the very R-rated "Elite Squad"
series, we expect more.
All in all, this film has some
moments of true vision. Action
takes a backseat to its palpable
angst and philosophizing,
which is as much a virtue as it
is a downfall, since its messages
are done with little eloquence.
"RoboCop" wants satire, action,
intellectualism and humor.
Not all these elements blend as
seamlessly as they always could.
Still, you can't help but leave
the theater feeling that there
is real talent behind this film,
that Zetumer will one day write
a great film, that Padhila will
direct a massive blockbuster,
that Kinnaman, with his
rugged face, full of confidence
and pain, will go on to star in
similar movie cop roles.

Peace. Love.
Improved GPA.
Free Introductory Lecture on the Transcendental Meditation
program founded by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi
Attend a Free Introductory Talk
The TM technique is a really easy way to expand your mind,
reduce stress, and get the most out of life.
Not to mention school.

Monday, Feb. 17th 7pm
Tappan Room
Michigan Union

Wednesday, Feb. 19th 7pm
2002 Hogback Road
Suite 8, Ann Arbor

Conac Luri Jcos.at 73.66.5589or jacos*t or


8A - Monday, February 17, 2414

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

- Monday, February 17, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

WARNER BROS.

COURTESY OF SHOSHIGAMES.TUMBLR.COM

Shoshi 2014.

Something's amiss.

Sochi's influence
on social media

Cold and unfulfilling
'Winter's' adaptation

Olympics provide
platform for online
conversation
ByEMILYBODDEN
Daily Arts Writer
The permeation of the
Olympics into all facets of social
media should surprise no one.
Consideringthat my friends and I
have all live-tweeted, most likely
to the chagrin of our followers,
every award show this season,
this level of cultural obsession
makes perfect sense. So much so
that my mother keeps sending me
links (Mom, I love them. Please
continue doing so.)'to every cool/
funny/thoughtful article/Tumblr/
tweet/video she sees relating to
Sochi 2014.
Think about that: my
50-something-year-old mother,
who sometimes needs to call me
about working our cable box,
actively consuming and dispersing
social media surrounding the
Winter Olympics. What does.
that say about Generation Y? We
are the Kings and Queens of the
Interweb. We create, process and
respond to posts all day long. And
that mentality has resulted in huge
amounts of content surrounding
the Olympics.
There has been some contro-
versy about the use of Twitter -
by journalists and athletes alike
- with the hashtag #SochiProb-
lems. While some of the posts are
more lighthearted, obviously pok-
ing fun atthe host country's minor
setbacks, others are much more
scathing. The question is what
the Russian government is going
to make of these international
criticisms. They draw attention to

every imperfection and broadcast
it with avail.
While Twitter and similar
sites allow for wide dispersal of
information, other websites have
gone another route. The day after
the opening ceremony, an article
started popping up on my Face-
book timeline. Friends were shar-
ing it with captions of outrage. My
curiosity was piqued and I finally
read the article. The website pub-
lishing the article was one I was
unfamiliar with, The Daily Cur-
rant . The article, "Man Respon-
sible For Olympic Ring Mishap
Found Dead In Sochi," suggests
that one of the technicians dur-
ing the ceremony was killed with
encouragement from the gov-
ernment for a lighting blunder.
Thankfully, the article was a farce
- much like The Onion, The Daily
Currant is a satirical publication.
That being said, how many people
believed this article without fact
or source checking?
These pieces demonstrate the
potential backlash of increasing
globalization. But not everything
that has come out during the past
two weeks has been negative.
Some of the material created
surrounding the Olympics has
been hilarious, thought-provoking
or generally silly.
One of the best mash-ups of
popular culture and an Olympic
sport came from the redubbing of
an ice dancing routine. Twitter
users started pointing out the
obvious: pairs ice dancing could be
made even better with one simple
addition - Beyonc6. Luckily,
BuzzFeed followed through and
altered a winningperformance by
the University's own Meryl Davis
and Charlie White, taking out

of Beyonc6's most recentself-titled
album. The results are pure magic.
I am sure others would agree that
there should be a new category in
ice skating that only allows the use
of Queen Bey's music.
Another great combination of
pop culture and Olympians comes
in the form of a Tumblr. Shoshi
Games 2014 is dedicated to pho-
toshopping the face of Shoshanna
Shapiro (of HBO's popular show
"Girls") onto Olympians' bodies.
it may sound dumb, but for "Girls"
and Olympics enthusiasts alike,
the results are hilarious. Shoshi
Games 2014 fulfills all of the long-
ings I didn't know existed until I
saw the Tumblr.
In all honesty, one of my favor-
ite uses of social media is the use
of the mobile-app Tinder, and
the Olympic athletes have admit-
ted to it being used in the village.
Take that in. Olympians are find-
ing other Olympians through the
same "dating" app that college
kids use to find hook-ups on cam-
pus. In combination with the dis-
tribution of condoms in Olympic
Village, I can only imagine what
the direct messages are like. Sup
posedly the number of Tinder-
users has skyrocketed in Sochi
since the beginning of the games.
Can you really blame people
though? Tinder seems way more
exciting when you could become'
a match with the likes of Shaun
White or Matteo Guarise instead
of simply the kid that lived down
the hall from you freshman year.
The Olympics don't end until
the Feb. 23rd and surely more
gems will come to fruition thanks
to the Internet. Sochi 204
definitely sets a precedent for the
Olympic Games to come by way of

By BRIAN BURLAGE
DailyArts Writer,
It took 31 years for Mark
Helprin's novel "Winter's Tale"
to reach the big screen. The novel
- originally
published in
1983 - is a
masterfully Winter's
articulate
commentary on Tale
life in New York Qualityl6and
City, spanning Rave20
nearly 100 years
and exploring Warer Btss.
the cultures of
two distinct
time periods. It succeeds as a bold
love story, an urban tragedy -
innovative for both its scope and
colloquial charm. The aesthetics
of Helprin's writing are consistent
and augment the story's rich
devices. The novel's function
as a poetic, romantic drama,
however, is completely ignored in,
director Akiva Goldsman's recent
cinettsatic rendition. The film
misrepresents or misinterprets
nearly every symbolic pillar
and instead, strives to depict a
fantasficlA'callOus love tale.
The character relationships-
consistently fail to invigorate the
defunct and exaggerated plot.
Peter Lake (Colin Farrell, "Saving
Mr. Banks") is a thief in 19th
century New York City under the
dictation of Irish gangster Pearly
Soames (Russell Crowe, "Man of
Steel"). After failing to please the

boss, Lake decides to flee from
New York. The last burglary he
commits is of a Central Park West
mansion, in which dying heiress
Beverly Penn (Jessica Brown
Findlay, "Downtown Abbey")
awaits her impending demise at
the hands of tuberculosis. The two
fall in love and Lake resolves to
help cure herillness.
Weak performances by
accomplished actors merely add to
the film's contemptible conjecture.
Russell Crowe is a droog-
controlling tyrant that oversees
most of the city's underworking.
He is evil, and everyone but Crowe
seems to know this. Granted, the
role is tricky, he reports to ajudge/
devil-type.character called Lucifer
(played by Will Smith, "After
Earth"), who teeters on the verge
of clinical insanity and, for some
unexplained reason, is unable
to leave New York City when
Peter Lake flees with Beverly. A
mix of unabashed plot holes and
character flaws prevent Crowe
from delivering a truly powerful
menace. What we get instead
is a flaky, frustrated mob boss
- forever stuck chucking his
droogsafter a low-leveloiminalt
andhis doomed love interest.
The rampant time shifting
is another major component of
the film's gradual collapse. The
film employs deus ex machina
often, so as to coax the audience
into believing that the story is
set in another reality, but it can't
explain Peter Lake's quantum

leaps from New York in the 1890s
to New York in 2014. The script
offers minimal justification for
this phenomenon. It becomes
a part of the story that is to be
accepted and committed to
heart. Many aspects of the film
commandeer this same method
of demand.
Ultimately, many fans of the
book will be disappointed with
Goldsman's adaptation. A great
part of the novel's attention
to poetic detail was simply
lost in the translation. What
should be a marvelous story,
one complemented by crime,
culture, patriotism, history
and love, ends up as a shallow
spin on unrebutted time travel.
Helprin's New York City is filled
with a diversity of characters and
experiences - a winter's tale that
rouses compassion. Goldsman's
New York Cityachieves no such
culture.
Winter's stolid frost is often
associated with beauty. A scene
consisting of a frozen lake,, a
frosted bridge and a cozy cottage
should present some degree of
visual splendor. A love story
en-veldped'-by hi . gs t14
-especiallyinvokewarm etiment
among viewers, but much of the
film's chill somehow blows off-
screen. Whether by direction,
storytelling or cohfused acting
- or a combination of all three -
the same unwelcoming cold from
"Winter's Tale" finds its way to
the hearts of viewers.

'Great Beauty' lives up to name

their music track and replacing it 4 online interaction across national
with "Drunk In Love," a track off boundaries.


WE THE
FLYEST IN
THE GAME.
@MICHIGAN DAILY

By KARSTEN SMOLINSKI
Daily Arts Writer
Visually and aurally charged
with a diverse collage of mod-
ern Rome's splendor from the
ancient ruins
to the night- B+
clubs, "The
Great Beauty" The Great
relates the com-
mon story of BeutY
man's search Michigan
for meaning Theater
with an uncom-
mon approach. Janus Films
Though the
plot meanders
and drags at points, the sights and
sounds of writer/director Paolo
Sorrentino's ("This Must Be the
Place") vision of Rome never grow
stale.
Jep Gambardella, an aging writ-
er and connoisseur of Rome's high
society nightlife, loves to party. He
drinks and dances all night, finally
going to bed as the rest of the city
awakens. Leaning on the popu-
larity of his only novel, written in
his youth, Jeb has spent nearly 40
years this way. However, follow-
ing shortly after his 65th birthday,
news of the death of his first love
triggers potent memories of his
past and a lack of fulfillment with
his hedonistic lifestyle.
"The Great Beauty" tells the
story of an artist floundering in
apathy, unable to create anything
he finds meaningful. Surrounded
by pseudo-intellectuals, art snobs
and has-beens, Jeb feels adrift in a
seaofesotericdrivel and absurdity.
Toni Servillo ("Il Divo: La Spetta-
colare Vita di Giulio Andreotti")
plays the jaded writer, perfectly
portraying Jeb's inner turmoil
through his long, contemplative
gazes and those rare moments
when, unable to contain what's

"Anyway, here's 'Wonderwall.'"
below the surface,his face contorts
in agony. The narrative follows
him as he attempts to navigate
the multitudinous arts and rela-
tionships of Rome, searching for
meaning to inspire him.
The film's cinematography
embodies this search, mimicking
the artist's eye as it picks over the
world surrounding Jeb. Often-
times, it discovers one of the sub-
plots woven throughout the film,
such as a friend's suicidal child or
a washed-up, coked-out ex-televi-
sion star. These details round out
Sorrentino's portrait of absurdity.
The camera moves ceaselessly,
sometimes sweeping over pan-
oramas of Rome or a gorgeous,
turquoise sea, drifting over fine
architectural details or shaking
with the beat of another glitzy
party. The viewer gets the sense
that Sorrentino has framed every
scene with purpose and meticu-
lously planned every tracking
shot. Together, Jeb and the audi-
ence scrutinize these displays,
digging for purpose. The bril-
liant soundtrack compliments
this examination of art through
classical songs that infuse the
picture with their tone of wonder
and awe.
As Jeb surveys Renaissance
paintings and sculptures, incred-

ible landscapes and the bod-
ies of nude women, art and the
everyday begin to bleed into
one another. In one scene, Jeb
rehearses the words and actions
he will give to a mourning friend
as condolence. Even his social
interactions have become a per-
formance, showing how a life
awash in excessive art gradually
sinks into meaninglessness. The
messages soon contradict one
another and form an irreconcil-
able sense of absurdity.
Lacking in any completely
revolutionary ideas, "The Great
Beauty" inevitably draws com-
parisons to the films of'Fellini,
such as the decadent "La Dolce
Vita" or the contemplative "81."
However, these comparisons
come off favorably in the end,
evoking the masterful skill of
these Italian auteurs. With this
film, Paolo Sorrentino deftlyuses
cinematography and sound to
explore every possible facet of
art and meaning. By the time the
credits role, most viewers will
possess very few new answers
regarding the purpose of art and
life. However, Sorrentino's focus
on capturing the immense power
and beauty of this question will
restore any audience member's
sense of awe.


The Michigan Daily | michigandailycom | February 17, 2014

I

Wisconsin tops
Michigan, 75-62

Frank's red hot:
Kaminsky rolls

Wolverines start
cold, comeback
falls short as teams
split season series
By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
The way Jon Horford
described it, there are days
when the effort and energy sag,
and to combat the lethargy, you
have to dig deep to bring it out.
The Michigan men's
basketball team couldn't do
that in the first half Sunday
night, and an 18-point deficit
was too much to make up in
the Wolverines' 75-62 loss to
Wisconsin in Crisler Center on
Sunday afternoon.
"You have to look within
yourself, and you have to bring
that energy out," said the
redshirt junior center. "You
have to force it. I hate to use the

word 'force,' but it is something
that you have to get done if you
want to have success."
in an anemic first half,
the 15th-ranked Wolverines
recorded no assists and seven
turnovers to complement
32-percent shooting as the
Badgers raced out to a 34-19
halftime lead.
Though Michigan turned
a switch in the second half to
whittle the 15-point deficit
down to three, its luck ran out as
the Badgers stormed right back
in the final minutes.
"It was too big of a hole that
we dug ourselves in the first
half, and we couldn't really get
out of it," said sophomore guard
Caris LeVert.
The game looked like a mirror
image of the teams' last contest
a month ago in Madison.
The home team came out
sluggishly, and the amped-up
visitors drove the lead into the
teens. Then the home team
charged back, and, like the Jan.

18 game, the comeback attempt
fell short.
"They're really good, and
we weren't so good today," said
Michigan coach John Beilein.
"We fought back, and I really
thought we were going to come
all the way back."
Badger forward Frank
Kaminsky teed off on the
Michigan frontcourt, making 11
of his 16 shots for 25 points with
11 rebounds. The Badgers' 32
points in the paint exposed the
Wolverine big men, who hadn't
faced such a stiff test.
In a handful of Michigan
losses this season, LeVert has
carried the scoring with much
of the rest of the offense gone
silent, and Sunday was no
different.
The sophomore guard scored
a career-high 25 points on 5-for-
6 shooting from deep. That
threat from behind the arc,
combined with his quick first
step and ability to get to the
See BASKETBALL, Page 3B

By DANIEL FELDMAN have to tip our hat to him."
Daily Sports Writer Though Levert recorded a
career-high 25 points, matching
The Michigan men's basketball him basket for basket was the
team has had its fair share of Badger big man. Recording 25
second-half comebacks this points on 11-for-16 shooting, to
season, and Sunday it appeared go along with a team-high 11
another one was underway. rebounds, there wasn't much
After cutting an 18-point deficit Michigan could do against
to three thanks to the heroics of Kaminsky in its 75-62 loss.
sophomore guard Caris LeVert, "I just thought Frank was very
the momentum that had brought opportunistic," said Wisconsin
the Wolverines to aone-possession coach Bo Ryan. "He used his ball
game fakes well (and)
suddenly countered when
faded. And he was in tight
simply put, it Frank was very corners - body-
was because * . to-body. He got
of Wisconsin Opportunistic. edges to the
forward rim, and more
Frank importantly, he
Kaminsky. finished."
"He was everywhere today," Forcing his way inside to the
said sophomore guard Nik basket, Kaminsky enabled the
Stauskas. "He was hitting 21st-ranked Badgers (7-5 Big
jumpers. He was getting to the Ten, 20-5 overall) to control
basket. He was posting up. He the first half. At one point in the
was doing everything for them. first stanza, Kaminsky's seven
He played a great game and we rebounds equaled the amount

Michigan had as ateam. Using his
body to first create a gap to drive
to the basket and then finesse to
make space at the hoop, Kaminski
was the leading reason Michigan
(10-3,18-7)wasoutscored 32-14 in
the paint.
"We were able to get it to him,
and I mean he had to come out off
of the block a lot and they were
playing him tough," Ryan said.
"And once he got it 12 feet away -
12 to maybe 15 - that's when he
made his moves and actuallyused
his body as well as I've seen him
on a consistent basis."
As the game winded down in
the typical fashion Michigan-
Wisconsin battles go - like this
year's 77-70 Wolverine win in
Madison and last year's 65-62
overtime loss - it was Kaminsky
playing the role of hero this time.
Scoring three straight baskets,
including the last being an and-1,
the lead went back to eight.
Michigan nearly brought
itself back from the dead, when
See BADGERS, Page 3B


A CURE FOR A LOSS
Michigan can easily forget Sunday's
defeat by finishing a sweep of Michigan
State. SportsMonday Column, page 2B

WEEKEND WOES
* The Golden Gophers swept the
Michigan hockey team as the Wolverines
lost their cool in Minneapolis. Page 4B

I '""'


2B - February 17, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SPdRe wMONDAY COLUMN
Beatdown disappears with win next weekend

omehow, Michigan is still
tied for first in the Big
Ten.
The 75-62 implosion to
Wisconsin was a bad loss. A
really bad loss. Like scoring
19 points in
the first half
without an
assist and
finishing
the game
without a
single steal
or block, bad. EVERETT
But thanks COOK
to Nebraska
upsetting
Michigan State on the road, the
beatingthat the Wolverines
took on Sunday almost
disappears.
It seemed like the majority of
the Michigan men's basketball
team's offensive weapons
played like somebody else was
going to step up. Freshman
point guard Derrick Walton
Jr., finished the game with
zero points on six shots despite
scoring in double figures in
four of Michigan's last six
games. Sophomore forward
Glenn Robinson III, supposedly
Michigan's best player,
continued his inconsistent play
by going almost 15 minutes of
game time without a field goal.
Sophomore guard Caris LeVert
was the only Wolverine to do
much of anything offensively,
as his 25 points were almost

for yourself, you can't produce
energy for yourself, then you
have to produce energy for your
teammates. If you're not putting
in the effort or the energy,
you're letting people down."
Added sophomore guard
Nik Stauskas: "Defensively and
offensively, there just wasn't that
sense of urgency there. Whether
that was rotations on defense
or being aggressive and making
smart decisions on the offensive
end, it just wasn't there today."
Right now, a week before
Michigan State, we'll have to
take Michigan's word that the
lack of effort was an anomaly,
just a weird hiccup in an
otherwise impressive run
through the Big Ten.
But there is no hiding or a
place for excuses next weekend,
because the Spartans are in
town in a game that very well
could decide the Big Ten title. If
the Wolverines can't get up for
that one, this team has bigger
problems than one isolated
February loss.

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Sophomore guard Carls LeVert scored a career-high 25 points, but the Michigan men's basketball team suffered its second home loss of the season Sunday,

enough to outscore the rest of
the starting lineup combined.
And yet, with a win next
weekend, none of that matters.
In the last two weekends,
Michigan has dropped out of
first place with a loss, only to
see Michigan State fall later in
the day and fall back into a tie.
Next Sunday, by default, one of
those teams has to win by and

put itself in the driver's seat.
So don't panic yet. Soon,
maybe, but hold the worry for at
least another week.
It would be different if there

Again, this is the Big Ten,
where teams are beating up
on each other week in and
week out and every team has
an overall winning record,
including

SCHEDULE:
FEB. 23: MICHIGAN STATE
FEB. 26: AT PURDUE
MARCH 1: MINNESOTA
MARCH 4: AT ILLINOIS
MARCH 8: INDIANA
MARCH 13: BIG TEN TOURNAMENT
MARCH 16: SELECTION SUNDAY
MARCH 18: NCAA TOURNAMENT

was any sort
of common
theme in the
Wolverines'
losses this
year, but
there's really
not. Some
games, shots
don't fall, and
the defense
gets exploited.
Some games,
Walton
has trouble

bottom-
dwellers
"There justPenn State
and Illinois.
wasn't that Michigan is
goingto lose,
sense of urgency and some of
those losses
there." are going to be
bad.
The only
explanations
the players
had after

"The energy isn't always going Cook can be reached at
to be there. You're going to have evcook@umich.edu and on
days when you just aren't going Twitter @everettcook
to feel it, and if you can't do it
BIG TEN STANDINGS:
MICHIGAN STATE: 21-5, 10-3
MICHIGAN: 18-7,10-3
IOWA: 19-6, 8-4
WISCONSIN: 21-5, 8-5
OHIO STATE: 20-6, 7-6
NEBRASKA: 14-10, 6-6
MINNESOTA: 17-9, 6-7
PURDUE: 15-10, 5-7
NORTHWESTERN: 12-14, 5-8
INDIANA: 14-11, 4-8
PENN STATE: 13-13, 4-9
ILLINOIS: 14-12, 3-10

driving and setting up shooters.
Some games, a 15-point
halftime deficit is too much
to overcome, especially when
Wisconsin turns the ball over
just twice and shoots more than
41-percent on 3-point attempts.

Sunday had to do with effort,
a problem that's impossible to
pinpoint on just one factor.
"It's something you have
to force out of yourself
sometimes," said redshirt
junior forward Jon Horford.

74 #

WOMEN'S TENNdIS
Michigan dominates Irish

Bernstein earns off the doubles play strong for
Michigan. Behind stellar net
299th career play from Lee, the duo jumped
out to a quick 7-2 lead. Notre
victory in blowout Dame fought hard to win
another game, but Lee and Zhu
of Notre Dame overwhelmed the Irish and took
the match, 8-3.
By JOHN KOPKO Both the first and third doubles
Daily Sports Writer teams for Michigan played to
7-5 leads, but the third pair of
Michigan women's tennis sophomore Ronit Yurovsky and
coach Ronni Bernstein casually freshman Laura Ucros were
volleyed back and forth with quicker in the final game, sealing
her daughter, Hannah, on the off the match 8-5 and picking up
far corner court of the Varsity the first team point of the day for
Tennis Center before her the Wolverines.
team's match against No. 22 "We tried a new combo at No.
Notre Dame Saturday, letting 3 (doubles)," Bernstein said. "I
the Wolverines prepare in the thought Laura did a great job
locker room on there, so to
their own. get off to the
"These guys h 11 good start in
get up for pTheypay doubles was
every match," d for each big for us."
Bernstein said. '- a After
"I don't have to other and for a short
even motivate intermission,
them. They M ichigan." Michigan
play hard for Cy continued its
each other and dominance
for Michigan." in the singles
Bernstein's portion of the
confident words team held true. match. Junior Emina Betkas,
No. 13 Michigan (5-2) came the No 12. singles player in
out playing strong to beat the the nation, cruised behind
Fighting Irish, 6-1. strong ground strokes to a 6-1,
The second doubles pairing 6-4 victory. Sophomore Ronit
of junior Sarah Lee and Yurovsky also got through her
sophomore Amy Zhu started match with ease on the way to a

6-2, 6-1 win.
"The top of our lineup, you
saw Emina and Ronit and even
Brooke there got off the court
pretty quick and didn't let Notre
Dame in the match," Bernstein
said. "We didn't have time to
feel the pressure because we
kind of dominated."
Senior Brooke Bolender and
Zhu also played their way to
straight-set victories. The only
lossofthe day for the Wolverines
was a three-set thriller in No. 3
singles between Lee and Notre
Dame's Jennifer Kellner.
"I'm happy with the effort,"
Bernstein said. "Notre Dame
always presents us a tough
challenge, and they're one of
our biggest rivals. To beat them
6-1, we played well all the way
down the line."
Michigan won 11 of the 13
singles sets played, and all
five singles victories came in
straight sets. The Wolverines
improved to 5-0 on the year
when winning the first doubles
point, and it moved Bernstein
closer to a major milestone. The
win gave Bernstein her 299th
career victory, and her first
chance to eclipse the 300 mark
will come against Western
Michigan next Saturday.


wiRESrl.NG'
Wolverines top Pittsburgh
By JUSTIN MEYER four with a takedown and near redshirt junior transfer Steve
DailySports Writer fall count of his own. Dutton and fifth-year senior Eric
Coon played the aggressor Grajales put together a string of
As Michigan wrestler Brian for the rest of the match, nearly impressive wins over the next
Murphy hopped across the mat throwing 19th-ranked R.J. three matches. Bruno dominated
with his left leg caught in his Tasser over the scorer's table, in the closest-ranked match of
opponent's arms, a takedown but failed to score takedowns the bunch, taking control in the
seemed inevitable. But Murphy to build a lead. When Tasser second period with a series of
wouldn't let it happen. was forced into attacking mode single-leg takedowns.
Tucking, rolling and while facing a one-point riding No. 8 Dutton took the lead
spinning, the freshman escaped deficit late in the third, though, on a takedown of his own in
the single-leg takedown and Coon finished the match with a the 141-pound division, but
regained his composure on the takedown and sealed the dual struggled in the second frame,
way to a 6-0 win. meet for Michigan. unable to escape the grip from
"I thought Murphy wrestled "Things will go wrong in a Pittsburgh's No. 17 Edgar
his best match of the year," match," Coon said. "You can't be Bright. After an interesting
said Michigan coach Donny prepared for just weird things decision by Bright to start from
Pritzlaff. "He's a tough that happen. When those bad the top position in the third
takedown, and he's a competitor things happen, you can react period, though, Dutton seized
about everything. You get his immediately instead of digging the opportunity and caught the
leg, that's only 10 percent of the yourself a deeper hole." Panther in a near fall to win 5-1.
fight. I think Redshirt "I definitely like the way
a lot of the freshman Rossi wrestled," Pritzlaff said.
people in the "gMurphywrsl Connor "There was a moment there
Big Ten and M y resLeU Youtsey in the third period where he
around the his best match took the mat had the match pretty much
country are first for the secured. He could have started
starting to see of the ear" Wolverines to run and try to win easy, but
that." . when he we're always telling these guys
Like faced off winning's hard and you've got
Murphy, the against the to fight through it."
eighth-ranked Panthers' No. Fifth-year senior Dan Yates
Wolverines found themselves 19 Anthony Zannetta at 125 and redshirt junior Collin
backed into corners time and pounds. The match set the tone Zeerip both struggled, however,
again against No. 6 Pittsburgh for a very aggressive dual meet, making way for a furious
on Saturday, but just like as both teams knew that the Pittsburgh comeback.
Murphy, they wouldn't cave. lower weight classes would be "We need Dan Yates to go out
The meet was a tale of two full of swing matches. there and intimidate guys and
halves on the score report, Aftergivingup apenaltypoint bite down and get in people's
with Michigan (6-2 Big Ten, for a headlock that evened the faces," Pritzlaff said. "Right
11-4 overall) taking the first six match at 3-3 and sent the pair to nowthat's notthe guy that we're
matches before a string of four sudden-death overtime, Youtsey getting out there. Three weeks
losses sent the meet down to the wasted no time in attacking and from tonight, the semifinals are
final pairing. Every matchup, finishing. He ended the match going on and we need to get him
except for ones at 174 and 197 with a single-leg takedown, turned around quickly. We need
pounds, was tightly contested, and put the Wolverines into the Dan to flip the switch."
and onlyone major decision was driver's seat. The Big Ten Tournament
earned by either team. "I've been in that situation is next on the agenda for
After losses by freshman before and I kind of reacted the the Wolverines, and though
Dominec Abounader and wrong way," Youtsey said. "I Michigan has made deep
redshirt junior Chris Heald, the really got frustrated, really got postseason runs for decades, a
score stood at 15-13. The final out of my mindset. I learned from plethora of young talent means
match favored the Wolverines, that. I just tried to stay focused inexperience.
though, with one-loss freshman and go out there and win the "The season has prepared
heavyweight Adam Coon match. I knew that I had to win me to not be nervous," Youtsey
waiting his turn to take the mat. that to get everyone fired up." said. "Going into the season
But that didn't start out as Youtsey faced a similar I was a little bit nervous, but
expected either, when Coon fell position in a match earlier this now that I've been through the
into a 4-0 hole within seconds. year against Illinois, but failed grind, and wrestled a lot of the
The freshman regained his to keep himself collected and best wrestlers in the country
composure, however, and cost his team points. and beat some of them, it gets
immediately tied the match at Sophomore Rossi Bruno, me more excited than nervous."

r- ~ - ~ ~ ~- ~- ~~- ~- ~- ~ ~ ~- - ~ ~ ~ -~ ~ -~ ~ ~
Bring in this coupon for one FREE bagel! C
| Featuring 20+ flavors including PUMPKIN!

BAGELS

Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer.
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONL Y
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: February 21, 2014
- ~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~-~

L

_.........




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Teignayhg oS February 17th, 2014- 3B

Youth on display in baseball's weekend in Texas

Wolverines take
early leads but
falter to 1-2-1 mark
in opening games
By JASON RUBINSTEIN
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan baseball coach Erik
Bakich saidearlierthis weekthat
his team's abundance of youth
would have ups and downs this
season. And this was certainly
on display this weekend at the
Texas State Tournament in San
Marcos, Texas.
Michigan jumped out to
early leads in each of its four
games this weekend but only
held onto one, finishing 1-2-1.
The competition included Texas
State, Air Force and two games
against Washington.
Relief pitching, when healthy,
is one of the strongest areas for
Michigan, but with sophomore
Jacob Cronenworth recovering
from labrum surgery, it became
one of the weakest. Bakich
expects the sophomore to be
back in the next two weeks.
Without their premier closer,
the Wolverines (1-2-1) threw
freshman left-hander Brett
Adcock to finish off Texas State
(1-1) in the opening game.
The Wolverines went up 7-3
early andtheir batswere hot. But
Michigan's bats started to cool
while the Bobcats' bats started
to find rhythm. After giving up
a walk and two hits to load the
bases, Michigan replaced fifth-
year senior right-hander Logan
McAnallen for Adcock midway
through the eighth inning.
With the bases juiced and
needing only one out, Adcock
gave up a two-RBI single
before giving up another RBI
single, tying the game. Adcock
remained in the game and
got through the ninth inning,
but couldn't finish in the loth

hits balls as hard you can hit
balls all weekend long. He's one
of the guys coaches talk about -
players that force them to keep
writing their name in the lineup.
He did that this weekend, that's
for sure."
Lamb aside, the Wolverines
got steady production from
infielder Ramsey Romano. The
freshman reached base in all
four games, while also stealing
a base and driving in two runs.
Cronenworth continued
where he left off last season,
batting .312 on the weekend
with four RBI, two doubles and
a triple.
The Wolverines certainly
had its ups-and-downs this
weekend, and is only beginning
to find their identity.
"There were definitely some
bright spots, but the biggest
bright spot was getting the
whole team out there competing
against another jersey," Bakich
said. "Even though the outcome
wasn't what we wanted, we
know we're going to get better,
there's no question about that.
The first time being outside
since October was the biggest

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Fifth-year senior Ben Ballantlne threw seven shutout inists on Saturday afternoon as Michitan picked op its first win of the season atainst Air Force.

inning. The freshman walked
the first hitter before giving up
the game-winning single to cap
an 8-7 loss.
"(Adcock) is throwing
strikes but just giving up some
hits right now," Bakich said.
"Unfortunately the balls he gave
up happened to find holes. He's
not going to get hit like that
moving forward."
Adcock's struggles didn't end
there. The freshman couldn't
find any rhythm Sunday against
Washington (2-1-1), giving up
four hits and one earned run
in his only inning pitched. The
Wolverines couldn't rebound
from the pitching woes, tying
the Huskies 7-7 in eight innings.
The game had to end early due
to travel conflicts.
"He's actually going to be
a really good pitcher for the

program for this year and the Jake Balicki replaced Lehmann.
years to come," Bakich said. The right-hander struck out the
But the bullpen's woes side in the ninth inning before
weren't limited to Adcock. Schmidt hit his second two-run
Up 6-3 after six against blast in the 10th inning to defeat
Washington, it looked liked the Michigan, 8-6.
Wolverines Lost in the
were in the late game
driver's seat. "StW e know we're collapses,
But history though, was
repeated going to cet the youth's
itself when get6O offensive
freshman better - there's prowess.
right- Though he
hander Keith no question." sat the first
Lehmann game of the
replaced weekend,
junior left- freshman
hander Trent Szkutnik. The outfielder Jackson Lamb had
freshman gave up two runs in himself quite the weekend. The
the eighth, including a two- reigning Michigan Gatorade
run home run by infielder Alex Player of the Year was brought
Schmidt. in to pinch-hit, and hit a
Soon after, redshirt freshman two-run double in his first

collegiate at-bat. Lamb kept
the momentum going when
he doubled to left field in the
seventh inning and singled in
the 10th.
The freshman remained hot
the rest of the weekend, hitting
a two-run double against Air
Force, giving fifth-year senior
Ben Ballantine all the run
support he needed. The right-
hander showed no signs of
injury, throwing seven shutout
innings, while only giving up
one hit.
Lamb continued his hitting
brilliance Sunday, hitting a two-
run homer in the first inning.
"It's like the old Bull Durham
quote, 'announce your presence
with authority,'- that was
Jackson Lamb " Bakich said.
"What a great statement. He
makes as loud as contact and

2000
The year when the Wolverines last
finished a game in atie.

5.57
Bullpen ERA, as Michigan squandered
late leads.


BASKETBALL
From Page 18
rim, put Michigan in position
to get a comeback win, but the
Wolverines' other failings were
too significant to be hidden.
LeVert's offense couldn't
compensate for a lack of rhythm
elsewhere on the court. Sopho-
more forward Glenn Robinson
III scored 10 points, and sopho-
more guard Nik Stauskas picked
up 11, but no one else had more
than six.
"When I was on the bench
at one point in the first half, it
just seemed like we were going
side to side," Stauskas said. "We
weren't going north to south to
the basket."
What originally could be
written off as hot Wisconsin
shooting in the first half became
more of a systemic problem in
Michigan's play.
The Wolverines (10-3 Big Ten,
18-7 overall) failed to rebound,
giving the Badgers second-
chance opportunities - and
easy ones at that. Wisconsin
(8-5, 21-5) had 16 from in close
by halftime, and it didn't have to
fight too hard to get them.
That hindered Michigan's
ability to get run-outs after
missed baskets, and the lack of
transition opportunities led to
the feeble first-half output.
If it felt like you could recall
each of the Wolverines' first-half
baskets one-by-one, it's because
you probably could. They made
just seven baskets in the frame,
and the lackluster half was the

worst that Michigan has played
all season.
Their 19 points in a half
weren't just a season low; they
were a season low for any
of Michigan's opponents -
exhibition games too - which
included Concordia, UMass-
Lowell and Houston Baptist.
"It was one of those games
where you bury yourself and
you're going to have to play
a super second half," Beilein
said. "While we played better, it
wasn't good enough."
With six minutes remaining,
Michigan finished reeling off a
16-7 run to cut the Wisconsin
lead to 52-49. Momentum was
favoring the home team, but
a series of Badgers 3-pointers
put the finishing touches on
Michigan's third loss in as many
weekends.
There was a corner three by
known Michigan tormentor Josh
Gasser, and then another three
on a step-back by Kaminsky
at the top of the key with two
minutes left to put the game out
of reach.
It was a game where the Bad-
gers turned the ball over just
twice. Michigan finished with
no steals and no blocks. It was
a sign that it wasn't all there
for the Wolverines. There was
something essential missing.
"People go through that their
whole lives," Horford said. "It
doesn't matter in sports or work-
ing in a job. There's days where
you just don't have it, and you
don't want it. Just don't want to
do anything, it's just like,'I'm not
feeling it."'

Louisiana split highlights weekend

Michigan takes one
of two in rematch
of Super Regional
By JAKE LOURIM
Daily Sports Writer

and only when Romero got good
pitches to hit - a single in the
sixth and an RBI double in the
seventh - did the Wolverines
start to claw back.
Michigan's last-ditch effort
netted four runs in the bottom
of the seventh, but senior first

Lafayette pitched to Romero
- and it cost the Ragin' Cajuns
dearly.
"I just needed to breathe,"
Romero said. "I got really
excited because I haven't been
seeing many pitches the past
couple of weekends. I've just

Freshman right-handed
pitcher Megan Betsa added a
complete-game shutout against
Central Arkansas, making her
record 3-0 with a 1.38 ERA.
Sophomore outfielder Sierra
Lawrence paced the Michigan
offense with two first-inning

Six teams went to Lafayette, baseman Caitlin Blanchard, been trying to make the most of grand slams, in the first game
La. this weekend for the Ragin' representing the tying run, flew the opportunities that are given against Memphis and the third
Cajun Invitational. But make no out to left field to end the threat. to me. If I get a good pitch, I can game against Central Arkansas.
mistake: the two that mattered "One person hits, and we get make the most of it. But at the The Wolverines came
most were those that battled in that momentum going," Romero same time, if it's not a pitch that out sluggish Sunday against
a hard-fought Super Regional said. "One thing about us is we I want, I need to be patient and Boston College, falling behind
last spring. never back down. We'll keep wait for a pitch that I want." 4-0 after five innings. On the
Michigan and Louisiana- pushing, keep pushing - that's In the second inning, she brink of losing in a huge upset,
Lafayette were back at it, one of the best qualities of our belted her third home run of the Michigan's quick-strike offense
splitting two games. The team. You can never count us season to make it 6-0. came alive in the last two
Ragin' Cajuns held on to an out because we can come back." Junior left-handed pitcher innings. Romero hit a go-ahead
8-6 victory Friday night, and That momentum carried over Haylie Wagner pitched all five three-run double in the seventh,
the Wolverines came back to Saturday, when Michigan got innings in the circle Saturday, and Driesenga stranded the
with a 15-1 mercy-rule blowout its rematch. keeping the deficit safe. She is tying run at third.
Saturday afternoon. This time, the Ragin' Cajuns now 4-0 with a1.02 ERA. "The key for all of that
Michigan also hammered sent No. 2 pitcher Alex Stewart "Going into it, when you have was having runners on base,"
Memphis, 5-0, Central to the circle, and the Wolverines that lead, you can't slack off," Hutchins said. "You can't score
Arkansas, 7-0, and came back to jumped on her. Helped by five Wagner said. "That's what I unless you have people on base.
beat Boston College, 6-5. fielding errors, they scored two did every single inning. I didn't We finally had some key hits,
Junior right-handed pitcher in the first inning, five in the want to slack off because they're and we had a lot of people that
Sara Driesenga said last second and seven in the third. a great-hitting team and they inning who made some things
week that there was no bad This time, Louisiana- could come up at any moment." happen."
blood between Michigan and
Louisiana-Lafayette, but the
Ragin' Cajuns came out firing
as if there was. They homered
twice in the third inning to
take a 3-0 lead, then chased
Driesenga in the fifth.
Driesenga finished the
game with 4.2 innings pitched,
seven hits, six earned runs and
four walks, raising her season
earned-run average to 4.79.
"She needs to relax," said
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins.
"Sara is a great pitcher, and
right now she's not feeling her
confidence. Give me a player
with confidence and give me a
player with no confidence and
you'll see two totally different
things. She just needs to find her
confidence, believe in herself
and believe in her teammates."
The Ragin' Cajuns' energy at
the plate translated to the field,
where they held Michigan
scoreless for four innings.
The Wolverines had their
opportunities . but couldn't
ultimately cash in, leaving 12
on base.
Louisiana-Lafayette walked
sophomore shortstop Sierra PATRicK BARRON/Daily
Romero her first three times up, Sophomore outfielder Sierra Lawrence hit two first-inning grand slams over the weekend as Michigan posted a 4-1 record.



BADGERS
From Page 1B
it came within a second of
forcing a 10-second violation.
instead, the scramble on the floor
was called a jumpball with the
possession in Wisconsin's favor.
As the shot clock approached
zero for the Badgers, Kaminsky
didn't try to drive to the basket
once again. Instead, he stepped
back and crushed any hopes the
Wolverines had of a comeback
in the final two minutes with a
3-pointer, his only basket from
long range for the game.
As much as the shot
represented a dagger for the

Badgers, it represented an
end to the talk for Ryan about
a similar shot Stauskas had
against Wisconsin on Jan. 18.
"I mean what else was
he going to do when he did
the step-back," Ryan said.
"He probably got tired of me
showing Stauskas' step-back
that he hit against us. I guess
our guys were tired of seeing
it because Frank did one of his
own. Did you notice that?"
Stauskas definitely noticed it,
calling ita "fair comparison."
"Yeah, that was a dagger
definitely," he said. "After he
hit that, it definitely took the
energy out of us and that was
big shot for them."


4B - February, 17th 2014

._'
'

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

4B ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~: - erur, 7hr04ehfMcianDil t:cgnaiyo

Stellar special teams unit
marred by penalties taken

The Wol
have tal
penalties

verines
ken 21
in their

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Junior forward Andrew Sinelli scored Michigan's only goal Saturday as the Gophers completed a sweep with a 4-1 win.
Gophers dominate 'M'

Col
MI
No. t
maint
more
a m
of its
powe:
play )
more
befor
Andre
pass,,
to cleg
Vis
oppor
his sti
towar
Att
who
pressu
was r
stared
favor
while
straig
"I t
in the
seconc
period
Red B
capita
thoug
well a
looks,'
Pla:
of ur
period
scorin
the th
Spenc
Derek
were
goalte


in eoa ae was perfect for more than 58
minutes of the game, stopping28
ntrol after even of 29 shots faced.
"(Wilcox) played really well,
first period but on our side, we need to
capitalize on the chances we
get," said sophomore forward
By ERIN LENNON Boo Nieves. "We didn't tonight
Daily Sports Writer and that resulted in the loss."
Throughout the entirety of
NNEAPOLIS - The the game, offensive surges were
0 Michigan hockey team short lived.
ained possession for Midway through the final
than frame, Gophers forward Sam
inute MICHIGAN 1 Warning lay flat on his back,
first MINNESOTA 4 and freshman forward Michael
r Downing found himself ejected
on Saturday, recovering for the second time in as many
than a handful of chances games. Three minutes into
e sophomore forward the five-minute major penalty,
ew Copp whiffed on a Minnesota (10-2-2, 21-4-5) put the
allowing No. 2 Minnesota nail in the coffin - a fourth goal
ar the puck. from forward Hudson Fascing.
ibly upset by the missed "I told our team, that's a
tunity, Copp slammed measuring stick," Berenson
ick on the ice as he skated said. "That's what we're up
ds the bench. against, and they're as good as
h6sound ofthe horn,Copp, anyone we've seen'all year."'
said he has been putting " Though Michigan (6-5-1 Big
are on himself recently, Ten, 14-9-3 overall) dominated
no less frustrated as he much of the firstperiod -junior
I up at a 4-1 scoreboard in forward Andrew Sinelli earned
of the Golden Gophers, the Wolverines' first goal less
his team dropped its third than two minutes into the game
ht contest. - Warning tipped a puck in late,
hought we came out good tying the game at one.
first period, and in the "There's not much to brag
d period, and the third about at all," Berenson said. "It
I," said Michigan coach was a good goal for him and for
erenson. "But you have to our team, but we've scored four
lize on those chances. I goals in the last three games
lht our power play played ... goals were precious this
nd we had some really good weekend."
but we just couldn't score." Once Minnesota found its
ying with the same sense groove, Michigan was quickly
gency it had in the first forced to play from behind. It
, Michigan created several took the Gophers less than three
g opportunities early in minutes to take the lead in the
ird frame. Junior forward second frame, when forward
er Hyman and senior Connor Reilly fired a shot past
DeBlois came close, but sophomore goaltender Steve
stopped by Minnesota Racine. Ten minutes later,
nder Adam Wilcox, who Minnesota forward Nick Condon


found 0twine, extending the
Gophers' lead to two - a deficit
the Wolverines had also found
themselves in the night before.
As they had Friday, the
Wolverines took penalties
early, but remained strong on
the penalty kill. Hyman turned
several clears into offensive
opportunities, and Racine -
who started in net for a second
time after seven-straight
games on the bench - stood
on his head when the Golden
Gophers found their offensive
momentum.
The unit finished 4-for-5 in
the game, and is now 19 for its
last 21 since Jan. 24 against
Michigan State.
But while the penalty kill
found success for a second
night, a power play that scored
two goals Friday was shut down
three times Saturday. Each of
Michigan's last three losses
featured more time on the
penaltykill than the ower pla'.
And at even strength on both
ends, the Wolverines were no
match for a Minnesota team
that's proven itself time and
time again this season.
"Red said we kind of grew
up a little bit," Nieves said. "It's
definitely a little bit of a wakeup
to know that a team that's tops in
our conference is going to beat
us twice in their building, so we
definitely need to take it to them
when they get into ourbuilding."
Saturday marked the second
time Michigan was swept this
season, but the second time to
a Big Ten opponent. With the
loss, Michigan falls to third
place in the Big Ten standings
with just six games remaining
in conference play.
What happened Friday: The
Gophers halted the Wolverines'
comeback effort with a late goal,
never trailing in a5-3 victory.

last six games
By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
MINNEAPOLIS - Michigan
hockey coach Red Berenson set
a goal for the second half of the
season to improve special teams.
His players have responded well
to that request, posting numbers
that would please any coach in
the country.
The Wolverines have scored
on the power play three out of
10 times in the past four games.
Defensively, the penalty-killing
unit has been the brightest
spot. Michigan has allowed just
two goals in the past six games
while shorthanded despite
taking 21 penalties in that
span, holding opponents to a
9-percent conversion rate with
the man advantage.
Both power play goals that
Berenson's team conceded came
the weekend
of Feb. 14-15 at
Minnesota. The "Ther
second tally 0
could easily be minutes
forgivable, too,
as the puck time t]
zipped past were all
sophomore
goaltender
Steve Racine
after Michigan
had already killed 3:02 of a
five-minute major penalty to
freshman defenseman Michael
Downing.
Playing shorthanded for five
minutes taxed the Wolverines'
offense, and numerous penalties
negated the opportunity to
establish more potency on their
own power play.

both games over
for illegal contac
Both hits came
period, and th
misconducts e
aspect of the Wo
that desperately
cleaned up.
Losers of thr
games, they're ta
penalties.
During the fi
Friday's match
spent six of the f
on the penalty
outshot, 16-5.
"The three p
help," Berenson s
six minutes of D
they were all ov
little more mome
a tough start."
In the two-g
Minnesota alon
compiled a whop
minutes. Those
slightly skewed
picking up 30 oft
game misconduc
shorthanded on
occasions Friday
Saturday didn'tI
an offensive un
e are six
of D-zone
Fhat they
over us."
slow down the G
dynamic forwar
occasions, Michi
clean and heavy
through the sec
Saturday's game,
Derek DeBlois l
Justin Holl into
bench, visibly ig
teammates.

r the weekend physicality did just the opposite.
ct to the head. Junior defenseman Andrew
in the third Sinelli cross checked the throat
e two game of a Gophers' player after the
pitomized an whistle to squander any chance
'verines' game of a late comeback.
needs to be Sinelli's time in the penalty
box allowed him to mull over
ee consecutive how much playing shorthanded
king too many stalled his team.
"It's definitely tough," Sinelli
irst period of said. "It kind of ruins the flow
up, Michigan of the game a little bit and ruins
inal 10 minutes our flow."
kill and was Frustration might be
inevitable when you're on the
enalties didn't verge of losing three straight
aid. "There are games and minutes from being
-zone time that swept by an old-time rival for
er us, getting a the first time in over 25 years.
ntum. So it was But for a team that emphasizes
making no excuses, they'll need
sie series at to excuse themselves from
ne, Michigan mental lapses that have often
ping 48 penalty killed waves of momentum.
numbers are "The penalty kill was really
with Downing good," said sophomore forward
those with two Boo Nieves. "Copp, (freshman
cts, but being forward JT Compher), wDerek,
seven separate you know, guys like that were
and five more going every other shift and
bode well for putting their bodies on the
nit that's still line for us just to get those two
struggling to minutes over with."
finish scoring The Wolverines spent too
chances. much of their weekend trying to
Being kill the clock in their own zone.
physical is one Practice makes perfect, and
thing, and the perhaps the reason Michigan has
Wolverines been so successful on the penalty
were plenty kill is because it spends an
of that this impractical amount of time there.
weekend.They
needed to be BY THE NUMBERS
in order to Michigan's special teams
ophers' speedy,
ds. On several
gan poured on
hits. Midway Penalty minutes per game for'the
ond period of Wolverines. Downing had 30 against
senior forward Minnesota alone.
eveled forward
the Michigan
niting Deblois' 18
Power-play goals conceded by Michigan

ALLISOFFARRAND/Daily
Freshman defenseman Michael Downing was ejected tram btlkoa Michigan's games this weekend tar illegal hits.

Wleries snap losing streak with road win over Illini

By SHANNON LYNCH
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's
basketball team had lost four of
its last six games, but on Sunday,
Cyesha Goree took thingsinto her
own hands.
Led by the junior forward, the
Michigan
women's ILLINOIS 63
basketball MICHIGAN 70
team
picked up its ninth road win,
this time against Illinois, 70-63.
Thanks to 19 first-half points
on 7-for-9 shooting and eight
rebounds, Goree was well on
her way to her 10th double-
double of the year. She didn't
slow after halftime, finishing
with 30 points and 19 boards -
Goree set new career highs in
both categories.
"I didn't think we were going
to get away with playing (senior
forward Val Driscoll) and
Cyesha at the sametime, but we
pretty much did it for the entire
second half and that was a better
lineup for us," said Michigan
coach Kim Barnes Arico. "It
really gave us a chance to take
advantage of our size inside."
Junior forward Nicole
Elmbad also had a solid day
on the glass. She picked up 10

rebounds to go with six points but the rebounding prowess of
and six assists, helping the Goree and Elmblad and their
Wolverines outrebound the ability to draw fouls kept the
Fighting Illini, 47-19. Wolverines on top. One Illinois
Michigan (7-6 Big Ten, 16-10 player fouled out, and three were
overall) held a 12-point lead with in trouble throughout the game.
17 minutes left in the second half, "When it came down to the
its biggest lead of the game. It end of the stretch, we were able
looked as though the Wolverines to really stick together and not
had all the momentum, but the get too flustered, even though
defense faltered late. we had a few turnovers that we
With just over 12 minutes could've controlled," Elmblad
left in the contest, Michigan said. "We just kind of took a
relinquished its lead quickly, a deep breath, and relaxed, and
scenario that's plagued it all year. really looked to find good, open
Illinois (2-11, shots."
9-17) went on Goree made
an 11-0 run to "We took a deep history as just
take the lead the second
for the first breath and relaxed." Wolverine
time in the to go for 30
half. points and 19
Freshman guard Siera rebounds in a game. She came
Thompson put the Wolverines close to making it the second
back on top with a triple, and game in program history in
then the team went on a 7-0 run which a Michigan player scored
of its own, responding much 20 points and 20 rebounds.
better under pressure than it "I wasn't really being boxed
has of late. Goree followed it up out because of the zone, and I
with a jumper - which broke her was able to find the ball and then
career high of 21 points - and get good offensive rebounds to
then a layup to give Michigan put back," Goree said. "It felt
a 59-53 lead with just under six really good, especially since we
minutes left. were able to get the win."
Though Michigan was able to NOTES: Thompson's lone
counter the Fighting Illini run, 3-pointer extended her streak to,
it never pulled away completely, 26 games with a triple.

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Junior forward Cyesha Goree tallied 19 first-half points and picked up a double-double in the second half against Illinois.
She finished with 30 points and 19 boards, shattering her previous career highs as Michigan won the rebounding battle.


