~~1)E fiCidjiataI


iI) ! \L5 Phi ¢I). i3

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, December 10, 2014

michigandailycom

ADMINISTRATION
'U': Regents
complied
wit state
meeting law
Officials to members of the general public.
Though members of the press
prevented public were alerted to the venue change;
University officials did not pub-
from attending licly announce that the proceed-
ingswould be relocated.
November session "It was a complicated deci-
sion," said University President
By CLAIRE BRYAN Mark Schlissel in an interview
Daily StaffReporter with The Michigan Daily. "We
certainly didn't want to move it
November's University Board out of the public eye."
of Regents meeting did not go The state of Michigan's Open
according to schedule. Meetings Act requires public gov-
Ten minutes into the meeting, erning bodies such as the regents
members of the organization By to host meetings "in a place avail-
Any Means Necessary rose from able to the general public."
their seats in the audience and The law says votes must occur
began disrupting the proceedings in the presence of the public and
with shouting until the regents members of the public must have
and executive officers vacated the opportunity to comment on
the room. the proceedings.
The regents later reconvened That evening, signs on the
in the Regents Room of the Flem- Fleming Administration Building
ing Administration Building read "The building is LOCKED."
to approve the month's agenda Security guards explicitly
items, including a $49 million blocked members of the public
renovation to the Dennison from entering the building.
Building and the construction of After he reopened the meet-
a $261 million Biological Sciences ing inside Fleming, Schlissel said
Building. The meeting was closed See OPEN, Page 3A

AMANDA ALLEN/Daily
Students participate in the Black Lives Matter Silent Vigil held at the Winter Garden in the Ross School of Business on Tuesday.
Silent Vigil onors vic tims

"
I1
t
t

of police violence, pOfiling
Business school universities gathered in the Win- to raise awareness about police local authorities (on) policy, you
ter Garden at the Ross School brutality and racial profiling and all have a part."
organization of Business for a silent vigil for how it affects people across the Edwards added that he was
Michael Brown and Eric Gar- country. pleased with the turnout, not-
mobilizes students ner, two men who recently lost "The purpose of the event was ing the attendance showed the
their lives in police-related vio- really just to have a moment to importance of the conversation
By JACK TURMAN lence. The event was organized honor those lost lives of citizens on college campuses.
and STEPHANIE SHENOUDA by students in the Black Business across America due to police Business graduate student
Daily StaffReporter Student Association to show soli- brutality," he said. "People real- Lonzyo Holcomb, who also
andDailyNewsEditor darity for victims of racialized ize it's not a Black issue; it's an attended the vigil, said it sur-
violence. American issue that we all need passed his expectations and he
Hundreds of University stu- Business graduate student to help and support in some was grateful for the community's
dents, faculty and staff members, Kareem Edwards, BBSA presi- capacity. Whether it's small as a support.
as well as students from other dent, said the event was intended like on a picture or working with See VIGIL, Page 2A


GOVERNMENT
p If passed, bill
would redefine
'religious rights

Businesses could
deny services
based on faith-
based objections
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
Passed by the Michigan
House last week, the Religious
Freedom Resoration Act has
potential impact on two pro-
posed amendments that seek to
include LGBTQ protections to
the state's Elliott-Larsen civil
rights act.
Modeled after 1993 fed-
eral legislation, the Michigan
RFRA would grant exemptions
to individuals and businesses
if they feel laws substantially
burden their religious beliefs.
It provides for exemptions both
from state laws and laws in the
state's "political subdivisions"
- a term usually interpreted to
mean municipalities and cities.
Eighteen other states have also
passed their own versions of
RFRA, the original version of
which is only applicable feder-

ally.
However, dozens of cities
and municipalities already have
ordinances protecting status-
es such as sexual orientation,
marital, HIV, political beliefs
and arrest record. These local
laws are more extensive than
the state's civil rights protec-
tions, and are in effect in poli-
ties including Ann Arbor, Royal
Oak and Delhi Township. They
could feel much of the law's
impact - potentially even a
majority of it - especially given
that the ELCRA is unlikely to
be amended this legislative ses-
sion.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily Tuesday, State
Rep. Jim Townsend (D-Royal
Oak) said RFRA could place
more extensive local nondis-
crimination ordinances and
state law on a "collision course."
"Basically, the bullseye is
going to end up on Royal Oak
and other cities that have done
this, to protect everybody in
their community, and it's just
gratuitous," he said. "It's just
way beyond what is neces-
sary to protect people's First
See FREEDOM, Page 2A

CSG President Bobby Dishell, Public Policy senior, speaks at the CSG meeting at the Michigan Union Tuesday.
CSG passes resolution to
support onsite. admissions.

STAFF ANNOUNCEMENT
Daily staff
elects new
leadership
for 2015
Across sections,
online initiatives
seen as paramount for
publication's future
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
After nearly a month of publi-
cation-wide elections, The Michi-
gan Daily staff has chosen its
editor in chief, managing editor
and section leaders for the 2015
calendar year.
While each section of the
newspaper elects its respective
managing editors internally, the
editor-in-chief and co-editorial
page editors were chosen in a
staff-wide vote Nov.14.
LSA junior Jennifer Calfas,
who served as managing news
editor this year, will serve as the
2015 editor-in-chief. Calfas said
one of her main goals is to lead the
paper in a collaborative, transpar-
ent manner. Her barometer for
success will be maintaining stf
enthusiasm and the quality of the
paper's content.
See EDITORS, Page SA

Legislation
includes clause
condemning
threatening action
By ALYSSA BRANDON
Daily StaffReporter
At the Central Student Gov-
ernment meeting Tuesdaynight,
the assembly passed a resolution
supporting an onsite admis-
sions process in Detroit schools,

swore in new representatives
and elected new vice chairs for
the Finance Committee and for
the Resolutions Committee.
CSG passes resolution to
support onsite admissions at
Detroit schools
Following a 35-2 vote, the
assembly passed a resolution
to support onsite admissions at
Detroit schools.
The resolution, introduced
last week by members of By Any
Means Necessary and authored

by members of CSG, highlights
how minority enrollment has
remained stagnant at the Uni-
versity in recent years. The
assembly said one method to
combat low minority enrollment
would be to implement onsite
admissions at schools in the
Detroit area.
BAMN members were pres-
ent Tuesday night to encourage
the assembly to pass the reso-
lution. BAMN organizer Jose
Alvarenga said passing the res-
olution would be the first step
See CSG, Page 3A


WEATHER HI: 38
TOMORROW L 27



GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Edwards Bros. property almost readyfor construction
MICHIGAN DAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS.....................2A ARTS........................5A
Vol CXXIV,No. 41 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS............... 6A
Q014TheMichiganDaily OPINION..................4A SPORTS.......................7A
nichigondailycom


t, I

I


2A - Wednesday, December 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

2A - Wednesday, December10, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

SENIORS SAY GOODBYE


420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com dougsolo@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
734-410-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sates
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
BACK ROW: Senior Sports Editor Jeremy Summitt, Daily Sports Writer Shannon Lynch, Managing Photo Editor Paul Sherman, Senior Arts Editor Alec Stern, 2013 Copy Chief Tom
McBrien Senior Copy Editor Alisha Qiu, Copy Chief Mark Ossolinski, Managing Sports Editor Alejandro Zuniga MIDDLE ROW: Senior Sports Editor Rajat Khare, Assistant Sports
Editor Daniel Feldman, Daily Sports Writer Marina Nazario, Copy Chief Meaghan Thompson, Copy Editor Hannah Maine, Daily Staff Reporter Stephanie Dilworth, Senior Arts
Editor Erica Harwood, Daily Staff Reporter Hillary Crawford, Assistant Photo Editor McKenzie Berezin, Daily Sports Writer Jesse Klein, Copy Editor Kristen Anderson, Editorial
Page Editor Daniel Wang, Online Editor Austen Hufford, FRONT ROW: Magazine Design Editor Amy Mackens, Statement Magaizine Editor Carlina Duan, Managing Photo Editor
Teresa Mathew, Editor-in-Chief Peter Shahin, Managing Editor Katie Burke, Managing Arts Editor Akshay Seth, Video Editor James Reslier-Wells

1 . T EWE ..
MLK Day
symposium
By JACK TURMAN
In a day full of activities,
Dr. Marc Lamont Hill
will deliver the keynote
memorial lecture. Other
activities include a youth
program and learning about
different roles in social
justice.
Edwards Bros.
property
By JACK TURMAN
Last February, the Universi-
ty bought property on South
State Street from Edwards
Brothers Malloy. The com-
pany is moving out and ina
few weeks, paving the way
for University construction.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Korean
studies talk
WHAT: Prof. Ji-Yeon
Yuh will discuss Korean
experiences in military
service.
WHO: Nam Center for
Korean Studies
WHEN: Today from 4
p.m. to 5 p.m.
WHERE: School of
Social Work, Rm. 1636

Stress relief Holiday dance

WHAT: Dogs will be in the
library for several hours
to provide stress relief for
students inthe lead up to
finals week.
WHEN: Today from 2 p.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHO: University Library
WHERE: Shapiro Library

Coffee hour Film screening

WHAT: Live swing danc-
ing music from Alex Belhaj
and a free swing dancing
lesson will be provided.
Entry is free for students
and $5 for community
members
WHO: Swing Ann Arbor
WHEN: Today from 8 p.m.
to 11 p.m.
WHERE: Vandenburg
Room, Michigan Union
Musical event
WHAT: Student
organization Christian
Challenge carols at St.
Joseph's Hospital for the
holidays. All are invited
to join the group in their
festivities
WHO: Christian Challenge
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m.
to 8p.m.
WHERE:St. Joseph's Hospital
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The CIA disputed a
report from the Senate
intelligence committee
which found that intelligence
the agency gained from
torturing prisoners did not
lead to counterterrorism
successes, the New York
Times reported on Tuesday.
The Statement
Magazine finishes off
the semester with its
annual sex issue - this year
looking at the way-technology
and social media affect our
relationships.
,SEE THE STATEMENT, PG.2B
Scientists predicted
that two large twin
stars rotating around
each other would combine
into one larger 'supermassive'
star, National Geographic
reported Tuesday. The
event is unprecedented in
astronomy history.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandailycom
JenniferCalas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS:Ian Dillingham, SamGringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claise Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Annabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugrman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@mchigandailyca
SENIOR EDITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANTEDDIORIALPAG DTORS:MatthewSeligmanandDavidHarris
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Ziiga ManagingsportsEditors sportseditors@michigadaitycom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach; Lev Facher, Rajat Khare, Jake
Lourim and Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max, Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplyoch@mhchigandailycom
Akshay Seth Managing ArtsEditors ahee@ih andailycam
SNIOR ATSEITOg RSiancaro Bu nomo, NatalieGadbois,E iknH and
Alec Stern+
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard,OGillian Jakaband Maddie
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Allison Farrand and RubyWallau
ASSISTNT PHOTO EO RS:00Luna AnnaArc,Virginiahuzano,
JamesnClln M~eziBeiu n n dsNicholas Wiliams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasqueZ Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.co
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Shane Achenbach and Emily Schumer
CarlinaDuanMagazineEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: RubyWallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Amy Mackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopytEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandAlishaQiu
Austen Hufford online Editor ahufford@michigandaily com
VIDEO EDITORS: Paula Friedrich and James Reslier-Wells
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: Brianne Johnson
BUSINESSSTAFF
Madeline Lacey Usiversity Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classifiedsManager
SimonneKapadia Local Accounts Manager
LCoUs An National Accounts Manager
Olivia Jones Production Managers
Nolan Loh SpecialProjectsCoordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily IsSN 0745-957) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter terms by
students at the University of Michigan One copy is available free o charge to all readers. Additonal copies may
tepickedupattheDaily'soicefor$2.Subscripionsforfalterm, startingin septemberviau.S.malarestO.
Winter term O anuary through April> is$1155,y yeaong(September through Apri)is $195University affliates
are subject to a reduced subscription rate. On-campus sbsc~riptions for faIl term are $35.Suscripionsmust
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.
IT'S CLOSING TIME.
THANKS TO THE ENTIRE
MICHIGAN DAILY STAFF FOR
A FANTASTIC YEAR.

WHAT: This event will
provide an opportunity
to meet new students
and families over coffee.
Registration is not
required; anyone can
attend for free.
WHO: International
Center
WHEN: Today at Ip.m.
WHERE: The Lurie
Engineering Center

WHAT: As part of the CSJ
film series, the movie 'The
Wind Rises' will be shown.
The film takes place in 1927
and features airplanes.
WHO: Center for Japenese
Studies
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: State Theatre


Homeless services exp

Ann Arbor cil approved an expansion of ser-
vices to the homeless population
City Council at the request of the Washtenaw
County Office of Community and
approves county Economic Development.
reccomendations Director of WCOCED Mary Jo
Callan proposed several recom-
mendations to the council, includ-
By JACK TURMAN ing the expansion of overnight
Daily StaffReporter warming centers, increased fund-
ing for hotel stays when neces-
Though local warming shelters sary and expansion of the services
are expanding their accessibility this provided by the library, including
year, the city's homeless community the addition of mental health ser-
has come to rely on the Ann Arbor vices.
District Library for warmth during Rates of mental illness are
the winter months, leading officials twice as high for homeless pop-
to implement a program to provide ulations in the United States,
extra support for library staff according to the American Psy-
Following the unusually chological Association. Because
extreme weather conditions last the library attracts members of
winter, the Ann Arbor City Coun- -the homeless community in Ann
HE..,,'U

Arbor and surrounding areas,
Callan said expanded services
like a street outreach team, which
provides mental health services to
homeless people, are necessary.
Thestreetoutreachteam,aCom-
munity Support and Treatment
Services programcontracted by the
Washtenaw Community Health
Organization, are now available at
the library, following Callan's rec-
ommendation.
"We got really clear feed-
back from the library that they
are proud to play that role in the
community, proud to be a space
where all kinds of residents want
to come to," she said. "But, they
really needed more resources and
more understanding of area of
resources to be able to help folks
who are coming here with par-
ticular challenges, especially for
folks facing homelessness."
Josie Parker, director of the
Ann Arbor District Library, said
everyone is welcome in the library.
However, she noted that if a per-
son is a distraction to others due to
impaired and involuntary behav-
ior, help is required to ensure the
library can maintain its status as a
safe place for its customers.
"When we have the numbers
of persons in the library who are
homeless that we had last year,
the incidents of impairment and
persons who are uncooperative
with our staff about their behav-
ior goes up," Parker said. "It's felt
by everyone who's in the library
at that point time. We're trying to
mitigate that. In order to do that,
we've reached out."
As a response to the feedback,
Callan said CSTS was willing to
contribute their services to the
library.
"They were very eager to step
up to figure out how they could be
more helpful to the library to make
sure they have folks more of a pres-
ence there," Callan said.

)anded MPow
Parker said staff members from
CSTS will be in the library more to
work withi their clients and relieve
some of the library's burden.
"That willhopefully help people
get more attention for their physi-
cal needs sooner, than they might
if Community Support and Treat- January fair will
ment Support staff weren't here," lal
she said. "It also takes some of the include more than
responsibility of trying to connect
people in stress with public servic- 91 Companies
es from the library because we're
not qualified to understand what By ANASTASSIOS
a person might be needing at any ADAMOPOULUS
point or time." Daily StaffReporter
Along with CSTS services in
the library, Parker said the library Though finals are almost here
has partnered with the Ann Arbor next semester;s activities are just
Police Department's community aroundthe corner. And one these
engagement officer group. Parker is the annual MPowered Startup
said an officer from the group is usu- Career Fair.
allyatthelibraryeverydaytoassista The fair, hosted by the Zell
person with impairedhbehavior. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneur-
In contrast to AAPD's schedule, ial Studies, economic developer
Parkers said CSTS comes on an Ann Arbor SPARK and startup
irregular basis because it depends accelerator Bizdom, will take
on the staff members' schedules. place Jan.15 on North Campus.
"It's not a setup office hour type LSA sophomore Sydney Big-
thing at all," Parker said."That's not elow, co-director of the fair,
what this is about. This is just about said 91 startups from across the
being another set of eyes, a pres- country, including Michigan,
ence in the library and two groups California, New York, Chicago
that the library can fall back on now and Colorado, have registered for
that we think is much more positive the event, with the Dec. 15 reg-
thanjust calling911." istration deadline approaching.
Even though the two services Students can register and submit
run on different schedules, Parker their resumes up until the day of
said each program fills roles that the fair.
compliment each other in an effi- She noted that the startups
cient manner. attending the fair vary in type
"CSTS is the treatment and and size, including companies
the support side," she said. "The that employ anywhere from 10
police department is the author- to 500 people. Similarly, students
ity. They're the persons who from different fields and majors
could come and help us make sure
a person leaves the library. CSTS
gets that person into a place that's where people can stay after its
going to better for them than jail." hours of operation.
Even with the implementation "The library is not prepared to
of these services at the library, be a homeless shelter and we're
Parker said the library will not not trying to be," she said. "That's
become a permanent shelter why we ask for help because that's

ered to
startuip
event
are expected to attend. Bigelow
added that 1,500 to 2,000 stu-
dents attendedlastyear's event.
The startups will showcase
their company and products
catered to students, with an
emphasis on networking and
building career opportuni-
ties. Bigelow said though
startups might be looking to
fill specific positions, respon-
sibilities within a startup
often rotate.
"They are looking for people
that are dedicated about the
startup," she said. "That are
passionate about what they are
doing and just really willing to
learn, willing to work for what
they want."
Entering its seventh year, Big-
elow said MPowered reaches
out to startups to attend the fair,
though many companies have
started asking to attend on their
own.
"It's really casual and it's
a great way to interact with
recruiters on a one to one basis
because there's no pressure, it's
not uptight," Bigelow said. "It's
great for casual conversation,
beginning a conversation and
getting to know people. And it's
just really fun-a fun environ-
ment-and that's what we were
going for because that's what
startups are."
not what we are."
Callan said these recommenda-
tions are planned for the upcom-
ing winter, but it hasn't been
determined whether the approach
will continue annually.

I

s

a


The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 10, 2014 -- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December iD, 2D14 - 3A

VIGIL
From Page 1A

"I think this is an important
issue and to see so many people
standing behind us," he said. "I
think it sends a very strong mes-
sage about what's important here
at Michigan at large, and why
we're leaders and best."
Holcomb agreed that while
there has been focus on race in
the coverage of these incidents,
violence is a broader issue.
"These type of issues affect
everyone."
With regards to police brutal-
ity and the disconnect between
community and police force he
said that rebuilding trust will take
commitment and time.
"I think we can do a better job
of building those relationships
and that's what we hope to come
out of this event," he said.
BBSA hopes to host an event in
January with the University and
Ann Arbor Police Department to
start dialogue about how go about
improving the present situation.

AMANDA ALLEN/Daily
TOP LEFT: Rackham Student Lonzyo Holcomb speaks about the Eric Garner Case at the Black Lives Matter Silent Vigil held at Winter Gardens in Ross Business School Tuesday. TOP RIGHT: Students hold
hands in remembrance of Eric Garner. BOTTOM LEFT: Students walk into the Winter Gardens. BOTTOM RIGHT: Michigan Alum Harun Echols and LSA Freshman Sydney Jackson participate in the Black
Lives Matter Silent Vigil.


Entrepreneurship program
to launch in Winter 2015

Curriculum to
focus on innovation
and reaching goals
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Center for
Entrepreneurship is spearhead-
ing a new graduate program
to prioritize alternate forms of
learning.
Mikhail Zolikoff, the recent-
ly-appointed director of Gradu-
ate Programs, will lead the new
program with David Wentzloff,
co-director of Graduate Educa-
tion in CFE.
Zolikoff tied the curriculum's
focus on innovating through
the implementation and com-
mercialization research to the
department's mission.
"The next big thing doesn't
necessarily have to be an app,"
Zolikoff said. "There's a lot
of good groundbreaking, life-
changing work that's happening
right here at the University of
Michigan and it's enabling our
students to recognize those
opportunities and do something
with them."
The program will aim to
recruit students from a variety
of demographic backgrounds to
change the way entrepreneurs
are typically envisioned.
"The majority of tech entre-
preneurship is very white and
very male and there are a lot of
benefits to being more inclusive
in the area of entrepreneurship,"
Zolikoff said. "I very much want
that to be a thread throughout
this program."
Sarah Bachleda, communica-

tion and marketing maven for
the CFE, said professors in the
new program will offer an expe-
rience-based education.
"We will be having teachers,
and staff members and mentors
who actually have gone through
a lot of technology, science-
based entrepreneurship them-
selves," she said. "When they
teach it, they can speak directly
from the experiences they have
and they can encourage students
to learn by doing rather than just
reading a textbook about it."
The CFE recently phased out
its former Masters of Entrepre-
neurship graduate program to
make room for this new one. The
College of Engineering and the
Ross School of Business oper-
ated the previous program for
three years.
"This is the first time CFE
has its own dedicated program
director who's focusing on the
new direction that our gradu-
ate programs are going to take,"
Bachleda said.
Zolikoff said the high demand
among STEM students for entre-
preneurial training was a promi-
nent reason for creating the new
program.
His decision to accept the
appointment and satisfy the
demand for marketing science
technology derives from his
belief that the school needs more
innovators. He said students
must question the status quo.
"It's giving them those tools
so that they're not just think-
ing about their technology for
technology's sake but thinking
to themselves, 'Well how can I
take this and change the world?'
"he said.
To encourage innovation,


Zolikoff said he hopes to find
ways to confidence in their own
ideas.
"There is high fear and low
confidence in terms of people's
belief in themselves, that they
can take an idea that they have
and commercialize it or apply
it to an existing organization,"
he said. "We very much want to
rebirth those numbers lower the
fear and increase the confidence
and tell them, 'You have great
ideas, now let's do something
with it.'"
Though the graduate cur-
riculum aims to inspire entre-
preneurship across all fields of
graduate study, the program pri-
oritizes engineering. Wentzloff,
who wants to represent the fac-
ulty voice, named engineering as
the starting point, at least dur-
ing the program's nascent stag-
es. Wentzloff said that he and
Zolikoff have been in contact
with other University colleges.
"We've initially started by
talking with the deans of other
school in graduate education
about their plans for their cur-
riculum and what their needs
are and how they are approach-
ing entrepreneurship programs
in their own schools, if they are,"
he said.
Both Zolikoff and Wentzl-
off have backgrounds in entre-
preneurship at the University,
including involvement in stu-
dent startups. The two plan to
work together to address the
needs of both students and fac-
ulty within the department.
"He's ontop ofeverythingand
is extremely efficient at teasing
out the information we need,"
Wentzloff said. "Bottom line is,
he's been great to work with."

FREEDOM
From Page 1A
Amendment freedoms."
Dan Jarvis, director of research
-and public policy for the Michi-
gan Family Forum, a conservative
nonprofit that advocates for the
bill, said on a statewide and local
level, the legislation is important
because it establishes a stronger
presence for religious freedom.
"What this does is it reinstates
is a higher burden on the govern-
ment ... before they can interfere
with an individual's religious lib-
erty," Jarvis said.
He pointed the 2011 case of
Holland landlords who refused to
rent to an unwed couple and paid
$60,000 in a settlement and the
2012 case of Julea Ward, an East-
ern Michigan University graduate
student who was expelled from
the school's counseling program
because she refused to counsel
gay students.
"A person's religious activity
is not strictly within the confines
of a church or synagogue," Jar-
vis said. "People who are trying
to live out their faith take them
with them throughout the day.
All this legislation does is say

that if government is going to
interfere with a person's right to
practice their religion, they have
to have a compellinggovernmen-
tal interest."-
In testimony to the House's
Judiciary committee last week,
Rep. Jase Bolger (R-Marshall),
the bill's sponsor, attacked the
idea that the bill was discrimina-
tory; rather, he framed it as an
expansion of religious liberties.
"I support individual liberty
and I support religious free-
dom," Bolger told the commit-
tee, according to media reports..
"I have been horrified as some
have claimed that a person's faith
should only be practiced while
hiding in their home or in their
church."
However, opponents of the bill
have levied criticism on multiple
aspects of the bill, calling it too
broad.
Jay Kaplan, staff attorney
for the Michigan ACLU's LGBT
project, said the first amendment
already provides the requisite
level of protection for religious
freedom, rendering RFRA unnec-
essary.
"There's nothing the govern-
ment can ever do that can take
away my ability to believe (a sin-
cerely held religious belief),"

Kaplan said. "But we're talking
aboutthe context of non-religious
activity. We're not talking about
a church, or a mosque, or a syna-
gogue, in terms of them doing
things that are ministerial func-
tions. We're talking about non-
religious, secular activity, and
we're telling people you don't
have to follow these laws."
In an interview The Michigan
Daily Monday, State Rep. Jeff
Irwin (D-Ann Arbor) echoed
Kaplan's concerns about the bill
being unnecessary. For local ordi-
nances, he said he was concerned
about the burden it might place on
cities.
"One of the fears Ihave, is that
communities will just soft-pedal
enforcement of their civil ordi-
nances because the water is so
muddy," Irwin said. "I don't think
that's going to be as big of a prob-
lem in Ann Arbor because I think
our leaders are very committed to
trying to fight for the civil rights
of all citizens, but I can certainly
see a potential problem with a city
not wanting to spend that money
because money's so tight."
The RFRA is currently waiting
to be taken up by the state Senate,
which has until Dec. 18 to vote on
the legislation before this year's
lame duck session ends.

IT'S BEEN AN HONOR TO DESIGN THIS PAPER
& WRITE THESE ADS FOR YOU.
STAY TYPOGRAPHICALLY STRONG.

TO OUR READERS:
It's been an honor to bring you the news every day over this
past year. And even when we were here until 4:00 a.m.
and two and a half hours past deadline,
we enjoyed every minute of it.
From all the seniors @TMD, thanks for reading.

c c

A

I 1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Page 4A - Wednesday, December 10, 2014

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed-articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Rolling Stone's disservice

especially after Israel's right-wing
Likud party took power in 1977,
many American Jewish progressives
identified with Israel's liberal Zion-
ists, who supported negotiations
with the Palestine Liberation Orga-
nization and the establishment of
a Palestinian state. But since the
failure of the Oslo peace process in
2000, liberal Zionism has been deci-
mated. Having reached a peak of
44-percent representation inIsrael's
Knesset in 1992, the parties of liber-
al Zionism now have only 16 percent
(Parties representing the non-Zion-'
ist left and Palestinian citizens have
9percent, leavingthe rest tothe cen-
ter, right and extreme right).
Today, Israel's ethnocratic nature
is becoming clear. It explicitly bars
its non-Jewish citizens from mar-
rying whomever they like, speaking
their minds and buying land and
frequently threatens them with loss
of their citizenship. It has subjected
Palestinians in the occupied terri-
tories to 47 years of military occu-
pation, abusing human rights with
impunity to make way for Israeli
settlers. The recent decision to seg-
regate buses in the West Bank has
made it impossible for even Israel's
greatest apologists to deny the
charge that it has instituted apart-
heid. Israel's leaders no longer talk
about resolution of the "Palestinian
issue" but only of its "management"
through divide-and-conquer tac-
tics and frequent "lawn-mowing"
assaults on Gaza that have killed

thousands of civilians. Israel can no
longer plausibly represent itself as a.
"light unto the nations."
As opposition to these policies in
Israel itself dwindles, the idea that
one can support Israeli policies and
peace at the same time -longheld by
many American Jews - is being rec-
ognized as untenable. While Ameri-
can Jewish institutions such as the
American-Israel Political Action
Committee enthusiastically support
the hard line of the Israeli govern-
ment, more and more progressive
young Jews are deeply aggrieved by
what Israel has become and no lon-
ger feel they have a place in these
institutions. The emergence of the
Open Hillel movement demand-
ing that voices critical of Israel be
allowed into Hillel, the most power-
ful Jewish space on American cam-
puses, signals a major crack in the
Zionist consensus.
The circle may be closing: Zion-
ism, or at least automatic support
for Israeli policy, is no longer a
consensus position among Ameri-
can Jews. This doesn't automati-
cally mean the end of U.S. support
for Israel; contrary to what some
"Jewish lobby" theorists believe,
the United States does not support
Israel only due to pressure from
the Jewish community. American
administrations interested in domi-
nating the most energy-rich region
in the world are loath to discipline
an ally that is, after all, beholden to
U.S. military aid and willing to act

as the United States' local gendar-
merie in time of need. In electoral
terms, the Evangelical Christian
right - which supports Israel for
messianic reasons tinged with anti-
Semitism - is a much larger and
more disciplined constituency than
American Jews.
Nevertheless, young American
Jews - especially students - are
a key constituency for Palestinian
solidarity. Like their parents, they
are likely to be progressive, but
unlike their parents,who remember
the "socialist" Israel of yesteryear,
they are less likely to accept the
contradictions of being PEP, "Pro-
gressive Except Palestine." The new
generation is beginning to chal-
lenge mainstream Jewish institu-
tions, weakening a key component
of the anti-Palestinian coalition in
this country.
American Jews must take this
challenge forward, and the Univer- 4
sity's new chapter of Jewish Voice
for Peace aims to do just that. To
honor the Jewish tradition of jus-
tice, there can be no exceptions to
fighting oppression. There can be no
tolerating the misappropriation of
Jewish identity to defend apartheid.
The new face of American Judaism
is coming.
Matan Kaminer is a graduate
student in Anthropology, an Israeli,
and a member of Jewish Voice for
Peace. Joel Reinstein is an Ann Arbor
resident and is also a member of JVP.

ate last week, when The Washington
Post began questioning the attention-
grabbing and now infamous Rolling
Stone piece, "A Rape on
Campus," the little prog-
ress society had made by
way of justice for victims of .
sexual assault took one step ,
forward, and about eight
steps back.t
Published online by
the magazine Nov. 19 and
appearing in the December
issue, the Rolling Stone LAUREN
piece was written by Sabrina MCCARTHY
Rubin Erdely, investigative
long-form narrative
journalist and contributing editor. Her piece
detailed abrutalgang rape of a woman referred
to as Jackie during a party at the University of
,Virginia chapter of Phi Kappa Psi's fraternity
'house in 2012. Erdely's piece also emphasized,
in large part, the university's failure to respond
to this alleged assault, as well as highlighting
the school'stroublinghistory ofindifference to
manyother instances of alleged sexual crimes.
A few weeks later, however, The
Washington Post reported that officials from
Phi Kappa Psi had been working closely with
.the police and concluded that the allegations
were untrue. Among other details, the
fraternity said there was no event at the
house the night of the alleged attack. A group
of Jackie's close friends had also begun to
doubt the account, noting that the details
of the attack had changed significantly over,
time. Rolling Stone's editors apologized to
readers for discrepancies in the story, issuing
a statement and posting it on their website.
Monday, The New York Times editorial board
published a piece claiming, "It is not yet clear
whether the discrepancies between Jackie's
account and reporting by The Washington
Post, among other news outlets, mean that
the story was only superficially inaccurate or
substantially false."
Putting the breadth of the discrepancies
aside, the byline atthe top of the article should
have perhaps been the first indication of a
potentially unsound report. Erdely focuses her
writings extensively about persons who have
alleged rape and bullying, and her personal
website attests that several of her articles are
in development as Hollywood films.
In 2011, Erdely authored a story for Rolling
Stone about child abuse within the Roman
Catholic Church in Philadelphia. As an
adult, the victim - referred to as Billy Doe -
recounted his abuse and accused his attackers
of a high-level conspiracy that drove him to
become a reclusive drug addict. These claims
resulted in criminal charges leading to the
imprisonment of two church employees and
a major civil suit against the church, though
reportedly, the conviction of one of the jailed
church employees has since been overturned
and new trials ordered for the other two
individuals.
Concern has been raised that either Erdely's
journalistic veracity may not be entirely intact,
or as a veteran, award-winning journalist her

discretion when choosing sources is flawed.
More important, however, are the devastating
consequences of her incomplete reporting.
One would hope that in publishing the
article, Rolling Stone intended to provoke a
much-needed, national conversation about
the prevalence and dire consequences of rape
on university campuses. Instead, the issue
has been entirely sidestepped and replaced
with discussions of journalistic integrity and
responsible reporting. Instead of spurring the
necessary discourse for legitimized change,
Erdely and Rolling Stone have done victims of
sexual assault an enormous disservice.
Now, survivors of assault and rape may
fear that when or if they tell their stories,
they will also fall victim to the example set by
Rolling Stone's increasingly fictitious article.
Survivors may struggle to see journalists
as advocates, assuming that his or her first
preference might be to exploit their hurt in
hopes of having another piece repurposed into
a "Hollywood film." The piece conditioned an
inherently skeptical society to further doubt
victims' reports and question their intentions
in sharing their story. For the future, "A Rape
on Campus" is now the all-too-convenient
scapegoat for those who refuse to accept
the increasingly prevalent statistics and
overwhelming personal accounts that are
not fabricated.
For me, however, the most chilling detail
of "A Rape on Campus" that now remains is
that this piece was written by a woman: In a
disservice to the members of her own gender
- the statistically higher victims of rape and
sexual assault - Erdely has preserved an
environment in which women are fearful of
speaking out against their attacker, for fear
that they too will be accused of simply "crying
rape." She has reinforced a culture that is
already prone.to be disbelieving of women.
It is insulting that another woman, with the
privilege of speaking to a national audience
would forego achieving proper representation
of her peers, presumably for the sake of her
own personal or professional gain. Erdely
seems to have cared so little about accurately
and precisely communicating Jackie's story
that she failed to interview the accused
- in essence, she failed to even attempt at
objectively uncovering both sides of the story.
Erdely held the profound opportunity to
stimulate a meaningful discourse concerning
sexual violence and assault on college cam-
puses, but in her perhaps misguided execu-
tion, she has succeeded only in crippling the
conversation. It is rare today that a survivor of
sexual assault isbrave enough to come forward
in such an unforgiving social climate, and it is
a shame that the opportunity was squandered.
Erdely abused her privilege, and has failed
both as a journalist and as an advocate of wom-
en's rights. Nonetheless, it is my hope as both
a woman and a member of the media that this
issue will be approached by journalists in the
future with not only integrity, but also convic-
tion and the utmost care.
- Lauren McCarthy can be
reached at laurmc@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Edvinas Berzanskis, Devin Eggert, David Harris,

r

Rachel John, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein Aarica Marsh,
Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Paul, Allison Raeck,
Melissa Scho Ike, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Mary Kate Winn, Jenny Wang, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
Sleepin Atuus

MATAN KAMINER AND JOEL REINSTEIN I
Hillel, Israel and American Judaism

t the end of summera couple
of summers ago, the man-
agement at Valley Country
Club took my job
title of "server" in
the broad sense
and had me run-
ning odd jobs dur-
ing the big annual
golf tournament.
I puttered around
in a little gaso-
line golf cart, the
muffler exploding AVERY
sometimes like DIUBALDO
a gun and mak-
ing men in pas-
tel hats jump and miss their tees. I
spent one afternoon breaking blocks
of ice, swinging them over my head
in bags and smashing them on the
asphalt of the employee parking lot.
Marine birds kill their fish the same
way. On another day, I cut limes for
vodkagimlets.
The hours were long - before
sunrise until almost midnight - and
even though the pay was double for
the overtime, and I liked coming
home exhausted and sunburnt with
stains all over my khaki shorts, it
was a pretty raw deal. But at least I
earned my sleep. The little that I had.
I never sleep much in August -
which is not to say that I don't sleep
well, only that the sleep in August
is quick and somehow more restful
than it is in other months. It were
as if the miraculous power wielded
by dreams to restore the body, to
regenerate the mind, is atits height in
those last weeks of summer, and only
three hours in bed is enough to bridge
the gap between the 21 hours spent
in wakefulness before them and the
21 spent in wakefulness after. Why,
I can't say - perhaps it's something
about that month's transitory nature,
its fleetingness, which makes sleep
seem an unaffordable luxury. The
mouth of the year, which has been
closed in sleep all summer, begins to
open again for the start of the school-
term and is caught half at a gape in
August, that yawn of a month.
So, that August, the first after
my freshman year in college, I took
advantage of my surplus waking
hours by working, filling my pockets
with cash. I wasn't saving up for any-
thing in particular, and the money,
for as long as I was earning it, went
largely unspent. Nearly everyone my
age seemed to be off taking unpaid
internships in New York or rescuing
orphans in Cambodia - it was always
Cambodia. I never quite figured out
what it was which drew droves of
undergraduates, in their philan-
thropic fervor, to Cambodia - and
my range of expenses had narrowed
itself to early-morning coffees, lonely
movie tickets and little else. I with-
drew 100, one-dollar coins from the
bank and stacked them on my dresser

to make a little golden city. My par-
ents wished I had a girlfriend.
There was someone, a friend of
a friend, whose blue dress and taste
in Russian novels I had courted, on
and off, for nearly two months. But
she was maddeningly difficult to get
a hold of, reluctant or else terrified of
answeringher phone.We had met for
a handful of dates, and, on the last of
them, over Thai food in an industrial
neighborhood, I had promised to
take her to the reservoir where she
had never been.
That was my favorite place in
town, and, as a child, I had spent
summer weekends playing in the
sand with my cousins and climbing
the trees around its bank. It sounded
like a lovely place, she had said, and it
was perfectly romantic, especially at
night when one could watch the traf-
fic moving across the dam, the head-
lights of commuting bakers, night
guards and gravediggers shuttling
over the high ridge and into the city.
She'd be happy to see it with me.
But that afternoon in the Thai
restaurant had been two weeks ago,
and my phone calls and textmessages
had gone unanswered since then.
Maybe, I thought, she, too, had gone
to Cambodia.
Some mornings, I would wake
before work with a mysterious, lin-
gering optimism, as if I had won a
lottery in the night and then for-
gotten about it, and it wasn't until I
was halfway out of the shower that
I would remember the dream of the
previous night, the dream in which
she had appeared among all the other
half-formed and siren things which
populate dreams, all the dark forests
and crumbling teeth, and had offered
her hand for mine to hold. Recall-
ing this, once again seeing the day
before me as it was, stale and flat, I
would towel off, dress and drive to
the country club. And secretly some
part of me eagerly looked forward
to the next night, to the next dream,
to sleep.
The tournament was four days
long. On the last day, it rained,
intermittently in the morning and
then straight on through the night.
The golfers huddled under shelters
between lightning strikes while I
caught up on my deliveries: gin and
tonics to the cart girls, sandwiches to
the caddies. My golf cart didn't have
a roof. I was thin that summer from
being on my feet all day, but I looked
even thinner in the oversized red
polo plastered against my chest with
rainwater, the circles under my eyes
purpled like bruises.
After the winner was announced,
the management put me to work col-
lecting the coolers of booze left scat-
tered around the course like malaria
chests in the colonial jungle. A pair
of waitresses was dispatched in their
own cart to help me in the job, but

they split off right away, and I did
the work alone. It was dark then, and
I could hear music and silverware
fromtheyellowclubhouse onthehill.
Hiding behind a tree on the sev-
enth hole, I swigged from a bottle
of tonic and topped it off with Grey
Goose from one of the chests. The
other servers perpetually drank on
the job. It made them luckier with
tips, quicker to smile and t give
refunds, butt had never joined them
before, as I was too afraid of the cam-
era that hung just above the club bar,
its eye trained on the glowing liquor.
The rain didn't let up, and I hoped
the golf cart would catch a wheel in
the mud so I'd have to walk back to
the clubhouse and leave the job to the
waitresses who were almostcertainly
drinking beer in the women's
restroom by the pond. I was in a foul
mood, breathing hard through my
teeth and talking to myself, and to
them, who, in their absence, could
neither hear nor defend themselves
from my bitter complaints
and accusations.
The handles to the coolers were
smooth plastic, and I had trouble
hefting them onto the cart. More
than once, I lost my grip and the
coolers tumbled open, forcing me
to chase down the cans and bottles
on my hands and knees. Mine was a
ghoul's silhouette, looping over hills
and around sand traps, and I think
that Grendel, left to splash miserably
in his mere and hear the Danes at
their mead, had had some ideaofhow
I felt.
When I drove back to the
clubhouse and unloaded my cargo,
I saw that the rest of the staff had
gone home. Mark, the red-nosed
general manager, helped me empty
the coolers and store their contents,
at least a hundred thousand dollars
in crystal and labels, in the liquor
room. He spoke to me about running
a business, good management and
how to deal with hard customers. I
listened, dripping, thinking of sleep.
At one in the morning, the
waitresses showed up, drunk. Their
cart had run out of battery, they
said, and they had been stranded in
the rain waiting for the charge to
come back. I clocked out with three
whole coolers of liquor left to empty
and sort, leaving the rest of the job to
them, two hours' work at least, and
that was the firsttime I'd seen anyone
look at me with real hate, two pretty
girls who hated me, hated my guts,
but it didn't matter because I knew
there was another pretty girl who
didn't hate me, and I drove straight
to her, and we parked in a copse of
trees on the bank of the reservoir
and watched the lights of cars
track across the dam until morning
- Avery DiUbaldo can be
reached at diubaldo@umich.edu.

Lastspring,the Universitycampus was rocked
-by Students Allied for Freedom and Equality's
#UMDivest campaign. SAFE demanded
that the University divest from companies
involved in Israel's military occupation and
human rights violations against Palestinians.
Supported by 36 organizations representing
hundreds of students, its divestment
resolution before student government was
the talk of campus for the better part of a
month. Throughout the process, Palestinian
students described their experiences of
oppression and the University's complicity
in it.
Principal in opposing this campaign, as it
opposes similar campaigns across the country,
wasthe JewishcampusorganizationUniversity
of Michigan Hillel. Purporting to represent all
Jewish students, Michigan Hillel contributed
to tension on campus by pressuring Central
Student Government first to table the resolution
and then to vote against it after a student sit-in
forced a vote. Hillel chose to speak on behalf of
all Jewish students despite a Jewish letter of
support for the resolution as well as outspoken
support for the resolution from a Jewish
studentgovernment representative. Ultimately,
the resolution failed after hours of debate.
American Jewish institutions have not
always opposed Palestinian rights. The United
States is home to the world's largest Jewish
population outside of Israel and is Israel's
closest ally in monetary and diplomatic terms.
However, neither of these facts is the cause of

the other. Zionism, or the belief that Jewish
rights are best represented by a Jewish state
in historic Palestine, only came to dominate
American Jewish politics in the 1960s, long
after the establishment of Israel. It was around
this time that Israel, previously a French
and British ally, aligned itself more directly
with the United States, inaugurating the
"special relationship."
This is also when American Jewish groups
like Hillel, previously neutral on the issue,
became declaredly Zionist. Many claim that
the "Israel lobby," of which these organizations
are a part, is the reason for the United States'
support of Israel's occupation. The tail doesn't
wag the dog: Zionism would probably never
have become a consensus among American
Jews if succeeding U.S. administrations had
not decided to make the alliance with Israel a
cornerstone of their Middle East policy.
Many American Jews, whose ancestors fled
crushing poverty and discrimination in Eastern
Europe and who lost family in the Nazi Holo-
caust, have been strong supporters of social
justice in the United States. Jewish Americans
played an important part in the struggles of the
1960s and 1970s - civil rights, opposition to the
Vietnam war, feminism, etc. - and at the same
time supportedZionism.Atthetime, Israel pre-
sented itself to the world as an embattled egali-
tarian state founded by refugees and entitled
to solidarity.
As the occupation of the Palestinian ter-
ritories that started in 1967 deepened, and

I

I

I I

£E


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 10, 2014 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December iD, 2D14 - 5A

Dystopian 'Child'
critiques corruption

Ambitious -
SundanceTV show'
skillfully crafted
By CATHERINE SULPIZIO
DailyArts Writer
Sundance TV's original
miniseries "One Child" clocks in
at almost four hours long. At times
the show
circulates
within itself;
it's impossible One Child
not to in SundanceTV
this tense,
claustrophobic and excellent
drama. It features Mei Ashley
(Katie Leung, "Harry Potter and
the Goblet of Fire") as an adopted
Chinese woman living in London.
One day, she receives a call from a
journalist back in China, claiming
to be an intermediary for her
biological mother. Mei's brother
(Sebastian So) has been framed
foramurderandwillbesentenced
to death in three weeks under
China's oppressive communist
regime. She needs Mei's British
citizenship to help (this is a not
fully satisfying reason), so Mei
travels to China, setting her on
a race through the labyrinthine
halls of government corruption.
"One Child" 's ambition
in covering vast ground in
terms of political critique and
psychological analysis makes
up for some moments of weak
dialogue and plot implausibility.
The show's rich characters
deserve more. Mei's actions, for
instance, are baffling at times
for a burgeoning scientist. She
takes off -for China without
telling her parents the real reason
and without any plan, blithely
trusting the journalist. Her
parents - a superb Elizabeth
Perkins, "Weeds," and Donald
Sumpter, "Game of Thrones" -

"Harry Potter was naked on Broadway. Now I'm in a Sundance miniseries.'

act as a surrogate for the audience,
powerlessly conveying their
fluctuating emotions of shock,
fear and frustration via phone and
Skype calls that Mei either hangs
up on or refuses to answer.
But of course, blood runs thick,
even for a brother she's never
met or even knew about, and the
showis expertlygrapples with the
question of what defines family.
In this way, it explains Mei's
moments of irrationality - those
three weeks are tamped with
unimaginable pressure that the
show successfully evokes.
It does this by imbuing its story
with very little sentimentalism.
Mei's reunion with her biological
mother is stripped of any
Hallmark glow, and there is
something vaguely unnerving
about the way her mother comes
back into her life only to save
her son. More than this, as Mei
pursues various advocacy and
activist channels, "One Child"
unrelentingly shuttles her down
countless avenues only for her to
crash headlong into their dead
ends.
"One Child" is a true
dystopian to American viewers,
recalling Welles' "The Trial"
more than the YA brand
saturating the theaters. "One
Child" is terrifying to watch
because the enemy is an
Orwellian government, sublime

in its presence, spiderwebbed
with potential respites that
dissolve as quickly as they
materialize. Even the activists
and journalists are pervaded
with corruption and operate
under pivoting ulterior motives.
This is suspense in the top-notch
sense, relying on realistic jags of
plot to drive its pace rather than
any superimposed gimmicks.
Nothing against sex and violence,
but "One Child" should be noted
for the unremitting tension it
suspends for four episodes by the
skin of its gritty, unglamorous
teeth. Because of this, it makes
for neither pleasant nor cathartic
viewing.
"One Child" typifies the high-
caliber content migrating to
television. It's skillfully paced
and harrowing, composed
with judicious doses of both
psychodrama and political
commentary. To say this show is
important is an understatement.
The viewer tendency with shows
like "One Child," perhaps, is to
situate the critique solely in the
foreign countries they are set in,
but viewers would be loath to
ignore the universal indictment
of government corruption in "One
Child" 's narrative. When art
and politics converge,.it is worth
examining, but when it is done as
exceptionally as "One Child," it
must be examined.

#Trill bros.

Turning up in the
club w ith Caked U p

A truly medi ocre'Guide'

Bravo premieres its
first 'real' scripted
program
By KAREN HUA
DailyArts Writer
In the weeks leading up to its
premiere, "Girlfriends' Guide to
Divorce" stood at the center of
television
hype.
As Bravo's
first scripted Girlfriends'
television Guide to
program .o
(that is, if you Divoe
don't count its Series Premiere
reality shows),
"Girlfriends' Tuesdays at 10 p.m.
Guide" was Bravo
set for a
promising season. Based on the
popular advice books by Vicki
Iovine, the series is created by
the ubiquitous Marti Noxon, with
writing and producing credits on
successes such as "Mad Men,"
"Glee" and "Buffy the Vampire
Slayer."
The show focuses on middle-
aged Los Angeles women in
various stages of divorce. At the
center is Abby McCarthy (Lisa
Edelstein, "House"), the author
of a wildly successful self-help
book for young women; ironically,
her entire career has been built
upon her superficially perfect
family and marriage - the pilot
captures her in marital strife
with her adulterous husband
Jake (Paul Adelstein, "Private
Practice"). Meanwhile, she is
negatively influenced by her two
divorcee friends: Phoebe (Beau
Garrett, "TRON: Legacy"), a
former model who's fully aware
she's a "bangable blond," and Lyla
(Janeane Garofalo, "Wet Hot
American Summer"), who has an
affinity for vengeance against her
ex-husband. Both empower Abby
to celebrate her impending single
status by binge-drinking, having
nonchalant one-night-stands and
lying to her family.

EDM duo brings
energetic set
to Necto
By ARIANA ASSAF
Daily StaffReporter
The first time I saw Caked
Up was at Forever Festival in
Sterling Heights earlier this
fall, where I found myself
rocking out to these guys I'd
never heard of. I'll be honest -
at the time, I was just waiting
to see Adventure Club. But
Vegas Banger and Oscar Wylde
were going absolutely insane
on stage, creating a buzzing,
almost mosh-pit scene at the
front of the Sterling Heights
Amphitheater. I quickly got
the sense thatthis set was
the high point of everyone's
day, and by the end of it, I too
had put Adventure Club out
of my mind and found myself
wishing for just one more song.
Last week, Caked Up played
at Necto on the most turned-
up Wednesday night I've ever
experienced. To those of you
who stayed in because it was
the middle of the week and
finals are coming up, you were
wrong (sorry). Caked Up may
have been going up against the
worst week of the semester -
and Dillon Francis performing
45 minutes away in Royal
Oak - but it didn't matter.
A dedicated group of fans
screamed their hearts out as
the duo jumped into their set
like they couldn't wait to get
going. Loud, proud and eager
to be Caked Up, the crowd
sang along to a hyped-up
version of "Fancy," clapped to
a remix of Deorro and MAKJ's
"Ready" and waved along to a
version of Armin van Buuren's
"Ping Pong" that somehow
transitioned in to a sick
adaptation of "Satisfaction."
Caked Up may appear to be
an overnight success, but the
look is deceiving. It's only been
a year since they've built such
a large and loyal following, but
their popularity has been a
long time coming. Their ever-
climbing social media numbers
are not only a testament to tons
of recent releases, but also to
over a decade of work by the
artists on their own. The two
didn't start playing together
until about six years ago, when
they connected via the Las

Vegas music scene. But if their
41.1K followers on Twitter
and over 600,000 followers on
Soundcloud are any indicator,
the duo's career looks poised
to keep soaring.
Wednesday night's party
didn't stop until over half an
hour after it was supposed
to. Oscar Wylde (Brandon
Marstellar), evidently not
wanting to leave anyone
feeling underserved, indulged
both the audience and himself
in several "last songs" that
saw girls twerking on boys,
boys twerking on boys and
the management team getting
slightly pissed off. We all
thought he was winding down
with "DJ, Ease My Mind," but
then he brought the energy
right back;up with "NojFlex.
Zone," "Wiggle",and more.
Oscar Wylde and Vegas
Banger's (Jeff Saville) 10-plus
years of individual DJ
experience was immediately
evident on stage, and it almost
looks like they have their own
inside jokes running as they
perform. They're charismatic
and quick, carefully building
beats and stringing synths
together just right, while at
the same time, not giving a.
flying fuck about pretty much
anything. The performance
was almost intimate enough
to feel like a night in spent
jumping around to good music
with close friends, but rowdy
enough to very much be a night
out. Way out. Between a trip
or two into the audience for
pictures," calls for everyone
to get up on Necto's stage
and Grey Goose being poured
directly into the mouths of girls
directly below the DJ booth,
there was no questioning
everyone had come to party.
The duo used tried-and-true
crowd favorites remixed and
redesigned to reflect their own
unique style in combination
with new material, walking
the line between trap and
more "traditional" EDM (is
that a thing?). As I said before,
they're quick. In a live show,
Caked Up will have moved on
from one song you think you
recognize before you've really
wrapped your head around
their own version of it.
I didn't step back to think
about this until a while after
the performance, because
while you're in it, you're in it
and having the best time -

that's the point of their music.
But when you're a fan and you
keep tabs on your favorite
artists, you notice when they're
accused .of taking what isn't
theirs. When Caked Up put
a remix entitled "No Type"
on their SoundCloud, people
commented on its similarities
to DJ duos Loudpvck and
Gladiator's track "Tony". This
escalated to accusations of
stealing by various EDM blogs.
Another story broke in mid-
November about how Caked Up
used part of a song by Jackal
("Chinchilla") without giving
credit.
Interestingly, none of these
parties really spoke up about
it until now, and for good
reason: "If you give attention
to something that's negative,
it's never;gonna die," Oscar
calmly explained. For all his
crazy antics, he's also got a
good amount of wisdom on
his side.
It seems to have worked.
Few follow-ups have been
written since, and I don't feel
the need to beat the issue to
the ground. Suffice it to say
that Caked Up is actually
close friends with all these
artists, and they tell me whole
thing has become a bit of a
joke to them.
"Loudpvck and Jackal have
both contacted me and said
'this is hilarious that this
is happening'," Oscar said.
"Everybody thinks we came
up in the past year but we've
worked very hard ... for people
to just take that away is pretty
fucking hurtful."
"It happens in the DJ world
all the time," Jeff continued.
"Everybody makes mashups of
different songs." They broke
down the Loudpvck/Gladiator
situation for my technically
untrained ears: though the
keys may be the same, the
synths only sound similar and
the melodies are different.
The duo compared it to Nicki
Minaj's sample of Sir Mix-
A-Lot's song in "Anaconda,"
though it's worth noting that
she asked Sir Mix-a-Lot's
permission for the sample
and paid for it. Still, her song
has been on Billboard's Hot
100 list for the past 17 weeks.
Caked Up explained that they
didn't even sample a Loudpvck
song, let alone steal it.
"Can you even steal music?"
Jeff wondered aloud.

I wanna feel the heat with somebody."
The series refreshingly follows
women who are the breadwinners
- and not housewives - for
a change. However, this
empowering factor is almost
negated in Bravo's stereotypically
inaccurate portrayal of."normal"
women. All the females stand
in a quasi-gorgeous state, their
beautifully slim figures buttressed
by plastic surgeries and Botox
procedures. There are no women
struggling, . of racial diversity
or with variation in weight -
as the show homogeneously
demonstrates only 'a narrow
margin of today's modern woman.
Abby and her friends seem
vapid beneath their immaculate
complexions. Even the
protagonist, whom by name and
regardless of faults or flaws is
supposed to be admirable in some
way, is difficult to root for. In the
end, Abby's friends push her from
independence to self-destruction
- when she purposely botches
her speech at a book signing for
young women who look up to her.
An audience cannot be quite as
sympathetic toward Abby as they
can toward a Hannah Horvath
figure - both with affinities for
bad decision-making, but Abby
without a cushion of ignorant
youth..
In general, the show often
blurs the lines between comedy
and drama. Interspersed between
humorous moments, the writing
stands out primarily in the serious
scenes. "Girlfriends' Guide" may
be a scripted show of fiction, but

it is one that feels "realer" than
any of Bravo's "reality" shows.
Though it bears a flippant title,
the show aims to be emotionally
complex, peppered with a bit of
social commentary. In a way, it
does live up to those expectations,
but to quite a mediocre standard
nonetheless.
Most prominently, the show
comments on the stigma divorce
still carries. Just as an argument
between Abby and her gay
brother Max (Patrick Heusinger,
"Black Swan") reveals, some
people do not accept divorce as
an appropriate option unless one
spouse is abusive or alcoholic. On
the other hand, though Abby's
husband is initially portrayed
as a despicable individual, he
can be commended for his
final willingness to mend their
relationship. He often fluctuates
between vulgar rudeness toward
his wife and sporadic efforts to
make things work - but it is Abby,
the "empowered" woman, who
finalizes their separation. The
fickle reality of their marriage
captures the essence of divorce.
The end of the pilot concludes
with an indifferent wave goodbye
from Abby as she saunters out of
her book signing - an attitude
that mirrors that of the viewer.
Although the pilot is not awful,
there is little to be desired for
upcoming episodes. But despite
"Girlfriends' Guide" 's mediocrity,
Bravo should be commended for
taking a step beyond its usual
programming.


PRINT JOURNALISM:
SURE TO BE ALIVE
AND KICKIN'
IT IN 2015.
STAY TUNED.
@MICHIGANDAILY

I

I

I


I

6A - Wednesday, December 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



The equality movement,

It seems over the few remain-
ing months of this year our
world has encountered much
more than a climate change.
We are in the midst of a global
equality movement. Daily, there
are new stories from around the
globe being discovered - expos-
ing law enforcement that has
served less in favor of justice for
the people, and is more connect-
ed to maintaining power and
control. Foreign affairs and poli-
cies regarding women's rights,
the dismantling of governmen-
tal structures, policies regard-
ing sexual assault, the inclusion
of United States laws and sexual
orientation, and the current-
ly magnified police brutality
against minorities all serve as
equally important happenings
in this awakening. As these situ-
ations occur, our readied fingers
take to social media to voice
various emotions: hurt, pain,
anger, confusion - all of which
are natural without filters and
at times may be misconstrued
through our own actions and not
benefit the urgent needs of these
situations. Within those tangled
emotions, my observance of the
superior emotion - love, is what
intertwines these expansive
and contrasting responses and
makes hope tangible. Love is the
source to pull from hate and cre-
ate peace. Love has the ability
to look beyond rage and grasp
influence. Love has the ability

to not only empathize but strat-
egize and positively control and
structure the myriad of nega-
tive feelings that are all human.
'The piece created stems from
this space of unconditional love
and hope for the better amongst
the seemingly disastrous battle-
ground we face on this earth.
I seek to challenge the mind,
will and emotions of my global
community at large to find the
answers for the "Why me? Why
us?" question that we all inter-
nally battle everyday. I wish to
impart a complex but simple
answer that I believe would do
us all well. I challenge all people
to accept with earnest power,
and heroic boldness the very
source that rapper Kendrick
Lamar has found in his most
recent song, and embrace the
equality movement in decidingI
love myself
Be Black Bold
We Black People °
Make Black Legal
Elevate Black Soul
Use Black Control
Tell Black Souls
Be Black Bold
We Black Power
Take Black Rage
Create Black Change
Choose Black Reign

Yell Black Pain
Be Black Bold
We Black Love
Make Black Peace
Navigate Black Streets
Refuse Black Seats
Repel Black Hate
Be Black Bold
We Black Souls
Remember Black Goals
Write Black Roles
Unite Black Strolls
Release Black Holds
Be Black Bold
We Black Gold
Have Black Pride
Create Black Compassion
Capture Black Passion
Take Black Action
Be Black Bold
We Black Music
Take Black Influence
Create Black Congruence
Help Black Endurance
Tell Black Assurance
Be Black Bold
We Black Souls
We Black Gold
We Black Grow
We Black People
We Black Power
We Black Love
BE BLACK BOLD
Be Black Bold

CSG
From Page 1A
in making the University more
inclusive.
"Including onsite admissions
at Detroit schools can help lessen
the inequality between racial
representations by opening
doors of opportunity for every-
one," Alvarenga said.
Prior to the voting process,
assembly members introduced
an amendment to the resolu-
tion, resulting in the addition of
a stanza stating CSG does not
support violent or intimidat-
ing actions that would be taken
to promote the resolution. The
assembly referred specifically to
the actions that took place at the
recent Regents meeting.
Last month, BAMN members
relocated a University Board of
Regents meeting. They lodged
criticisms of the University,
most notably that no action has
been taken to increase minority
enrollment. Protestors eventu-
ally prompted the board to end
the meeting and move to another
location.
Some members of the assem-
bly were concerned the amend-
ment would deter from the goal
of the resolution. The assembly
agreed by vote to change the lan-
guage of the amendment to say
CSG will not support any action
that threatens public safety.

Education senior Michael ran, I ran with the goal of being a
Chrzan is one of the authors of voice to an entirely new view for
the resolution. He said now that CSG to consider."
CSG supports onsite admis- Shannon said she also wantsto
sions in Detroit high schools, the bring concerns regarding Public
assembly will create a task force Health to CSG's consideration.
to work with the University's "We're really trying to bring
Office of Admissions. Public Health into the entire
"The Task Force will have scope of not only CSG but on
until March to report back with Central campus," she said.
either strategies created with
Admissions to implement onsite Body elects vice chairs of
admissions or reasons why the Finance Committee and Reso-
University is unable to do so," lutions Committee
Chrzan said.
CSG will create the task force CSG also elected new vice
during the first meeting of win- chairs for both the Finance Com-
ter semester Jan.13. mittee and the Resolution Com-

4

CSG swears in newly elected
representatives
LSA junior Rachel Webb and
Public Health senior Rebecca
Shannon were among the group
of new representatives inducted
into the assembly. They dis-
cussed new ideas and strategies
they hope to bringto the table.
Webb said she wants to help
create transparency between
CSG and the student body, espe-
cially regarding the allocation of
funds to student organizations.
She also said she hopes to diver-
sify racial diversity within CSG.
"There weren't a lot of stu-
dents of color on CSG, and hav-
ing diverse representations
within the CSG is important if
CSG hopes to represent a diverse
population," she said. "So when I

mittee.
Engineering senior Robert
Greenfield was elected vice chair
for the Finance Committee after
a blind ballot vote. Greenfield
said he hopes his experience as
treasurer of the Black Student
Union will help him to improve
the CSG funding process.
"I've raised the budget at the
BSU by $25,000, and improved
the budgeting process so that it is
sensitive both to BSU and other
organizations that receive allo-
cated funding from us," Green-
field said.
LSA senior Andrew Loeb was
elected vice chair of the Resolu-
tions Committee.
"I want to continue to work to
make resolutions that will pro-
duce important positive chang-
es on campus for students," he
said.


OPEN
From Page 1A
public safety concerns necessitat-
ed the meeting's relocation.
Though the Open Meetings Act
states that "no one maybe exclud-
ed fromameetingotherwise open
to the public except for a breach of
the peace actually committed at
the meeting," there are not specif-
ic provisions for excluding mem-
bers of the general public at large.
Douglas Smith, a former Uni-
versity medicl professor and
one of the public speakers on the.
original agenda for the meeting,
told the Daily in an interview Dec.
4 that he was denied entrance to
Fleming.
"After a while (University
spokesman) Rick Fitzgerald
began to whisper something to
the reporters at the media desk
so I wentcup and asked him if they
were moving the meeting," he
said. "He said they were and that
I could followhim."
Smith said a public safety offi-
cial at the Fleming doors told him
only those with approved media
credentials would be granted
access to the building.
"Then the chairman of the
regents, Regent (Kathy) White,
came tothe door and told me they
were not going to have public
speakers today and that I was not
allowed to come in," he said.
In an e-mail Friday, Fitzgerald
said the University maintains it
fully complies with the Michigan
Constitution's requirement that
formal sessions of the Board of
Regents be open to the public.
"Regarding the November 2014
meeting, we believe the state con-
stitution also gives the University
latitude to take prudent measures
to assure those attending board
meetings are safe," he wrote.
In a Dec.5 e-mail, Diane Brown,
spokeswoman for the Division of
Public Safety and Security, said
public safety officials and law
enforcement are charged with
assessing any potential threats to
the community.
"If there is a condition in which
the people or property in a par-
ticular location are threatened
or where parties present have a
heightened sense of fear for their
personal safety based on an esca-
lating situation, there may be a
determination of a public safety
threat," she wrote.
The Open Meetings Act does
not include specifications for
relocating a meeting due to a pub-
lic safety threat.
However, in 1980, the Uni-
versity faced a similar situation

when students and members of
the Washtenaw County Coalition
Against Apartheid protested the
University's investments in South
African corporations at meetings
of the regents.
The protests forced the regents
to recess their meeting multiple
times over two days. The board
ultimately obtained a restrain-
ing order against WCCAA which
allowed the regents "to recess,
move its location and exclude
from attendance those persons
who breach the peace."
The coalition sued, arguing the
regents violated the Open Meet-
ings Act by preventing them from
entering the new meeting loca-
tion.
In Regents of the University of
Michigan vs. Washtenaw County
Coalition Against Apartheid,
the Michigan Court of Appeals
ruled the regents' actions accept-
able, noting the presence of the
restraining order and that both
the press and members of the
general public were notified of
the room change.
"We do, however, share the
concern obviously felt by defen-
dants and the trial court that a
meetingwhich is recessed remain
open to the public," the ruling
read. "In order to remain faithful
to the spirit and purpose of the
Open Meetings Act the Regents
were required to provide notice
of the new time and place of the
reconvened meeting. Plaintiff
complied with the court order to
this effect by posting officials at
the Regents Room to advise the
press and members of the general
public of the room change."
The University, however, did
not notify members of the gen-
eral public of the room change in
November.
According to Frank LoMonte,
Student Press Law Center execu-
tive director, based on the prec-
edent from the 1980s case, the
difference in whether the pub-
lic was advised might be key in
determining whether Novem-
ber's meeting violated the Act.
"It seemed really important to
the judges in the 1980s case that
the public had a chance to go to
the recessed location," he said. "If
the public wasn't give the oppor-
tunity to go to the recessed loca-
tion than that really might put a
legal cloud over the move of loca-
tion."
Fitzgerald said because mem-
bers of media were present, the
University upheld the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act.
"The meeting was reconvened
at a different location, but not
until all members of the news
media were present," Fitzgerald

said. "We believe these steps pro-
vided for a balance betweenkeep-
ing those in attendance safe while
still providing public access."
Schlissel said members of the
general public not involved in
the protest were not permitted
to enter the relocated meeting
because the University did not
have proper means to determine
what members of the public were
or were not part of BAMN.
"I don't think we had a way to
sort the general public into mem-
bers of BAMN and non-members
of BAMN," he said. "So I think
in real time as the decision was
made, not knowing how to do the
sorting without being prejudiced
against certain people, we didn't
think it was appropriate to try."
"We ended up striking a com-
promise that the general counsel
thought was legally consistent
with the Open Meetings Act," he
added.
Herschel Fink, editorial legal
counsel for The. Detroit Free
Press, said members of the press
are often considered surrogates
of the public by the courts.
"In this case, given exigent cir-
cumstances, the situation with
the disruption, I think it was a
justifiable action to move the
meeting and to allow representa-
tives of the public in," Fink said,
referring to the media. "I think
it then constituted a substantial
compliance with the law."
The Free Press is currently
involved in a lawsuit against the
University over a separate viola-
tion of the Open Meetings Act,
filed in July. The suit alleges that
most decisions made by the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents are
made in private.
"We are still several months
away from depository motion
stage, where we will be filing a
motion with the court asking
them to declare whether or not
the University is violating the
Open Meetings Act," he said.
At the end of November's
meeting, several BAMN organiz-
ers said they had plans to return
to the December regents meet-
ing.
"We were very disappointed
that the meeting was disrupted
and we are trying to develop
ways to allow groups their free
speech rights, to have a civil pro-
test, which is very important to
us, but not to disrupt a meeting
or the rights of others," Schlissel
said.
Schlissel declined to discuss
the University's plans to address
similar BAMN protests in the
future.
"Rest assured, there are spe-
cific plans," he said.

AN ODE TO 420 MAYNARD:
THANK YOU FOR THE TIME WE SPENT WITHIN YOUR WALLS
WE'VE LEARNED HOW TO WALK HERE
WHEN WE CAME WE COULD ONLY CRAWL
WE MEAN THAT METAPHORICALLY, OF COURSE
BUT DAILY, YOU'VE MADE US GROW
AND WHAT WE HAVE LEARNED WITHIN YOU
HAVE MADE US READY (THOUGH UNWILLING) TO GO
THE PEOPLE WE HAVE LOVED
MEAN MORE THAN A BUILDING COULD EVER KNOW
YOU ARE MICHIGAN TO US
AND YOU ARE HOME.
THANK YOU FOR EVERYTHING

EDITORS
From Page 1A
"I think as long as we continue
to be one of the prominent news
sources and most accurate news
sources for the Ann Arbor com-
munity and even for the nation
... I think as long as we seek the
truth and report on the truth,
that's what's going to measure
our success," Calfas said. "We've
already been doinga great job of
doing that and we'll continue to
keep that tradition alive in the
next year."
The increased focus on the
Daily's online presence is also a
priority of LSA junior Lev Facher,
who will serve as the publication's
managing editor. Collaboration
between the different sections,
such as news, arts and sports, are
other highlights.
"Our voice is critical to both
the University and the region
- as Washtenaw County's only
daily print publication, we bear a
huge responsibility," Facher said.
"I'm surethe 2015 class of editors
is up for the challenge of provid-
ing fair and thorough coverage
of all things Michigan and all
things Ann Arbor."
Calfas said she is also excited'
about the addition of a new posi-
tion under her supervision - that
of special projects manager, a job
which LSA sophomore Carolyn
Gearig will fill. The position will
require Gearig to spearhead and
facilitate initiatives beyond day-
to-day coverage.
"We tend to focus too much on
our short term coverage and on
things that we do to make a paper
every day, which is great, but
we've never had someone whose
exclusive job is to think long-
term," Gearig said. "I think this
newspaper really needs that."
Calfas stressed that one of the
most immediate innovations will
be rolling out the Daily's new
website over the course of the
Winter 2015 semester. Engineer-
ing junior Amrutha Sivakumar,
the newly appointed online edi-
tor, will help facilitate this tran-
sition.
"At The Michigan Daily, we
believe that the future of journal-
ism is digital journalism," Siva-

kumar said. "If allgoes according
to plan, the new website will
have more photo slideshows,
more video capabilities, things
like audio journalism ... just very
interesting ways for us to tell the
news that connect more deeply
with the University readership
community."
For Public Policy junior Sam
Gringlas, the new managing
news editor, fair and thorough
coverage will also mean expand-
ing the breadth and depth of
news content to include series
on hard-hitting issues relevant
to the University community.
He said this will require cross-
section collaboration to enhance
modes of storytelling.
Continuing coverage of diver-
sity and sexual misconduct are
other priorities for Gringlas.
"We've started some initia-
tives to begin looking into that
over this first semester," Gring-
las said. "I think now that we've
laid a lot of ground work for that,
we'll have the time and the talent
to really follow through."
LSA senior Aarica Marsh and
LSA junior Derek Wolfe will
serve as editorial page editors.
The duo said they will widen
their coverage both online and
in print.
"We're pretty excited about
incorporating news ethics and
reportingskills into our editorial
process," Marsh said. "We're also
relaunching our blog content."
LSA junior Max Cohen and
LSA sophomore Jake Lourim,
co-managing sports editors, said
their priorities will lie in con-
tinuing to produce top-notch
coverage of all the University's
athletic teams.
"I think we have some great
sports coverage in store - huge
transitions in Michigan football
right now, as everyone knows,
and I look forward to keeping up
to date with those and creating
some good stories as a section,"
Cohen said.
LSA junior Chloe Gilke and'
LSA junior Adam DePollo will
serve as co-managing arts edi-
tors. Gilke said they have begun
to plan workshops to familiarize
their writers with a variety of
reporting experiences. The duo
also aims to up their coverage of
local music.

In 2015, 'the Daily will also
work to expand its content across
media beyond written articles.
LSA junior Kaylla Cantilina, the
Daily's new managing video edi-
tor, said she plans to continue to
develop the Daily's video section,
partially by more smoothly inte-
grating with other sections for
collaboration.
LSA junior Allison Farrand
and LSA junior Ruby Wallau,
the co-managing photo editors,
voiced a similar sentiment.
"We're really excited to bring
more developed photo content
online within the framework
of better online photo features,
better quality (and) better gal-
leries," Farrand said. "We're also
still excited to have more photo
stories in print as well as online."
LSA junior Ian Dillingham,
Statement magazine editor, said
he will work to facilitate long-
form writing that captures the
student experience.
"We're always looking to
increase the quality of our con-
tent and give all students on cam-
pus the voice that they deserve
and really highlight the most
pressing issues that face stu-
dents," Dillingham said.
Art & Design sophomore
Shane Achenbach and LSA soph-
omore Emily Schumer will serve
as co-managing design editors.
Schumer said she is looking for-
ward to further innovating the
Daily's page design by working
more regularly with individual
sections.
"We are alsolookingto remod-
el some aspects of the paper and
create a more regular variety in
the way of illustrations and lay-
out," Schumer said.
LSA junior Hannah Bates and
LSA sophomore Laura Schina-
gle, co-copy chiefs, said they are
working to streamline the appli-
cation process of their section.
This year, they said, 80 people
competed for six spots on the
copy desk, and the six weren't
chosen'until after Fall Break
because of the application vol-
ume.
The Michigan Daily involves
around 200 student editorial
staff members each semester
and is financially and editorially
independent of the University's
administration.

.4

CHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE
www.michigandaily.com

4 1

I

I

A
hi


' ;

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 10, 2014 7A

espite age, erensi leas tew
Youthful defense a huge benefit to our d-core and
t well needed"
led by 17-year-old But the team mightsoon be
Werenski MwithoutWerenaki for the Great
Wernsk Lae Ivtaina. Wrns.

.
t
f

By JASON RUBINSTEIN
Daily Sports Writer
Some members of the
Michigan hockey team will
admit it: They were skeptical
when they first heard a 17-year-
old was joining their team.
"I thought it was a little
sketchy at first," said senior
defenseman Brennan Serville.
Nearly halfway through the
season, any doubts Serville
and his teammates once had in
freshman Zach Werenksi have
been squashed.
Now, it's hard to believe
Werenski is just 17. He not only
leads the Wolverines with a plus-
11 rating, but has also tallied
12 points - three goals and
nine assists. More importantly,
he has helped alleviate the
question marks that came with
the defensive corps at the start
of the season..
"We've had the experience
with a couple (of 17-year-olds)
with (Mike) Cammalleri and
Jason Botterill; they were
forwards and both those kids
had good freshman years,"
said associate head coach Billy
Powers. "But for a defenseman
to do it is a statement. It's a
tougher road for a defenseman;
you have to be stronger, tougher,
handle the down-low play and
still be able to do what you do
well, which is what Zach does
with the puck."
The freshman can often be
mistaken for a veteran and
has earned as much ice time
as any defenseman. However,
Werenski maintains that there
are still certain areas that he's
getting acclimated to.

performance has given him the
opportunity to try out for Team
USA for the upcoming World
Junior Championships.
USA Hockey narrowed down
the Team USA roster to 30
players - including Werenski,
sophomore forwardTyler Motte,
sophomore center JT Compher,
sophomore defenseman Michael
Downing and freshman center
Dylan Larkin - and Powers
fully expects Werenski to make
the team comprised of players
mostly two years older.
"I'm going into it open-
minded," Werenski said.
"Hopefully Ican make it, but if I
don't I can go help Michigan try
and win the GLI. So it's kind of
a win-win for me. But my goal is
to go try and make that team."
And if he does make Team
USA, Michigan will be at a large
disadvantage playing without
its talented 17-year-old.

JAMES cOLLER/Daily
Freshman defenseman Zach Werenski is just 17 years old, but he's playing with the maturity of a senior, leading Michigan with a plus-11 rating this season.

"Guys just being stronger and
faster," he said. "Sometimes
it doesn't look like someone
is going that fast, but they're
flying. Sometimes you go in the
corner (for a puck battle) and
then the guy there is a man. It's
just getting used to that."
With time, he should find his
way and be able to challenge
that "man" skating his way. But
Werenski still finds ways to be
effective defensively without
hitting.
"I guess I'm more reliant on
my stick," Werenski said. "There
are times where I need to hit
and I'm working on that. I grew
up playing that way and using
my stick is one of my strengths."
Added Powers: "As much as

he's gifted offensively, he's got one penalty through 14 games
a great stick defensively. He - a hooking penalty against
intercepts or takes away plays Boston University back on
a lot with Oct. 25 - the
his stick and lowest total of
body position any Michigan
and that's a "As much as blue liner.
by-product The
of his high he's gifted Grosse Point,
hockey IQ." Michigan
Werenski's offensively, he's native
stick skills reiterated that
and body got a great stick he's never
positioning d lbeen prone to
are not only defens ly." penalties and,
keeping pucks put bluntly,
away from the values being
net, but also on the ice
keeping him away from the more than taking a seat in the
penalty box. sin bin - music to the ears of the
Werenski has committed only Michigan coaching staff,

"It's obviously huge," Powers
said of Werenski's ability to
play big minutes. "If you really
look back, part of what we
were trying to do with our
defense was trying to recover
from Jacob Trouba and Connor
Carrick. Obviously, Connor
never got here, he didn't come,
and, of course, Jacob was one-
and-done. You plan your classes
based on maybe Trouba being a
sophomore and Carrick playing
until he's a junior, but then
they're out and you are playing
catch up.
"Zach has given us an
opportunity to catch up really
fast. So there's no question his
game and the level he has been
able to play at this early has been


Wolverines fall
short on defense

'M' struggles behind the arc

Mic
coach
seem t
Just
yell
Prince
for a s
on ano
The
Barnes
from b
into po
And
posses
ungua
open
points
Whe
Wolver
offense
clickin
wasn't
get the
it ne
Michig
85-55
Prince
Tuesda
"Wh

By MINH DOAN Instead, Michigan had to slow
Daily Sports Writer down the play and run its half-
court offense, which usually
higan women's basketball thrives off its quick passing to
Kim Barnes Arico couldn't get players open. But Tuesday,
o get her point across. the Wolverines couldn't knock
t as she stood up to down their quality chances.
defensive instructions, "I think we feed off our
ton found an open player offense," Barnes Arico said. "We
hot, and the Tigers tacked need to get better at feeding off
ther two points. of our defense."
next time downthe court, The trio of 3-point shooters
Arico, once again, got up - sophomore guard Siera
er seat to get her players Thompson, freshman guard
sition. Katelynn Flaherty and junior
like the previous Madison Iistovski - each had
sion, Princeton found an open 3-pointers that didn't
rded player for another rattle home, which only led to
shot and another two e increased frustration on the
in the second half. defensive front as the margin of
en the deficit grew.
rines' "We need
g t "Against a team to get stops
able to like that you when we're
se stops thatnot scoring,"
eded in need to know Barnes Arico
Ban's said.
loss to your personnel." And they
ton on couldn't,
ay night. allowing
ten we Princeton - a

Wolverines can't
score in transition,
can't find groove
By BRAD WHIPPLE
Daily Sports Writer
It's beyond the arc where the
Michigan
women's PRINCETON 85
basketball MICHIGAN 55
team
has found its comfort zone.
It's where freshman guard
Katelynn Flaherty can jump,
flick her hand and make
Crisler Center fans roar with
excitement.
But Tuesday night against
Princeton, almost no one stood
when Flaherty hit her second
and last drainer in the closing
minutes of the game. No one
cheered when junior guard
Madison Ristovski shot an air
ball. And no one left happy
when the buzzer sounded.
If one thing was clear
Tuesday night, the Tigers just
flat-out competed better than
the Wolverines. With a rushed
offense unable to finish its
chances and a defense unable
to find a system that worked,
Michigan (6-2) was handed its
first home loss of the season,
85-55.
"That was a really good
team we played tonight," said
Michigan coach Kim Barnes
Arico. "In the first four minutes
of the game, we kind of held our
own, and then they got a couple
of stops defensively and we
were never able to recover.
"They played our game
against us tonight."
Unable to finish their 3-point
chances, the Wolverines tried
to develop an inside game
like the one that led them to
victory over Wake Forest. But
Princeton countered with a
tiring and physical defense,
catching Michigan - who had
outrebounded all but one of its
opponents prior to Tuesday -
like a deer in headlights.
"I think they were physical,
and there were no fouls called
in the game," Barnes Arico said.

Freshman guard Katelynn Flaherty, normally one of Michigan's best shooters, couldn't solve woes from 3-point range.

"That kind of got us off guard,
and it took a minute to adjust to
their physicality."
The mid-range layups and
floaters weren't falling, and
the Tigers utilized those
missed chances to create a fast
transition game that scored 17
points off turnovers.
Inthe end, Princetonwonthe
war in the paint with 35 boards
compared to the Wolverines'

Barnes Arico said. "They kept
her out of the lane and out of
her rebounding area, and she
got a little frustrated."
Added Goree: "(Williams)
played pretty good defense.
(Princeton) packed in the paint
realy well, which forced us
to take outside shots, which
caused us to rush in and we
weren't knocking them down."
Coming off a career-high

get defensive stops, it kind of
helps us more with the flow of
the offense," said senior forward
Cyesha Goree. "The fact that
they were making shots, that put
us in our half-court offense, and
it was tough to score on their
defense."
This season, Michigan has
played its best basketball when
it's been able to get a block or a
steal on the defensive end and
race out for an easy transition
bucket, just like most of senior
guard Shannon Smith's 26 points
against Wake Forest last week.
But against Princeton, those
weren't the kinds of shots the
Wolverines got.

team that has shot 45 percent
from the field this season - to
shoot 61 percent.
"Against a team like that, you
need to know your personnel,"
Barnes Arico said. "You need to
know who to get out on and who
you can get help on, and when
we went to zone, we didn't really
do a great job of that."
Luckily for the Wolverines,
there is time for improvement
and a chance to regroup,
especially before Saturday's
showdown at No. 2 Notre Dame.
But the Wolverines know
that, and it'll be needed against
the Fighting Irish, who play a
similar game to Princeton's.

23. Senior forw
Goree failed to
make much of an
inside presence
and struggled
to finish her
attempts, most
of which went
circling around
the basket
before falling
into the hands of
a Tiger.
Goree had

ard Cyesha 26-point game, senior guard
Shannon
Smith went
1-far-6 from
"I think they thefieldand
S was hang
were physical, toube aving
adhrw r scoring in
awere transition,
no fouls called." normally a
strong suit
- of hers.
After

to make sure we're moving
forward, so let's learn from
this and make sure this doesn't
happen again."
Michigan faced a double-
digit deficit midway through
the first half. The Wolverines
tried to adjust the defense from
zone to man coverage, but the
Tigers took advantage of the
disorganization to create a near
20-point cushion at halftime.
Princeton (9-0) had its fair
share of runs in the first half,
including a string of 14 points
in three minutes.
"We can't let one game ruin
our season," Goree said. "There
are gonna be games like this,
and this is when we need to
stick together to get through
adversity and fatigue."
With Michigan about to face
its first ranked opponent of the
season in No. 4 Notre Dame, the
Wolverines will have to stitch
together their 3-point talent
and win the rebounding battle
for any chance of competing.

NEED EXAM ADVICE?
Just give up. You'll thank us all later once,
you realize Rick's is what matters.

difficulty scoring with forward
Taylor Williams, a tough
defender, down low, causing
her to have an uncharacteristic
showing. Goree finished with 14
points and five rebounds.
"Cyesha has a tough time
when people are physical,"

the game,
Barnes Arico told Smith that her
growth this season is a result of
her consistency. Tuesday was
a different story: Smith's game
was everything but that.
"We don't want to take two
steps backward," Barnes Arico
said she told Smith. "We want

I

I t



8A - Wednesday, December 10, 2014


.
, :'.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
MEN'S BASKETBALL
Wolverines slowed on
offense, fall to Eagles

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Sphomore forward Zak Irvin couldn't connect from long range in the final seconds to send the game to overtime.
doomedyshooting
O~me S00 l9

By LEV FACHER almost entirely to Eastern
Daily SportsoEditor Michigan's defense.
"That was as good a zone
In theory, at least, it's Jim defense as I've ever seen at any
BoeheimandtheSyracuseOrange time, anywhere," Beilein said.
who know how to run a 2-3 zone. "That was as quick a zone defense
In practice, it's Rob Murphy's as I've ever seen at any time,
Eastern Michigan squad, which anywhere."
held Michigan to just 21 first-half The Eagles' defensive
points in a historic 45-42 loss quickness deprived the Wolverine
Tuesday night at Crisler Center. offense of several of its staples.
The Wolverinesfoughtthrough Michigan's resident sharpshooter
the Syracuse zone en route to a - sophomore forward Zak Irvin
68-65 win Dec. 2, but were sur- -had a3-pointerblockedminutes
piisingly unable to crack Eastern into the game and airballed a
Michigan's defensive alignment, second soon after.
ledl by Murphy, a Syracuse assis- Junior guard Caris LeVert, who
tant under Boeheim from 2004- dropped 32 points against New
11. When they did crack the zone, Jersey Institute of Technology on
it made little difference - Michi- Saturday, missed the rim entirely
gan struggled on the few open on a 3-point attempt minutes
looks it found and went a com- later, and Albrecht found onlythe
bined 14-for-43 from the field. back rim on a deep trey attempt of
"You're always going to have his own soon after. Collectively,
'nights when shots aren't falling," the Wolverines made just four of
said junior guard Spike Albrecht. 21 attempts from beyond the arc.
"That's when you find out how "We didn't get open shots,"
good you really are." Beilein said. "If you're missing a
IfAlbrechttooktheWolverines' lot of open shots, you might have
shooting performance as an a confidence issue. We didn't get
answer, it wasn't a happy one. In many open shots."
the first frame, Michigan went Having watched Michigan suc-
1-for-10 from 3-point range and cessfully navigate the Syracuse
stumbled through a field-goal zone just seven days prior to his
drought of14 minutes, 53 seconds. team's historic win, Murphy and
Michigan coach John Beilein his staff had a chance to review
credited the offensive struggles game tape that revealed how the

Wolverines might attack the'-3.
"We play our zones very simi-
lar, if not the same," Murphy said.
"We knew the actions they would
run, but in saying that, you still
have to guard it."
The defeat marked Michigan's
second straight home loss to an
unranked opponent from a non-
power conference. But Beilein's
reasons for each loss differed.
"One of the ways (NJIT) beat
us was that we didn't have that
same hustle, that same type of
intensity that we need," Beilein
said. "This was an intense game.
Our guys really worked hard."
Reboundingtoo, distinguished
the Wolverines' markedly
different attempts at beating the
2-3 from one another.
"Who would think that we
would get 17 offensive rebounds
against Syracuse," Beilein
asked, "and two against Eastern
Michigan?"
In the end, the Eagles proved
it was their athleticism - not they
name on their jersey and longtime
status as a second-class school
within Washtenaw County - that
mattered to the Wolverines
"Because it's a local team,
they're really down," Beilein said
of his squad's postgame mood.
"We can't stay down. We've just
got to move forward."

After losing to
NJIT, Wolverines
suffer second upset
By DANIEL FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
If you were looking for the
Michigan men's basketball
team to bounce back against
Eastern Michigan with a
dominant
showing, E. MICHIGAN 45
you MICHIGAN 42
would've
been sorely disappointed.
But unlike against
New Jersey Institute of
Technology on Saturday, it
wasn't hot shooting from the
Wolverines' opponent that
would keep Michigan from
pulling away. It was simply
that Michigan couldn't make
a shot when it mattered, and
Eastern Michigan did, even
though .its shooting wasn't
much better.
Both teams shot 32.6 percent
in the game, and Eastern
Michigan (8-1) pulled out the
45-42 victory over Michigan,
defeating the Wolverines, for
the first time since Dec. 17,
1997.
"The intensity was there
from our side," said sophomore
guard Derrick Walton Jr. "It's
a little different from the last
loss (against NJIT) when the
team just hit tough shots.
When we don't shoot the ball
as we're accustomed to, you
try to get it going in other
areas. It's tough. It was just a
tough night. It was hard to get
it going today."
Despite shooting just 6-for-

25 in the first half, Mi
(6-3) entered the secon
up by two, simply becau
Eagles shot even more
- 5-for-19.
The theme would hol
to the end, as Michigan
be down three with 42 s
left following an E
Michigan turnover i
backcourt. With a fres
clock, Michigan had its
of shots, and it went to
guard Caris LeVert 1
the 3-point line. But j
Michigan had so many
it missed.
Michigan would
another chance in thev
seconds of the game, af
Eagles missed the froi
of a one-and-one, but ti
got loose near
midcourt,
ultimately
rolling into "
the backcourt
where senior gel
forward Max
Bielfeldt
picked it up
and called ma]
timeout.
With 2.4
seconds left,
sophomore
guard Zak
Irvin would
force up a heave fron
midcourt, but again, ti
found no twine.
Going against anoth
zone defense, though q
than Syracuse's from las
Michigan struggled o
offensive end. After rec
17 offensive reboundsa
the Orange, Michigan
just two on Tuesday, at
outrebounded, 36-27.

chigan "When we did get open
d half shots, which was rarely, we
ise the didn't make enough of those,"
poorly said Michigan coach John
Beilein. "And we had some
Id true costly turnovers that are
would uncharacteristic, but it had a
econds lot to do with their quickness
astern and their style of defense."
n the With a first-half field-goal
h shot drought that lasted 13:43,
option nothing seemed to go right for
junior Michigan on Tuesday night.
behind Besides Walton's nine first-
ust as half points, there truly wasn't
time another siginicant positive
statistic for the Wolverines.
have With the rest of the team
waning contributing just 12 points in
ter the the stanza, the Wolverines
nt end would need late-game stops
he ball and clutch baskets to have a
chance.
But with
Irvin and
1hen we did Leertj
tallying just
open shots 10 points a
piece, the
. we didn't Wolverines
came out
le enough of short once
7 again,
those." snapping
their Big
Ten leading
59-game
streak
n near without losing back-to-back
he ball games.
Despite the loss, though,
er 2-3 Beilein still believes the season
quicker is young, even with No. 3
t week, Arizona nex on deck.
n the "This is the way it is all year
ording long," Beilein said. "So there's
against no panic button.
n had "It is December 8 -
nd was December 9 - and it is a long
way."

4
J

p

A SPECIAL THANKS TO OUR
WONDERFUL SENIORS FOR ALL
THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS THIS YEAR
ALEXA "PHINS UP" DETTELBACH
DANIEL "SNAPCHAT FIEND" FELDMAN
GREG "CAT LOVER" GARNO
RAJAT "HAS MARKETABLE SKILLS" KHARE
JESSE "WRITES FOR SPORTS AND OPINION?" KLEIN
SHANNON "SOCIAL MEDIA PRO" LYNCH
MARINA "STAR ATHLETE" NAZARIO
JEREMY "BEST HAIR" SUMMITT
ALEJANDRO "SUP GUYS?" ZUNIGA
DON'T FORGET TO ORDER THE
SENIOR EDITOR SWIMSUIT
CALENDER BEFORE 2015!

BUSCH'S
Op- e in'wsai
.q n

I_ i I;

YCRAN00K

I

1 f

+- i


s. t 3 A
g

.

.

_.._,_. -

lw-

8B Wednesday December10.204 The Statement
Personal Statement: Lasting
by Yardain Amron

ILLUSTRATION BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND

W~4
1:

Author's Note:I will use the word "caboot"
to refer to ejaculating prematurely.
W hn I started having sex in high
school, I used to last about one
minute on a good day. I was 16
and simultaneously felt like the 10-year-old
kid in Billy Madison who pissed his pants,
and the 60-year-old impotent man in every
Viagra commercial.
This lasted for a year and a half with one
girl, who I'll call Dara. Thankfully Dara,
who was sensitive to my cabootion, never
showed a glimpse of frustration with my
unruly penis. If she had said something like

"Are you serious?" - or worse, laughed - I
might have thrown in the towel and applied
to Brigham Young University.
I became so hyperconscious about lasting
that sex became this self-fulfilling fuckery:
the more I wanted to last, the less I lasted.
We would be on mybed, just hooking up and
my focus would gravitate to pole like it was
actually magnetized.
To conquer this problem, I turned on pri-
vate browsing, and Google searched "sex
problems." I drowned myself in studies and
articles on cabootion:
"the most common sexual problem facing
men under 40."

CELEBRATE THE NILIDATS
207 E Uberty, Ann Arbor

"as many as one in three experience it..."
"the average man lasts about 14 minutes..."
I explored sex forums, and found people
like me.
Qwerty4521: "Hello. Me an my girlfriend
startedhavingsexaroundtheend of October.
We are both 18 and we were both virgins. We
have had sex probably around twelve times
total now. At first I could last a few minutes
before coming but now literally the second
we starthaving sex I come. I don't know why
it got worse. I usea condom every time. This
is especially wired to me because if she gives
me a handjob or a blowjob I can last for liter-
ally hours. Please help me."
I'll admit I felt a little better knowing
men all over the world, with dicks of all col-
ors, shapes and sizes, were dealing with the
exact same fucking problem. But the stress
was so real, and so mine.
Confession: A part of me feared I would
die the master of one-minute sex.
There was also just no chance I would
ever ask anyone for advice. This was by far
my most humiliating secret.
Instead, I went to the Internet for help.
I tried numbing condoms. I tried Kegel
exercises to strengthen my pelvic region. I
tried Viagra (my mom's boyfriend's recom-
mendation - "you'll bust and be hard again
in minutes!"). I tried thinking about wrinkly
grandmas.
Nothing worked. Sex became stress,
orgasms became guiltspasms, pleasure
became pressure.
Dara and I broke up after high school, and
I was left to cope with the manhood-shatter-
ing fact that not once during sex did I ever
make her orgasm.
Confession: A part of me didn't under-
stand why she stayed with me until the end;
whether she felt leaving someone over bad
sex was shallow? Or whether sex was actu-
ally less important to her? I worried she pit-
ied me.
For a little while, I avoided sex out of fear

A
of being shamed by some insensitive girl
who didn't understand what I was going
through. Uncle Sam was breathing down my
shoulder: "Be a man, son."
But a libido eventually gets what it wants.
Flash forward to freshman year Welcome
Week. I'll call her Tina. I made the first
move, taking the open seat next to her on the
bus in the morning, asking her something
flirty and stupid, probably like "How do you
like the campus?" I liked her green eyes, and
her long Hawaiian middle name that I don't
remember. We hung out in the grass in the
afternoon, and she invited me along to her
cousin's place that night.
When we got back to South Quad, Tina's
roommate wasn't there. Eventually we were
in our underwear - the point where with
Dara, my anxiety and apprehension would
already have been building inside my pres-
sure-cooker brain for quite some time. But
this time, I felt like Austin Powers. "Do you
have a condom?" I did havea condom.
I lasted - at least longer than ever before,
and while I don't remember if Tina came, I
do remember the satisfaction on her face
afterwards, and I do remember how she
said, "We should keep hanging out."
Confession: Until that moment, I felt like I
wasn't a full man yet.
Tina and I never had sex again (just one
of those things), but I was-cured, and it was
lasting. Something finally clicked. I'm not
saying I don't think about lasting anymore;
no, those thoughts are still very real. Now,
they just don't control me.
It's pretty absurd looking back at how
much my cabooting harmed my psyche. How
much lasting means to my manhood. Why
do I feel a pressure to perform and pleasure
her? Is it more a selfless or prideful pressure?
Out of all pieces of existence, shouldn't sex
be the most absent of worry? Maybe it's that
the orgasm becomes an afterthought and it's
just free feeling, so by the end of it all, you've
turned into a hippie.

Mon- Thurs:10-7,
Fri& Sat 10 - 8, Sun: 11 - 6
(734)663 8611 samsbasicclothes.com

r
,

M
4 '

41 k


w w

" tr- .'INU

:,'

w 11W

,

Wednesday, December 10, 2014// The Statement 7B
Personal Statement: My real sex ed
by Zak Witus

defining 'sex' with numbers
BY AMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR

Try basking me for a word
that's more of loaded gun
than "sex." Chances are, I
won't be able to give you one.
In my rational, engineering-
trained way of conceptualizing
information, it doesn't make sense.
"Sex" is just a word, after all. I
should be able to define it - as
should anyone else. When some-
one asks me what I feel about sex,
or whether sex would be appro-
priate in a particular situation, (I
should be able to give a clear-cut,
no-nonsense "yes" or "no.")
But the fact is, "sex" is more
than just a word; it's a series of
emotions. How I treat sex plays a
lot into who I am and how my past
experiences have shaped me. The
linguistics of it is fascinating, all
right. But can it be generalized?
A 1980 study on cybersex pub-
lished in the International Jour-
nal of Public Heath found that
in heterogeneous sex, men had a
tendency to associate the word
"intercourse" with body-centered
imagery - such as breast and kiss
- while women drew more par-
allels between the word "inter-
course" and relationship-centered
linguistics. Similarly, a 1974 publi-
cationfound that in general, men
could link more slang vocabulary
to sexual expressions than women.
Putting criticism aside, if the
sex research done over the last
half-decade accurately reflects
trends on college campuses (note:
feel free to contradict that one),
that means as a woman, I have
the tendency to attribute a great-
er number of physically intimate
activities - besides vaginal inter-
course - with the word "sex," as
compared to a man.
More than that, this means that
my sexual behaviors - my actions
surrounding how Ipersonally
define "sex" and "intimacy" - can
be predicted. Gulp.
Let's fast forward to 2014: I
walk around with the belief that
on Michigan's Ann Arbor campus,
women actively tryto break gender
norms. I feel constantly surround-
ed by strong-willed, informed
women who don't characterize
their beliefs about sex according to
a rigid standard - rather explor-
ing their relationship with sex
through their own experiences.
Interestingly, data shows

there are significant differences
between how men and women
define "sex" themselves and how
the opposite gender believes the
other define it.
A more recent study found that
both male and female college stu-
dents considered vaginal inter-
course to be "sex" - though more
women believed that men would
be less likely to consider intimacy
as "sex" when neither participant
experienced an orgasm.
During oral sex, approximately
54 percent of men and 43 percent
of women considered it "sex" when
a man experienced an orgasm. For-
ty-one percent of students believed
men considered female orgasm
during oral sex to be "sex," while
over 15 percent more believed
women would see the same activ-
ity as "sex." Surprisingly, nearly
half the male survey respondent
viewed a female orgasm as sex,
though women believed that less
men would.
Trust me when I say that I'm the
biggest skeptic you'll find of social
studies research. In a way, it's odd
to think that I make decisions that
affect my life in a way that con-
forms to the way that everyone else
around me makes decisions about
their own. Personal decisions take
an identity, a personality - and sex
is as personal as it gets.
There's also the issue with
quantifying identity: there's no
numerical value that can fully
explain where I, or any other col-
lege student, fall on the spectrum
of possible gender identities and
sexual orientations. There's no
study that completely manages to
capture the beautiful spirit of self-
identification.
Yet, there's a certain comfort
that comes out of knowing I'm
not alone in my uncertainty about
men. It's scary, and no study can
adequately prepare me for what
to expect when with being with
someone for the first time.
I've seen the data, and now so
have you. But for now, I think I'm
going to take a step back from it
all. There's been this rumor float-
ing around that sex needs to have
a monumental meaning to be sta-
tistically - or even socially - sig-
nificant.-
So, no, I get to decide when sex
is significant to me.

DO COLLEGE
STUDENTS
CONSIDER
ORAL SEX
#'S EX"F?
y
say yes when
the woman has
the orgasm
say yes when
the man has
the orgasm
INFOGRAPHic According to The
WE L NS, GABY Joumal of Sex
VASQUEZ AND Research,
CAROLYN May 2000

Editor's Note: This piece contains
graphic descriptions of adolescent
sexuality.
have a fragmented memory
of my introduction to sex as a
child. I remember hearing my
parents having sex one time when I
was probably 13 years old. At least
I think so. I heard the rhythmic
creaking of the bed, and somehow
I knew automatically what that sig-
nified.
But my most jarring and sudden
introduction to sex was at summer
camp going into sixth grade. My
camp friends introduced me to two
things that summer: swearing and
porn.
My friend Alex told
me my first day there,
"You can swear here.
Everybody swears." I
wasn't sure I wanted
to swear, but every-
one else seemed to
want to, so I thought
I should want to too.
Also, all the guys at
camp knew what porn
was and were craving
it. There was a sort of
black market at camp
where you could buy
things that the camp
didn't allow: candy,
Ramen noodles and
porn. My friend Alex
bought a porno mag
at the end of the first
week. He showed it
to me. I remember
the images pretty viv-
idly. I'd never seen a
vagina before. The
women were all white
and totally hairless,
except the hair on their
head of course, which was blonde
and straight. Their faces were heav-
ily made-up and appeared fake. I
remember being disgusted initially.
The porno consisted of two or three
ripped-out magazine pages, so the
images had this glossy texture to
them, which made them more dis-
gusting. The whole experience of
looking at the porn, especially with
a friend, felt dark. Dark, disgusting
and obscene. Yet somehow all the
more intriguing.
The next year at camp my coun-
selor entertained me and my bunk-
mates with stories of his sexual
escapades. That's when I learned
what "head" was. When my coun-
selor, Mike, said he got "head" from
a girl in ahot tub at one of his travel

hockey tournaments, I had a hard
time imagining what he was talk-
ing about. The idea of a "girl suck-
ing on penis" had never occurred
to me, strange as that may be. All
my bunkmates appeared to already
know what it was. Another time
Mike told us the story of how he
hooked up with the camp direc-
tor's kids' babysitter. He told my
bunkmates and I late at night about
how he and the babysitter had gone
out to the docks and started hook-
ing up. He told us how he started to
take off her pants to "finger" her -
another new concept - but then she
said, "No, I'm on my period" (and
I did know what that was). Then
Mike said, "Well, I'm not."

I have another confession: I
humped my pillows imagining
they were my female middle school
teachers, who weren't hot but in
fact pretty gross and old. I don't
remember exactly when it ended
- maybe sophomore year of high
school? - but at some point I knew:
This has got to stop. I would insert
my dick between the pillow and
the pillowcase, and then just sort
of lay on top of it and hump it. I
would pull out just before ejaculat-
ing - because who wants to sleep
on a cummy pillow? - and then
cum into my pajamas. Which leads
me to another disturbing memory:
Being afraid of putting my pajamas
with the dried up semen on them in

no meta/postmodern-watching
going on.
So I should probably also men-
tion my first sexual encounter,
perhaps to the remiss of my now
captive audience. Her name was
Emily and she was a red head. It
was the most fantastic pleasure I'd
ever had. After overcoming my ner-
vousness and associated flaccidity,
I had, as Great Uncle Woody would
say, "the sexual intensity of a jungle
cat." I could not get enough. But
I had a lingering disgust with the
vagina. It was obscene to me, just
like the glossy vaginas in the porno
I had encountered at camp. I knew
that I didn't want it tobe obscene. I
had a lot of anxiety about being gay

She said "them," as if she has
observed me regularly being con-
descending toward them. How can
one be condescendingeto a vagina?!
"It's OK, though," she said. "It's
a relief that you don't love vagi-
nas because I don't really care for
penises. But I like them still."
That's nice: My girlfriend and
I are mutually disgusted by each
other's genitals.
Is there a point to all this? Let's
find one. First, I don't know much
about what's going on in anyone
else's head besides my own, and it's
especially difficult to make gener-
alizations about something that's
as private and personal as sexual-
ity. But it's OK to feel lots of weir
conflicting emotions
about sex, sexual
organs, middle school
teachers, pop stars,
etc. What's harm-
ful is to repress those
emotions. Express-
ing them on the other
hand, can be cathartic,
and you don't have to
embarrass yourself in
print, like I am.
Also I'm ruined for
all women. No womal
will ever satisfy like I
want her to because
I've created these
impossible-to-obtain
ideals in my mastur-
bation fantasies. This
explains my disgust
with the reality of the
vagina and the lack of
sex organs in my fan-
tasies. Can I blame the
Victoria Secret ads?
Maybe, but I as an indi-
vidual agent deserve
some responsibility.
And, lastly, we should ask our-
selves where we learn about sex. I
argue that we learn basically noth-
ing important about it in sex ed
and reproductive health classes.
We learn about sex from our camp
counselors and from ripped-out
pages of porn magazines. The
sources vary for each of us, but
the underlying point is that sex
for human beings is not primarily
something biological (e.g., penised
going into vaginas) despite what
our sex ed teachers tell us. It's
something psychological that our
social environment manipulates
and sometimes, in cases such as
mine, perverts. The really interest-
ing aspects of sex and sexuality are
socially psychological.

WATCH MORE AT MICHI.GANDAILY.COM
T H E statement
Magazine Editor: Photo Editor: Managing Editor:
Carlina Duan Ruby Wallau Katie Burke
Deputy Editors: Illustrator: Copy Editors:
Max Radwin Megan Mulholland Mark Ossolinski
Amrutha Sivakumar Editor in Chief: Meaghan Thompson
Design Editor: Peter Shahin
Amy Mackenst
COVER BY RUBY WALLAU AND AMY MACKENS

"And what did she say?" we all
asked excitedly.
"Nothing," Mike said, "but then
she started blowing me."
Years later, when I was hooking
up with my current girlfriend for
the second or third time, she said
the same thing, "I'm on period," and
then I said what Mike said: "Well,
I'm not." But that time it didn't
work. She just sort of squirmed
awkwardly and let out a nervous
laugh. The joke came off not as cool
or suave, but as degrading. In retro-
spect I doubt if it worked for Mike
either. I'm sure he embellished the
- story to give his horny pubescent
campers something to jack off to.
And it worked, especially because
we'd all already had our own baby-
sitter fantasies.

with the rest of my family's laundry,
because what if the semen from my
pajamas transferred onto my mom's
undergarments and, well, um, you
know, impregnated her? What's
even more disturbing is the Freud-
ian conjecture that that may have
been a repressed fantasy.
And I've never been a porn guy
either. I've always preferred imag-
ining sexual scenarios for myself
and Ms. Beyonce, because no one
could recreate the fucked up shit
that goes on in my head. Maybe
I never overcame that initial dis-
gust with porn that I had at sum-
mer camp. Porn still seems too
obscene. When I'm watching it, I'm
also watching myself. When I mas-
turbate to fantasies with my eyes
closed, I'm totally in it and there's

as a young adolescent. I was occa-
sionally disgusted with parts of the
female anatomy and bras and stuff,
which at other times I was also
attracted to. In my masturbation
fantasies, I never recall imagining
a vulva - only tits and asses. Some-
one (e.g., Ms. Beyonce) was giving
pleasure to me. I was "inside them,"
but the geometrics of the insertion
were always vague.
When I showed my current girl-
friend a draft of this article, and she
learned that I find vaginas obscene,
she said "that's so you." To which I
replied, "What does that mean? Are
there other facets of my personal-
ity that resemble this vagina aver-
sion?"
She then elaborated, saying that
I'm "condescending toward them."


6B Wednesday, December 10, 2014 // The Statement
"Playing with matches, a girl could get burned":
Tinder on a college campus
by Giancarlo Buonomo

famous by association:
everyone should want a beard
BY MARIAM SHEIKH

Editor's Note: The students in this article
asked not to be identified by their full names
for privacy concerns.
Te are living in a world dominated
by social media. There are the
classics, like Facebook and Twit-
ter, young upstarts like Yik Yak and Erodr,
serious ones like LinkedIn, and not-so-seri-
ous ones like Vine. These platforms all have
differing functions, yet they all share a key
feature - a brilliant psychological insight,
really. Users can approve others and be
proved themselves, whether it be through
likes, favorites, retweets or endorsements.
The best part is that it's simple. A like is a
like. There's no "ehhhhh" button.
If Facebook and Twitter succeeded
because they assuaged some of the anxieties
of social interaction, then it was inevitable
that a social media service would arise that
took some of the anxieties out of romance:
Tinder. Launched in 2011 by students at the
University of Southern California, Tinder
has a relatively Spartan design, consider-
ing its decidedly Athenian purposes. Users
can log in via Facebook and create a profile,
Mich consists of four or five photos and a
short description. They then are given an
extended slideshow of other profiles of users
in the area, which they can then swipe "left"
if they don't like what they see, or "right" if
they do.
What shows up in this slideshow is just
the username, age and first photo. You have
to click on their profile to see the other pho-
tos, their description, and because Tinder
is linked to Facebook, what mutual friends
and interests you have. Two people will
match if both swipe right on another's pro-
files. If two people match, they can then
message each other.
Tinder's function appears to be relatively
straightforward. Match. Message. Meet.
Mate.
It's fun to consider the possibilities. Paris,
gallivanting around Lakonia, matches with
some chick named Helen, and after a few
days of texting invites her out for a ram-
horn of wine. Romeo swipes right on "Jules,
14, Verona." Your parents' first date was a
Tinder date.
But upon closer inspection, not everyone
is on Tinder to fit a quick movie-date/hand-
9W into their schedule.
LSA senior Isabel started using Tinder -
to meet romantic partners. But she soon ran
into issues.
"I started out with women only," she said.
"4But) because I am really just interested
in women, I found that it would run out of
people to show me really quickly."

Tinder allows you to pick which genders
you want to show up in your feed, and then
only matches you with people who have the
same preferences. So in Isabel's case, she
was only being matched with women seek-
ing other women.
"I never seriously considered the idea of
actually meeting people. Maybe just going
on dates, but for me, it was really just for
fun, a distraction, something fun and weird
to pull me out of the lonely state that I was
in," she said.
In fact, she did go on one Tinder date.
"It was just so funny, because I had never
imagined myself meeting up with a strang-
er I had
met on the
Internet," Y
she said.
"It was
fun, for
the hell-
of it, for
the giddy
feelings of
"Ohhhh,
I'm going
on a date,'
she added.
Isabel
was happy,
though,
with how
the date
turned out.
"It was
good prac-
tice for
actually
talking to
people in
real life."
After
that, she
sought out people, men and women, just to
talk with them. But she matched with far
more men.
"For every five women I swiped right on,
maybe one would match, but for every five
guys I swiped right on, it would be like four
out of five would match," she said.
This is to be expected. Tinder keeps
records of all their activity, and they esti-
mate that while men swipe left 54 percent
of the time, women swipe left 84 percent of
the time.
Isabel swipes right on a guy if he looks
like he'll be fun to talk to. But, in her opin-
ion, most men seem to have other aims.
"If I don't express some sort of romantic
interest in them after even a few lines of
conversation, oftentimes they'll stop talk-
ing to me," she said. "Really I just started

talking to guys because I was bored, and
thought it would be funny ... it's like a game
that takes up my time, if I'm like waiting for
a bus; it's filler kind of activity," she said.
But there's more to it than meeting the
occasional conversation partner.
"There was someone whom I was inter-
ested in, in real life, and I didn't know her at
all - I had never talked to her, I just know
her because she works at some place that I
frequent," she.said.
.If the age-old truth is that attraction
is complicated, then the new, but equally
conspicuous one is that talking online is
easier than talking in person. You can be
lying in bed, unshaven, with a thin film of
pizza crumbs and sweat forming on your
chest, and stilllbe witty and seductive
online.
"I think the
weirdest
thing about
Tinder is
that it pres-

you'd expect: he'd swipe right on girls he
thought were cute, and beamed when they
matched with him.
"It's a thrill," he said. "When you get that
notification, you'll be like 'shit, this attrac-
tive girl thinks I'm good looking - alright!"'
When it comes to typical Tinder encoun-
ters, Tommy claimed to only pay attention
to the picture.
"If I did see someone with a particularly
long bio, I'd hold that against them. I mean,
this isn't a datingwebsite; this is Tinder," he
said.
When he did match with someone, he'd
usually lead with a simple "Hi, how are
you?" and see where the conversation pro-
gressed from there, noting that interest in
hooking up would eventually become obvi-
ous.
Tommy's typical strategy was to talk for a
day or two over Tinder's messaging system,
and then ask for the girl's number, which
indicated an escalation in interest. They
would then talk for another day or so.
"You have to flirt," he replied. "If you're
not someone who likes to flirt, then you're
not going to have a good time on Tinder."
When he gets confident that a girl was
interested, Tommy suggests that they meet
up at a neutral location. Inviting a girl to his,
house would be too presumptuous.
Neutral locations were the stereotypical
date spots: movies, dinner, coffee, even a
walk in Nichols Arb.
"It's like a blind date," Tommy explained.
"You're meeting someone new, you're mak-
ing pleasant conversation, but the whole
time, the subtext is that you both find each
other hot."
But why jump through all these hoops, if
you've already acknowledged that you find
each other attractive?
"You go through the formalities. You
don't just go up"to them, shake hands and
then start making out," Tommy explained.
"There's still a human interaction to it. It's
not just 'Let's meet and bang.'"
But what would Tommy do if the girl sug-
gested they skip the dinner and small talk
and head straight for the sack?
"I'd be a little creeped out by that," he
replied. "I think you want to assure each
other that you just got the app for the hell of
it, and that you're not just perverts."
"I think everyone's embarrassed to say
that they met someone on Tinder because
it's artificial," Tommy said. "It's not play-
ing by the rules; it didn't exist in the past;
there's nothing romantic about it. There's
no movies about people meeting on an app
and ending happily ever after."
But then again, were there ever "rules" in
the first place?

THE THOUGHT BUBBLE

began this column discuss-
ing the much-welcomed epi-
demic of the man bun. So it
only seems fitting that I close the
semester with an ode to another
very welcomed trend. The past
week marked two things: the
beginning of
the Christ--
mas season
and the unfor-
tunate end T HE
to No Shave
November. Af'
Now I realize
that this sen
timent may AURA
not resonate ,.
with everyone. SU K RO
I have been on
Yik Yak enough THE B
to know that
No Shave
November is
not everyone's
cup of tea. But
can we take a moment to appreci-
ate it?
Guys expect girls to embody
every aspect of femininity. So, I
think it's only fair that women
expect men to embody what it
means to be masculine, and ladies
and gentleman, the beard is key.
Maybe it's my New York roots or
my Brooklyn obsession, but men
with beards are far more alluring.
Especially at Michigan, a clean-
shaven guy just screams immature
frat star, not that there's anything
wrong with that. But for me, not

.
-,
1

so much. Mysterious guys with
manly beards just radiate a vibe of
late night coffee chats and indie
movies - a far cry from a night in
a dingy frat basement.
Right now as I write this in the
Fishbowl, I see them everywhere:
frat stars and
- beards alike,
and there
is a certain
R E IS aura that sur-
rounds the
TA IN beard.Hip-
-T-AT ripped olive
T-shirt, a ring
)UNDS or two on
)U NDS each hand,
black combat
E A R D boots - there
is a sense of
style, with-
out being too
overtly full of
themselves,
and the need for adventure amid
the mundane tasks of college life.
Take a step back: Jared Leto,
Jake Gyllenhaal, Justin Theroux,
Michael Fassbender, Jon Hamm,
Ben Affleck, the guy sitting across
from me at the Fishbowl - all bet-
ter with the scruff, all possessing
the mighty power of the beard.
For this phase of every college stu-
dent's life, a man with a beard is
three things: your parents' worst
nightmare, the best few months of
your life and a check mark off the
bucket list. So, why the hell not?

"It's important to find someone who really likes you for who you are. I think you need
that personality chemistry... so if you're dorky, you need to find that dorky girl who
you're cool with."

-JOHN DOHERTY, ENGINEERING SENIOR
PRINTS: FAN MAIL


ents itself as a game ... But is it a game?
You're interacting with this virtual version
of somebody else, and you kind of have to
remember that there are real people, with
real expectations and hopes and thoughts
and ideas, but the social distance makes
them seem like they're not real people," Isa-
bel said.
It's hard to keep-that in mind; and unset-
tling to realize that the person on the other
end may not grant you the same courtesy.
For LSA junior Thomas, Tinder was both
a test and atool.
"I'd just gotten out of a relationship and
wanted to bounce back a little bit," he said.
"I wanted to know that I had the capacity to
hook up with people, that I still had game."
Unlike Isabel, Thomas used Tinder like

NOW M~DAR PIONTSPEOPLE wLAE~' Vt fNone OF VS H% A N (J lTAO ESS WoffYET?
A N W N O ,HY SI T-NAT NONE 'OF T uMB ecE IF wE O WED
EVIL TAKES ftAvE ANY AR-lS R LS? PTAt or'S _____
MOMENT No- ~
RN "PPJMFSI FAJIJMAIL..
TIAT ' VU$T u , UP. w to r wr w'y.


BY ANDREW FULLER-


4B
grnd fo aaeeie
seul enoune nuepht

' SB
8%nsa.Dcmer / ' ttie 5Bt~ i
re LGTQ t mae m al


