~be icityan 0ait
II~~' L~ FI\O IN LIB ) X I IIIL IO IiA I .E41 'l - 1 Y11A 11 1 I I LLOA

Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Monday, December 1, 2014



michigandailycom


ADMINISTRATION
Students
join pres.
for holiday
festivities

With those left on
campus in mind,
Schlissel hosts first
Thanksgiving in Al
By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
While campus may have
seemed very quiet over the
weekend, the President's House
on South University Avenue
was buzzing with Thanksgiv-
ing festivities.
University President Mark
Schlissel invited about a dozen
students who stayed on campus
during Thanksgiving Break to
celebrate the holiday with him
and his family. Many of these
students had obligations on
campus or are originally from
places far from the University.
Education junior Hugo Law-
ton, an Australian interna-
tional student, said the dinner
allowed him the opportunity to
celebrate Thanksgiving, which
he otherwise would not have
done.
"It was a great way for all of
us, who would have otherwise
been sitting in our room all

week, a great way to feel very
included in the holiday and
have a chance to celebrate with
people," Lawton said.
Though many of the students
did not know each other prior Running back Drake Johnson ran for 74)
to the dinner, Lawton said the
president made everyone feel
welcome, adding that he was
surprised by the dinner's infor-
Schlissel gave the students a
tour of the house.
"It felt like a family Thanks-
giving dinner," Lawton said. W fIa
"It didn't seem like the presi-
dent has been forced to host a After season filled
Thanksgiving dinner and cater
for some kids. It seemed like he disappointment,
was really interested in being
there and really very interested Wolverines briefly
in what we were studying and
what's going on in our lives." meet expectations
Prior to dessert, and in the
spirit of Thanksgiving tradi- COLUMBUS - It began with
tion, everyone at the table Devin Gardner, the fifth-year
shared what they were thank- senior quarterback, throwing an
ful for this year. Schlissel also early interception. He hung his
asked the students to share head the same way he always has
something they like about the as he rushed off the field to the
University that they don't want Ohio State marching band piped
him to change. in through the speakers.
Lawton said he enjoyed hear- It ended with Drake Johnson,
ing Schlissel speak candidl the sophomore running back,
and reflect on his first semester shaking his head in disbelief as
See HOLIDAY, Page 3A he handed in his helmet to a man-

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
yards and two touchdowns on 15 attempts, sparking an offense that found success against one of the nation's best teams.
a n: Saturda shows
'Al' could have been

ager one last time this season, all
while fans heckled him from the
concourse of Ohio Stadium.
Saturday's
game began
and ended in
the pain you 4
had expected
and dreaded
for a week.
But some-
where, right GREG
in the mid- GARNO
dle, for 28:27
worth of
game time, there was everything
you had dreamed this team could
be. After it had failed to do so for.
much of its season, Michigan had
finally "executed."

It ran an offense that rushed
the ball well with a running back
corps that was three deep. When
it didn't, it turned to its quarter-
back, who escaped pressure by
scrambling to the outside. He was
capable of handling pressure and
making throws to his No. 1 wide
receiver, just as the fifth-year
senior had been projected to do.
The Wolverines scored points,
stopped one of the nation's best
quarterbacks in J.T. Barrett, and,
for 28:27, their performance was
everything you had hoped and
dreamed it could be.
You forgot .about the 5-6
record, the blowout in South
Bend, the rain-soaked nightmare
against Utah and whatever that

was against Northwestern. You
forgot about Joe Bolden's stake,
Dave Brandon's resignation and
Mark Schlissel's candid remarks
about the role of athletics on cam-
pus.
You forgot, because you saw
what the Michigan football team
could have been.
You saw Michigan coach Brady
Hoke smilewearinghis sunglass-
es as he high-fived Jack Miller
after the Wolverines grabbed the
lead. Maybe yousmiled, too.
Michigan could have been a
team, which, stuck on its own five-
yard line, ran the ball to Johnson
enough to create space to throw.
It could have been a team that
See SPORTS, Page 3A


ANN ARBOR
* Council to
address city
wastewater
treatment
A2, Scio Township
look to extend
contract until 2024
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily News Editor
At its regularly scheduled
Monday meeting, the Ann
Arbor City Council will con-
sider resolutions regarding
city liquor licenses, extensions
of wastewater contracts with
Scio Township and updates to
the city's document policies
under Freedom of Information
laws.
Approval of liquor license
for Miya restaurant
The Council will hear a res-
olution requesting the approv-
al of a liquor license for Miya,
a Japanese restaurant located
at 715 N. University Ave., for-
merly the site of Sushi.com.
The motion received unani-
See COUNCIL, Page 3A

CAMPUS LIFE
Safe Sex Store
to offer HIV
tests for World
AIDS Day

CHARLESKOWALEC/Daily

The interior of The Apothecary on South University on Monday.

Village Apothecarysteeped
in tradition, history

Despite South U.
changes, pharmacy
remains a constant
By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
Wedged between Under-
ground Printing and Rendez
Vous Cafe, the white storefront
of The Village Apothecary, an
independent, family-owned

drug store, has occupied 1112 S.
University Ave. for the past 84
years.
Since 1930, the pharmacy -
the word 'apothecary' hearkens
back to ancient medical profes-
sionals - has changed own-
ership four times. Originally
founded by Frederick Stegath,
the store was called "Stegath's
Drug Store" for its first seven
years until Stegath's death in
1937. Oscar Carlson soon after
bought the store and renamed it

"Carlson Pharmacy."
It wasn't until Fred Kreye
bought the pharmacy in 1964
that the store was given its cur-
rent name. Ann Arbor resident
Garry Turner currently owns
the The Village Apothecary.
Turner said while the South
University landscape has
changed over the years, the
store has remained relatively
unchanged. When Kreye owned
the Apothecary, there were gas
See APOTHECARY, Page 3A

Report shows
number of HIV/
AIDS cases rises in
Washtenaw County
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
In recognition of World AIDS
Day, several businesses in Ann
Arbor and Ypsilanti will tempo-
rarily host a mobile testing site
for HIV on Monday through the
HIV/AIDS Resource Center.
The World Health Organiza-
tion estimates 35 million people
suffer from AIDS worldwide.
Estimates by the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention put
the number of Americans with
HIV at more than 1.1 million, and
in a June interview, Leon Golson,
HARC's director of prevention

programs, said the number of
cases in Washtenaw County for
individuals aged 13 to 29 was on
the rise.
HARC will travel to Wal-
greens on Washtenaw Avenue in
Ypsilanti at 9 a.m., followed by a
visit to Harmony House Motel at
noon. The day will end at the Safe
Sex Store - also known as S3 - in
Ann Arbor from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.
The 'theme of this year's World
AIDS Day is "Focus, Partner,
Achieve: An AIDS-free Genera-
tion."
S3owner BethAnn Karmeisool
said the events play an important
role in creating open discussions
regarding sex that include indi-
viduals of all identities.
"This is the mission that S3 has
always stood for," Karmeisool
said. "It's important to provide
a sex-positive environment for
all people regardless of age, race,
See S3, Page 3A


Not enoi
For the firs
Michigan n


WEATHER HI: 32
TOMORROW LO:21

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS.........................2A ARTS ...........................SA
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail In defense of "Avatar" Vol. CXXIV, No. 34 SUDOKU....................2A CLASSIFI EDS...............5A
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS ©20t4TheMichigan Daily OPINION....................4A SPORTSMONDAY..........1B
michigondoilycom

4

I


2A - Monday, December 1, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, December 1, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4e Midiian aik
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-4le-4il5 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaiiycom dougsolo@michigandaiiycom

State rep. pushes for inclusion

State Rep. Perry Bullard (D-
Ann Arbor) said he was plan-
ning to introduce a bill early in
1986 to provide at least one seat
for students on each of the gov-
erning boards for state universi-
ties.
The proposal aligned with a
then-ongoing push by Michi-
gan Student Assembly president
Paul Josephson to guarantee
student representation on the
University's Board of Regents.
Bullard refused to speculate
about the bill's chances, but he
did acknowledge that there was
a chance it would face difficul-
ties; the change would require
an amendment to the state's
constitution.
Bullard said it was "doubtful

the plan will sweep the coun-
try" because of opposition from
universities.
20years ago this week
(Dec.6v1994)
A mass e-mail message
described as "very racist" by
Randy Frank, Computer Aided
Engineering Network director,
was sent to the roughly 10,000
Engineering students on the
CAEN listserv.
The message asserted that
the federal government gives
money to groups including indi-
viduals with low IQs, young
parents, "homosexual 'perfor-
mance artists"' and Russian
refugees.

It was sent from the e-mail
address of a student at the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin, but
UT officials said the message
was a result of hacking.
"It's not a matter of anyone
here doing anything suspi-
cious," said Charles Warlick,
director of the Computation
Center at UT.
CAEN Administrative Man-
ager Jack Love said messages
like the one sent out were not
uncommon.
"Unfortunately, these things
have gotten common enough
that people are pretty blas6
about it," Love said. "But we're
disgusted by this behavior."
- SHOHAM GEVA

Newsroom
734-418-411nopt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.om
SportsSection
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Pate
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classifed@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance @michigandaily.com

Students perform a traditional Chinese dance as
part of the Moli Performing Art Ensemble Sunday at
the Michigan League.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Women's
basketball
BY MINH DOAN
The Michigan women's
basketball team had
a successful trip over
Thanksgiving Break to
Puerto Rico, where they
defeated Washington State
and San Diego State.
New minor
BY THE MICHIGAN DAILY
The Daily editorial board
discusses the new Inter-
group Relations minor being
offered at the University
beginning in Winter 2015.
They praise LSA's efforts to
bring awareness to students
about the different forms of
oppression faced by differ-
ent groups of people.

Comp. Studies Polish movie Meditation
co-advising WHAT: "The Promised presentatioi
Land," directed by Ziemia
WHAT: Students can Obiecana, will be screened. WHAT: Panelists wil
meet with both a Com- It portrays the industrial explore the benefits
prehensive Studies city of Lodz during the 19th associated with medit
Program adviser and a century. WHO: Program
Career Center Coach. WHO: Copernicus Program in Creativity and
WHO: The Career Center in Polish Studies Consciousness Studie
WHEN: Today from 10 WHEN: Today from 7 p.m. WHEN: Today from.
a.m. to 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. p.m. to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Angell Hall WHERE: Michigan WHERE: Burton Me

n
ill
tation.
es
5:30
morial

Followng a three-day
visit.to Turkey, Pope
Francisspoke against ste-
reotypinglIslamic culture and
religion. The pope also urged
Islamic leaders to publically
denounce terrorism to fur-
ther help dispel stereotypes,
Reuters reported Sunday.

EDITORIALSTAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham,Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
andStepneShesnuda 4igbn,,a:,1,wIa~~bnhi~n,
ASSISAN NES EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas MCBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial PagecEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MatthewSeligmanandDavid Harris
Greg Garno and
AleandroZdiliga ManagingSportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Lev Facher, Rajat Khare, Jake
Lourim and Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynchemichigandaily.com
Akshay Seth Managing Arts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSISTNT ARTS EDITORS: JamieBircoll, Jackson HowardGillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Pail Shernan ManagingPhosntoEditor byhoto@michigandaily.com
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:LunaAnnaArchey,VirginiaLozano,
JamesColler,McKenzieBerezin, and NicholasWilliams
tarolyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasquez Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGNEDITORS: AmyMackensandAliciaKovalcheck
Carlina DuanMagazineEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DE PUTY MAGAZINE E DITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
SnAEMENT PHOTO EDTOR Rby Wn
SnAnEMsNLADaDSIGN:A msMacnkens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson Managing CopyuEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and Alisha Qm
Austen Hufford OnlineEditor ahufford@michigandaily.com
VIDEO EDITORS: Paula Friedrich and James Reslier-Wellas
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: Brianne Johnson
BUSINESS STAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classifiedManager
Sinonne Kapadia Local Accounts Manager
Lotus An National Accounts Manager
OliviaJones Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily (IsN 0745.967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter terms by
students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to all readers. Additionalcopies may
be pickedupiat the Dalysofice for $2.SubscriptionsforfalltermstartinginSeptember, viaU.S.mailares1.
Winter'te'mJan"r yth' oughAp'ri) is$115, yarl"ng(September through April> is $195. University affiliates
are subect to a reduced subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall term are 35. Subscriptions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.


Theater

Tower, Room 506

MUG Monday Author's forum Voice recital

WHAT: The Michigan
Union ground floor will
hold a free crafting sta-
tion, where students will
be able to make maize
and blue felt bookmarks,
decorate block 'M' cook-
ies and make Michigan
spirit bracelets.
WHO: Center for Campus
Involvement
WHEN: Today from 5
p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union

WHAT: Award-winning WHAT: The
poet Laura Kasischke graduate and
discusses her recent voice student
poetry collection, "The free and open
Infinitesimals," alongside WHO: Schoo
Megan Levad, assistant Theatre & Da
director of the Helen Zell WHEN: Tod:
Writers' Program. WHERE: Ea
WHO: Laura Kasischke and Building
Megan Levad
WHEN: Today from 5:30 CORRECTIONS
p.m. to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate a Please rep
Library Gallery in the Dailyt
tions@michi

recital features
undergraduate
s. The event is
to the public.
1 of Music,
ance
ay at 6:45 p.m.
rl V. Moore
ort any error
to correc-m
igandaily.com.

Despite - a strong
performance from
quarterback Devin
Gardner Saturday, the
Michigan football team
lost to Ohio State, 42-28,
dropping to 5-7 on the season.
"> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY
More than 100
passengers and crew
were evacuated from
American Airlines Flight 67
following a bomb threat on
Sunday, The New York Times
reported. The flight was to
depart from John F. Kennedy
International Airport.

Ohio State football player
found dead near campus

22-year-old
student-athlete dies
of self-inflicted
gunshot wound

dark Sunday evening and no
one answered when a reporter
knocked on the metal door. A few
coffee mugs holding what could
have been some small plants were
on the window sill of the dark-
ened two-story, gray clapboard
home with black shutters. Christ-

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) - A mas decorations could be seen on
missing Ohio State football player some surrounding apartments.
who disappeared shortly after The site was within a mile fo
sending a text message about his the university's student union
concussions was found dead Sun- building and about a half block
day, apparently of a self-inflicted from High Street, the main artery
gunshot wound, police said. of the campus.
Police tell media outlets the Karageorge's parents filed a
body of 22-year-old Kosta Kara- missing-person report Wednes-
george was found near the cam- day evening, and his mother,
pus after a search since he went Susan Karageorge, told police he
missing Wednesday. The senior has had several concussions and
defensive tackle from Columbus a few spells of being extremely
had last been seen at his apart- confused, accordingto the report.
ment in Columbus, when his She said that at about 1:30 a.m.
roommates said he left to go on a Wednesday he texted a message
walk. that cited the concussions and
The body was found within a said, "I am sorry ifI am an embar-
couple hundred yards of Kara- rassment."
george's house. The house was University athletic officials
S 0 01

said they were grieved to learn of
Karageorge's death.
A former Buckeyes wrestler, he
joined the football team as a walk-
on this season. He has played in
one game and was among two
dozen seniors slated to be recog-
nized at the final home game Sat-
urday againstrival Michigan. The
Buckeyes won, 42-28.
During halftime at the No. 16
Ohio State men's basketball game
against James Madison in Colum-
bus, pictures of Karageorge were
shown and an announcement
was made urging people with
any information to contact police.
Defensive lineman Michael Ben-
nett said afterward that Kara-
george missed practices and that
teammates started getting ner-
vous Thursday.
The team's physician, Dr. Jim
Borchers, has said he could not
comment on the medical care of
student athletes.
The player's sister, Sophia
Karageorge, told The Columbus
Dispatch that he apparently was
upset, and roommates said he
went for a walk, dressed in black
from his hat to his boots.
"We're very concerned that
he's not himself and that he
maybe doesn't know what's going
on," she told the newspaper.
She said after each concussion
he followed trainers' instructions
and received proper care but "his
repercussions from (concussions)
have been long-term or delayed."
She said he was without his
wallet and his motorcycle.
Coach Urban Meyer described
Karageorge as a hard worker and
an important player in practice.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily, McClellan said
she wants to incorporate social
science knowledge into natural
science research to alleviate pub-
lic confusion over the results sci-
entists present in their findings.
"We are trying to publish
something in the scientific jour-
nal that says trying to pay atten-
tion to the context of how your
ideas are being understood," she
said.

I
a
I
I

MATILDE CAMPODONICO/AP
Tabard Vazquez, presidential candidate for the ruling Broad Front party, celebrates in Montevideo, Uruguay on Sunday.
Left-leaning presidential
candidate wins in Uruguay

Tabare Vazquez
recognized for
legalizing same-
sex marriage
MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay
(AP) - Ruling party candidate
Tabare Vazquez easily won Uru-
guay's presidential election on
Sunday, returning to power a left-
leaning coalition that has legal-
ized gay marriage and moved to
create the world's first state-run
marijuana marketplace.
The runoff vote had drawn
international attention because.-
Vazquez's rival, center-right
candidate Luis Lacalle Pou, had
promised to undo much of the
plan to put the government in
charge of regulating the produc-
tion, distribution and sale of mar-
ijuana on a nationwide scale.
Lacalle Pou, 41, said late Sun-
day that he had called Vazquez
to concede and "wish him great
success" after three exit polls
showed him losing by a more
than 10-percentage point margin,
a defeat seen as saving the pot
plan from possible extinction.
Vazquez, a 74-year-old oncolo-
gist who was president from

2005-2010, immediately called
on the opposition to join him in
a national accord to deal with
the key issues of public security,
health and education.
"I want to be able to count on
all Uruguayans, but not so that
they follow me but so that they
guide me, accompany me," said
Vazquez in his victory speech.
Sunday's win marked a rever-
sal of roles for Vazquez, who
shook up Uruguayan politics
when he became president his
first time, peacefully ending 170
years of two-party dominance. In
his first presidential campaign,
Vazquez promised changes that
would "shake the roots of the
trees." But he governed as a rela-
tively cautious moderate, avoid-
ing the constitutional changes
and polarization that have shak-
en countries such as Venezuela.
His popularity on leaving
office paved the way for the
election of his successor, cur-
rent President Jose Mujica, a
former guerrilla known for his
humble lifestyle and straight talk.
Both men belong to the Broad
Front coalition, which has been
in power for a decade and has
passed laws backing same-sex
marriage, marijuana and other
social issues.

This time around, Mujica's
popularity and a strong econo-
my helped propel Vazquez. into
office, where he is now seen as
the candidate of continuity, notof
change.
Javier Silva, an operator at
a state electrical plant, said he
voted for Vazquez because he
thinks the country is doing well.
"The economy is rising. The
country isn't anything like it was
10 or 20 years ago, when it was in
decline," said the 35-year-old.
Monica Centurion, a 51-year-
old official at a state hospital, said
she backed Lacalle Pou because
she worried about crime.
"It was for his proposals, espe-
cially to improve public security,
which is the principal issue," she
said describing why she voted for
him.
Lacalle Pou is the son of anoth-
er ex-president, Luis Alberto
Lacalle Herrera, who governed
from 1990 to 1995.
During his campaign, he criti-
cized the marijuana plan, saying
he would shut down the state-
run pot market, while allowing
domestic cultivation of the plant.
Polls show that despite its inter-
national popularity, most Uru-
guayan oppose the marijuana
laws and want them repealed.

a

I

o


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 1, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December 1, 2D14 - 3A

SPORTS
From Page 1A
utilized its best wide receiver to
get in front of defensive backs, as
junior Devin Funchess did twice,
and pick up a first down. It could
have been a team whose quarter-
back, when no other option was
available, scrambled to find room.
A 95-yard drive caught you by
surprise, just as it caught Hoke by
surprise. He pumped his fist like
you pumped your fist, and you
thought that maybe, even if you
didn't have a reason to, this was
the Michigan team you wanted to
support.
"It's a beautiful thing," Hoke
said, "when you see a 95-yard
drive. That was neat."
You forgot about the painful-
ness of the season when, on the
next possession, after receiving
a pitch, Johnson stopped, turned
around six yards behind the line
of scrimmage and lofted a pass
to an open Gardner. And you
laughed because it worked, and
APOTHECARY
From Page 1A
stations, four drug stores and a
movie theater on South Univer-
sity.
Turner said when he would
shop at the Whole Foods on
Washtenaw Avenue, there used
to be a photograph hanging on
the wall depicting Vietnam War
demonstrations on South Univer-
sity.
"You see all the people in the
street carrying signs and in the
background you see this store,"
he said. "It looks exactly the same
in the front. It's probably the only
store on this street that hasn't
changed."
Although it is no longer in use,
Kreye used to operate a soda
fountain and sell beer and wine
in the store's basement.
After 30 years of running the
pharmacy, Kreye sold the Apoth-

it hadn't been tried yet, and you
knew what Michigan could have
tried it at any other point.
You didn't think about how
angry you were with Brady Hoke
and how much you clamored for
a new coach in the 28:27, because
the team you had expected to see
all along enthralled you. As Hoke
paused in his press conference,
he stuttered over his words and
forgot about the questions on his
future and his impending conver-
sation with Athletic Director Jim
Hackett, just like you forgot in
that moment.
Those 28 minutes and 27
seconds didn't erase the sting
that came with losing the third
straight in the rivalry and miss-
ing out on a bowl game. They
can't erase the image of Hoke and
Gardner looking up at a score-
board at the same time during the
final minute, with a hand on their
hip to see all that could have been
come to fruition.
"Would we like to be that
way?" Hoke said. "Yeah, we'd like
to be like that all the time. Have

we been? No."
But was this the type of team
Michigan could have been?
"Yeah. Absolutely," said Jake
Ryan.
Then, in the 28th second, the
Buckeyes marched 81 yards down
the field, running for 30 yards
until they decided they would
pass instead. They stopped the
Wolverines on the next three pos-
sessions, built up a 21-point lead
and ruined any hopes of making
the game close.
So you remembered what
Michigan has been, and it was the
same feeling you had before the
game as you had after it.
It was irritating because it had
been missing for nearly all of this
season. Itwas maddeningbecause
those 28 minutes took so long to
arrive, yet lasted so briefly you
didn't get to savor them. It was
painful because you saw it taken
right out in front of you.
But, damn, it was fun.
Garno can be reached at ggar-
no@umich.edu and on Twitter
@GGarno.

COUNCIL
From Page lA
mous approval from the city's
Liquor License Review Com-
mittee, which determined that
Miya met all state and local
requirements to receive such
a license under policies of the
Ann Arbor Downtown Devel-
opment Authority.
Among these, Miya was
required to demonstrate
"measurable contribution to
the community" and at least
$75,000 worth of investments.
into developing the property
within the last five years.
Though liquor licenses must
be approved by the city, they
may be bought and sold by com-
mercial ventures once issued.
In Ann Arbor, these licenses
can fetch as much as $60,000,
as they are a major source of
development for local busi-
nesses.
Extension of Wastewater
Treatment Agreement
with Scio Township
The Council will hear a reso-

lution to extend agreements
between the city and Scio
Township that has permitted
Scio to use Ann Arbor's waste-
water treatment systems for
the last 30 years.
The agreement originally
allotted Scio up to 2.05 million
gallons of sanitary sewage per
day, but Scio has historically
used about half of that amount.
The resolution therefore also
dictates that the contract
"should be revised and restat-
ed to define the relationships,
rights and obligations of the
City and Scio Township going
forward."
If approved, the agreement
would extend the contract to
2024 and provide an option
for extension in 10-year incre-
ments to 2044.
The resolution noted that
while Scio has expressed inter-
est in continuing the agree-
ment, the township has also
secured land for the construc-
tion of its own treatment plant.
Revision to Freedom of
Information policies
Council will be presented a

resolution that would instruct
City Administrator Steve Pow-
ers to "renew his efforts" to
revise and update the city's
policies regarding its public
documents.
As a public body, the city
must make certain documents
available under the Freedom of
Information Act. The policies
under which these documents
would be released have been
under revision since early 2013.
Dave Askins, editor of The
Ann Arbor Chronicle, which
ceased publication in Septem-
ber, provided the Council with
detailed feedback regarding
proposed changes in March.
Additionally, FOIA revisions
at the state level have been
under discussion since 2013,
though the resolution acknowl-
edges that neither the city nor
the state has moved forward in
approving any revisions.
The resolution calls for the
city's FOIA policy to increase
transparency and for the estab-
lishment of FOIA officers for
both the city and Council. It
also calls for changes to the
appeal process and-waived fees
for media outlets.


ecary to Turner in 1994.
Now Turner manages the store
and pharmacy with the Apoth-
ecary's administrative assistant,
Debra Cook, and a close-knit
staff. Both Turner's and Cook's
children have worked at the
store, and family pictures line the
wall in the back of the pharmacy.
Throughout its history, the
Apothecary has built up a com-
munity of loyal customers, with
some patrons supporting the
store since the 1960s, Turner
said. He said the personal rela-
tionships he is able to foster with
his costumers keep them coming
back.
"Typically they're surprised at
the service we can provide and
how prompt we are and what
we're willing to do to help them
out," he said. "Which brings most
of them back all the time."
The store has also built a rela-
tionship with the University and
its students. Cook said Turner

has made the pharmacy more
college-oriented since he bought
the store by hiring students,
carrying items for students and
creating more personal relation-
ships with them. She said he
knows hundreds of his customers
by their first names.
"People are our family," Cook
said. "The people that come in
- they know us, we know them,
they know our stories, we know
theirs, they know our kids, we
know theirs. It's like home; there
are times we're here more than
we are at home."
Turner works with many stu-
dents and faculty from the Col-
lege of Pharmacy, some of whom
work there their entire four years
on campus. Turner usually takes
on at least one University student
intern in the Apothecary each
semester.
"The store has just been here,"
Turner said. "And I'm always
here. I'm here every day."


S3
From Page 1A
orientation, socioeconomic back-
ground, to come to a safe envi-
ronment to receive correct and
consistent information about sex-
ual health, and World AIDS Day is
another important day in our cal-
endar year that we can encourage
people to be responsible for their
health."
For S3, Monday's visit kicks
off a week of activities centered
around HIV and AIDS awareness
that include extra in-store testing
on Thursday - in addition to the

testing the store usually provides
weekly - and free cookies and
condoms Friday through Sunday.
Karmeisool said the store pro-
vides testing, as well as other
events, to help build asex-positive
environment in the area.
"There's an automatic stigma
that's put on being a sexual being,"
she said. "Whatthe whole process
of my company is, and why I find
it very important to be on Central
Campus, with not blocked out
windows, and have it an all ages
store ... is because I want to try
and normalize the whole thought
process of being a sexual being. It
can be fun, we can have fun with

it, but it's who we are innately, no
matter how we identify, but yet
there's still stigma to it."
She added that in Ann Arbor,
people aren't always aware of the
potential for HIV to affect their
lives.
"I think that the culture isvery
accepting, but I think that people
are a bit ignorant when it comes to
risk," Karmeisool said.
Throughout the week, the store
will also collect donations for the
Wat Opot Community, a Cambo-
dian orphanage housing about 60
children and adults who are living
with HIV or have lostparents due
to HIV.

Black Friday weekend
*slows as allure decreases

Online shopping
sees increase as
0 Americans become
more tech-savvy
Black Friday fatigue is setting
in.
Early discounting, more online
shopping and a mixed economy
meant fewer people shopped
over Thanksgiving weekend, the
National Retail Federation said
Sunday. '
Overall, 133.7 million people
shopped in stores and online over
the four-day weekend, down 5.2
percent from last year, accord-
ing to a survey of 4,631 people
conducted by Prosper Insights &
Analytics for the trade group.
Total spending for the week-
end is expected to fall 11 percent
to $50.9 billion from an estimated
$57.4 billion last year, the trade
group estimated.
Part of the reason is that Target,
J.C. Penney, Macy's, Wal-Mart
and other major retailers pushed
fat disonunts as early as Hallow-
een. Some opened stores even ear-
lier on Thanksgiving. All thatstole
some thunder from Black Friday
and the rest of the weekend.
Still, the preliminary data
makes retailers worried that
shoppers remain frugal despite
improving employment and fall-
ing gas prices.
Matt Shay, the trade group's
CEO, said he thinks people ben-
efiting from the recovery may

not feel the need to fight crowds
to get the deepest discount on a
TV or toaster. And those who feel
like the recession never ended
may not have the money and
will stretch out what they spend
through Christmas.
And shoppers are still feeling
the effects of high food prices and
stagnant wages:
"While they're more optimis-
tic, they're very cautious," Shay
said. "If the deals are not right for
them, they're not going to spend."
Bottom line: Expect more deep
discounts, all season long.
"Every day will be Black Fri-
day. Every minute will be Cyber
Monday," he said.
That could be what it takes to
get shoppers to open their wallets
for the holiday shopping season,
which accounts for about 20 per-
cent of annual retail sales.
Besides economic factors, peo-
ple are becoming more discern-
ing when they shop. Armed with
smartphones and price-compari-
son apps, they know what's a good
deal - and what's not.
Kimani Brown, 39, of New
York City, was among the Black
Friday defectors. After four years
of braving the crowds, the sales
failed to lure him out this year.
"I consider myself a smart
shopper. And it's not as alluring as
it used to be," Brown said. "It's a
marketing tool, and I don't want
to be pulled into it."
He also said the frenzy pushed
him to overspend, and he paid the
price in January on his credit card
statement.

Instead, he said he will look
online Monday, the online shop-
ping day often called Cyber Mon-
day.
Some who went shopping on
Thanksgiving felt they were doing
it against their will. Cathyliz
Lopez of New York City said she
felt forced to shop on the holiday.
"It's ruining the spirit of
Thanksgiving," the 20-year-old
said Thursday. "But I was check-
ing all the ads, and the best deals
were today."
The National Retail Federa-
tion is still predicting a 4.1 per-
cent increase in sales for the
season. That would be the high-
est increase since the 4.8 percent
gain in 2011.
Some stores and malls had rea-
son to be optimistic.
Dan Jasper, a spokesman at
Mall of America in Bloomington,
Minnesota, said customer counts
are up 5 to 6 percent for the four-
day weekend. One plus: Shoppers
were buying more for themselves,
a sign of optimism.
"They felt confident in the
economy," he said.
CEOs at Target and Toys R Us
said they saw shoppers not just
focusing on the doorbuster deals
but throwing extra items in their
carts.
Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren
told The Associated Press on Fri-
day that he's hoping lower gas
prices will help spending.
"There's reason to believe that
confidence should continue to
grow. That should be good for dis-
cretionary spending," he said.

HOLIDAY feels like we've embraced him During Welcome Week,
From Page 1A and his family so warmly; that's Schlissel met students and
what he said he was thankful served ice cream at his home.
for." During her tenure, former Uni-
on campus. At the dinner, Schlissel said versity President Mary Sue
"It was really significant to he hopes to create a tradition of Coleman opened her doors to
hear how welcome he feels in the inviting students to his home to. trick-or-treating students on
community," Lawton said. "He celebrate Thanksgiving. Halloween night.
FOLLOW
THE MICHIGAN DAILY
ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
#MICHIGANDAILY
and 'like' us on facebook
FACE BOO K.COM/
MICHI.GANDAILY

Where To?
Let the Past Be Your Guide

Buy 1 sandwich, get 1 free!
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
a since 1878 +
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: December 10th, 2014
L------ ---- --J

History Offerings
Law, Health, Business
Winter 2015
-Law? Try
t 232: Tracking Human Rights in Latin America
t 235: Law & Social Justice
t 272: Modern Civil Rights Movement
t 335: Immigration Law
t 375: History of Witchcraft
t 415: Law and Society in China
t 481.001: Maitland and the History of Our Law
-Med? Try
:234: History of Medicine
t 285: Science, Technology, Medicine and Society
t 356: Health in America
t 376: Epidemics
t 392: Japan: Green /Toxic Archipelago
t 497: Health and Medicine in US since 1875
-Business? Try
t 102: History of the Present
:329.001: Computers and the Internet
1343: The Rise of the Corporation

A a


A


Page 4A -- Monday, December 1, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Page 4A - Monday, December 1, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Activism 2.0

ast Tuesday night, in response to the
grand jury decision the day before not
to indict former Ferguson, Missouri
police officer Darren Wilson
on charges pertaining to the
shooting of Michael Brown,
more than 1,000 students and
communitymembers congre-
gated on the Diag to hold a
vigil for the deceased, and to
protest unjust racial politics
and police violence as system-
ic problems facing the nation.
After leaders from various AUSTIN
student organizations gave DAVIS
speeches condemning the
inaction of the grand jury as
deplorable, a march through downtown to Ann
Arbor City Hallensued.Onthe steps ofCity Hall,
speeches drew parallels between that night's
protests and those of the 1960s, classifying the
current movement as a continuation ofthat era's
Civil Rights Movement. Protest leaders called
on participants to wholeheartedly take action in
fighting racial injustice, rather than merely shar-
ing on social media that they'd attended the rally.
Activism, they implied, is much more than medi-
ated, surface-level interactionsvia the Internet.
What exactly does it mean to be an activist in
this generation? Attending protests, picketing
causesdeemedabhorrentorgarneringthousands
of signatures for a petition were called activist
measures by previous generations; but are such
actions alone relevant to the technology-driven
ideals ofthisgeneration?
Social media and the Internet as communica-
tion technologies have the power to inform, per-
suade and mobilize citizens as previous calls for
action never could.Whereas the organizationofa
vigil of last Tuesday night's scale may have taken
weeks in the past to accomplish, currently, a
Facebook event invite made it salient across other
social media platforms and attracted thousands
overnight. Once at an event, today's protesters
can coverthe events themselves by live-tweeting
or snapping photos to upload to Facebook, effec-
tively taking the power of narrative appeal away
from larger media conglomerates. To this extent,
a protest is made up of everyone who's physically
there, along with everyone who's following the
event onthe Internet.
Although armchair activism may not be as
invigorating as actually attending a protest, the
results can be just as - if not more - impactful.

After all, Edward Snowden drew the attention of
millionsto invasive practicesofgovernment espi-
onage through Internet leaks and remote inter-
views with journalists, effectively calling into
question the morality of the American govern-
ment and its adherence to its own Constitution.
He did all this without stepping foot in a rally.
Organizations such as the Human Rights Cam-
paign have also embraced the mobilizing poten-
tial of social media - its revamped red and pink
logo, released in the spring of2013 in conjunction
with Supreme Court hearings regarding Califor-
nia's Proposition 8, had been seen by over 9 mil-
lion people and was shared over 77,000 times in
the course of a day, according to one report. It
would have been completely infeasible to garner
such a show of support for a cause by more tra-
ditional means of grassroots campaigning alone.
Amidst evidence of Internet activism, it's
not right to demean Facebook posts and tweets
about a particular cause as lesser than more
traditional shows of protest. While sharing an
article or posting a status could be considered
arrant nonsense with no basis in fact, so too can
reasons for protesting or rallying, regardless of
the caliber of the event. Menial displays of sup-
port aren't reserved for the Internet alone.
In evaluating what it means to be an activ-
ist in today's society, one shouldn't diminish
the resources available with which to catalyze
change. With the same logic, in defining what it
meant to be an activist in the past, one shouldn't
glorify all actions taken by our predecessors. In
Detroit, during the summer of 1967, the city
erupted in protests against police brutality;
during a four-day span, many died, hundreds
were injured and uncontrolled looting and van-
dalism ravaged the city.
By perceiving these actions as having been
efficacious in igniting change - by perceiving
such movements as activist in nature - many
in Ferguson are engaging in similar activities.
Taking to the Facebook page or blogosphere, in
comparison, are peaceful means of protest that
have the potential for tenable change. That being
said, activism today shouldn't be about merely
emulating the actions of those who came before.
Rather, they should be about taking traditionalist
definitions of what it means to act and reforming
themto be more conducive with current ideals of
a productive, educated and peaceful society.
- Austin Davis can be reached
at austchan@umich.edu.


Ferguson protests and Facebook posts
W hile many were en route businesses reflects the opposite of There is no concrete evidence prov-
back to their home- what these protesters want: peace. ing that racism was a contributing
towns to celebrate a Vigils and protests that recognize factor in the shooting. Although it
Thanksgiving at home, the phrase the necessity of nonviolent activism is easy to see why racism may have
"Black lives mat- and discourse are the demonstra- played a large role in the shooting
ter" began flood- tions that the common person can of Michael Brown, there are other
ing campus learn most from, and where revolu- ways to argue this point without
Tuesday night in tion can truly take place. Violence an unverifiable ad hominem attack.
light of the recent has the ability to draw attention to Trying to gain credibility with
Darren Wilson causes, especially when change is these types of arguments almost
verdict. The self- necessary. But nonviolence often always proves to be hard, especially
identified vigil allows demonstrations to gain legit- because people with power (i.e.,
was a space that imacy and credibility. Undoubt- white males) have problems grasp-
encouraged a edly you have heard the reference ing concepts of white privilege.
peaceful protest REM to Martin Luther King, Jr. before, American society is propped up by
with aggressive PASQUINELLI and the best ways to summarize his the privilege of a specific race -
discourse, includ- feelings toward the utilization of white. And the way that the crimi-
ing signs that pro- peace is in his quote: "Peace is not nal justice system can sustain the
moted justice for Michael Brown, merely a distant goal that we seek, power of white people is easily seen
Aura Rosser and other Black indi- but a means by which we arrive at in the shooting of Michael Brown.
viduals targeted by police violence. that goal." There are ways to critically ana-
Participants of the vigil chanted, Peaceful demonstrations lyze the situation surrounding Fer-
"Hands up! Don't shoot!" "What following the controversial ruling guson, as well as any other Black
do we want? Justice! When do we in the Darren Wilson case have civilian shooting done by a white
want it? Now!" and "Hey hey! Ho exposed issues that have previously police officer. Explaining your opin-
ho! These racist cops have got to been considered taboo topics. You ion with warranted claims is the
go!" These words wafted through probablynoticedthattheonlysubject best way to eradicate the frustra-
the Diag, and eventually made their people discussed on Facebook after tions stemming from others' inabil-
way over to the Michigan Theater. the decision was announced was ity to empathize with your opinion.
The student-organized vigil is police violence toward Blacks. For Stating Darren Wilson is a racist pig
an example of a protest done well. me, this was one of the first times will not help you critically engage
Unfortunately, protests that take the this issue had been discussed this in arguments that you are trying
form of riots perpetuate negative, much, even after the Trayvon Martin to make, nor will saying Michael
untrue stereotypes of an entire race. shooting. These types of discussions Brown deserved to get shot. The
Although not everyone participating are more likely to happen and keep reason there is so much frustration
in violent riots are Black, these happening if buildings are not between individuals with conflicting
expressions of public opinion in the burning down left and right. This views isn't because people can't hold
Darren Wilson and Michael Brown type of violence only propagates the conversations about these issues,
case are often viewed negatively and likelihood that people give up having but because of the way each side
attributed to race. Peaceful spaces civil discussions of race. presents their arguments. Whether
for expression, whether it is through There are problems, however, these arguments take the form of an
words, art, posters, etc., present with the way a majority of people aggressive and overly biased Face-
opportunities to pull the existence of are discussing such issues. I read book status or violent protests, alter-
police violence against Blacks out of at least five Facebook posts where natives to these forms of expression
the shadows. individuals took an opinion on Dar- have a much stronger ability to pro-
Protests that are occurring as a ren Wilson's verdict that said some- mote revolutionary change.

result of the decision not to indict
Darren Wilson are the pathways to
justice. It is clear that burning down

thing along the line of him being
a "racist pig." This is not how one
should address such a serious issue.

- Rennie Pasquinelli can be
reached at renpasq@umich.edu.

SIMON RIVERS I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Edvinas Berzanskis, Devin Eggert, David Harris, Rachel John, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh,
Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Paul, Allison Raeck, Melissa Scholke, Michael
Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Mary Kate Winn, Jenny Wang, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
SCIENCE FOR THE PEOPLE I
Dow Chemical, questionable donor

Stereotypes are a fascinating part
of everyday life. We grow up learning
things according to our stereotypes
and schemas. We learn that squares
have four sides, so whenever we see
a square we remember that it has
four sides. However, we often forget
that a square may also be called a
rectangle or a rhombus..
We also grow up learning stereo-
types about people. We learn that
Black men are angry, sex-crazed, and
dangerous. Stereotypes, while usual-
ly negative, are simply a conundrum
of misinformation and ignorance.
Author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
adds that stereotypes are unfinished.
She left her audience speechless dur-
ing her TED Talk when she said,
"The single story creates stereotypes
and the problem with stereotypes
is that they are not untrue, but they
are incomplete. They make one story
become the only story." That is why
I say that stereotypes are "fascinat-
ing," not evil or horrid, because they
derive from ignorance and general-
izing; they are incomplete.
The danger is in seeing a man who
is yelling and cursing at someone
and labeling all Black men as angry.
The danger is in viewingthe'actions
of a "reality" television star as
promiscuous and labeling all Black
men as sex-crazed. The danger is
in seeing a Black man stealing from
someone in your neighborhood and
labeling all Black men as dangerous.
And those stereotypes are
definitely incomplete; the
stereotypes limit one's capability to
see Black men as versatile beings that
are as complex as the interworking
of the solar system or, to fall in line
with my original analogy, as complex
as geometry.
Growing up as a young Black boy,
being tough - being "hard" - had
already been ingrained in me by
society, upheld by perceived stereo-
types, as the most important thing
that we could be. We are socialized
to play sports, have girlfriends -
have sex with them, don't wear pink,
wear your pants low, don't listen to
Beyonc6 - only lust after her, make
fun of the gay kid who will eventu-
ally become one of your best friends,

vly single story
don't cry, don't you dare cry, don't m
ever cry, especially don't cry. w
Even as a young boy, I struggled sp
with being tough. I wanted to be fel
tough, butI just couldn't do it. I was ids
ashamed. I didn't know that a Black an
boy (or a man, which is what I was re
trying to be) could be anything less
than.. the stereotypes that society lo;
labeled us. TI
I felt ashamed that I didn't yo
like sports. ab
I felt embarrassed that I enjoyed pr
playing dress-up. TI
I felt guilty that I never got into m4
fights, even though I was enrolled w
in karate. an
I felt that I was never good enough. cu
In order to be good enough to iz(
meet the requirements of being a no
young Black man, one must have in
male friends. I have always found izi
it easier to interact and develop an
relationships with girls/women; at
so naturally, most of my friends for sic
my life have been girls/women. At wl
19 years old, after telling my father m;
that I was going to my best friend's w
younger sister's birthday party at the es
mall, he responded, you know that be
you're not a girl, right? Of course, I ca
do, Dad, I said as I chuckled. Then
why don'tyou act like it? to
It stung more than my father Gc
could imagine. It hurt because I FL
knew that hanging out with women of
as friends was not what young men fri
did. We had sex with them. I knew Bl
that being into Broadway, ballets, tif
and Beyonce was not what young Bl;
men were supposed to do. We made tio
fun of the gay kids that liked them. I an
knew that being a young Black man tio
meant that I had to be manlier than an
my white counterparts (it wasn't co
until later that I learned that it was
because of the perceived hyper- ha
sexuality and the perpetuated su
homophobia of the Black male body). fri
My actions did not align with what be,
was expected of me, as a young, An
heterosexual Black man. I knew that -
I wasn't good enough, but I couldn't
help who I was.
I felt different, abnormal, and
inadequate as a man - as a young
Black man. I was never like my y
father or brother. I was never like

y male friends in high school,
Iho could sit around and talk about
orts, rap music and having sex. I
It judged based on my intersecting
entities of race and gender. Black
nd male stereotypes culminated
sulting in my many insecurities.
The insecurities that for far too
ng overshadowed my decisions.
he insecurities that forced me, as a
ung Black man, to feel uncomfort-
le with who I was instead of being
oud of who I was going to become.
he insecurities that subsided the
oment that I decided that people
ould either have to accept who I
m or get out of my way. The inse-
rities that collapsed when I real-
ed that gender expression does
t equal sexual orientation. The
securities that ended when I real-
;d that my Blackness supersedes
y and every stereotype. And while
times it does define my deci-
on making, my insecurities ended
hen I accepted that my Black
aleness, as important as it is to me,
as not going to define my inter-
ts, friends, or who I was trying to
come, because as a Black man, I
n be whomever I want to be.
So here I am today, listening
Whitney Houston's "You Give
ood Love," saying "eyebrows on
EEK," agonizing over the state
the Detroit Tigers, helping my
ends pick out their outfits for
ack Homecoming, loving a beau-
ul Black woman, and I am still a
ack man. No amount of persecu-
n or ridicule will change that. No
iount of prejudice or discrimina-
n will ever change that. And no
nount of pressure from society to
nform will ever change that.
I may not fit the mold that society
s designed for me, but I for damn
re, regardless of my interests,
ends or expression, always have
en and always will be a Black man.
d nothing will take that away.
Michigan in Color is the Daily's
opinion section designated as a space
for and by students of color at the
University of Michigan. To contribute
our voice or find out more about MiC,
e-mail michiganincolor@umich.edu.

A remarkable event occurred Saturday, Nov.
15.Graduatestudentsandpostdoctoralresearch-
ers presented the results of their research on a
myriad of sustainability issues - a subject that
couldn't be more relevant for our age. But amid
the interesting and important projects present-
ed, a coterie of protesters (for the sake of trans-
parency: us) pointed out deeper practical and
philosophical issues associated with the event's
funder, the Dow Chemical Company.
Dow has and continues to be engaged in
activities of questionable (a stronger word
might be relevant) sustainability - indeed, of
questionable (a much stronger word would be
relevant) morality. As the last company will-
ing to produce napalm to horrendous effect on
humans in Vietnam, still willing to produce
the well-known toxin Atrazine and recently
having pressured the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency to approve a new product that
will result in the spraying of 2,4-D (one of the
chemicals used in Agent Orange - also pro-
duced by Dow - for terrorism in Vietnam), we
called for the audience to reflect on the nature
of the funding source. Through distributing
informational flyers across campus a week
before the event, handing out a fact sheet at
the event, unfurling a couple of banners call-
ing out Dow on its prior and current crimes
against the environment and humanity and
posing questions at the event, we confronted
Dow's "sustainability" representative.
It should be noted that our protest was not
against the work of the Dow sustainability
scholars. On the contrary, we applaud the fine
work they are doing. Rather,, our concern is
with the past and present actions of one of the
world's worst actors on the sustainability front
and the image that represents for the University.
Serious sustainability researchers now have
part of their resume tainted with the label
"Dow Sustainability Fellow," which is certainly
not useful in seeking some employment
opportunities. Why is it that Dow funding
carries with it the obligation to be called a Dow

fellow? If Dow is, as it claims, simply concerned
with solving some of the world's pressing
sustainability problems,why insistonburdening
the recipients of its funding? Inthe past, fellows
were called "Graham Sustainability Fellows"
after the Graham Institute. What is wrong with
that title? Or is Dow simply concerned with
purchasing some of the University's legitimacy?
Such questions call into view some even
bigger issues. Why are folks who are interested
in doing sustainability research forced to go to
the dark side for money in the first place? Why,
in turn, is the University forced to get into bed
withnotoriouscriminals?The answer,asknown
by everyone from the University President to
the incoming first-year undergraduate, is that
the University is, in practice, no longer a public
institution. As part of the great "conservative"
move - if you call destroying public education
conservative - beginning with the Reagan/
Thatcher era, state funding for higher education
has, by now, effectively disappeared. Therefore,
students, faculty and researchers are forced to
seek private funds to support what used to be
thought of as activities in service of the public
good and thus worthy of support from the
public at large (which is to say the government).
Students (and student researchers) are forced to
seek money in every available nook and cranny
from loan sharks (banks) to criminals.
Yet, is there absolutely no limit on who
should fund us? Perhaps the leaders of Los
Zetas wish to donate some money? Perhaps the
American Nazi party would like to help fund
our Jewish Studies program? The KKK, our
African American Studies program? Certainly
there are limits to what we will endorse by
accepting their money. Do criminal elements
like Dow deserve our endorsement? And is it
simply irrelevant that the fellows doing such
fine work must be saddled with the Dow label?
Maybe the University can give us an answer.
This viewpoint was written by
Science for the People.

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Thank you,
Devin Gardner
TO THE DAILY:
I am a long-time resident of
Columbus, and although I graduated
from another school (Purdue), I have
become a strong Ohio State football
fan. Unlike most of the rhetoric you
hear during The Game week, I have
no bad feelings about the University
of Michigan. In fact, I know it to be
one of the premier public academic

universities in the country, right
up with University of California
Berkeley, University of Virginia and
Illinois.
I want you to know that I was very
touched by the words and actions
of your team's quarterback, Devin
Gardner, in the kind and articulate
way he demonstrated his concern
over the injury sustained by Ohio
State quarterback J.T. Barrett during
the game. He is a gentleman, a class
act, a man that the entire University

community - and, indeed, the state
of Michigan - can be proud of.
What he did and said, and the
manner in which he did both, will
be the memory of that game that will
remain with me.
Congratulations on having such a
person as your football team's leader.
In the end, that kind of result trumps
wins and losses, big time.
Bill Hood
Resident of Columbus, Ohio

6
I

I '

F

R


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 1, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December 1, 2D14 - 5A

Vaudeville inspires
'Madagascar' film

'Gotham' clumsily
develops characters

 'Penguins'
impresses with
surreal animation
By JACOB RICH
Daily Arts Writer
On its surface, "Penguins
of Madagascar" is another
frantic joke-a-minute (closer
to joke-a-
second)
kiddie-
comedy Penguins of
following in Madagascar
the footsteps
of the Rave 20 and
borderline Quality 16
schizophrenic DreamWorks
"The Lego
Movie." Complete with beat-
you-over-the-head metaphors,
frequent unfunny pop-culture
references and one-note
characters, "Penguins" could
well have been little more than
a franchise cash-in, exploiting
its most popular comic relief
characters to just sell some
merchandise.
Fascinatingly, it feels less
like a corporate circle-jerk
and much more like a labor
of love. The passion here is
most evident in the wonderful
animation. Even more than in
the previous "Madagascar"
films, the animation is sharp,
gorgeous and fluid. The
Penguins' computer-generated
movement strays from the
still-based-in-reality standard
of modern animated fare like
"Frozen" and "How to Train
Your Dragon" and instead
chooses to emulate the more
surreal hand-drawn shorts
(think early "Mickey Mouse"
and "Popeye") from the very
beginningofanimation.Objects
and characters in "Penguins"
are protoplasmic in form, and
they are allowed to dance
and flow across the screen in
whatever fashion the director
sees fit. The Octopus villain
in particular is animated with
a stunning amount of variety

The Usual Suspects.
and free-form creativity.
"Penguins" 's freedom of
movement combines with a
non-chronological editing
rhythm to pace visual gags
with near-perfect delivery.
In contrast with the film's
pop-culture-based, one-liner
humor, the Penguins' visual
antics are vaudevillian in
nature, and the animators=
expertly draw from key rules
used by early screen comedians
like Chaplin and The Marx
Brothers. Echoeing Chaplin in
particular, the Penguins have
a dysfunctional relationship
with their environment. One
moment, they could be using
if to their utmost advantage,
twirling and jumping between
commercial passenger jets with
ease. The next, everything in
their environment proves an
obstacle or a deterrent, as they
haphazardly goof around in a
top-secret base. The nature of
the environment in "Penguins"
expertly serves the film's
humor
The characterizations of
each animal character lack
substance, as they're all
basically parodies.of existing
spy-movie tropes, but the
excellent voice acting from
each cast member (with the
exception of a serious waste of
Ken Jeong, famous for the "The
Hangover" films) partially
makes up for it. Joining

the usual penguin cast (the
mostly unknown DreamWorks
mainstays Tom McGrath,
Chris Miller, Christopher
Knights and Conrad Vernon)
are the superb-as-always
Benedict Cumberbatch ("The
Hobbit: The Desolation of
Smaug") as the leader of a
secret alliance of animal spies;
and John Malkovich (NBC's
"Crossbones") as the diabolical
Dr. Octavius Brine, a revenge-
hungry octopus disguised as a
mad scientist.
While its animation and
voice acting are near perfect,
"Penguins" has yet to break
away from some of the more
egregious kid-movie sins
that DreamWorks films have
consistently committed. The
film, like many in the "Ice Age"
franchise, plays the onscreen
death of animals for humor
too often for a kids' movie.
There also is far too many
jokes that are thrown in for
the adults. Disney films have
managed to be interesting
and heartwarming to all ages
since the beginning; why
does DreamWorks insist on
including throwaway pop-
culture references that the-
kids won't get? The "How to
Train Your Dragon" series has
found its own brand of non-
cynical warmth; it's time the
other DreamWorks franchises
followed suit.

FOX series at
risk of wasting
its potential
By MATT BARNAUSKAS
Daily Arts Writer
At its halfway point, "Gotham"
has proven itself an entertaining
show, but several glaring flaws
continue to
make watching C+
it frustrating.
By hiding Gotham
some of its Mid-Season
weaknesses Finale
and focusing
on the show's Mondays
strengths, at 8 p.m.
the mid- FOX
season finale,
"Lovecraft" brings an above-
average end to a flawed beginning
- but sweeping dirt under the rug
canonlydo so much.
Opening with the attempted
assassination of Selina Kyle
(Carmen Bicondova, "Battlefield
America") at the home of
Bruce Wayne (David Mazouz,
"Touch"), "Lovecraft" gives
butler Alfred Pennyworth
(Sean Pertwee, "Elementary") a
standout moment. Facing three
killers, Alfred just kicks ass.
Pertwee's rough-around-the-
edges portrayal of the famous
butler has been one of the
strengths of the show so far; he's
a character with purpose, unlike
several others in the show.
Selina and Bruce's escape
into the city allows the two
to interact more. The pairing,
introduced in the last episode,
brings a new approach to the
famous relationship between
the future caped crusader
and femme fatale. However,
character development has
been inconsistent. Bruce has
been relatively well-explored,
showing hints of the crazy
determination that creates a'
superhero. On the other hand,
Selina is the victim of writers
who feel the need to drop not-
so-subtle hints of her future,
practically saying, "Look! She

only drinks milk ... like a cat." It
doesn't help that she insists on
being called Cat. This obvious
explication weighs down other
characters, too. The most
egregious is Riddler-to-be,
Edward Nygma - "He likes
riddles, get it?"
The attempt by the police
to find the children remains
standard fair for "Gotham."
One of the series' greatest
shortcomings is its procedural
element. Cases have been far too
easily resolved not because of
good police work, but just some
luck or chance. Then there's
Harvey Bullock's (Donal Logue,
"Sons of Anarchy") trump card,
"I'll go talk to FishMooney(Jada
Pinkett-Smith, "Hawthorne"),"
which is used far too often as
a go-to crutch. "Lovecraft"
reduced these deficiencies by
pairing up Harvey and Alfred,
two of the more enjoyable
characters. "You're prettyhandy
for avalet," says Bullock. "Butler
mate. I'm the butler," Alfred
asserts. "Gotham," show more of
badass Alfred, please.
"Gotham"'sstrength is stillits
exploration of the city's criminal
underworld. The simmering
unrest in Carmine Falcone's
(John Doman, "The Wire")
organization has emerged as
the primary focus. At the center
are the Penguin's machinations
(Robin Lord Taylor, "The
Walking Dead"). The Penguin's
rise from low-level criminal

to Falcome's trusted eyes
and ears has been laden with
backstabbings (figurative and
literal) and lies, which led to the
series' strongest episode so far
in "Penguin's Umbrella." Taylor
brings a certain demented joy
to the future crime lord who
delights in his deceptions.
The focus on "Gotham" 's
strengths makes for a better
episode but draws attention
to the flaws that have hobbled
the show since day one.
The relationship between
protagonist Jim Gordon (Ben
McKenzie, "Southland") and
Barbara Kean (Erin Richards,
"BreakingIn") isthemostblatant
example of screenwriters trying
to force an ill-conceived pairing
on an ambivalent audience.
The show is trying to hinge the
audience on' the relationship,
but Barbara is one of the worst
written characters on television
right now. The character is
indecisiveandbarelyexistsoutside
of her relationship to Jim. Same
goes for obligatory love triangle
member Renee Montoya (Victoria
Cartagena, "Salt"), avice detective
whose only role is telling Barbara,
"You deserve someone better" and
standinginJim'swayoutofspite.
The ending of the mid-season
shows'promisewiththescn'enting
of Arkham Asylum as a primary
location in the second half, but if
"Gotham" doesn't fix its primary
character and writing flaws, its
potentialwillbewasted.

A Portrait of the 'This Dude' as a'Whatever He Does' - James Joyce Madlibs.

An open letter
to Frank Ocean

By RACHEL KERR
DailyArts Writer
Dear Frank,
The day after Thanks-
giving, I . was still recover-
ing from my turkey-induced
stupor, sprawled out on my
couch, scrolling through my
Twitter feed, and - behold
- I see you've dropped a new
track! Leave it to you, Frank,
to remind me how much bet-
ter you are than everyone else,
releasing new music when
the rest of us are still a little
buzzed on tryptophan.
This new track of yours,
"Memrise," is the first solo
stuff we've seen from you in two
years, since the release of the
still-bangin' channel ORANGE
in 2012. After Def Jam Records
released that album, and after
it earned a spot on countless
"Best of 2012" lists, and after
you won a Grammy for Best
Urban Contemporary Album,
you promised you'd come back.
And while I trust you, it's a
little unfair how you've been
toying with me since. I don't
know how much longer I can
wait for your next effort. I'm
getting impatient. I hope that
by uploading the new track to
your Tumblr, you're teasing
that your follow-up is close.
The problem is that "Mem-
rise" sounds more like an
interlude than actual content.
While the lyrics satisfy, per
usual - "I memorized your
body exposed / I could fuck
you all night long / from a
memory alone" is nasty - the
delivery is more reminiscent
of a poetry read than an actual
song. And, it's only 2 minutes
long. It leaves much more to

be desired from you, the art-
ist who brought us master-
pieces like "Bad Religion" and
"Pink Matter." Though I love
the sound of the piano overlaid
with your synth-like vocals on
the track, I need more from
you, Frank.
You told us the album was
basically done in, like, April.
Billboard projected the release
of the untitled project for this
fall, but with 2015 quickly
approaching, I'm starting to
lose hope. I heard Pharrell
Williams, Tyler the Creator
and Danger Mouse are all sup-
posed to have spots on the
record. In August, it was also
confirmed you were working
with the likes of Hit Boy and
Rodney Jerkins. But, to me,
that only means one thing: the
album still isn't done.
I understand that perfection
takes some time, but you've
left me with little to hold on
to. One can only unsuccess-
fully hit the high notes on
"Thinkin Bout You" so many
times before shit just gets sad.
Your track with Earl Sweat-
shirt on Doris ("Sunday") was
one of the best on the album,
and you can't ever go wrong
collaborating with Beyonced,
like you did on her 2013 self
titled album with"'Superpow-
er." But I want some solo stuff,
Frank.
This hiatus has gone on for
way too long. I miss you. I'm
lost without you. Release your
new album. Please. At least
tell us when it's dropping. The
silence is deafening.
Sincerely,
A Desperate Fan Who
Knows Every Word To "Super
Rich Kids"

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 66 Put on notice 34 Sea divided by 52 Japanese beer
1 Greenhouse 67 Be ing hauled to thrinkage s and
growth the garage 36 Leafy recess 13 Slarpee
6 Condescending 37 FC Barcelona alternative
one DOWN soccer star Lionel H4 Distort
10 Take wing 1 ASAP cousin 39 Nearby 55 Broadband
13 Andrea-: 2 Baseball's "Iron 40 Deodorant spot letters
sunken ocean Horse" Gehrig 45 Kia sedan 58 Family
liner 3 Tycoon Onassis 47 "Sleepless in 59 Blasting
14 "So I was wrong!" 4 Fsve-centcoin Seattle" director material
15 AorStephen 5 Unavaiable Nra 60 Tnkyo, long ago
16 *Marknofa 6STotal 48 Game trap .61 Like
hothead 7 Himalayan 50"'TheOdd nprocessed
18 "A moase"' marnchtry er Couplenlob data
19 Remain esh 9 rcnch nrder
20 North African port 1AReltard ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22cegretone's32- ilSuspicious S C A R P B AWL I B E T
Acrosses 1Bacwsheota T O T A L E ID I E N E N A
25Cavs,on mo A A A L I N G UI I S T S
scorehoards 17 Liptonshelfmate S I N A I M E G A S T O R E
27 FBurkat 21 BasketballHallof A R N O U T L A S T E D
27 Figure skating Famer Thomas 00NTJINIIT
ump 2Fiin ool D O N T J I N X I T
ump 22 Filing tools
28 NYC airport 23 Formallybanish M I G R A N T P E S T L E D
namedfor a 24*A football A S L A N T A I R I L Y
mayorw reereemay J E E P E R S I M M E N S E
30 One o twn throw one
matching beds 25Vancouver NHL O P E N S P A C E S
32 Admissinin a team M A I N E'VE6N T A S1
conessional 29Babytalk IN NO E N TUP A C
33 Hotelier Helmsley syllables T I M B U R T 0 N I R I N A
35 Lady's title 31 Alleged Iraqi
38 Thisspace arsenal, for E T A T O R S C N T S
aoailale" in a short aSA NE5 1N E E 0 1"1 IE
Pennysaverbox 33 "_weforget' xwordeditor@aol.com 12/01/14
41 Peddles
gtmementos r a a a i 6 11 12
43 Crunched
44 Dog who reveals
thesWizard is1in
46 Netherlands192ari
47 Those, to Pedro 22 23 24 as 26
48Procedure: Abbr.
49 Stamp sellers, 27 2 a no 31
briefly
51 Ancientscrolls 32 33 34 an a 37
53 Takes over, like
termites i3 us 40
55 Menu item
56 Baseball's "Iron a a2 43
Man" Ripken
57 Foot-operated as a5 46 a7
mechanism on a
motorcycle, and as as nn n1 na
whatthefirst word
insuchan ert to
a sardclaescan
be 56 57 58 59 60 61
62 Pitcher's stat sa 6a
63 Online letter
64 Accord 65 s5 67
automaker
65 Brain scan. for
short , ByC..Burniket 12/01/14
02014TribuneContentAgency,LLC

! NORTH CA
! Riverfront/H
wwwt
2015-20
Apartme
Prime St
734-761-8001
Efficiencies: 721
344 S. Div
508 Divisi
610 S.
I Bedroon
$10
508 Divi
WWW.CARL
734
WWW.CHURC
COM 734-320-
bA Campus/Ac
bdrmaptsa

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
,MPUS 1-2 Bdrm. ! THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
at/Water/Parking. ! organization, formaL All Disciplines.
BRPAA.com ! ' 734/996-~0566 or writeo@iserv.net
16 LEASINGE WANTED
nts Going Fast!
tudent Housing
0 www.primesh.com
6 S. State (1 Left) $735
vision $825/$845 COMMERCIAL CLEANERS
ion (1 Left) $800 Fulltime position in the Ann Arbor area
Forest $870 Must pass drag screen & extensive
huackground check. Ownitransportation
ms: 511 Hoover - required. 586-759-3700
025/$1045
sion $925/$945 TUTOR FOR HOMESCHOOLED
12th grader in algebra, American history
andEnglishliterature.Someonetomanage
SONPROPERTIES.- & check assignments. Graduate student
COM preferred. Novi, MI Please contact
-332-6000 Sharmila(310) 926-8785
IHSTREETRENTALS.
1244.721ChurchCen-
ross fmm East Quad. 1
vail for2015-2016 *

"PRIIE" PARKING FOR Sale
721 S. Forest "Forest Place"
Discounted Limited Passes Remuining
Now thru April or August 2015
734-761-8000
primesh.com
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
NORTHERN MICHIGAN'S PRE-
MIER co-ed summer camp is looking
for counselors for the 2015 season.
Please visit our website to leam more
about us, www.campwaldenmi.com.
To apply just click on "Work at Walden."


6A - Monday, December 1, 2014

Arts

The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

A rts The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

FASHION NOTEBOOK

4
I

"Woooooooh!" - George R.R. Martin seeing his creations come to life on the small screen.
The'plot armor'of
mre i

Attention men: These are Mara MacLean approved. JOHN VARVATOS
My bizarre love
for Chukl~ka Boots

A critique of shows
that give their
characters an easy
out from death
ByMATTBARNAUSKAS
DailyArts Writer
Spoiler Alert for pretty much
every popular television show.
Does this sound familiar?
A television series' character,
most likely a fan favorite, finds
himself cornered. By what? The
undead, a dozen or so enemy
soldiers, a brutal serial killer
... it doesn't really matter.
Somehow, against all odds,
he makes his way out. It's
thrilling, pulse-pounding
suspense. But then he keeps
finding himself in the same
situation and every time he
walks out with only a scrape
at most. And he owes it all to
the magical device called plot
armor.
Plot armor is the idea that
a character is too important,
through popularity or plot
significance, to be killed
off by a series' writers.
Take "The Walking Dead"
's Daryl Dixon. During the
show's struggling second
season, the redneck archer's
character development and
general badassery stood out
as a bright spot, and people
latched on with fans crying
"If Daryl Dies We Riot!"
The character's popularity
has allowed him to be one of
the few survivors that .has
lasted through every season
of the show so far. So far he's
survived: being shot, captured
and most recently falling off a
bridge in a van. I'm as big a

fan of Daryl as the next but
whenever he's cornered I find
myself thinking, "How will he
get out?" instead of "Will he
get out?"
Plot armor can extend to
the .majority of many horror
series cast. "American Horror
Story" 's cast stands as an
exaniple. The anthology series
has gathered one of the more
impressive casts in television,
most protected by plot armor.
Suspense in horror lies in
whether a character will live
or die in a situation. That
suspense is shattered when
I can pretty much guarantee
Jessica Lange will make it
to the final episode every
season she's in. This was most
egregious in "Coven" when
the plot armor was so strong
that it raised characters from
the dead, killing any sort of
suspense along the way. What
good is death when it's easily
reversed?
Subverting plot armor
can lead to effective results.
One of the largest draws of
"Game of Thrones" is the
idea that anyone can die. This
was set in stone when Ned
Stark's head was chopped off
in the show's first season.
Ned was a character that
would typically be gifted
with protection, practically
being the first season's
central character, but his
death served to establish the
harsh realities of Westeros,
as "Game of Thrones"
continuously (and painfully)
reminds us.
One of the first shows to
utilize this subversion of plot
armor was "24." In its first
season Jack Bauer had saved
a presidential candidate's life
(multiple times), killed an

Eastern European warlord
and saved his family ... almost.
Following the capture of CTU
mole Nina Meyers, Jack looks
for his wife only to find her
dead from a gunshot wound.
The fact Teri Bauer was also
pregnant served as a final
gut punch to the audience
that through the first season.
had seen Jack find a way to
solve every problem he was
in. Teri was the traditionally
protected wife of the hero.
Hell, she was pregnant; you
didn't kill pregnant women
back then (at least not until
the baby was born - then they
were fair game).
This set a precedent for
"24" - Jack Bauer was the
traditional plot armored-
hero able to fight his way out
of any life-or-death situation
but only to see those around
him cut down by the brutal
world he inhabited. The series
never hesitatedt kill Bauer's
friends and allies, sometimes
to its own detriment.
Plot armor isn't bad when
it's deployed well. As "24" cut
down most of its main cast, it
found fewer and fewer people
for Jack to connect to. Why
grow attached to characters
if they're just going to be
killed right away? "24" had
to introduce new characters
routinely near the series
initial end and it suffered
for it. Thankfully, the series
learned the benefits of plot
armor before it got to Chloe
O'Brian, one of Jack's few
surviving friends.
Plot armor is a useful trope
for series where death is
common, but when used too
much, can turn a cast into
superheroes instead of actual
human characters.

ByMARAMACLEAN
For theDaily
While I am generally
attracted to Miu Miu pumps
or Zara leopard booties, one
unassuming shoe does grab
my attention when it pops up
around campus. The Chukka
boot, made from calfskin or
suede, with crepe rubber
soles, shines like a beacon of
hope among a sea of Timbos
and decrepit Vans. The boot
is so stylish, yet simple, that
I am truly confused as to why
every college student doesn't
own a pair.
Jack Kerouac immortalized
the look of layers of plaid,
jean jacket, cuffed 501s and
suede Chukkas in his novel
"On the Road." Kerouac and
his fellow Beats imparted an
effortlessly cool look that
does, in fact, stand the test of
time. Students are constantly
throwing chambray over
denim or sporting wayfarers
with a beanie saggingbehind.
If these famous looks endure,
why can't the Chukka boot?
The boots fulfill many
campus needs with rubber
soles that have just enough
traction so you won't wipe
out on an icy sidewalk. The
comfort level is somewhere
between Adidas sneakers and
Ugg boots. And the best part,
unlike Vans or Converse,

they.
some
WI
they
to a
Timb
and a
the
into
I sh
man
the p
I-res
in ri
away
tryin
who

Fr
t
toy
s1

actually look better with and women. The taupe or
wear and tear. . oakwood suede make for
hile many guys think a fine-looking shoe that
have found the answer pairs nicely with the small
fantastic look with speckling of salt stains at
os paired with jeans the toe that comes with the
Patagonia, I would urge winter months.
male populous to look For those who have been on
a pair of Chukka boots. top of the Chukka boot trend
amelessly give every and are looking to expand
sporting Chukka boots upon their collection, I would
proper check out in an suggest the felt option from
pect-you manner. They, John Varvatos. According to
eturn, usually shuffle the Wall Street Journal, this
, scared, but t'm just boot falls in line with the felt
g to appreciate those trend for fall/winter.
are aware of fashion. My personal favorite is an
unbelievably dope pair from
Golden Goose., They have a
chic star patch on them, so
om Kerouac of course, they are definitely
worth the additional 400
o Kanye to bucks.
Finally, the Chukka boot,
day's Diag, a in all its versatility, has
" gloriously tapped into the
tylish shoe. Chelsea boot trend. Rail has
generously made a beautiful
Chelsea chukka that allows
one to emulate Kanye.
if my approval was not The boot is as stylish as
gh, the boots come in it was in the '60s. Whether
different price ranges, you associate with the
uit any financial or Kerouac or Kanye look, it can
etic need. satisfy a serious closet and
r the classic Chukka practical need. For optimal
or one that closely presentation, I would suggest
nbles something dark denim, simple sweater,
uac would wear, Clarks and suede Chukka boots.
ert Boot" comes in a Then, you are guaranteed my
ty of leathers for men utmost respect.

As
enoun
many
to s
aesth
Fot
boot,
resem
Kerot
"Desi
varie

I A

q

10

6


"IT' S

THE END."

OHIO STATE 42,

M I C H I G A N

28

What we learned
from a 5-7 season

Offense surprises,
but struggles late

Lack of turnovers,
inconsistent
offense lowlights
By GREG GARNO
ManagingSports Editor
The Michigan football team's
last play of the 2014 season was
Ohio State backup quarterback
Cardale Jones taking a knee at
midfield, then the Wolverines
walking off the field to a
Buckeye fan yelling, "You suck."
There will be no bowl game,
and there was no monumental
upset. The season ended, and so
did everything that came with
it, as expected.
Many of the same issues that
had persisted for much of the

season seemed to be solved, but
new issues arose in their place.
Here are five things we
learned from Michigan's last
game of the season.
1. Drake Johnson was
Michigan's best offensive
weapon.
It wasn't just that
Drake Johnson scored two
touchdowns and rushed for 74
yards on 15 attempts. It was
that when he didn't run the ball,
the Wolverines were limited on
offense.
Fifth-year senior
quarterback Devin Gardner
could make plays, but he was
never the playmaker this
season. Ever since Johnson's
emergence against Indiana,

he has revitalized Michigan's
running game. He paired well
with sophomore running back
De'Veon Smith and actually
drew defenders in when
Gardner ran the play action.
This season, Johnson rushed
for six yards per carry - the
most of any running back with
more than 40 carries - despite
starting just three games. His
speed and slashing style made
him tough to defend, and his
ability to overpower tacklers
made it even tougher.
After he suffered an injury
and left the game in the third
quarter Saturday, Michigan
running backs rushed for just
four more yards. The bulk of
responsibility fell on Gardner
to pass or run.
See LEARNING, Page 38

By MAX COHEN 40 more, looking spry and agile
Daily Sports Writer throughout.
Michigan junior wide receiver
On Saturday, the Michigan Devin Funchess was also a
football team ended its season bright spot, hauling in seven
with a 42-28 loss to No. 6 Ohio catches for 108 yards, the first
State. Against the more talented time he has eclipsed 100 yards
Buckeyes, in a game that was receiving since the second week
expected to be one-sided, the of the season.
Wolverines put up a fight for Ohio State's defense struggled
much of the game. to bring down redshirt
The Daily examines the good, sophomore running back Drake
the bad and the ugly from the Johnson before he was injured
rivalry game. midway through the third
quarter. Johnson rushed for 74
The good: yards and two touchdowns on 15
carries and frequently didn't go
The offense looked sharper down the first time he was hit.

the third quarter. He stayed
down in the end zone after the
touchdown and grabbed his
lower left leg. Though Johnson
was able to walk off the field on
his own power, he didn't return
to the game.
Michigan's defense struggled
to stop the run, a task that had
been its strong suit. Ohio State
running back Ezekiel Elliott
ran for 121 yards and two
touchdowns, and quarterback
J.T. Barrett scrambled for 89
yards and two touchdowns on 15
attempts.
Elliott's 44-yard touchdown
run in the fourth quarter put the
game out of reach and gave the
Buckeyes a 35-21 lead. The score
came on a 4th-and-1 situation,
and a stop by the Wolverines
would have given Michigan a
See GOOD, BAD, PAGE 2B

than it had all year on a 95-yard
touchdown drive early in the
secondquartertotakea14-7lead.
Fifth-year senior quarterback
Devin Gardner rushed for 32
yards on the drive and threw for

The bad:
Johnson was injured on the
second of his touchdown runs, a
four-yard score midway through

r

HOPE SPRINGS
You suffered through this season like
everyone else, yet there's still reason to
believe next year will be better.
SportsMonday Column, Page 2B

HANGING LOOSE
Even without Walton, the Wolverines
cruised past Nicholls State on Saturday to
rebound from the Villanova loss.
Easy Win, Page 3B


2B - December 1, 2014

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Despite letdown season, hope springs eternal

f ' the Michigan football
team's season can be.
captured in a single
moment, it's the one that
occurred
with 30
seconds left
in Saturday's
loss to Ohio r
State.
Cardale
Jonesthe
third-string .
quarterback ALEJANDRO
who had ZUNIGA
somehow
engineered
a game-sealing drive with his
legs against the Wolverines'
top-10 rush defense, lined
up in the victory formation.
Meanwhile, the video board at
Ohio Stadium panned to Brady
Hoke, arms folded across a
Michigan polo with a manila
envelope shoved into the back
right pocket of his khakis.
And here's the fuhny thing:
Instead of booing or jeering,
as Buckeye fans had done all
afternoon, they laughed. They
laughed and they pointed and
they clapped sarcastically.
Minutes later, quarterback
Devin Gardner sat in the media
room near the outskirts of the
stadium and put words to a
moment Michigan fans have
been expecting for months:
"It's the end."
Isn't it a relief to hear that?
But here's another funny
thing: Even in a season
of embarrassment and
disappointment, Michigan
gave us a reason to believe in
something truly special.
Maybe it began in the first
quarter Saturday, when the
Wolverines finally targeted
Devin Funchess deep. The pass
gained 45 yards, and Gardner
found Jake Butt on the next
play for a touchdown.

5-7 feels a lot better when you
think of it as a comedy. It's just
another season, after all.
But as you place this painful
season in the past, don't be
afraid to believe in the future.
Remember 2011, when
maybe you didn't believe in
Hoke, but he still won the
Sugar Bowl. Remember 2006,
when maybe you didn't believe
in Lloyd Carr, but his team
started 11-0 and reached the
Rose Bowl. Remember 1997,
when maybe four consecutive
four-loss seasons had worried
you, but then Michigan won a
national title.
The 2014 campaign has
ended, which means you
can start counting down the
months, days and hours until
Thursday, Sept. 3, 2015, when
Michigan kicks off against
Utah.
Maybe things will be
different than they were this
fall,
The Wolverines will be
undefeated when.they travel
to Salt Lake City. They'll have
an inexperienced quarterback,
but veterans at nearly every
other position. They'll have
either new coaches or a
supporting staff with two-plus
years together on the job.
Until there's reason to feel
otherwise, why not believe?
Zdeiga can be reached
at azs@umich.edu and on
Twitter @ByAZuniga.

I
I

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Redshirt sophomore running back Drake Johnson was one of many bright spots for the Wolverines this fall, giving fans reasons for optimism for the 2015 season.

Maybe it started during
Michigan's following
possession, a 95-yard
touchdown drive, or when
it answered an Ohio State
touchdown with another of its
own in the third quarter.
Maybe it took until J.T.
Barrett fractured his ankle
in the fourth quarter and the
Buckeyes punted. Suddenly,
the Wolverines only trailed by
seven with plenty of time to
mount a comeback.
You believed, didn't you? It
was futile, and you probably
knew that, but deep down, you
thought maybe there was a
chance.
Even though you had sat

through the brutal losses permanent athletic director or
to rivals Notre Dame and how many recruits decommit.
Michigan State, or the Hope is the beauty of sports
bewildering and collegiate
defeats to athletics in
Maryland and particular,
Rutgers, or M ichigan gave where
waited out the there's so
two-hour rain us a reason much annual
delay against turnover.
Utah, you to believe in Hope
somehow still will come
had hope. something truly from Drake
And you'll Johnson,
have it again special. the redshirt
during the sophomore
offseason, running back
regardless who played
of whether Hoke is fired or like an elusive battering ram
Jim Hackett becomes the against the Buckeyes. It will

come from Mason Cole, the
true freshman left tackle who
held his own against Big Ten
defensive linemen. It will come
from Jabrill Peppers and Ty
Isaac, five-star recruits with
untapped potential.
Hope springs eternal, even
when it shouldn't, even when
you know Michigan might
have further to fall before it
rises again. Hope gives us a
reason to keep caring. Even
in something as relatively
insignificant as football, it
helps us believe that a once-
great program can rise again.
Ohio State fans saw Hoke
and laughed. Let them laugh.
Better yet, join them, because

10


GOOD, BAD
From Page lB
chance to tie the game.
The ugly:
On his first pass attempt,
Gardner lofted an interception
into the arms of Ohio State
safety Vonn Bell. The errant
pass led to the Buckeyes' first
score of the game.

Though Gardner. improved
drastically after the interception,
things became ugly once again in
the fourth quarter. With 3:58 left
in the game, Gardner was sacked
by Ohio State defensive end
Joey Bosa and fumbled the ball.
Buckeye linebacker Darron Lee
scooped it up and ran 33 yards to
the end zone to give Ohio State a
42-21 lead.
With the loss, this year's
Michigan team will be the third
in the last 40. years of program
history to not makea bowl.

Kile sparking Michigan offense

@FAUXPELINI FOR
HEISMAN

With 30 goals in its
last six games, 'M'
finally above .500
for the first time
By ZACH SHAW
Daily Sports Writer
Ever since its bye week,
the Michigan hockey team
has finally started to look
comfortable on offense.
So has Alex Kile.
The sudden emergence of the
sophomore forward is one of the
many things going right for the
Wolverines, who have scored
30 goals in their last six games.
They have emerged as the No. 3
offense in the country.
That offense was on display
for the third weekend in a row
Saturday. After scoring11and 10
goals in series against American
International and Penn State,
respectively, five Wolverines
combined for six goals in a
shutout win.
"I thought we got better as
the weekend went on, not only
because we scored some goals,
but we just played better," said
Michigan coach Red Berenson.
"We got out of our own zone
more cleanly and started to play
the right way."
The thought of a high-
powered scoring attack was
laughable less than a month
ago. After putting up just
three goals in a series sweep to
Michigan Tech on Oct. 31 and
Nov. 1, Michigan was averaging
fewer than three goals per game
through seven games, putting
them at the bottom of the barrel
in the national landscape.
"We have a lot of guys that
haven't scored yet, and they're
fighting the puck," Berenson
said immediately after being
swept by Michigan Tech.
"We've got to be better with the
puck and without the puck."
To say the least, things have
been different since then.
Last year's top scorers
- sophomore forward JT
Compher and junior forward
Andrew Copp - have been a

0
a
q

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Sophomoreforward Alex Kile has been a consistent offensive force for Michigan. He leads the team with seven goals.

part of the improvements with "Alex is used to being a goal-
recent goals. So has junior scorer," Berenson said. "He's
forward Boo Nieves, who has used to putting up points and
already surpassed last season's creating offense, and last year
goal total of three. it never came together for him.
Kile has been there all year We saw glimpses, but I knew
to create plays, but now - if that the real Alex Kile was yet
the past six games are any tobe seen."
indication - he'll have help According to Berenson, Kile's
around him. strength has come not from his
"I think this game did a numbers, but his consistency.
lot," said While his
sophomore goal Saturday
forward Tyler was drowned
Motte, who "I knew that out by star
has added five performances
goals himself, the real Alex from other
"We found a Wolverines,
way to win Kile was yet to his six other
last night, goals came at
turned that be seen. times when
momentum the rest of the
into a good team had gone
victory again quiet.
tonight. It's kind of a building "He's gotten off to a great
block that we can use for the start to this year," Berenson
rest of the season, as well as the said. "He's connected well
near future." with Dylan (Larkin) and Zach
But the leader of the pack is (Hyman).
Kile. The sharp-shooting left- "That's the only line that's
winger paces the team with been intact since day one. Alex
seven goals and is starting to has been a real catalyst on that
realize the potential Berenson line, whether he's making plays
always knew existed. or finishing plays."

6
Goals this year injust12games,
surpassing last year's season totalof
fourtallies in28games.

+7
Plus-minus, second onthelteam behind
Zach Werenski. Kile hasplayed onthe
second and third lines.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

December 1, 2014 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom December 1, 2D14 - 3B

'M' ends year with loss

Spike Albrecht had an expanded role in Michigan's win over Nicholls State, since Derrick Walton was out with an injury.
Shots fall as Michigan ets
easy win. over -Nicholls St.

By TYLER SCOTT
For the Daily
Michigan volleyball coach
Mark Rosen didn't envision his
team losing 17 games this season,
but he's coming to terms with
that reality after Saturday.
The Wolverines fell to Illinois
in four sets to end the season,
25-22, 20-25,14-25,14-25.
Michigan (8-12 Big Ten, 13-17
overall) started the match on
the right foot,
winning the
first set, but the
Fighting Illini "W e'llI
responded .
quickly. conpe
"We were
up two points
throughout
(the second game), and right
toward the end of the match
they just pulled ahead of us
and kind of pulled away with
it," Rosen said. "I thought that
was a little bit of a momentum
breaker for us."
Illinois went on to take the
next three sets and spoiled any
hopes of ending the season on
a high note. The Wolverines'
record doesn't qualify them for
the NCAA Tournament, and
now they're forced to reconcile
their record as they prepare for
next year.
"Our expectations next year
are goingto be through the roof,"
said freshman middle blocker
Claire Kieffer-Wright. "I think
that we'll be very competitive
practicing, as well as very
competitive when we step on the
court for a game."
Illinois started three seniors,
while setter Lexi Iannemiller
was the only senior on the floor
for Michigan. More notably, four
of the six Wolverine starterswere
either sophomores or freshmen.
Rosen knew he was going to.
have a young team even before
two projected starters, both
juniors, suffered season-ending
injuries. The growing pains have
been a source of consternation

all year long and, again, were
highlighted in Champaign.
The passing and offensive'
attack that gave Michigan the
early lead fell off in the second
set and allowed Illinois to draw
equal. The Wolverines' attack
had new energy in the next set,
running the offense well. But
a few spectacular defensive
plays and the ability to score in
transition kept the Illini on top
and made Michigan kills a rare
commodity.
"We weren't
making
be very mistakes;
. they were just
titive. making great
plays," Rosen
said.
Kieffer-
Wright earned a team-best and
career-high 11 kills against the
stout Illinois defense, but battling
through momentum shifts
eventually proved too much to
handle.
"They started picking up
where they were lacking on the

first set, we couldn't keep up
with them and we were a little bit
inconsistent both offensively and
defensively," Kieffer-Wright said.
"It was tough today in the locker
room because this was not the
season we anticipated."
Despite the disappointing
end, Rosen said next year holds
promise, especially considering
the team's steady improvements
throughout the season, and the
fact that he'll see most players
return a year more experienced.
"I'm really proud of this
team, I'm excited about the
foundation we're building,"
Rosen said. "The culture of this
team was really strong."
Rosen is optimistic, but knows
he's losing one of his team's best
players in Dannemiller, who
has over 5,000 assists over her
distinguished career and was
named to the preseason All-Big
Ten Team. If the Wolverines .
are to improve on their 2014
record, her absence next year
undoubtedly leaves a hole for

By JAKE LOURIM
Daily SportsEditor
For the Michigan men's
basketball team, the 72-hour
stretch from Sunday afternoon to
Wednesday afternoon included,
in order: a flight to New York for
the Progressive Legends Classic,
a9:45 p.m.tip-off againstOregon,
a 10:15 p.m. tip against Villanova
and a late-night flight home in
time for class Wednesday.
If that weren't enough, the
following days would include
game planning for Syracuse's 2-3
zone defense and a home game
against the Orange.
But for a few hours Saturday,
the 3-point shots fell and the
offense was run to perfection in
an easy 91-62 win over Nicholls
State.
And for a few hours, there
were no worries about the score,
the personnel or the experience.
Almost everyone played, almost
everyone scored and almost
everything worked against the
Colonels.,
"Bouncing back was definitely
something that we really wanted
LEARNING
From Page iB
2. Michigan's chances of
winning were determined in
the final two minutes of the
firsthalf.
With a 14-7 lead, the
Wolverines' defense allowed an
83-yard drive at the end of the
first half that tied the game.
The Buckeyes ultimately
scored on the first drive in
the third quarter. Going into
halftime with the lead could've
shifted how both teams called
plays.
And the same thing happened
against Maryland, Michigan
State and Minnesota. All three.
teams scored in the last two
minutes of the first half before
defeating the Wolverines. That's
not to say Michigan would have
won Saturday had they not

to do," said junior guard Caris
LeVert. "We pride ourselves on
not losing two games in a row."
In fact, the Wolverines haven't
lost two straight games since
back-to-back road defeats at
Wisconsin and Michigan State
on Feb. 9 and 12, 2013, and they
made sure not to let Tuesday's
loss to Villanova send them into
a tailspin.
This time, the "comeback
game," as freshman forward
Ricky Doyle called it, was at
home, with the friendly rims
at Crisler Center. Michigan
knocked down eight of 12 3-point
attempts in the first half and used
its shooting to roll from there.
The two games in Brooklyn
were physical, aggressive
contests, the kind after which
a trap game can be an issue. At
times in Tuesday's loss, Michigan
took abeating. LeVert was shoved
to the floor on an and-one layup
in the second half, and the night
ended with sophomore guard Zak
Irvin getting stopped at the rim
by Wildcatsforward JayVaughn
Pinkston.
The physicality also showed

with sophomore guard Derrick
Walton Jr. (toe) and freshman
forward D.J. Wilson (knee)
sitting out with injuries suffered
Tuesday.
But there wasn't even a remote
threat of a letdown Saturday.
Nicholls State didn't have the
defense to stop the Wolverines,
and while LeVert wouldn't admit
Michigan took Saturday's game
more lightly than any other, he
was happy to see things run
smoothly.
"I know I played less minutes
than I normally do, so that was
good today," he said.
The Wolverines got the
bounces they didn't seem to
get in Brooklyn. Junior guard
Spike Albrecht - who started in
Walton's place - and freshman
forward Kameron Chatman hit
back-to-back 3-pointers to kick
off Michigan's 4-for-4 start.
From that point, the Wolverines
never trailed again.
They rode the experience of
their junior floor general to an
easy rout ahead of Tuesday's
ACC/Big Ten Challenge
showdown against Syracuse.

CHANMEE CHUNG/Daily
Claire Kieffer-Wright is one ofthe many weapons returning next season.


allowed a late drive, but it would
have changed momentum.
3. Doug Nussmeier wasn't the
answer to the Wolverines'
offensive woes.
He came from Alabama as
the guy who could fix what Al
Borges had left. But in his first
season as Michigan's offensive
coordinator, Nussmeier's offense
performed worse than Borges'.
Last season, the Wolverines
averaged 32.2 points and 373.5
yards. This season, they slumped
to 20.9 points and 333.0 yards
per game.
His offense couldn't score
against Notre Dame or put up
more than 10 points against
Northwestern.
4. Michigan's defense was
good, but it neededturnovers.
In a game that remained close

until late in the fourth quarter,
the turnover battle was a large
factor in the outcome.
The Buckeyes forced two
turnovers, an interception and
fumble recovery - which they
returned for a touchdown -
while Michigan failed to tally
a single one. But that wasn't
much different from the way the
season played out.
This season, the Wolverines
forced 10 turnovers - five
interceptions and five fumbles -
and turned the ball over 26 times
themselves.
For as well as the defense
played this season, it wore itself
out by staying on the field too
long. Opponents stayed on the
field, and if they didn't reach
the end zone, they piled up field
goals.
Itwasn't anecessity, butitsure
could have swung the outcome
of close games such as Rutgers,
Northwestern and Maryland.

Handel's Me

Know the World Gateway History Courses
Unlock the Future Winter 2015
History 101: "What is History?"
Explore connections between past, present, and future
Paulina Alberto, Farina Mir; TuTh 11:30-1; Reqs: HU, RE
History 102: "History of the Present"
Connects today's headlines to pivotal historical events
Ronald Suny; MW 2:30-4; Reqs: HU
History 105: "History of Religion"
Explore what religion is and has been
Paul Johnson; TuTh 10-11:30; Reqs: ID, RE
History 214: "Modern Europe"
Europe 1648 to now - history you didn't learn in school
Jonathan Marwil; TuTh 10-11:30; Reqs: SS
History 238: "History of Everything"
From the Big Bang to today- Big History at its best
Perrin Selcer; MWF 10-11; Reqs: ID
History 240: "The World Since 1492"
History around the globe - greatfor International Studies
Mrinalini Sinha; MW 1-2:30; Reqs: SS, RE
History 261: "The United States since 1865"
Learn about the origins of where the US is today
Howard Brick; TuTh 12-1; Reqs: SS, RE

UMS Choral Union
Ann Ar bor Syrnpnony Orchestra
Jerry Blackstone, conductor
Janai Brugger, soprano
David Daniels, countertenor
Cohin Ainswor th, tenor
David Pit tsinge r, bass -baritone
Edward Parinontier, harpsichord
Sunday, December 6, 8 pm
Sunday, December 7, 2 pm
Hill Auditorium
The holiday season in Ann Arbor is never officially
underway until Handel's Messiah is performed at Hill
Auditorium. An eagerly anticipated holiday season
tradition, these performances are ultimately the heart and
soul of UMS, dating back to the organization's founding
and first concerts in the 1879-1880 season.

ENDOWED SUPPORT FROM THE
Carl and Isabelle Brauer Fund
MEDIA PARTNERS
Michigan Radio 91.7 FM and Ann Arbor's 107one

pums

STUDENT TICKETS ON SALE NOW!
50% Off Tickets, Dig In with-UMS & Bert's Tickets
ums.Org/students



4B - December 1, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaiy.com

48 - December 1, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

FOOTBALL
Gardner's touching gesture

THE.MICHIGAN DAILY
TOP-10 POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes
receiving 10 points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on.

By ALEXADET
Daily Sports
COLUMBUS -
time, Devin Gardn
the field with his
helmet in hand.'
more time for he
plays. Even more
more chances at O
For the second
though not quitel
Gardner and th
offense put up a fie
against the
rival Buckeyes.
But for the
second year in
a row, it wasn't
enough.
"Overall,
I thought
(Gardner)
hung in there,
and he was
a warrior,"
said Michigan
coach Brady Hoke
ball well, he mad
throws. I'm real l
he represented hit
This time, thou
contributions exte

CTELBACH the game of football.
Editor When Ohio State quarterback
J.T. Barrett went down with
For the last a fractured ankle early in the
aer walked off fourth quarter, Gardner went
wing-tipped to midfield as the redshirt
There was no sophomore was being carted off
roics or trick to say a few words in private.
painfully, no "You hate to see any player
hio State. get hurt, but especially a guy
year in a row, like him - he's a great guy,
like last year, a high-character guy, a hard
he Michigan worker," Gardner said. "It's like
rce challenge having a little brother out there
getting hurt,
and I didn't
like to see
"I'm real proud that. So I
of howhe "just let him
of hw he know I was.
represented praymgnfo
him and to
himself." keep praying
and that
everything
will be all
right."
. "He ran the It was sportsmanship fans
de some nice should be used to seeing from
proud of how Gardner, a finalist for the
mself." CLASS award, and it was a
gh, Gardner's touching moment in a bitter
ended beyond rivalry. And it was far from

the quarterback's only positive
contribution.
Michigan's quarterback
orchestrated back-to-back
touchdown drives that included
a season-long 95-yard drive,
a season-long 45-yard pass to
junior receiver Devin Funchess
and the team's first road passing
touchdown of the season. Best
of all, it put Michigan up, 14-7.
But the Buckeyes tied it
before halftime and then scored
on their first possession after
the break.
So once again, Gardner
answered back with a
touchdown drive . of his
own. This time, it included a
throwback pass from redshirt
sophomore running back Drake
Johnson to Gardner for a gain
of 18. The Wolverines found
the end zone a play later on
Johnson's four-yard run.
For all the qualms people
had when Gardner was behind
center, one thing is for certain
- he twice put Michigan in a
position to win against highly
ranked Ohio State teams.
And that's something he can
always hang his hat on.

1. ALABAMA: The
winner of tle Iron Bowl
has played in the last five
National Championship
games. But you'll spend
money watching the
College Football Playoff
anyway.

0

0

2. FLORIDA STATE:
Despite plenty of
mistakes, Florida State
still escaped unscathed,
We're talking strictly
football here, people.
4. TCU: "HORNED
Frogs Forever!" - Tim
Riggins
6. OHIO STATE: Bruh.

3.OREGON: The Ducks
beat the Beavers in the
Civil War. Abraham
Lincoln would be hype.
5. BAYLOR: There's a
really scary cult in Waco
that brainwashes people.
We're not saying ... We're
just saying.

-

YOU CAN FOLLOW US ON TWITTER

6
a

I

0

I


