46P 4JW '7 1 46F
ic tgan.4, at lij

O lIiii \Vi~l


Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, February 5, 2014

michigandaily.com

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG backs
BSU calls
for campus
inclusion

ALEX GALEL/Daily
Kinesiology senior Fitz Tavernier Jr. facilities a dialogue to engage students in a discussion about the hypersexualization of Black men in the media at the Tell-
ing the Untold Truth meeting Tuesday at the Michigan League.
Talk looks at stereotypes
scussion eXamines ness Center and the LSA Stu- sexual assault and the Coalition stereotypes associated with the
dent Government's Diversity for Queer People of Color will sexuality of Black men and how
yperseXualiZation Affairs Committee to kick off host a panel on institutionalized individuals can diminish these
the first event of the Telling the homophobia in minority com- associations.
of Black men in Untold Truth series Tuesday munities. "Throughout the small dis-
evening. Dozens of students gathered cussions and dialogue, I've seen
modern media Telling the Untold Truth inside the Michigan Room of a lot of faces perk up like, 'Oh, I
consists of a series of three pan- the League to discuss the first never realized that,' and ... even
ByAMIADAVIS els aimed to confront the myths topic of the series: black male when we brought up some of the
Daily StaffReporter of sexual violence. The series hypersexualization, or the por- modern-day examples in the
also hopes to discuss types of trayal of Black men in the media media, even though a lot of these
The Black male student sexual violence that are rarely as sexual aggressors, as well people have seen these pictures
support group Here Earning discussed. as other negative stereotypes before, they never really looked
a Destiny Through Honesty, Along with the panel pre- of Black men related to sexual at the deeper meaning behind
Eagerness and Determina- sented by HEADS, the Spec- assault. them," Kinesiology senior Fitz
tion- partnered with the Sexual trum Center will present an Both SAPAC and HEADS Tavernier, Jr., co-vice chairman
Assault Protection and Aware- event on LGBTQ victims of facilitators discussed negative See STEREOTYPES, Page 3A

New intiative aligns
with the Black
Student Union's
seven demands
By KRISTEN FEDOR
Daily StaffReporter
Central Student Government
Assembly representatives complet-
ed an initial read of a new diversity
initiative at Tuesday night's meet-
ing that is aimed to increase minor-
ity representation on campus.
The proposal includes CSG's
support of the seven demands of the
Black Student Union, an increase
in admissions recruiting among
minorities and the creation of the
Dream Scholarship for undocu-
mented students. Additionally, the
resolution demands that the minor-
ity enrollment for the 2014 to 2015
year doubles.
Disagreement regarding the
resolution arose among representa-
tives and attending members of the
BSU, specifically about the CSG's
formal support of the reversal of

Proposal 2, which banned affirma-
tive action in the college admis-
sions process in Michigan.
Business senior Shayla Scales, a
member of the BSU who attended
the meeting, said she was pleased
with CSG's initiative to support
#BBUM and hopes to see changes
in the wording that align more with
the specified demands of the orga-
nization.
"This is not an affirmative action
model; a lot of people get that mis-
informed," Scales said. "We actu-
ally just want more diversification
in how we recruit undergraduates
and graduates here at the Univer-
sity to increase diversity. And not
only just race, but in thought, socio-
economic status, gender, every-
thing."
Representatives are divided, on
the goals of the proposal. Rackham
student Rae Scevers, co-author of
the resolution, said she is open to
shifting the emphasis away from
affirmative action.
"Being stuck on that one goal
might actually be detrimental to
our larger goal, which is to increase
minority representation," Scevers
See CSG, Page 3A


HOSPITAL
UMHS doctors
implant world's
first bionic eye

GREENING UP

Retina surgeons
use new practice
to develop basic
eyesight for the blind
By AMABEL KAROUB
Daily StaffReporter
Ever thought about what it
might be like to have a bionic
eye? Surgeons at the University
of Michigan Health System have.
On Jan. 16 and 22, UMHS ret-
ina surgeons performed the first-
ever surgeries that implanted
artificial retinas into the eyes of
patients with retinitis pigmen-
tosa, a degenerative eye disease
that eventually causes blindness.
Formally named the Argus II
Retinal Prosthesis System, the
bionic eye device was developed
by California-based Second Sight
Medical Products, Inc. Thiran
Jayasundera and David N. Zacks,
professors of ophthalmology and
visual sciences at the University's
Kellogg Eye Center, are the first
surgeons to implant the device

since it gained approval from the
Food and Drug Administration
last year.
UMHS has been chosen as one
of 12 centers nationally to offer
the retinal prosthesis to patients.
Jayasundera said UMHS contact-
ed Second Sight and requested
access to the product. The com-
pany then visited UMHS to com-
plete a site inspection.
"We wanted to offer this to
our patients because we see a lot
of patients with advanced pig-
mentosa," Jayasundera said. "We
wanted our patients in Michigan
to be able to have access to this
technology."
Retinitis pigmentosa is an
inherited disease that causes
blindness through a gradual loss
of light-sensitive retinal cells.
Jayasunderasaid theretinal pros-
thesis works wirelessly through a
camera connected to electrodes.
The electrodes stimulate remain-
ing retinal nerve fibers, caus-
ing the perception of light in the
brain.
"You're wearing a video cam-
era on your glasses," Jayusundera
See EYE, Page 3A

LILY ANGELL/Daily
Lab manager Aubry Aubain and Rackham student Anita Narwani tend to an algae farm residing in the basement
of the Dana building. They are currently studying the potential of algae as an alternative energy source.
GOVERNMENT
State scholarship grant
funding drops significantly

TRANSPORTATION
M-TRAC
announces
funding for
first studies
In inaugural event,
program awarded as
much as $75,000 for
innovative ideas
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
After the University unveiled
a new, transportation-based
branch of the Michigan Trans-
lational Research and Commer-
cialization Program last year,
the program announced its inau-
gural grant winners on Jan. 23.
M-TRAC Transportation
provides University profes-
sors and graduate students the
opportunity to pitch proposals
for prospective innovations in
the transportation industry to a
board of experts. The M-TRAC
Oversight Committee awards
selected projects as much as
$75,000, as well as professional
guidance to phase their research
into the market.
"It provides a direct link for
researchers to industry," said
See M-TRAC, Page 3A

University hopes
to subsidize loss
of need-based aid
By BROOKE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
Last year, University stu-
dents receiving the Michigan
Competitive Scholarship, a

need- and merit-based grant
funded through the state, were
awarded about $500 per year.
However, in the 2001-2002
school year, these same stu-
dents would have received a
maximum amount of $1,300
from the scholarship.
This $800 decrease in MCS
funds awarded to students
reflects a larger, growing trend
at the University: a drastic

decline in state-funded finan-
cial aid over the past decade.
In 2001, University stu-
dents received about $11.1 mil-
lion in financial aid from the
state, but by 2012 this figure
had decreased to about $2.3
million, according to Pamela
Fowler, executive director of
financial aid.
Fowler said the Univer-
See AID, Page 3A

Yd o "'i'fi ev r ,?" ro Students are pushing for
g achange in the racial
t VOu dOn't ac iclimate at the 'U.'
d )INSIDE

WEATHER HI 15
TOMORROW LO: -5

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The List: Top five most diverse cities in the U.S.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No. 61
020t4 The Michigan Daily
michigondoilycom

NEW S .........................2A
SUDDKU .....................2A
OPINION.....................4A

CLASSIFIEDS. A..............6A
ARTS .................... 7A
THE STATEMENT..........1B



I


2A- Wednesday, February 5, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A Wednesday, February 5, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

RBOY I VE

Syracuse students start Girl Code

Syracuse University students
Julie Gelb, Caroline Heres and
Jackie Reilly recently founded the
Girl Code Movement, an organiza-
tion that raises awareness of sex-
ual assault on college campuses,
The Daily Orange reported.
The three students are all sis-
ters of the university's chapter of
the Alpha Xi Delta sorority and
bonded over similar experiences
of sexual assault. Inspiration to
form the organization came from
President Barack Obama's recent
task force dedicated to educating
college campuses on the dangers
of sexual assault and promoting
safe campus environments across
the country.
"We want the Girl Code Move-
ment to have a big impact," Heres,

a sophomore biochemistry major,
told the Orange. "We want to
wake people up."
Since launching in Novem-
ber, the organization has accrued
thousands of followers via Face-
book and Twitter and received
hundreds of sympathetic mes-
sages from girls all over the world.
The group also coined the catch-
phrase "Cock Block Crew," which
is the staple hashtag on The Girl
Code Movement's Facebook and
Twitter pages.
Researchers at Purdue
University find possible end to
childhood virus
A research team consisting of
graduate students, postdoctoral

L A eot Klyl.I 0 . V li vhI A I."wrtten acrosshershift,
Shil dd ,' i t oer f the word fatat The Body
'64M IOl~gL I", i I! 'JPl, e eday.

CRIME NOTES
Truck, stop>!
WHERE: 2800 Block
Pymouth Road
W HEN: Viuonday at about
2:10 p m.
WIHAT: An unidentified
truclstruck a vehicle as it
entered the NCRC north
entrance, University Police
reported. There were no
reported injuries or da m -
age.
Pipe dreaiiis
WIHERE: M sla\hk irs
Residena:' hail
WHEN: ITuedo at about
12:3) a.m0:
WHAT: A staijlan:: pipe
kVals )IIonisaL d f-J( m a,
stude:::, L :t: 'vera:: y :ol:
reported.
MORE ONLINE oveCrim
Get rnore online atichigandaily.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Slip 'n salt
WHERE: Victor Vaughn
House
WHEN: Monday at about
4:10 p.m.
WHAT: A subject fell on
an icy walkway, University
Police reported. He did not
seek treatment, but facility
staff were requested to salt
the area.
Peeping Tom
WHERE: East Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
12 a.m.
WHAT: Maitenance
reported stolen peephole
hardware from third-floor
rooms, University police
reported. There are cur-
renstly no suspects and the
stolen hardware hasnbeen
renlaced.

Ariel Quartet
WHAT: Israeli string quar-
tet preformance featuring
cellist Alisa Weilerstein.
Tickets starting at 20 dol-
lars.
WHO: Sponsored by Uni-
versity Musical Society
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Gradu-
ate School, Rackham Audi-
torium
Navigating the
Road to Work
WHAT: A panel will
address questions about
how someone should
disclose his or her disability
in the workplace with an
opportunity to network and
discover job opportunities.
WHO: Services for Students
with Disabilities
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Gallery
Room 110

Driving
Innovation.
WHAT: Lecture on how
innovation can help stu-
dents foster economic
growth and make a positive
impact in the world.
WHO: Campus Information
Centers
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Ross School of
Business, Blau Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
An article that appeared in
the Feb. 4 edition, "With
$1.3M, Taubman and LSA
to fund research program
on urban architecture," mis-
stated the title ofMonica
Ponce de Leon. She is the
dean ofthe A. Alfred Taub-
man College ofArchitecture
and Urban Planning.
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

research assistants, research sci-
entists and professors from Pur-
due University and throughout
Malaysia have developed a pos-
sible end to a childhood infection
prominent in Southeast Asia, The
Exponent reported.
The virus, Enterovirus 71,
affects children in countries such
as China, Malaysia, Vietnam and
Taiwan. If left untreated, it causes
severe neurological disease.Ross-
mann, Hanley Distinguished
Professor of Biological Sciences at
Purdue, is the primary researcher
of the team. He has worked exten-
sively in X-ray crystallography
and mapping of protein folding,
but his main focus is on developing
a cure to this enterovirus.
-ALLANAAKHATAR
TH REE THINGaS YOU
SHOLL K(NOW TODAY
A 27-year-old man from
Rochester, New York
bit off his brother's ear
during a Super Bowl party
this Sunday, the Associated
Press reported. Police say
the injury resulted from a
drunken brawl between the
two after the game.
What is being Black
at the University? As
#BBUM continues to
push for increasing action
around campus diversity,
The Statement takes a look at
the racial climate in the 'U.'
D> FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
Tuesday, the Scottish
parliament passed the
Marriage and Civil
Partnership Bill to leagalize
same-sex marriage and
authorize gender-neutral
marriage ceremonies,
BuzzFeed reported.

ahe iliofln ailij
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 etr tan: 734-410-4115 ext. 1241
pjshohin@miehiga::doiy.eun: kvuigtman@michigandaityecom
Newsroom News Tips
734-418-4115 opt.3 news@michigandaily.com
Corrections Letters to the Editor
correctionsmichigandaily com t othedaily@michigandaily.con
Arts Section Editnrial Pate
:-t:@niigandaily.ren :pirtin5@nriciindily.,:,
Sports Section Photography Section
sports@michigandaily.com photo@michigandaily.com
Display Sales Classified Sales
daiydisplayCagmai.com classified@ ichigandaily.com
Online Sales Finance
onlineads@michigandaily.com finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lennfettalfas Mnagng es E ditor jcalfas:@mirsieznlailyaenm
SENIOR NWSEITORS I nDillingham .SamGringlasW il Grenber, R gacher Pac
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain AmronH illary Crawford, Amia
Davis. Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michel Sug"erman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opiioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIA L PACE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Niveditaxarki
Greg Garnoand
Alejandro Ziiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIO SSEDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher. Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
'ennon, Jake'Lorim and Jason Rubinstein
lohn Lynchand jplyn chmichigandaily.com
AkshaySeth Managing ArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo,Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSISTNT A RTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIORPOT0OTRS Ptrick Barron..a.dORuby Walla
ASSISTANT PH OOFDITORS: lison FarrandTrcy Ko Terra Molengraff and Nicholas
Carolyn Gearigand
Gabriela Vasquez ManagingDesign Editors design@ich igandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand Alicia Kovaheck
arlita nuan DMgineditor x statement@m higandaily.com
STATEMENTPHOTOEDITOR:RubyWallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Nicholas Cruz
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
DougSolomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasmO LocalAccounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OliviaJones Layout Manager
ares Sny tds u sote Onaus tinsforalteas cripns mst
be prepaid The Mihgan Daily is a member of The Assocated Press and The Associated Colegiate Press.

Afghan presidential election
process begins with debates

COuntry's next election would mark Afghani- gave a brief opening statement,
stan's first real democratic trans- the questions began.
eleCtiOn Colld mark fer of power. The U.S. security deal took
Hanging over the campaign is center stage right off the bat,
first democratic a question about a security deal with Qayyum Karzai, Ghani and
between the U.S. and Afghani- Rassoul all expressing their sup-
iranster of "power stan to allow a small number port for its signing. The remain-
of American troops to stay in ing two candidates were not
KABUL, Afgltais'tan (AP) the country and continue train- asked the question.
Tackling i at,,it rigiig from ing Afghan security forces after "The security forces and the
tle Taliat t: lhe fUtUre of NATO's combat mission ends in people of Afghanistan will not
foreigtt titi s it: Afghanistan, December 2014. have the ability to function on
candidates lbtdli::g to replace Karzai has been refusing to their own," QayyumKarzaisaid.
Presidento iltitid Karzai faced sign the deal despite pressure Abdullah echoed his senti-
ott Tu sl i_ t e irsi televised from Washington, placing the ments, addingthat "support from
debate i a rirl ratiti:: cim- issue front and center for the 11 the international community to
paig:. candidates vying to succeed him. our security forces will help our
Ilie pres.ialetitial race is play- On a snowy Tuesday night in security."
ing out it the trut-ip to the Kabul, five of those candidates On peace talks with the
planned ssithialt of NATO took their places behind podi- Taliban, the candidates mostly
combat trtij p, and the April umsinfrontofastudioaudience. shared the same views - all
5 vote will ie a crucial test of After each of the candidates five support a negotiated settle-
whether thie iountry ca:: ensure - Abdullah Abdullah, runner- ment with insurgents willing to
a stable tasitioi after years of up in the 2009 election; former lay down arms and cut ties with
war and saltile falig a Taliban foreign minister Zalmai Ras- terrorist groups like al Qaida.
insurgency that has ,,Ned it will soul, ex-finance minister Ashraf But they were more reticent
atteipt to disruptthse poll Ghani, ex-defense minister when asked by the moderator
With lsarzai ineligible to run Abdul Rahim Wardak and Kar- if the Taliban are the enemy of
for a third term, a successful zai's brother, Qayyum Karzai - Afghanistan - perhaps with an
eye to future negotiations.
While Ghani condemned the
killing of innocents and suicide
attacks, he said some Taliban are
"forced because of corruption
and injustice to take up arms."
Asked if the Taliban are the
5 7 2 3 9 enemy ,of Afghan people, Ras-
soul answered indirectly, say-
5 9 2 7 ing that "those who burn our
schools, who kill our children,
who kill innocent people and
2 8 5 kill our soldiers - they are the
enemies."
6 4 2 Abdullah, meanwhile, called
for a "clear peace process" with
2 1 4 the Taliban, but said "we should
make it clear that if there are
people who don't want peace,
7 3 8 there is no other way than to face
them."
4 5 Other topics on the agenda
included the economy and how
to eradicate corruption.
5 3 "There is no doubt that cor-
ruption is like a cancer in
2 4 8 Afghanistan," Ghani said, but
argued that "if you place some-
one who is clean at the head of
government, it's very hard for
others to be corrupt."

JACQUELYN MARTIN/AP
President Barack Obarna looks at a student's Pad project at Buck Lodge Middle School where he spoke about his Con-
netED goal of connecting 99% of students to next generation broadband and wireless technology within five years.
Obama seeks to make Internet
more accessible to young learners

Companies set aside
$750 million to
make classrooms
tech-friendly
ADELPHI, Md. (AP) - Claim-
ing progress in his goal to put
the world at the fingertips of
every American student, Presi-
dent Barack Obama on Tuesday
announced $750 million in com-
mitments from U.S. companies
to begin wiring more classrooms
with high-speed Internet.
Apple is pledging $100 mil-
lion in iPads, computers and
other tools. AT&T and Sprint
are contributing free Internet
service through their wireless
networks. Verizon is pitching
in up to $100 million in cash
and in-kind contributions. And
Microsoft is making its Win-
dows software available at dis-
counted prices and offering 12
million free copies of Microsoft
Office software.
"In a country where we expect
free Wi-Fi with our coffee, we
should definitely demand it in
our schools," Obama said at a
middle school in the Washington

suburb of Adelphi, Md. Students
there are assigned iPads that
they use in class and at home.
Beyond the promise of mil-
lions in donated hardware and
software, the Federal Communi-
cations Commission also is set-
ting aside $2 billion from service
fees to connect 15,000 schools
and 20 million students to high-
speed Internet over two years.
Obama last year announced
his goal of bringing high-speed
Internet to 99 percent of students
within five years. He used Tues-
day's announcement as another
example of how to act without
waiting on Congress.
"We picked up the phone and
we started asking some out-
standing business leaders to help
bring our schools and libraries
into the 21st century," the presi-
dent said.
The average school has the
same Internet speed as an aver-
age home, but serves 200 times
as many people, Obama said.
About 30 percent of students
have true high-speed Internet in
their classrooms, compared with
100 percent of South Korean stu-
dents, he said.
He said the pledges would
put the world and outer space at

every child's fingertips
Before the speech, Obama vis-
ited a seventh-grade classroom
and noted one benefit of their
Internet access: lighter knap-
sacks because they don't carry as
many books to and from school.
"Sasha's book bag gets too big
sometimes, hurts her back," he
said of his younger daughter.
Cecilia Munoz, director of
domestic policy for Obama,
spoke of the importance of pro-
viding high-quality education
for all students.
"Technology is clearly going
to be essential to making that
possible," she said.
The initiative builds on
Obama's focus for 2014 on help-
ing more people join and stay in
the middle class amid an eco-
nomic recovery in which the
benefits have come more quickly
for those at the top of the income
scale than for those toward the
bottom.
Gene Sperling, a top White
House economist, said every
student needs high-speed Inter-
net, but the problem is more
pronounced in disadvantaged
schools where students are less
likely to have Internet connec-
tions at home.

"

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 5, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, February 5, 2014 - 3A

M-TRAC
From Page 1A
Jay Ellis, program director for
M-TRAC Transportation. "It's
quick feedback and expertise
as to how to commercialize
their ideas, and it keeps it in
this region."
MihaelaBanu, research asso-
ciate professor of mechanical
engineering, and Engineering
Prof. Jack Hu, vice president
of research, earned a grant for
their pitch to replace the glass
in fiberglass car frames with
bamboo fiber sheets. Accord-
ing to the project abstract,
the "most effective approach"
to improving fuel efficiency
is "reducing vehicle weight."
Bamboo frames would offer a
30-percent weight reduction at
a low price.

Rackham student Muham-
mad Faisal and Engineer-
ing Prof. David Wentzloff's
idea also earned a grant to
digitize cars' embedded pro-
cessors, and specifically the
clocks within them. The duo's
research claims the increasing
number of hardware proces-
sors in vehicles weighs them
down, increases their costs
and requires manufacturers to
constantly alter designs to keep
pace with technology.
In the project's abstract,
Wentzloff said "there's a need
for lower power, small form
factor and low cost electron-
ics."
Meredith VanKoevering,
entrepreneurial program man-
ager at the Center for Entre-
preneurship, said the new
M-TRAC Transportation grant
will increase future opportu-

nities for faculty to engage in
transnational research.
"It's the first time the (pro-
cess) has ever been tried
outside of the life sciences
projects," VanKoevering wrote
in an e-mail. "It's a highly
successful model to commer-
cialization, so the hope is to
replicate it in many other ver-
ticals once we prove its success
in the transportation industry."
The Michigan Economic
Development Corporation
helped the University create
the transportation branch of
M-TRAC. Paula Sorrell, man-
aging director of entrepre-
neurship and innovation for
the corporation, sat on the
M-TRAC Transportation Over-
sight Committee and said the
partnership also has important
implications for transportation
throughout the state of Michi-

gan.
"Advanced transportation
is important to the state for a
number of reasons and helps
us leverage numerous state
assets," Sorrell said. "U of M
has been a great partner in this
and really worked hard to help
move it forward."
University alum Alan Amici,
head of Chrysler Group LLC's
Uconnect Systems and Servic-
es, also sat on the board, and
said it was a great opportunity
to stay connected to the school.
"Not only does it give me a
chance to keep current with
the unique research areas that
can apply to the automotive
industry, but also allows me to
express my interest in technol-
ogy and share my experiences
with present and future gradu-
ates," he wrote in a statement.

Microsoft picks
company insider
to lead tech giant

EYE verted into signals that wirelessly sort through the many impulses to make out figures and light.
EE Ptransmit it to this device that we that are stimulated when recipi- Although the bionic eye does not
From Page lA implant on the retina." ents turn their head in different offer a full cure, Jayasundera said
After the surgery, patients directions. it is a step in the right direction.
said. "That video camera basi- undergo one to three months of Though the retinal prosthesis "This is already the Argus II,"
cally sends the information into training to adapt to their new does not provide 20/20 vision, Jayasundera said. "In time there
a video processing unit that you vision. Jayasundera said this it creates an abstract, rudimen- will be more development of
wear on a belt. The image is con- training helps the brain learn to tary vision that permits patients these types of devices."
for Michigan campaign includes have said to the deans that 'We Michael Boulus said he recogniz-
AID a $1 billion goal earmarked for need everybody here to know that es the need to increase funding.
From Page 1A student aid. this is our number one priority."' "We're one of the worst-fund-
During preparations for the The decrease in state-funded, ed states in the nation," Boulus
sity has taken measures to make campaign, University Provost need-based grants at the Uni- said. "(PCSUM's) task is very sim-
up for the loss in state-funded Martha Pollack asked develop- versity is a result of years of state ple. We'd like to see a long-term
grants like the MCS. Despite the ment organizers to double the budget cuts for higher education, investment in support for higher
decrease in state-funded, need- $545 million raised for finan- which have affected every public education to make us a top-10
based scholarships, the Univer- cial aid in the University's most university in the state. state in university support."
sity has increased the funding recent campaign, the Michigan While higher education fund- State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
of average need-based grants Difference, which concluded in ing has decreased nationwide Arbor) said increasing state
through the reallocation of insti- 2008. during the economic recession, financial support for higher edu-
tutional and federal funds. "I just have to say, we swal- Michigan has reduced funds cation in areas such as funding
"Since UM is committed to lowed hard," said Jerry May, more than most states, cutting for need-based grants will have
meeting the full need of all resi- vice president for development, a third of its higher education a large effect on college students.
dent students, when the MCS in a November interview. "We funding between 2008 and 2012. "It's important for the indi-
award was reduced, UM covered thought, well, we might be able However, organizations such viduals," he said. "We have
this loss of funds," Fowler said. to get to $800 million with a lot as the Presidents Council, State young people who are bright
"Therefore fewer funds were of hard work and some really big Universities of Michigan - a non- and hardworking coming up in
available to improve student aid gifts - like $25 or $50 million profit, higher education advocacy the state of Michigan, and hav-
packages for all students." gifts for scholarships - but the organization - are working to ing great public universities that
As part of this commitment, provost made the case that we reverse the trend. are affordable are crucial for the
the University's $4 billion Victors needed to work harder ... They PCSUM Executive Director individuals."
CSG was another main concern of sev- the proposal. the administration if careful revi-
From Pae1Aeral CSG representatives as they "I think the language is a bit sions to the wording were made.
rom age expressed concern regarding the more rhetoric, and it doesn't really "We need to focus on what the
overall severity of the resolution's solve the problem," Mays said. "I problem is, how we solve it and
said. tone, saying it was worded too think the University of Michigan where CSG can go in between
However, Rackham student strongly. and students both know that there to make sure that problem is
Samuel Molnar, another co- Members cited portions of the is an issue of racism within the solved," he said.
author of the resolution, dis- proposal describing the racial cli- campus, but I think it goes too close CSG will be revising the reso-
agreed, adding that affirmative mate on campus as "The New Jim to criticize that the University of lution at Saturday's Resolutions
action should not be removed Crow," as well as aggressive accu- Michigan itself supports racism." Committee meeting.
from the resolution. sations of racism directed toward He suggested changing the In other business, council-
"I think the student body as a the University, among others. repetition of "demand" to a less members postponed a vote on the
whole, though, is behind affirma- LSA senior Chris Mays, an LSA confrontational one, such as resolution amending the State-
tive action. I think that is goingto representative, said changes to "urge." ment of Rights and Responsibili-
stay," he said. the language of the resolution are Mays said CSG would see ties, a vote that was expected to
The language of the resolution crucial to clearing up the goals of much greater cooperation from take place Tuesday.
STEREOTYPES "I'm not saying these crime ing of the hypersexualization of tion in the small discussions and
SroPageS alerts aren't true, but you do see a Black men and realize there are the insightful input show there is
From Page lA lot that is present - even here on many incorrect beliefs pertaining a strong desire to change the neg-
campus," Tavernier said. to sexual violence. She added that ative stereotypes of Black men on
of HEADS said. LSA sophomore Anna Forrin- she hopes people will understand campus.
Tavernier said there are many ger-Beal, a SAPAC volunteer, said that sexual violence is something Telling the Untold Truth
negative stereotypes associated the series of events will benefit that affects every type of commu- marked the first time HEADS
with Black male sexuality at the the University by de-stigmatizing nity. organized a sexual awareness
University, especially pertaining the issue of sexual assault and "It's unfortunate that it's true, event, and Tavernier said there
to recent crime alerts. He said forcingstudents to act out against but it also means that we can also is a good chance that it won't be
he believes most of the sexual it. provide a really strongly united the last.
and physical assault descriptions Before the event, Forringer- front against it," Forringer-Beal "it will definitely create a
depict Black men and people of Beal said she hoped people would said. stronger sense of community
color as the aggressors. leave with a better understand- She said the strong coopera- here at the University," he said.
I Tth 1IwTmaesr ose hill to

Satya Nadella to
oversee push into
cloud computing
LOS ANGELES (AP) - As
longtime Microsoft insider Satya
Nadella takes the company's
helm, he is declaring a new focus
on a "mobile-first, cloud-first
world." So far, he only has the
latter half of the formula figured
out
Microsoft and its new CEO
are trying to catch rivals such
as Apple, Google and Amazon,
which are each building their
own thriving ecosystems for
mobile devices. At the same time,
the company wants to expand
its burgeoning business as a
providerofsoftware and services
over the Internet
Nadella, head of Microsoft's
cloud computing business,
was named Tuesday to be
Steve Balmer's immediate
replacement. He is only the third
chief executive in Microsoft's
38-year history.
The 22-year Microsoft veteran
has enlisted the help of company
founder and first CEO Bill
Gates, who is leaving his role as
chairman to serve a more hands-
on role as an adviser at Nadella's
request. Gates will spend a third
of his time working on products
and technology.
Nadella, 46, led the company's
small but growing cloud
computing unit, in which
customers pay Microsoft to
house data and run applications
on distant servers connected to
the Internet. Those services are
a departure from Microsoft's
traditional business of making
software for installation directly
onto personal computers.
In addition to growing that
business, one of Nadella's first
tasks as CEO will be to complete
Microsoft Inc.'s $7.3 billion
purchase of Nokia's phone
business and patent rights - part
ofa plan to boost Windows Phone
software in a market dominated
by iPhones and Android devices.
"Going forward, it's a
mobile-first, cloud-first
world," Nadella said Tuesday
in a video accompanying the
announcement.
He said he would capitalize
on Microsoft's experience
making the industry's leading
productivity software package,
Office.
"We need to be able to pick
the unique contribution that we
want to make," he said. "That's
where our heritage of having
been the productivity company
is what we want to get focused
on."
Gates will remain on the
company's board. The new
chairman will be board member
John Thompson, who led the
search for a new CEO after
Balmer said in August that he
planned to step down.
Thompson said Nadella was
the board's "first and unanimous
choice."
Nadella has "the right
background to lead the company
in this era," Gates said ina video
message. "There's a challenge in
mobile computing. There's an
opportunity in the cloud."
The new CEO has been
an executive in some of the

company's fastest-growing
and most profitable businesses,
including its Office and server
and toolssbusiness. In three years
as server and tools president, he
helped grow that business into
one with $20 billion in annual
revenue - about a quarter of
Microsoft's total revenue in the
most recent fiscal year.
For the past seven months,
he was the executive vice
president who led Microsoft's
cloud computing offerings.
Nadella's new cloud enterprise
group has also been growing
strongly, more than doubling
customers in the latest quarter,
although it remains a small part
of Microsoft's current business.
Analysts hope that Nadella
can maintain the company's
momentum in cloud computing
and business software while
minimizing the effects of
unprofitable forays into
consumer hardware. It's a
transition IBM Corp. succeeded
in making in the 1990s, but that
companies such as Hewlett
Packard Co. and Dell Inc. have
struggled with.
Microsoft shares fell 13 cents
Tuesday to close at $36.35.
Nadella's appointment comes
at a time of turmoil for Microsoft.
Founded in 1975 byrGates
and Paul Allen, the company
has always made software that
powered computers made by
others - first with its MS-DOS
system, then with Windows
and its Office productivity
suite starting in the late 1980s.
Microsoft's coffers swelled as
more individuals and businesses
bought personal computers.
But Microsoft has been late
adapting to changes in the
technology industry as PC sales
declined. It allowed Google to
dominate online search and
advertising, and it watched as
iPhones, iPads and Android
devicesgrew. Microsoft'sattempts
to manufacture its own devices
have been marred by problems,
from itssquickly aborted Kin line of
phones to its still-unprofitable line
of Surface tablets.
Analysts see hope in some of
the businesses Nadella had a key
role in creating.
Microsoft's cloud computing
offering, Azure, and its push
to have consumers buy Office
software as a $100-a-year Office
365 subscription are seen as the
biggest drivers of Microsoft's
growth in the next couple of
years. Both businesses saw the
number of customers more than
double in the last three months
of the year, compared with a year
earlier.
Nadella is a technologist,
fulfilling the requirement that
Gates set out at the company's
November shareholder meeting,
where the Microsoft chairman
said the company's new leader
must have "a lot of comfort
in leading a highly technical
organization."
Born in Hyderabad, India, in
1967, Nadella joined Microsoft
in 1992 after being a member
of the technology staff at Sun
Microsystems.
Partly because of his insider
status and the fact that both Gates
and Ballmer will remain among
Microsoft's largest shareholders
and company directors, analysts
are not expecting a quick pivot in
the company's strategy.




p.ClL VV rLUIansgender0F Jp t hroom useIll
1-~c~crn~n' JWMedic1ine T7 SCHOOL OF NURSING
prevent LI aiiene bathroom use SCHOOL OF MEDICINE WW NIVI8SITY of WASHINGTON

Ongoing debate in
multiple states to
challenge existing
legislation
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) - A
Utah lawmaker has proposed
a bill that would prevent
transgender students from using
bathroomfacilitiesof their choice,
joining a debate playing out in a
handful of other states sparked
by a California law that broke new
ground on transgender rights.
Republican Rep. Michael
Kennedy says his plan would
pre-emptively block Utah from
allowing transgendered students
to choose between the girls' or
boys'restrooms, locker rooms and
sports teams, depending on the
gender they identify with.
A law that provides those
protections for public school
students in California took effect
Jan. 1 over the objections of those
who said it would violate the
privacy of most students and lead

to false gender identity claims.
Supporters of the California
legislation say it will reduce
discrimination against
transgender students.
But Kennedy disagrees. "For
these individuals," he said,
sharing a restroom or showers in
the locker room is "probably not
going to be the best way to use the
facilities" because it could make
the transgender child and other
students uncomfortable.
Rather than allowing
transgender students to use
facilities set aside for the gender
they identify with, Kennedy's
proposal would require schools to
provide additional bathrooms for
transgender students who desire
one or whose families request one.
Utah education officials say the
issue hasn't come up often, but
this is how they have typically
handled such cases.
Critics say Kennedy's
measure violates civil liberties of
transgender students and points
them out as different.
Sara Jade Woodhouse, a
transgender Utah woman and
adjunct film professor at Salt

Lake Community College,
says they rule would further
relegate transgender students to
secondary status.
"It's basically hanging a sign
around someone's neck that
says, 'I'm not like you.' And that
is so damaging to a person's self-
worth," Woodhouse said. "Really,
it's kind of frightening what it
actually could mean."
Brandie Balken, the executive
director of lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender advocacy group
Equality Utah, said the measure
would step on parents' role in
negotiating what's best for their
children.
"It's a misguided solution at
best," she said Tuesday.
Similar debates are taking
shape elsewhere.. A proposed
referendum aims to overturn
the current California policy.
Maine's . Supreme Judicial
Court recently found school
officials there violated state
anti-discrimination law when
they required a 16-year-old
transgender student to use a staff
restroom instead of the girls'
room. And national attention

turned to a Texas high school
in November after officials said
a transgender boy couldn't take
a yearbook photo in a tuxedo,
a decision they eventually
reversed.
Gay rights have been at
the forefront of Utah politics
in recent weeks. Same-sex
marriage was legalized briefly
in December, leading to more
than 1,000 weddings. A court
challenge blocked the practice
and a judge is expected to rule
on the matter this spring. And
Republican state Sen. Stephen
Urquhart has proposed a bill
that would ban housing and job
discrimination based on gender
identity and sexual orientation.
Kennedy's proposal stands
little chance of becoming law
this year. The Utah Senate and
House have agreed to hold off
on bills dealing with religious
liberties and LGBTQ issues this
session, Senate President Wayne
Niederhauser said Tuesday. They
don't want to risk interfering
with the state's pending court
case over its gay marriage ban,
Niederhauser said.
A

* Designed for Working Professionals
Full- Time or Part- Time Study
o Online Courses
Apply by May 1st
CIRCT uw, edu
uwCipct@uw.edu
(866) 937-7687
Clinical Informatics
Patient-Centered Technologies
=I

I

1


4A - Wedesday, February 5, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.corn

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@maichigandaily.con
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Readdressing life sentences
The state legislature should approve resentencing hearings for juveniles
n June 25, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court banned life sentencing
without parole for juvenile offenders, considering it a form of
cruel and unusual punishment. The highest national court did not
specify whether this decision would be limited to future convicts, those
still on direct appeal, or whether it would apply retroactively to juveniles
already behind bars, leaving that decision up to state courts and lawmakers.
Tuesday, the Michigan House of Representatives approved Senate Bill
319, updating Michigan law to comply with the Supreme Court ruling
only in future cases and those on direct appeal. However, cases regarding
past juvenile offenders were addressed by merely adding a "trigger" that
would allow rehearings for juvenile lifers if the Michigan Supreme Court
or U.S. Supreme Court were to rule again in favor of retroactivity. While
the proposed bill complies with the U.S. Supreme Court ruling for future
cases, the state legislature should approve resentencing hearings for all
Michigan juveniles facing life without parole.

Loneliness in the winter

Last November, a U.S. District Court
judge ruled that the state had to immediately
comply with Miller v. Alabama and make all
juvenile lifers eligible for parole if they had
served at least 10 years in prison. The judge's
ruling was stayed when Michigan Attorney
General Bill Schuette appealed the decision,
arguing that the parole hearings weren't
warranted under existing U.S. Supreme
Court precedent. Schuette currently awaits
a hearing before the U.S. Court of Appeals.
Similarly, the Michigan Supreme Court is
scheduled to hear oral arguments in three
juvenile lifer cases in early March, during
which it is expected to review the ambiguity
surrounding retroactivity.
The "retroactivity trigger" was added to
the bill in the Michigan House seemingly
due to these pending court cases. With more
than 350 juvenile lifers, Michigan is host to
the second-highest population affected by
the bill's future. By relying on court rulings
to settle the matter of retroactivity, the state
legislature is acting in cowardice. It costs the
state $2 billion per year to run the Michigan

Department of Corrections. The state
government should act now, rather than wait,
in order to relieve the burden on taxpayers
and give juvenile convicts a second chance.
In the 2012 Supreme Court ruling, one
of the major arguments against juvenile
sentencing for life without parole was that
"children are constitutionally different from
adults for sentencing purposes." Their "lack
of maturity" and "underdeveloped sense of
responsibility" leads to "recklessness, impul-
sivity and heedless risk-taking." Sentencing
juveniles to life ignores the fact that they lack
the ability to fully comprehend the nature of
crimes they might commit. Furthermore, in
that critical age of development, there are
several factors - such as socioeconomic and
family background - that can contribute to
the motives behind an individual's crime.
Juveniles should be given a second chance
and the opportunity to be rehabilitated. Put-
ting these potentially constructive members
of society behind bars will not help them on
an individual level, and will punish crimes for
which they may not be fully accountable.

utside, the wind chill is
minus 30 degrees. Gusts
push loose flakes across the
sidewalk like
tumbleweeds.
Frost crawls up
the kitchen win-
dow; a sponge on
the sill stiffens
with ice crys-
tals. Somewhere
inside our house
of unwashed EMILY
20-sonethings, PITTINOS
a boy sings - a
little sharp, a bit
too earnest. Listening closely, I notice
his voice crack like a glass nicked by
someone coming home drunk, alone
and thirsty for more.
In my bed, I isulate myself by
lying naked under a pile of down
and fleece, trapping my own human
heat. My feet find each other and
rub together for warmth. From
other corners of my house, I hear the
giddy sounds of couples in love. They
nestle under an afghan crocheted
by someone's grandmother; they
snuggle on our stained loveseat,
bickering about where to order the
next pizza from. Their laughter
pours into the hallway and under nay
bedroom door like acold draft.
Recently, a good friend sent me a
Louis CK clip about sadness. CK says
we have to let our sadness "hitus like
a truck" so that we can bathe in the
happiness that follows. I've grown to
feel the same way about loneliness.
When I first felt it settling in, I
was resistant. My loneliness was a
beast that I distracted with scraps
of pleasure. I fed it casual lovers
- people I'd invite into my life
because they were decent, but also
because they were there. I fed it
films about passion gone awry; I fed
it poetms about sisterhood and joy.

But a persistent yearning -
for romance - still buzz.
of me, like a drunkenness
about to take hold.
A week into the polar v(
siock of cold that would
anyone's will -- I turned o
ended my current fling an
my paltas to my lonelitnes
consume me.
For lack of a better
wallowed - for days, I
pathetically arotund the lou
length pajamas, preoccup
my owtromantic doom.
this is it, I thought.I1'llbe
tae I'll die.
But then I was loung
my housemates in our livi
enjoying a beer, shooting
and I realized little had cl
still laughed, I still wrote, I
cared for by my friends an
Admitting and accepting t
loely wasn't
as insufferable
as it seemed. IfV
It may even be
good for the alo
soul.
Now I wear nev
ltay loneliness
like a second we
skii. It's nearly
comfortable;
I nearly enjoy
it. I don't feel
empty, or even lost. instea
up alone knowing I hav
and I am later lulled to slee
same knowledge. I do s
connection. That buzz of
often returns, but I wona
merely my libido reiindin
I am alive; I hope it never gi
When I think about e
loneliness has done for t
I am oddly grateful. it's a
personal growth,- if we w

CONORANDERSON/Daily
- an ache alone, we would never realize who
ed inside we are and what we want. Plus, our
that was desperate desire to touch and be
touched by others, despite the end-
ortex - a less distance between us, encourages
challenge our creative expression. Art of all
ff my TV, kinds often exists to prove that we
d opened are not alone in our experiences. I
s. I let it doubt artists would make anything if
they weren'tburstingwithlthis desire
word, I to conquer our human distance.
shuffled And, perhaps most importantly,
se im full- I think that if we don't experience
ied with loneliness, we're less likely to
recognize and appreciate love. We
alone aad must grow familiar with our solitude
it order to identify the kinds of
ing with people and relationships that will, at
tg room, last, satisfy our longing.
the shit, From my bedroom window, I
hanged. I watchcarsskidonstreetsglazedwith
I was still ice. My neighbor, an elderly woman
td family. who now lives on her own, applies
hat I was lotion to her elbows in her kitchen.
Through toy
ceiling, I can hear
We were never my housemate
move around
me, we would our attic singing.
"What does it take
er realize who to be lonesome?
Nothingat all."
are and what I raise the
windowpane and
we want. let the icy breeze
touch my face. It
burns my skita,
d, I wake but invigorates my mind. It's nearly
e myself, comfortable; I nearly enjoy it. Most
ep by that importantly, I know it won't last.
till crave Soon I will lock my window, peel
yearning away my clothes and dive into
der if it's my bed where I will be alone - or
g me that not alone - but always ready to
oes away. recognize love through this close
verything and humble darkness.
humanity,
crucial to - Enily Pittinos can be reached
ere never at pittinotusaich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Rima Fadlallah, Nivedita Karki, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily to get updates on Daily content throughout the day.
THE MICHIGAN DAILY
Retraction of "Treating
mental illness like a wound"

STUDENTS ALLIED FOR FREEDOM AND EQUALITY I
Opening a discussion platform

The Michigan Daily apologizes to the
family and friends of Madison Holleran.
Earlier this week, we published a
Viewpoint article about Madison Holleran
titled "Treating mental illness like a wound."
The Viewpoint contained a variety of errors
and inaccurate statements. In response, we
are retracting the Viewpoint and modifying
the way we evaluate our community-
submitted pieces in the future.
The Viewpoint had numerous mistakes
regarding Holleran's case. Linh Vu, the
Viewpoint's writer, relied on a PennLive
article with multiple accounts other than
those of the family of Madison Holleran.
The Viewpoint misattributed a quotation,
claiming that Madison Holleran's mother
had stated, "It's not the kind of thing that
you want shared in the halls of your high
school, in fact, the fear was that it would be
whisperedbehind herback ifeveryone knew."
This quotation was not from Mrs. Holleran,
but from another mother of an athlete who
had also struggled with depression. Mrs.
Holleran has not made any statements to the
press since her daughter's passing.
Additionally, the Viewpoint claimed that
Madison Holleran had struggled with the dis-

order since high school. This was also inac-
curate. This information related to another
student-athlete. The viewpoint claimed that
"Her mother, recounting Madison's tumultu-
ous journey, expressed that she once felt an
odd notion that her daughter didn't fit the
mold of a psychiatric patient." We could not
find evidence of this statement.
Viewpoints can be written by anyone in
the campus community. Vu wrote the piece
as a response to her own friend's death.
She incorporated the news regarding the
passing of Madison Holleran, a University of
Pennsylvania athlete who committed suicide
on Jan. 17, to urge the University of Michigan
to refocus on mental health services.
The Michigan Daily expresses its sincerest
apologies for this mistake. We regret any
pain or anger that we have caused to Madison
Holleran's family and friends.
Madison Holleran's passing deserved to
be treated with the utmost respect and care,
and The Michigan Daily failed to provide an
accurate account of her life, struggle with
depression and the due diligence that our
community deserves. Going forward, our
community Viewpoints will be subject to
stronger scrutiny during the editing process.

"If we have learned the msost
important lessonpromulgated by Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. -- that jus-
tice is always indivisible - it should
be clear that a mnass maovement in
solidarity with Palestinian fieedomi
is long overdue" -Angela Y. Davis,
Distinguished Professor Emaerita,
University of California, Santa Cruz.
In early December, the Academic
Studies Association - the largest
academic organization devoted
to the interdisciplinary study of
American culture and history
- decided to heed Palestiniaa
civil society's call for "Boycott,
Divestment and Sanctions," and
voted overwheltmitngly to boycott
Israeli academic institUtioas. The
decision made headline news,
appearing on the front page of The
New York Times, and sparked much
heated debate and conversation
on academic freedom, collective
solidarity and the silencing of those
who critique the Israeli military
occupation. Numerous influential
academics and public intellectuals
have voiced support of the ASA's
resolution including Angela Davis,
Judith Butler and Carolyn Karcher,
among many others.
As conscientious students who
strive for social justice, we, the
Students Allied for Freedom and
Equality, stand in full support of
the ASA's resolution. We applaud
the organization for its courageous
stance as well as the remarkably
transparent and democratic process
it took to reach its decision. We are
also pleased with the general prog-
ress in the public's attitude toward
Israeli settler colonialism and the
BDS movement, recognizing that
such a resolution would have been
unthinkable in previous years. We
advocate and affirm the Palestinian
activists who have worked tireless-
ly to amplify their global calls for
BDS, even amid a colonial regime
that works tirelessly to systeanati-
cally silence their existence.
The resolution is not without
its opponents though, and some,

including our own University
President Mary Sue Coleman and
Provost Martha Pollack, publicly
opposed the resolution in a
reactionarystatement. Itdisturbs us
that our University administration
does not stand against harsh
settler colonial policies rooted in
racism and segregation that limit
people's basic right to education.
It's just as startling to us that the
administration canspeak onbehalf
of the entire University community
without consulting the numerous
faculty, staff and students who do
support the boycott.
Our University is complicit in
Israel's human rights violations
not only through its investments
in companies that facilitate Israeli
militarism and Palestinian dis-
placement -- what 4 UMMockEvic-
tion sought to highlight - but also
through its ties to several Israeli
universities that haven't denounced
said violations, including The
Technion Israel Institute of Tech-
nology, Ben Gurion University and
Tel Aviv University. These univer-
sities participate in hindering the
academic freedoms of Palestinians
and non-Jewish Israelis through
preferential treatment of reserve
soldiers and Jewish Israelis overall,
through public acquiescence with
the occupation and through close
collaboration with Israeli military
and intelligence agencies.
This discussion on violation of
academic freedom by Coleman is
contradictory when Palestinians'
very access to education is
literally obstructed through daily
interferences of checkpoints,
arbitrary and systematic stop-and-
search policies by Israeli soldiers,
Israeli-only roads and the ever-
expanding apartheid wall.
Additionally, African asylum-
seekers in Israel are subjected
to living indefinitely in open-air
detention centers -- in desert
temperatures in the Negevknown to
exceed 120 degrees - limiting their
access to educational resources. An

amendment to the Prevention of
Infiltration Law of 1954 was madeto
grant Israeli authorities the power
to detain migrants and asylum
seekers up to three years without
trial or deportation, while "anyone
helping migrants or providing
them with shelter could face prison
sentences of between five and 15
years." This "anti-infiltration law,"
as it is known, is not only immoral
and in violation of international
convention, but also goes against
the stated nature of a democratic
state. Targeted by anti-Black racist
policies, they are kept in detention
facilities isolated from civil life
to prevent them from infiltrating
Israel's nature of a Jewish-Israeli-
only state.
Palestinians and African asylum--
seekers are unable to produce and
share knowledge without undue
constraint, which Coleman claims
is an academic freedom. They are
excluded from fully exercising their
right to academic freedom. How
can our University boast "exciting
and productive collaborations" with
Israeli institutions when the Preven-
tion of Infiltration Law and other
racist policies are meant to exclude
from civil society anyone who
threatens the religious and/or racial
composition of the Israeli state?
Opening a platform for discus-
sion on the boycott while some are
held in detention facilities or are
prevented access to schools because
of their non-Jewish identity would
normalize these people's mar-
ginalization in society. Dialogue
would center on privileged voices
that have unrestricted access to
academic resources, detracting
from the narratives of those being
stripped of their right to academic
freedom. Thus, it's important to
focus on those narratives by boycot-
tinginstitutions and companies that
contribute to their marginalization.
Ihis article was written by
mem bers of Students Allied
for Freedom and Equality.

Feminine Critique: Ever wonder how your
privilege affects you? Emma Maniere analyzes
podium howwe can challenge the system and change
the status quo.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, Februar y 5, 2014 - 5A

NEWS BRIEFS
EAST LANSING
Obama will sign
Farm Bill during
MSU visit Friday
The White House says that
President Barack Obama will
sign the farm bill at Michigan
State University on Friday
during a previously announced
visit to East Lansing.
The White House first
announced the trip last Friday. it
confirmed Tuesday that he will
sign the farm bill during the visit
Michigan Democrat Debbie
Stabenow chairs the U.S. Senate
Agriculture Committee and
led the fight for congressional
passage of the farm bill.
The sweeping $100-billion-
a-year measure won Senate
approval Tuesday on a 68-32 vote
after House passage last week.
The bulk of its cost is for the food
stamp program, which aids I in 7
Americans.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Website problems
result in fewer
insurance signups
Budget experts for Congress
say fewer uninsured people than
expected will get covered this
year through President Barack
Obama's health care law.
The Congressional Budget
Office dropped its estimate by 2
million people. That's partly the
result of website problems that
prevented people from signing up
last fall when new markets for sub-
sidized private insurance went live.
Website woes have largely
cleared up, but the nonpartisan
analysts said Tuesday they
expect 1 million fewer people
to sign up through the new
insurance exchanges, for a new
total of 6 million in 2014. They
predict enrollment will pick up
and top 20 million in 2016.
PETERSBURG, Ken.
Bill Nye debates
head of Kentucky
creation museum
TV's "Science Guy" Bill Nye
and the leader of a Kentucky
museum who believes in cre-
ationism dehated a question
Tuesday that has nagged human-
kind: How did we get here?"
Ken Ham, the founder of the
Creation Museum, believes the
Earth was created 6,000 years
ago and that the Bible tells the
factual account of the universe's
beginnings and the creation of
humans. Nye said he, and the
rest of the scientific community,
believe the Earth was created bya
hig hang hillions of years ago and
people have evolved over time.
"I just want to remind us all
there are billions of people in the
world who are deeply religious,
who get enriched by the wonder-

ful sense of community by their
religion," said Nye, who wore his
trademark bow tie. "But these
same people do not embrace the
extraordinary view that the Earth
is somehow only 6,000 years old."
Nye said technology keeps the
U.S. ahead as a world leader and
he worried that if creationism is
taught to children the country
would fall behind..
TRIPOU, Libya
Libyan leader says
chemical weapons
destroyed
Libya's Foreign Ministry
says the country's caches of
chemical weapons, including
bombs and artillery shells filled
with mustard gas, have been
completely destroyed.
Mohammed Abdel-Aziz made
his announcement on Tuesday
after a mission was completed
few days ago.
"Libya is totally empty of any
presence of chemical weapons ...
which could pose threat to the
safety of people, the environ-
ment, or neighboring regions,"
he said in remarks carried by
Libya's state news agency.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

L.A. policemen
wrongly shoot
at two women

In hunt for officer,
force violates
department policy
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Eight
Los Angeles police officers vio-
lated department policy when
they mistakenly riddled a pickup
truck with bullets, injuring two
women, during a manhunt last
year for cop-turned-killer Chris-
topher Dorner, a civilian over-
sight board announced Tuesday.
Police Chief Charlie Beck
and Alex Bustamante, inspec-
tor general for the Los Angeles
Police Commission, indepen-
dently recommended that the
shooting be ruled out of policy,
commission President Steve
Soboroff said. He did not pro-
vide further details.
Beck will decide disciplin-
ary measures for the officers,
who were assigned to non-field
duties during an LAPD investi-
gation. Possible measures could
include extensive retraining,
suspensions or even firings.
At a news conference, Beck
said he couldn't comment on
what discipline the officers may
receive because their informa-
tion is private under state law.
He said "these officers will all
and have all received extensive
training as had the whole Los
Angeles Police Department rel-
ative to these types of issues."
Los Angeles Police Protec-
tive League spokesman Eric
Rose said the union's president,
Tyler Izen, was waiting to
review the commission's report
before providing comment.
Last year, the city paid the
women $4.2 million to settle a
claim. That was in addition to
a separate $40,000 settlement
for the loss of their truck.
The Police Commission's
determination didn't surprise
the women's attorney, Glen
Jonas.
"There (are) 4.2 million rea-
sons I have to believe it's out of
policy," he said. "Anyone with

any common sense would agree
it's out of policy."
Dorner, a fired Los Angeles
police officer, claimed he was
unfairly dismissed and vowed
revenge against law enforce-
ment officers in a rambling
online manifesto.
He killed the daughter of a
former LAPD police official
along with her fiance and two
law enforcement officers over
10 days before being cornered
and killing himself in a burn-
ing mountain cabin in San Ber-
nardino County.
On Feb. 7, 2013, Los Angeles
police guarding the Torrance
home of a high-profile target
named in Dorner's manifesto
opened fire on a pickup truck
they thought was Dorner's.
It actually contained the two
women delivering newspapers.
"This was a tragic cascade
of circumstances that led to an
inaccurate conclusion by the
officers," the police chief said.
The officers had earlier
learned that the target's wife
recently had seen Dorner in
the neighborhood appearing to
case the location, and just prior
to the shooting officers heard
over police radio that Dorner
was getting off the freeway
nearby, Beck said. In the early
morning hours, officers said
they saw the blue Toyota pick-
up "creeping" down the road,
according to the chief's report,
with its high beams and flash-
ers on.
In his report to the commis-
sion, the chief said he expected
that officers "make every effort
that they determine that the
truck was in fact Dorner's."
He wrote, "While there
were similarities, the truck
that approached was a differ-
ent make and model, different
color, had no ski racks and no
over-sized tires."
Beck said officers opened fire
immediately after one woman
threw a newspaper and an offi-
cer mistook the sound of it hit-
ting the pavement for gunfire.

Tunisian security forces stand outside a bullet-riddled house in which suspected militants were holed up in the taoued
suburb of Tunis, Tuesday, Feb. 4,
0 0
Tunisian National Guard,
militants create conflict

Anti-terror units
invade hideout, kill
seven extremists
TUNIS, Tunisia (AP) -
Tunisia's National Guard
stormed a suspected militant
hideout in a seaside suburb of
Tunis after a daylong standoff
Tuesday. Seven radicals were
killed, including suspect in a
political assassination last year,
a minister said.
One National Guard member
also died in the clash, which
comes almost a year after the
assassination of left-wing poli-
tician Chokri Belaid by Islamist
extremists set off a political cri-
sis in this North African nation.
Hundreds of masked anti-
terror units flooded the Tunis
neighborhood of Raoued during
the standoff, filling its streets
with armored vehicles. Snipers
were perched on rooftops.
In the aftermath of the 2011
overthrow of its secular dicta-

torship, Tunisia saw a rise of
radical Islamic groups, many
of whom took up arms against
the state, killing politicians and
clashing with soldiers.
Interior Minister Lotfi Ben
Jeddou told a press conference
that one of the militants killed
had been identified as Kamel
Gadhgadhi, the suspected
assassin of Belaid. Two other
radicals killed were involved
in the gruesome ambush of sol-
diers in Mount Chaambi that
left eight dead, five with slit
throats, he said.
"We chose not to drop our
guard in the face of terrorism
and we will fight them despite
the costs to our security forces,"
said Ben Jeddou, whose job has
been threatened by his inability
until now to bring the killers
of Belaid and another opposi-
tion politician to justice. "We
will keep working to reveal the
truth of the two political assas-
sinations."
Ben Jeddou showed a photo
of the slain Gadhgadhi wear-

ing an explosive belt. He said
police had recovered a large
amount of weapons, explosives
and rocket-propelled grenades
from two houses occupied by
the militants.
The minister identified the
attackers as members of Ansar
al-Shariah, an ultraconserva-
tive Islamic movement that
has been banned as a terrorist
movement for its alleged links
to al-Qaida and its involvement
in attacks.
Sandwiched between Alge-
ria, the birthplace of al-Qaida's
North African branch, and
Libya, a source of weapons fol-
lowing its civil war, Tunisia has
had to deal with a rising threat
of armed militants.
Nearly every month there's
news of a shootout between
security forces and militants,
especially in the mountains
along its border with Algeria,
At least a dozen soldiers have
been killed in clashes around
Mount Chaambi, near the city
of Kasserine.

Ukrainian citizens
become polarized
amid controversy
Protests for new middle of the night on Kiev's
central square.
government comes Suddenly, the calls for EU
integration were replaced with
with violent demands for Yanukovych's
ouster and a new government
consequences that would guarantee human
rights and democratic free-
KIEV, Ukraine (AP) - The doms. Slogans such as "Ukraine
mayor of a western city warned is Europe" were replaced by
that his police would fight any "Down with the gang!"
troops sent in by the president. The divide deepened further
The governor of an eastern as peaceful protests turned ever
region posted an image of an more violent. Last month, after
opposition lawmaker beaten four protesters were killed and
bloody, saying he couldn't con- police were widely reported to
tain his laughter. have beaten and abused activ-
Two months into Ukraine's ists, the opposition's anger
anti-government protests, the became more intense. And
two sides are only moving fur- Yanukovych's supporters were
ther apart. appalled by images of riot
To be sure, Ukraine has policemen set aflame by pro-
never been monolithic. Russia testers' Molotov cocktails, the
and Europe have vied for domi- toppling of a statue of former
nance for centuries, foster- Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin
ing deep cultural differences and the occupation of govern-
between the mostly Ukrainian- ment buildings.
speaking western and central The differing visions are
regions that yearn for ties with rooted in cultural realities. To
the West, and the Russian- the west, protest-friendly Lviv
speaking east and south that feels like a typical European
looks to Russia for support. city, with cobblestone streets,
As the crisis has deepened, Catholic churches and outdoor
each side has grown stronger cafes. To the east, the Yanu-
in its convictions - and those kovych stronghold of Kharkiv
who stood in the middle have is an industrial city with mas-
been forced to choose sides. sive Soviet architecture and a
The demonstrations began giant Lenin statue.
with an old question: Should Linguistics also come into
Ukraine follow a European play in a country where rough-
path or move closer into Rus- ly 40 percent of people speak
sia's sphere? In November, Ukrainian at home, a third
President Viktor Yanukovych speak Russian and a quarter
- after years of touting a politi- speak both.
cal and economic treaty with for one Ukrainian to address
the European Union - had another in one language and
abruptly walked out on it in hear a response in another.
favor of a bailout loan from Most speakers on Kiev's Inde-
Russia. But the crisis changed pendent Square address the
significantly a week later when crowds in Ukrainian, but both
riot police violently broke up languages are heard at the bar-
a small, peaceful rally in the ricades.

Give your Valentine a gift that everyone will see!
Buy a Cupid Gram from
ahe M~ia al
Deadline: 3:00pm, Monday, February 10th
Cost: Only $5
Publication Date: Friday, February 14th
Recipient's Email Address:
Text: R 0 III IIJDZL1
DDDDDDDhgDDDyZOfIIciILI
WPlease tope by The Michigan Daily'sfcea
online store to place your order.
Each Cupid Gram purchased gives
you the chance to win dinner for two
at Ma iz Mex ican Cantina!
malzimxICanl.COm~ '
For Internal Use
Gram#__ A d#__ Student Group________Ad taken by___
FIRFFIFIT11IF11IRR

I


6A - Wednesday, February 5, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

More information revealed
by U.S. on Iraqi militant

J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/AP
Rep. Norman "Doc" Hastings, R-Wash., center, discusses a new report that proposes alterations to the 40-year-old
Endangered Species Act.
Republicans propose changes
to Endangered Species Act

Ne
BIL
Repul
Tuesd
to the
to cu
lawsu
to sta
chang
corner
laws
perva
Wash
A g
repres
U.S. re
"targe
40-yea
protec
anima
Pro
with
hundr
the b
alligat
critics
abuse
seekin
inthe
Led
Wyom
of Wa
the H
Comm
want

ew reforms seek litigation from wildlife advocates
that has resulted in protections
to grant states for some species. And they want
to give states more authority over
more power imperiled species that fall within
their borders.
LINGS, Mont. (AP) - Also among the recommen-
blicans in Congress on dations from the group are
lay called for an overhaul increased scientific transpar-
Endangered Species Act ency, more accurate economic
artail environmentalists' impact studies and safeguards
its and give more power for private landowners.
tes, but experts say broad "The biggest problem is that
es to one of the nation's the Endangered Species Act is
rstone environmental not recovering species," said
are unlikely given the Hastings. "The way the act was
sive partisan divide in written, there is more of an effort
ington, D.C. to list (species as endangered or
roup of 13 GOP lawmakers threatened) than to delist."
tenting states across the Signed into law by President
eleased a report proposing Richard Nixon in December 1973,
ted reforms" for the the act has resulted in additional
ar-old federal law, which protections for more than 1,500
ts imperiled plants and plants, insects, mammals, birds,
Is. reptiles and other creatures,
ponents credit the law according to the U.S. Fish and
staving off extinction for Wildlife Service.
eds of species - from Republicans have seized on
ald eagle and American the fact that only 2 percent of
or to the gray whale. But protected species have been
contend the law has been declared recovered - despite
d by environmental groups billions of dollars in federal and
cg to restrict development state spending.
nameofspecies protection. Noah Greenwald, a wildlife
IbyRep.CynthiaLummisof advocate with the Center for Bio-
ing and Rep. Doc Hastings logical Diversity, disputed the 2
shington state, who chairs percent figure as a "gross manip-
louse Natural Resources ulation of facts" that ignores the
nittee, the Republicans hundreds of protected species
to amend the law to limit now on the path to recovery.

The political hurdles for an
overhaul of the law are consid-
erable. The Endangered Spe-
cies Act enjoys fervent support
among many environmental-
ists, whose Democratic allies on
Capitol Hill have thwarted past
proposals for change.
Oregon Rep. Peter DeFazio,
the ranking Democrat on the
Natural Resources Committee,
suggested Tuesday that
Republicans appeared intent on
gutting the law. He predicted the
changes being sought would go
nowhere in the Senate.
"There is no appetite to over-
turn the (Endangered Species
Act)," DeFazio said.
Federal wildlife officials said
they would not comment on
Tuesday's report until they have
a chance to review it.
Throughout its history, the
law has faced criticism from
business interests, Republicans
and others. They argue actions
taken to shield at-risk species
such as the northern spotted
owl have severely hampered
logging and other economic
development.
Those complaints grew
louder in recent months after
federal wildlife officials
agreed to consider protections
for more than 250 additional
species under settlement
terms in lawsuits brought by
environmental groups.

Al-Qaeda
organization and
global network
undergo separation
DUBAI, United Arab Emir-
ates (AP) - He has commanded
a relentless bombing campaign
against Iraqi civilians, orches-
trated audacious jailbreaks of
fellow militants and expanded
his hard-line Islamist organiza-
tion's reach deep into neighbor-
ing Syria.
While his may not be a
household name, the shadowy
figure known as Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi has emerged as
one of the world's most lethal
terrorist leaders. He is a
renegade within al-Qaida whose
maverick streak eventually
led its central command to
sever ties, deepening a rivalry
between his organization and
the global terror network.
Al-Baghdadi's Islamic State
of Iraq and the Levant is the
main driver of destabilizing vio-
lence in Iraq and until recently
was the main al-Qaida affiliate
there. A-Qaida's general com-
mand formally disavowed the
group this week, saying it "is not
responsible for its actions."
Al-Baghdadi took over lead-
ership of al-Qaida's main Iraq
franchise following a joint U.S.-
Iraqi raid in April 2010 that
killed the terror group's two top
figures inside Iraq at their safe
house near Tikrit, once Sad-
dam Hussein's hometown. Vice
President Joe Biden at the time
called the killings of Abu Omar
al-Baghdadi and Abu Ayyub al-
Masri a "potentially devastating
blow" to al-Qaida in Iraq.
But as in the past, al-Qaida in
Iraq has proved resilient. Under
al-Baghdadi's leadership, it has
come roaring back stronger
than it was before he took over.
The man now known as
al-Baghdadi was born in
Samarra, about 95 kilometers
(60 miles) north of Baghdad,
in 1971, according to a United
Nations sanctions list. That
would make him 42 or 43
years old.
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES

Al-Baghdadi is a nom de
guerre for a man identified as
Ibrahim Awwad Ibrahim Ali
al-Badri al-Samarrai. The U.S.
is offering a $10 million reward
for information leading to his
death or capture.
He is believed to have been
operating from inside Syria
in recent months, though his
current whereabouts aren't
known. Iraqi Interior Ministry
spokesman Saad Maan Ibrahim
said authorities believe he was
in Iraq's Salahuddin province,
north of Baghdad, as recently as
three weeks ago, but he moves
around frequently so as not to
be captured.
What little else that is known
publicly about al-Baghdadi
comes from a brief biography
posted in Julyto online jihadist
forums. Its claims could not be
independently corroborated.
According to that account,
al-Baghdadi is a married
preacher who earned a
doctorate from Baghdad's
Islamic University, the Iraqi
capital's main center for Sunni
clerical scholarship. The
biography linked him to several
prominent tribes and said he
comes from a religious family,
according to a translation by the
SITE Intelligence Group, which
monitors extremist sites.
He rose to prominence as a
proponent of the Salafi jihadi
movement, which advocates
"holy war" to bring about a
strict, uncompromising version
of Shariah law, in Samarra and
the nearby Diyala province.
The biography linked him
to Samarra's mosque of Imam
Ahmed bin Hanbal, which
according to one resident,
speaking anonymously for fear
of retribution, was a key hub
for al-Qaida decision-making in
2005 and 2006.
Samarra, like Diyala a hotbed
for al-Qaida activity, was the
scene of the 2006 bombing of
the Shiite al-Askari shrine. That
attack was blamed on al-Qaida
and set off years of retaliatory
bloodshed between Sunni and
Shiite extremists.
Al-Baghdadi's leadership of
the Iraqi al-Qaida operation
coincided with the final year

and a half of the American
military presence in Iraq. The
U.S. withdrawal in December
2011 left Iraq with a precarious
security vacuum that he was
able to exploit.
"Al-Baghdadi has managed
a remarkable recovery and
re-growth inIraqand expansion
into Syria. In so doing, Baghdadi
has become somewhat of a
celebrity figure within the
global jihadist community," said
Charles Lister, an analyst at the
Brookings Doha Center.
The group has kept up pres-
sure on the Shiite-led govern-
ment in Baghdad with frequent
and coordinated barrages of car
bombs and suicide bombs, push-
ing the country's violent death
toll last year to the highest level
since 2007, when the worst of
Iraq's sectarian bloodletting
began to subside.
A series of prison breaks,
including a complex, military-
style assault on two Baghdad-
area prisons in July that freed
more than 500 inmates, has
bolstered his group's ranks and
raised its clout among jihadist
sympathizers.
That notoriety only grew
when his fighters seized control
of the city of Fallujah and other
parts of the vast western Anbar
province in recent weeks.
His push into Syria has won
him large numbers of foreign
recruits , and is helped by "a
slick and effective propaganda
machine, which has had a truly
global reach," according to
Lister. Last year, he added "and
the Levant" to the end of his
group'soname to reflect its cross-
border ambitions.
But its muscling in on other
Syrian rebel groups' territory
has created divisions among
the militant ranks. The Nusra
Front, an al-Qaida-linked rebel
group in Syria, bristled at the
Islamic State of Iraq and the
Levant's unilateral announce-
ment of a merger - effectively a
hostile takeover --last year.
Abu Qatada, a radical
preacher who was deported
from Britain and faces terrorism
charges in his native Jordan,
is among those who have
criticized ISIL's role in Syria.

Syria barrel bomb
kills 11, injures more

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, February 5, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 39 Piglet's mother 48 Taloned predator
1 Really mix up 1 Confront boldly 40 Place to have a 49 Cut of lamb
6 Fashion 2 Arizona climate racket restrung 50 Inhumane person
10 Alma mater of 3 Where Lego 41 Opie's guardian 52 Dance studio
many gens. headquarters is 44 With 63-Across, fixture
14 Manitoba natives 4 Luau neckwear city whose zip 53 _ barrel: in hot
15 Other, to Diego 5 Top row key code is water
16 "Cool!" 6 Quite a while suggested by the 57 Bordeaux "but"
17 Glass-half-empty 7 New Mexico starts of 18-, 24-, 58 Dedicated lines
sort county 35-, 51- and 58- 59 Cable co.
18 Polite refusal, in 8 Boring activity Across acquired by
Nuremberg 9 Quite a while 45 Shortchange AT&T in 1999
20 Resistance units 10 Eel, at sushi bars 47 Newbie 60 . Na Na
21 Bottom row key 11 Mali neighbor ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 "A Death in the 12 Seize the
Family'athor opportunity, SO L V E R DA H MOO F I D
23North - sunshine-wise A V I A N 0 L E OE NO T E
24"Fallonyour 13Hadabite G A R T E R B E L TEA L A N
knees" carol 19 Comical Carvey A L A I A I R E T I L E
27 Mammoth traps 21 Private bed A C 0 N 0 E C 0 
30 Hometown 25 "Son of
proud" Frankenstein" M 0 J A 0 E e E A
supermarket role A MANA CORALR E E F
chain 26 Everyday article A N I I F 5 A v R C A
31 "How relaxing!" 28 Supplies on TV's M I L K 1 H A K E F L I R T
32 Fighting stats "Chopped" I 0 0 P L A Q U
33 She dedicated 29FPrei withba R A T T A E A N D H U M
Imagine Peace 4 Winee E M 0 T E R E E P A
Tower to 34 Witnessed
Lennon 36 Locale GORE GRA C O U R T
34 Roy Rogers' birth 37 Carnation us N W E K
name 38 Byrneswho aea WEI SN A KE
35 Somewhat played Kookie xwordeditor@aol.com 0205/14
39Mudbathofferers 1 2 3 4 s 6 7 8 9 10 11 2 13
42 Clear (of)
43 Ball honorees 14 15
46 Tlsa oh 1 18
name fursa
televangelist 20 21 22
47 leaves
48 Hardly the latest 23 24 25 or
buzz
51 Only just broke 27 24 29 nn 1
the tape n 33
54 Through
55Symbol for 7
Macy's
56 Prime time 34 41 42 40 45 45
rating 48 40 50
57 Gie a darn?
58 "You gotta be s1 n2 53 54
kidding!"
60 Big Apple 55 56 57
restaurateur
81 Go-getter 589
62 Remedy 61 r2 rn
63See44-Down
64 Duel tool rn r6 5r
15 My word!"
6 Until now By C.C. Burnikel
(c)2014 Tribune content Agency, LLC 02/014

DOMINICK'S FT/PT. CALL 734-
834-5021.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island H ouse Iotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. 1-ous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
647-7196. www.teislandlouse.com
721 CHURCH - CENTRAL
CAMPUS ! Across rom East Quad!
Fall2014- I bedroom and efficiency
apartment available. Free heat/water/-
parking! 734-320-1244
www.churchstrectrentals.con
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
$1400 FORA 1U1l/112 bedroom at For-
est Glen Apts. Price includes FREE
llEIAl 1 parking spot and furoiture.
$1400 for the whole apamentody.
Cull uISno nnour younr new hnome today.
734-761-2680.
$400 OFF
First 10 rentals
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1635.00. Great location,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.nniversitytowers-mi.conn
734-761-2680
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE* Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Ofl-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
EFF. I & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$655-S1395, showings avail. M-F
IOam-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappn/ Deincocappmaoagenent.com.
Cionntact 734-996-1991 M-l 9am-dpm


Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old Wesn Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATES
www.The2ndFloorSU.com
WHAT IS YOURfavorite?
BREAKFAST VOTE TODAYt
BEST OF ANN ARBOR 2014

L,
scho
in
BEIR
girl fro
her ont'
while a
white d
of blood
his cru
gurney
from th
"barrel
on the c
The
least s
Aleppo
a mosq
as'a sc
people,
supplie
scenes(
It wa
the hei
bombs,
fuel, ex
that ar
ters, oft
SincE
people
barrelI
Preside
to try t
Aleppo
provide
based
Humat
a netw
ground
The'
rebel-h
district
of thee
Uthma:
where
childre
activist
the Ale

Jlosions in The videowas consistent
iols and with what reporting by The
.q Associated Press found.
jure children A cameraman films from
inside a vehicle as it speeds
in Aleppo toward a place where dust is
drifting into a clear blue sky.
UT (AP) - Men pull a The camera swivels to men and
m the rubble and haul boys running around a building
o a dirty sheet of plastic, that has been torn in half by an
nother child, coated in explosion.
ust save for a red streak "Are there martyrs?" the
I from his nose, lies with narrator asks. His camera
shed leg dangling off a focuses on a lump of red flesh in
- the grisly aftermath a vehicle.
he dropping of a crude It is the beginning of a grim
bomb" by Syrian forces litany of death, as seen from the
ity of Aleppo. jerking camera.
bombing - one of at A child, his legs missing,
even such attacks in lies on the ground, partially
on Tuesday - struck covered by a blanket.
ue that was being used "Are there anybody's
hool, killing at least 11 children here?" cries one man.
activists said. A video "Bashar, you lowlife!" cries
d by activists contained another, referring to the Syrian
of the carnage. ruler, raising his hands angrily
as the latest example of to the sky. Another man shakes
ightened use of barrel a blackened body inside a
devices packed with vehicle.
plosives and scrap metal A man carries a lifeless
e hurled from helicop- boy, lifting him partly by his
en indiscriminately. clothes, and leaves him on
e Thursday, around 80 the sidewalk near two other
have been killed by mangled corpses. An older man
bombs used by Syrian with a bloodied face stumbles
nt BasharAssad's forces toward the child, weeping, "Oh,
o dislodge rebels from God, your grace, oh, God."
, according to figures The cameraman also
rd by the Britain- captures scenes of the boy with
Syrian Observatory for the crushed leg and the girl
Rights, which relies on pulled from the ruins.
ork of activists on the Far from the battlegrounds
. in Syria, Assad's chief ally, Rus-
video uploaded from the sia, expressed confidence that
eld Masaken Hanano the government would return
showed the aftermath to the U.N.-hosted peace talks
explosion at or near the in Geneva that began in Janu-
n Bin Affan mosque, ary after three years of war.
adults were teaching Assad's government has not
n the Quran, said committed to attending the
Hassoun Abu Faisal of next round of talks, expected
ppo Media Center. on Feb. 10.

0

I

1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Women lead in
upcoming 'LUNA'

Wednesday, February 5, 2014 - 7A

Film festival
to strictly feature
female works
By ANNA SADOVSKAYA
DailyArts Writer
Only 18 percent of the writers,
editors, cinematographers, pro-
ducers and directors who worked
on the top
250 grossing LUNAFEST
films in the
U.S. in 2012 Thursday
were women. at 7 p.m.
LUNAFEST,
a fundrais- LydiaMendels
ing film festi- sohn Theatre
val aiming to $10, $12, $15
combat gen-
der inequality
in the film industry, is coming
to campus on Thursday, hoping
to start a conversation about not
only the film industries' glass
ceiling, but all women's issues
and equality concerns.
The proceeds of the film festi-
val will go to the Breast Cancer
Fund and Take Back the Night
Ann Arbor, a local chapter of a
national foundation that hosts
events and marches in order to
stand against sexual violence and
discrimination.
Third-year Law School stu-
dent Carlyn Williams, co-leader
of Take Back the Night/Uni-
versity Students Against Rape,
joined TBTN after her friend and
co-leader, third-year Law School
student Samantha Honea, intro-
duced her.

"One of the most empowered
things for me, too, was realiz-
ing how many people are sur-
vivors that I knew on a daily
basis and had no idea, but who
were involved with Take Back
the Night," Williams said. "Just
the experience of learning from
other people."
Honea added: "The most
rewarding moment is feeling
that all these people in this room
care about something we all care
about."
Consisting of nine short films
created by women, for women,
about women, LUNAFEST trav-
els around the country to 150
cities, showing the films and
sparking conversation within the
communities.
"I feel that 'LUNAFEST'
brings together the trifecta of
aspects that are not usually cov-
ered in today's culture," Wil-
liams said. "There are way more
men directors than there are
women directors, and not many
films really highlight women's
issues, without being nationally
known."
Not limited to a female audi-
ence, LUNAFEST picks award-
winning films that are animated,
fictional, as well as personal, in
order to connect with the audi-
ence's diverse tastes and expec-
tations. Honea described the
challenges in starting the diffi-
cult discussions that usually fol-
low the highlighting of women's
rights issues.
"I think specifically with sex-
ual assault and other women's
issues, just being able to sit down

and have an honest conversation
about it, I think is a huge problem
that we have," Honea said.
The festival, started in 2000 by
LUNA, the makers of a women's
nutritional bar, is a novel way to
raise awareness and money, while
helping organizations such as
TBTN to excite their community.
"For the night, our focus is just
to bring a wide variety of peo-
ple together," Williams said. "It
doesn't have to be feminist groups
or people fighting for women's
issues, anyone would enjoy these
films and see a perspective that
they wouldn't see in their daily
lives."
A continual problem, accord-
ing to Honea, isn't just the public's
lack of awareness about gender
inequality, but the lack of inter-
est in learning and understanding
women's issues at the root.
"Beyond the conversation
about sexual assault and the pub-
lic perception of equality, you
can even see the disrespect when
we say it's 'by women for women
about women,' and some people's
eyes glaze over, and you want
to fight back and say 'no, these
are great films, and you want to
attend, and it doesn't have to be
such ataboothing."'
By sharing empowering stories
through film, LUNAFEST, along
with TBTN, aims to counteract
people's projected misunder-
standings about women's issues,
and shed light on what can be
done within each community to
combat the inequality and to take
back the voice of those who have
had their rights violated.

Can you guess which one has the receding hairline?
Lamenting Daft Punk's
Grammy Award win

ByKENNETH SELANDER
DailyArts Writer
Last Sunday, Daft Punk's Ran-
dom Access Memories won the
Grammy award for Album of the
Year. Their feature song "Get
Lucky" might be a catchy tune
and be deserving enough of a
Grammy for Best Record, but it
doesn't have the power to hoist
Random Access Memories to
Albumn of the Year. The rest of the
album is a disappointment con-
sidering the craze around "Get
Lucky."
Electronic music is differ-
ent from other genres of music
because, at least in my experi-
ence, it's highly situational. it
might be good to dance to or
mellow enough to play quietly
in the background while kick-
ing it with some friends, but it's
also repetitive and tends to lack
excitement. Kendrick Lamar's
good kid, m.A.A.d city was far
more worthy of the Grammy.
Random Access Memories is a
snooze of an album unless maybe
you're drugged out of your mind
at a discotech. I understand that
Daft Punk sometimes sets trends
in music - like the recent revival
of disco - but the songs them-
selves seem to drone on for eter-
nity with very little progression.
Turning on the first track "Give
Life Back to Music," I could've
sworn the song was "Get Lucky."
This trend persists throughout
the album, as a majority of the
tracks feature guitar strums
and msute notes over occasional
electronic beats that sound sus-
piciously similar to the poignant
composition of that record.
Vocals on the record are
somewhat uncommon, but when
they're present they often have
ain exaggerated, metallic, auto-
tuned sound to them. This sound
gets old quickly, sucking any

romantic elements out of "Game
of Love." Even worse, the higher-
pitched vocals are the most pain-
ful part of songs like "Within"
and remind me of American Idol
auditions - the singer is terribly
off pitch, and as soon as they try
to hit the high notes the judges
immediately yell at them to stop.
Conversely, Jay Rock in "Money
Trees" by Kendrick hits all the
notes just fine.
In fact, most of the featured
artists on Daft Punk's album
don't sound all that great. Tom
Edwards's vocals fill "Fragments
of Time" nicely, but Paul Wil-
liams and some sporadic piano
accompaniment give "Touch" a
Broadway feel that doesn't mix
well with the electronic com-
ponents. On the other hand,
Kendrick features artists that
not only flow well with him,
but also make their given tracks
even better: Drake does his usual
smooth-talking in "Poetic Jus-
tice," and Dr. Dre adds a hype
and vibrancy to "Compton" that
might have been lacking other-
wise.
As far as semantics go, Ran-
dom Access Memories itself
holds little sentimental value to
hold on to. During Daft Punk's
Grammy acceptance speech,
the gentleman talking for the
robots said that they supported
gay rights and that this year
had been a major victory for the
cause. It's good that they sup-
port the movement, but instead
of just saying it they could infuse
such values into their music,
thereby adding more power and
meaning to their songs. Kend-
rick gives his album plenty of
sentimental value through the
sound bites, and also by discuss-
ing difficult issues like the death
of his sister and struggles of
women growing up and living in
the hood in "Sing About Me."

If you want to talk about
sheer popularity, Random Access
Memories has only one song on
the Billboard Hot 100, and - you
guessed it - it's "Get Lucky" at
number two. Kendrick Lamar's
good kid, m.A.A.d city has three
songs, at numbers 17, 26 and 100.
Although, popularity is certainly
not always a great indication of
quality, seeing as "The Art of
Peer Pressure" might be one of
the deepest and most thoughtful
tracks ongoodkid, m.A.A.dcity.
Lastly, the whole "let'sdressup
as astronauts/robots" gig is cool
and different, but is completely
irrelevant to the music itself. If
there were a "Best Costumes"
category at the Grammy's, they'd
surely take the cake. A lot of the
hype about Daft Punk seems to
derive from sheer intrigue, but
Random Access Memories itself
isn't memorable. If Album of the
Year were to be chosen based
on popularity and uniqueness,
Macklemore probably should've
won with two number one tracks
on the Billboard rankings and a
Kendrick's
fantastic album
deserved more
recognition.
silly haircut - but I digress.
To conclude, Kendrick Lamar
crafted a fantastic and diverse
album this year and walked out
of the Grammys with nothing
to show except a stellar perfor-
mance, while Daft Punk made
one catchy song, and the whole
album was found to be Grammy
worthy. Simply put, they got
lucky.

Why so serious?
Broken Bells slog through 'Disco'

ByADAM THEISEN
Daily Arts Writer
Over the last decade, James
Mercer and Brian Burton (aka
Danger Mouse) have been two of
the most influ-
ential men in
rock. Mercer,
the front man After the
of The Shins,
took the indie Disco
world by storm Broken Bells
and crossed
over into main- Columbia
stream success,
while Burton
scored major hits with his pro-
duction on songs like Gorillaz's
"Fell Good Inc.,"'The Black Keys'
"Lonely Boy" and, of course,
Gnarls Barkley's "Crazy." These
two artists first collaborated as
Broken Bells with their solid
eponymous album in 2010 - and
now they're back for a follow-up.
The question, though, is whether
or not After the Disco lives up to
the high standards set by the pre-
vious work of their solo careers.
If there is a "winner" in this
collaboration, it's definitely Bur-
ton. After the Disco works best
when his shiny, futuristic pro-
duction dominates. By contrast,
Mercer's vocals and guitars
often make the songs sound like
old Shins retreads, bringing the
tracks back into tired and over-
done mid-2000s indie-rock ter-
ritory.
The LP's cover is a gorgeously
trippy abstract image of what
appears to be a girl looking out
into some far-off galaxy, and
Danger Mouse's keyboards do

their best to bring the image to
life. On the lengthy opening track
and album highlight "Perfect
World," Burton's steady drums
and spacey synths drive listen-
ers down an interstellar highway,
while Mercer's voice rides shot-
gun, alternating between soaring
and quietly in awe. The music is
best suited for a room filled with
strobe lights and lasers - or for
your next trip into outer space.
Nothing, however, quite lives
up to the strength of After the
Disco's opener. Appropriate to
the record's title, the music is'70s
disco with a slightly more pres-
ent-day electronic twinge. The
production is slick and funky, but
Mercer's falsetto vocals quickly
make everything sound the same.
Even the first single "Holding On
for Life" doesn't come close to liv-
ing up to "The High Road," the.
biggest hit from their last album.
The core of After the Disco
is primarily filler. Broken Bells
tries things here and there, like
gospel backing vocals and the
occasional horn section, but noth-
ing is particularly innovative or
jaw-dropping. Mercer takes over
much of the music from Burton
after the first few tracks, which
leads to sleepy and dull soft rock.
It's solid and functional, but noth-
ing illuminates. Sometimes it
feels like Mercer and Burton were
just messing around in the stu-
dio, creating an album of mostly
off-the-cuff material that's sub-
par compared to these musicians'
previous work.
Those sticking with After the
Disco for the full ride will be
rewarded with at least a couple

of higher-quality tracks. "Lazy
Wonderland" combines the most
evocative lyrical images of the
album with Mercer's comfortable
acoustic strumming, recalling his
best work with The Shins. "The
Angel and the Fool" also features
interestingly sinister orchestral
production and is worth a listen,
but it's a minor consolation for
those who have slogged thriough
the whole album.
No innovation
from Mercer
and Burton.
All artists who are tryingto sell
their work to the public need to
believe that their work is the abso-
lute best. Unfortunately, it's diffi-
cult to imagine James Mercer and
Brian Burton believing this when
they finished up After the Disco,
especially considering the caliber
of their old material. Bizarrely,
the lack of innovation makes the
songs seem like a play for Adult
Alternative radio, but since this
type of recognition barely means
anything anymore, the album will
end upa small curiosity - a minor
work that only hardcore fans of
The Shins and Danger Mouse
might appreciate. The collabora-
tion simply.does not play out as
well as it looks on paper. Mercer
and Burton are far too talented to
make an album that is truly "bad,"
but nothing here is going to make
much of an impact.

THE BOARD FOR STUDENT PUBLICATIONS
SEEKS NEW MEMBERS
The University of Michigan Board for Student Publications is
recruiting new members for three year terms beginning in April.
The Board is responsible for three publications:
The Michigan Daily, the Michiganensian yearbook, and the Gargoyle.
Because the Board is committed to realizing diversity's benefits for itself and
for the publications it oversees, the Board is particularly interested in recruiting
members of the University community (faculty, staff and students), or the
general public who are members of underrepresented groups and who
have experience and expertise in journalism, law, finance, or fundraising.
All interested persons are encouraged to apply.
For more information and application formg, eaeze contact
Mark Bealafeld, Student Publications Ger Manager at
734-418-4115, extension 1246, or ea euichedu.
picats airu 121
T n e

.A A

r1


8A - Wednesday, February 5, 2014 S

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Defensive issues lingering
Last two games without a realistic solution to its "She's been incredible,"
most pressing problem. Barnes Arico said. "She's been
mark aggravating But what could've been steady night in and night out.
written off as an isolated She handles the ball for us and
step backward incident against Nebraska she usually guards the other
continued at home against a team's bestguard. We are asking
By ALEXA DETTELBACH struggling Minnesota team. so much of her. ... One thing our
Daily Sports Editor Going into halftime with a team needs to do a better job of
38-34 lead, the Wolverines is finding her and being able to
One similarity transcends allowed the Golden Gophers to get her some easier shots."
the Michigan women's hit 11 of their first 13 shots in the Thompson also hit three triples
basketball team's two-game second half, eventually leading against Minnesota, extending
losing streak - defense. Or, a to a whopping 77.3-percent clip her streak of make 3-pointers to
lack thereof. after the break. 22-consecutive games.But despite
The struggles began against "It was our fourth game in scoring 16 points in the first half
Nebraska on 10 days, and we weren't sure against the Golden Gophers,
Jan. 29, when NOTEBOOK how our kids would respond Thompson was held to just three
the Wolverines to the travel schedule," Barnes in the second half.
put their undefeated road record Arico said. "(Minnesota) was TRAVELING IN STYLE:
on the line and came up well unbelievable in the second half. Following Michigan's win
short. Michigan (5-4 BigTen,14-8 ... We really did play well, but we over Wisconsin on Jan. 26, the
overall) allowed the Cornhuskers can't have lapses against good Wolverines traveled in style,
to score 44 first-half points on teams (because) good teams flying on a Miami Air charter
56.7-percent shooting. will make you pay for those - a plane the defending-
Not much improved after defensive lapses." NBA champion Miami Heat
halftime, as Nebraska ended The Golden Gophers' sometimes use. The plane was
the game with 84 points and productive second half saw two en route to Detroit to pick up
shot 53.3 percent from the field. of their players score 24 points the NHL's Florida Panthers
It was just the second time each in addition to guard Mikayla after their game against the
the Wolverines had allowed Bailey's 17, well above her average Detroit Red Wings.

Sophomore forward Nik Stauskas was held to 1-of-6 from the field and just six points in Sunday's road loss to ldiaoa
Resurgent Cornhuskers
eye upset of Wolverines

Nebraska seeks
revenge for home
loss in January
By DANIEL FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Earlier in the week, Nebraska
men's basketball coach Tim
Miles joked
that the
Cornhuskers Nebraska at
have been Michigan
working "on
our one-inch Matchup:
layups" in Nebraska 11-9;
preparation Michigan 16-5
for Wednesday When:
night's game Wednesday
against 6:30 P.M.
Michigan. Where: Crisler
While the Center -
quip - in TV: BTN
reference to
Michigan's
dramatic 71-70 win in Lincoln on
Jan. 9 - may have simply been a
joke, the Cornhuskers' play is far
from it.
After going 9-27 in conference
play in its first two years inthe Big
Ten, Nebraska (3-5 Big Ten, 11-9
overall) will enter Ann Arbor as
winnersofthreeoutoffourgames,
including wins over Indiana and
then-No. 17 Ohio State.
Playing their best basketball
of the year, the Cornhuskers
will be seeking to move their
success out of the confines of
Pinnacle Bank Arena and earn
their first conference road win
of the season.
"(Nebraska's) always been
talented," said Michigan
coach' John Beilein. "Now I
see a chemistry with them
that they're playing as well
as anyone in the league right
now. (Terran) Petteway might
become the best player in the
league. Then (Ray) Gallegos,
the way he can shoot. They have

a tremendous basketball team."
Petteway, Nebraska's leading
scorer with an average of 18.2
points to go along with 5.4
rebounds, has scored in double
digits in all but one game
this season. He could prove
to be the game-changer for
the Cornhuskers. When the
teams first met, the sophomore
both kept Nebraska in the
game against the 10th-ranked
Wolverines (8-1, 16-5) and
hindered it, committing six
turnovers but countering that by
scoring 16 points.
Pettaway ranks second in
the conference in scoring, and
with the Texas Tech transfer
playing well recently -
averaging 21 points in his last
five games - Nebraska seems
to finally be putting all of its
pieces together.
"They assembled this group
of talent," Beilein said. "Several
transfers, two junior college
players and Gallegos, the New
Zealand young man. When you
throw them together, you have
all this talent, but we all know
that talent is never enough. You
have to have chemistry, you
have to have timing, you have to
have a lot of great things.
"And each game that they
play, all of these great talents
that Tim (Miles) has brought
in have got more and more
comfortable with what Tim's
trying to do. And that's been a
big difference for them."
After losing to Indiana on
Sunday, halting a 10-game
winning-streak, Michigan and
sophomore guard Nik Stauskas
will look to bounce back before
travelingto Ohio State and Iowa
in the next week.
For Stauskas, it will be
important for him to be more
involved on offense after
scoring just six points against
the Hoosiers.
"We've got to do a better

job getting (Stauskas) open,"
Beilein said, listing the three
keys to the game. "He's got to
do a better job getting open,
and his teammates need to do a
better job of getting him open."
I Though Beilein said on
Sunday that the loss would help
the Wolverines in the long run,
another lesson that came out
of Michigan's first conference
defeat was that excuses
shouldn't be made when
Stauskas doesn't get the ball.
"Nik could have done
things and we could have done
things," Beilein said. "And his
teammates could have done
things. None of us say, 'OK,
they're denying Nik, we've
gotta go elsewhere.' There were
opportunities for him to get
the ball and we just didn't get
it to him.... We don't want him
taking six shots a game."
Withdefensesidentifyingand
marking him as the Wolverines'
first option, Stauskas will have
to adjust from his past playing
experiences. Just as Stauskas is
no longer just a shooter, he isn't
just an afterthought.
"When I look back on
his career here, there was
Tim (Hardaway Jr.) and
Trey (Burke)," Beilein said.
"In his career at St. Mark's
(Southborough, Mass.),
there was (Arizona's Kaleb)
Tarczewski and (former Florida
player) Eric Murphy. Now,
there's Nik Stauskas' name out
there as a marked man. That's a
different mentality."
NOTES: Nebraska hasn't
played since Jan. 30. ... The
Cornhuskers are 1-8 in games
away from Pinnacle Bank Arena
this season. ... Nebraska's two-
game conference win streak is
its firstcsince joining the Big Ten.
Want more coverage?
Check MichiganDailycom
throughout the day for updates r

their opponents to score more
than 80 points, and was just
the third time Michigan was
outrebounded this season.
"Nebraska was unbelievable,
and they had a special day
there,"said MichigancoachKim
Barnes Arico on Tuesday. "They
were coming off of two really
tough losses, they were ready to
go, and we really couldn't stop
them from scoring.
"Despite everything we tried,
Nebraska kept scoring, and they
have a young lady in Jordan
Hooper ... who was on fire for
them. Everything seemed to be
going right for them."
In just 27 minutes, Hooper
exploded for 25 points and 10
rebounds, missing just four
shots. No amount of varied
defensive looks slowed her
down, leaving Michigan

of three points per game.
Anddespitegrabbingaseason-
best 21 offensive rebounds and
committing a season-low seven
turnovers against Minnesota,
Michigan's defense inhibited its
production and led the team to
drop back-to-back losses for the
first time all season.
22 FOR THE FROSH: For
most of the year, freshman
point guard Siera Thompson
has been on fire from beyond
the 3-point arc.
And nothing changed against
Nebraska, where Thompson
hit two 3-pointers to move her
season total to 50, setting a new
Michigan freshman record.
Amy Johnson held the previous
mark of 49 in 1993-1994.
Thompson is just the eighth
Wolverine to hit at least 50 in
a season.


PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Senior defenseman Mac Bennett has been an integral part of Michigan's power play, but it has struggled in the new year
Power play frustrating'M'
ByALEJANDRO ZUNIGA Mac Bennett has proven himself practicing at full speed and
Daily Sports Editor as a legitimate threat on the would have dressed that
man advantage, Berenson weekend if permitted, Lohan
The Michigan hockey team acknowledged that the remains sidelined with a torn
certainly didn't have too much Wolverines are missing a player lateral meniscus he suffered
to complain like former defenseman Jacob Nov. 1. Berenson said Tuesday
about after it NOTEBOOK Trouba, whose blazing slap shot that the defenseman is not
took five of six helped him tally seven goals last cleared to play this weekend,
possible points against No. 12 year. Since opposing penalty- and his status won't change
Wisconsin last weekend. But the kill units don't have to account before next weekend's series
series marked the continuation for such a vicious shot, they can against No. 1 Minnesota.
of a troublesome trend. collapse into the crease. "He's not quite cleared,"
The Wolverines haven't scored "We're constantly changing the veteran coach said. "They
a power-play goal since the first stuff up with the power play," expect to clear him, but it won't
period of a game against the Moffatt said. "It's so much be this week and it won't be
Badgers on Jan. 11. Since that tally, fine tuning, you can change next week."
a shot by sophomore forward one small thing and suddenly Berenson added that Lohan
Andrew Copp that took a sudden everything works." "is on a good path" in his road to
deflection off of senior forward Saturday, Michigan's power recovery.
Luke Moffatt, Michigan has gone play looked deadly, even if just In November, two days after
0-for-18 with the man advantage. for one of its six opportunities. Lohan's injury, Berenson said
And it's gotten exasperating. On its first man advantage of the that the freshman would be out at
"The most frustrating thing night, it ripped five shots and least three months, making early
is just seeing that power-play kept the puck in Wisconsin's February the best-case scenario
percentage number just go down zone. But the Wolverines came for his return.
and down," Moffatt said Tuesday. up empty-handed on their ONE AWAY: Given Penn
The recent cold streak has next five power plays, too, and State's perfectly futile 0-8
dropped that number to just managed just nine total shots. record in Big Ten play this year,
17.24 percent, which has shaken "If you havea good power play, Berenson might expect to pick up
the team's confidence. The you're going to score one out of his 784th victory this weekend,
Wolverines could reach five full five times," Berenson said. "That which would move him into sole
games without a power-play means you've failed four out of possession of fourth place all-
goal if the special teams doesn't five times, but you're supposed to time in the NCAA's wins category
find twine this weekend against feel good about it." for coaches.
Penn State. DON'T CALL IT A But Berenson isn't taking any
"It's a little bit of everything," COMEBACK: Freshman credit.
said Michigan coach Red defenseman Kevin Lohan will "That means I've been around
Berenson. "It's a little bit of our have to wait even longer until he for a long time, and I've had good
confidence, our execution and plays again. teams, and I'm at the right place,"
guys tryingto do too much." Though he told the Daily he said after the Wolverines beat
Though senior defenseman on Jan. 15 that he was nearly Wisconsin on Friday.

r,


8B Wednesday February 5, 201 4 // The Statement

mean to tell me, you just
entertained over 100,000
people in the stadium, thou -
sands nationwide, and you
can't go celebrate because
there's no place for Black
people to go?'"
"And that's the truth,'
Collier said. 'There's no
place for us to go party. If
there is it's in a small, sweaty
house."
Despite the alienation that
some Black students face
on campus, there are still
opportunities to find homes
and spaces to call their own.
Many in the Black commu -
nity say they often centralize
within the all-Black institu -
tions such as the BSU, NSBE,
Black fraternities and sorori -
ties, among others.
'To be at Michigan is
to be white at Michigan,'
said Tyler. 'There are times
where it really sucks, you
have to just do things to fit
in."
LSA senior Dominique
Crump, president of Sister
2 Sister - an organization
comprised predominantly of
Black women - discussed
her challenge, as a leader of a
Black organization, in carry -
ing the responsibility to seek
out young Black students and
o' offer them a home, when the
majority of students don't
need to be purposefully
sought out. She explained
how difficult it was to con -
stantly be a "race person,'
finding it hard to get people
to listen and even harder to
create change.
"A permanent underclass
has been created since slaves
were boughtfrom West Afri -
ca and people want to ignore
that part of history because,
'Oh, we live in the United
States and you can pull your -
self up by your bootstraps.'
Okay, you've given me straps
but I don't have boots so
what am I pulling up?" she
said.
Crump's on-campus resu -
me includes jobs such as
Residential Advisor, mem -
ber of Sister 2 Sister and The
Office of Academic Multicul -
. tural Initiatives' Leadersand
Best program, to name a few.
While in these positions, she
has taken on the role of men -
tor, trying to help her fellow
Black students and guide
younger ones as they learn

some of the difficulties of
being Black at the Univer -
sity. Crump said it has taken
a considerable toll on her
and that beyond the natural
experiences of senioritis, she
is ready to leave the school.
"I'm tired. My soul is
tired, my body is tired, my
mind is tired," she said.
#BBUM and
the future
Though
the hashtag
started in
November,
the #BBUM
(Being
Black at
U of M)
concept
began
much
earlier.
Fol-
low-
ing the
acquittal
of George
Zimmer -
man in the
Trayvon Martin
case, the BSU held a
forum in July to discuss
the event and offer a chance
for people to share their feel -
ings. Collier, having recently
taken the role of BSU speak -
er at the time, said the dis -
cussion began as a reflection
on being Black in America,
and quickly evolved to being
Black at the University.
The next milestone came
in September, Collier said,
when Bloomberg News
reported that Black enroll -
ment had fallen 30 percent
over the six years after Affir -
mative Action was removed.
Collier said the Fall 2013
semester was a particularly
racially tense year on cam -
pus, noting upsetting com-
ments on stories on The
Michigan Daily's website, as
well as racially insensitive
events such as the Theta Xi
incident in which the fra -
ternity planned a "Hood
Ratchet'-themed party in
October.
"I've seen a lot of stuff
happen throughout my time
here but it was sort of on a
consistent basis last semes -
ter that racial tensions were
arising,"Collier said.

Collier
and BSU Secretary Geralyn
Gaines explained that while
the #BBUM movement had
been in its planning stages
before November, the Theta
Xi party controversy served
as impetus for the group
to move forward with the
hashtag. The plan to pres -
ent the University with a list
of demands had been devel-
oping since the summer,
Gaines said.
The #BBUM hashtag took
Twitter by storm after its
launch, with students, fac -
ulty and even alumni shar -
ing personal accounts, both
positive and negative, about
the Black experience at the
University.
"BBUM is also protec -
tion because if it weren't for
me going to the Black Stu -
dent Union, meeting Tyrell
and our vice president and
all them, I wouldn't feel as
protected on this campus,"
Gaines said.
Thetwo monthsfollowing
the launch of #BBUM have
been incredibly busy for the
BSU. The group presented

its seven demands
a protest outside Hill
Auditorium on Martin
Luther King Jr. Day, and
has received national media
attention for their efforts,
receiving endorsements
from figures such as Rever -
end Jesse Jackson, a noted
civil rights activist.
BSU members and Uni -
versity officials met for the
first time to discuss both
BSU's demands and the Uni -
versity's new diversity initia -
tives, as discussed in a public
e-mail from Provost Martha
Pollack.
Thus far, the University
has pledged $300,000 to
repair the current Trotter
Multicultural Center and
is in the process of design -
ing and site planning a new
building closer to Central
Campus. The BSU and Uni -
versity administrators dis -
cussed all seven demands
and plan to meet once a week
for status updates.
E. Royster Harper, Vice
President of Student Affairs,
said the demands are com-
prised of short-term and
long-term goals, and that
the University is very will -
ing to work together with
the BSU. Harper said in the
first meeting numerous ideas
were proposed. These ideas
included alternatives to

Affirmative Action, such as
reorganizing the recruiting
method to include special -
ized staff members, whose
job would be to scout for
potential students nation -
wide. Harper said University
President-elect Mark Schlis -
sel is supportive of the idea.
Additionally, she said the
school may expand the Pro -
gram on Intergroup Rela -
tions (IGR), offering more
classes on race dialogues
through the program possi -
bly by next year.
Still, Harper admitted
that it will be a long road
ahead, as is often the case
when dismantling racial
stigmas and split opportuni -
ties.
"Despite us talking
about what it means to be
in a respectful community,
despite having a hate and
bias team, there are still stu -
dents who are inexperienced
and intolerant and homo -
phobic and you don't get this
many people together and
not have some of that. Our
work has to constantly be
around education," she said.
Moving forward, Collier
said, students can take com -
fort in thefact that the BSU's
work these past months is
'only the beginning," and
that the Black community is
a support system for all its
members.

'As long as there are
Black students at Michigan,
#BBUM will exist," Collier
said.
Professor Elizabeth
James, a professor of Afri -
can-American studies and
advisor to the BSU, said as
an alum she understands the
types of issues students go
through-here and how diffi -
cult it is to be a Black student
at the University. She said
over her time as a student
and faculty member, she has
equated the racial climate on
campus to that of the entire
country, saying the Univer -
sity does prepare Black stu -
dents for life beyond college.
Still, James said she is,
optimistic and extremely
proud of the Black commu -
nity on campus today, say-
ing that while the Michigan
difference is different for a
Black student, she sees the
leadership, perseverance and
strength in those students is
the same as all Wolverines.
"I believe, in this particu -
lar case, they're only con -
tinuing a legacy of people
who have questioned and
dared the University to be
the best that they can be in
terms of all their students,"
she said. "You have to find
ways to kind of broach the
ivory tower and say, 'Hey,
we've all got to do this
together.'"

I
0
U
DI
I
z
a
70
:4


Wensdy Ferur 5,214/ Th Stteen -iT A w /

Weneda, ebuay ,- 01 / Te taemn

the writer's notebook: Rethinking Harry Potter by max radwin

The University offers a class
through the Residential College
called "The Trials and Tribulations
of Harry Potter." Each fall, its high
demand makes the first-year semi-
nar one of the hardest to get into. But
would you expect any less? After all,
it's Harry Potter we're talking about.
Like every other kid, I read all
seven books in J.K. Rowling's series
- and with a surge of passion as I
did so. New ones came out in the
summer, right around my birthday,
so it was always a magical stretch
of anticipation and counting down.
And when I would finally get my
hands onthelatestone, I always read
it at a freakishly fast pace.
Out of everything I've read,
completing "Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hollows" is still one of the
most strangely vivid memories I panyyouth
have of any book. I finished it in my that dawn:
backyard on a lawn chair, and when readingbo
my eyes ran down to the last page, I who lived:
stared at it with a hole in my heart, untouchab
thinking, it's actually over. I'll never it a good re
get to experience this again. I felt Definitely.

7 +(
1 P1
S p , '
4
ti J

Personal Statement: Naming our dual society
by Alex Winnick
ILLUSTRATION BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND

7700

hink it does - a realization
ed on me as I continued
oks beyond that of theboy
Harry Potter is not some
ly magnificentcreation. Is
ad? Sure. Is it a fun read?
But I want something

nm ewor- sou qps o i 1 Je nenemspoTtinarsp ur
*Data co/ected from Business/Insider:.
p 0
We like funny things.----^
L ET'S L.OL TOG ET HER,-.,
F LOW Uas if I was saying goodbye to old
friends. It was heartbreaking. And in
that moment, like a lot of other read-
4thestatementmag - ers, I thought Harry Potter was one
of the best things ever written. That
it was the book - or series of books -
of our generation.
But I was also a dumb kid.
COVER BY ALICIA KOVALCHECK & AMY MACKENS Yes, Harry Potter has its place on
history's bookshelf, but it does not
occupy the space or share the com-

more out of the books I crack open
and, more generally, from the art I
choose to intake.
But most readers don't, seem-
ingly. Fun is enough for most, which
is why books like Harry Potter can
transcend their adolescent target
audience and reach a large adult
readership. Books are like TV now: a
distraction, an escape, a place to let
your mind go numb at the expense of
quality or depth.
In that sense, Harry Potter is
mind-numbingly good. That's
why the series still feels relevant
seven years after the publication of.
"Deathly Hollows." It's got longev-
ity - not that popularity over time
implies true excellence (see also:
Paris Hilton, or Pitbull, or the soap
opera "Days of Our Lives"). The plot
is well crafted. It's a complex, mul-
tifaceted, generally tidy plot. But
there's more to a piece of writing

TRATIONS BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND
than plot.
Rowling doesn't know how to
write a good sentence - not just
stylistically, but grammatically.
Many of her sentences get tangled in
themselves and, if you take the time
to really look at their construction,
don't make much sense. Not to men-
tion that they're filled with (unnec-
essary) adverbs, the part of speech
she should have learned to avoid
after completing the first story she
ever wrote.
But this isn't a critical essay in a
literary journal. I can't go through
and close-read passages from all
seven books to reappraise them in
your eyes - plenty of journals have
done that already. The larger point
stands: If Harry Potter got an entire
generation to love reading, what
kind of reading did it teach them to
love? Did it lower their expectations?
Or, let's phrase the question
another way: Did it influence kids
at this University to enroll in a col-
lege-level English class about books
geared toward 11-year-olds, but
which will be read as if they were for
adults?
Clearly, it did.

There are some questions to
which I hope I'll always answer no:
"Should we go to Ohio this week-
end?" "Do you want these old Creed
CDs?" "Have you ever seen a grown
man twerk for a dollar?"
After walking along South Uni-
versity Avenue on a windy and bit-
terly cold night last semester, I can
now only honestly negate the first
two. My answer to the final ques-
tion is now yes. Yes, I have wit-
nessed a group of cargo-pantsed,
Timberland booted, puffy-jacketed
boys crowding nearby a homeless
man around midnight. Yes, I saw
them gleefully pull out their cell
phones to record the man as he rest-
ed his palms on the freezing side-
walk and hoisted his legs against
the wall. Yes, I watched them cheer
and laugh and applaud the man,
hand him a single bill and stampede
down the street. Yes, I stood by
motionless, stuck in the middle of
the crosswalk.
I don't know the details of the
videotaping - who suggested it,
how and why they found it amus-
ing or what they did with the
video afterward. I don't know who
the boys were, or how and why
they decided to publicly humili-
ate a homeless man. I do know the
grown man, a street vendor who
works for Groundcover News,
a local non-profit. Groundcover
employs members of the homeless
community to sell its self-published
monthly newspaper. It is a smart
organization that offers its employ-
ees the opportunity to take owner-
ship of their efforts to find stable
employment and functional hous-
ing. This man's primary occupa-
tion is to sell newspapers at a dollar

apiece and he relies on his fellow
community members to invest in
his product. I don't know if these
boys were familiar with Ground-
cover and what it stands for. I do
know that this man was Black, and
I do know that the videotaping boys
were not.
In Paulo Freire's book Pedagogy
of the Oppressed, he argues that
in order to address our problems,
we must first acknowledge and
understand them - that to name
the world is to change the world.
In a recent lecture at Harvard, The
Atlantic's Ta-Nehisi Coates has
done just that. He has named our
world as a dual society, one in which
Black Americans are - systemically
and purposefully - economically,
socially and physically segregated
from white Americans. Coates uses
the phrase "a second society" to
describe the ways in which the two
worlds are kept deliberately sepa-
rate: Black America underneath
White America. This, I believe, is
the sentiment toward which count-
less recent Michigan Daily editori-
als and articles have been reaching.
This, I believe, explains Theta Xi's
World Star party, and the appall-
ing racial statistics that define our
student body. This, I believe, fosters
an environment in which boys find
it socially acceptable, and emotion-
ally profitable, to degrade a home-
less man.
Recognizing a dual soci-
ety requires us to do more than
acknowledgingsystemic racism.
Accepting Coates' diagno-
sis means truly examining every
aspect of our society and deter-
mining the ways in which we have
created a second society. It means

identifying how, when and where You ravaged it for a 30-second video
this second society manifests in our and some laughs.
daily lives. For instance, I recognize This behavior cannot be tolerated
that only in a dual society could a any longer. We are stuck in a cycle
group of college students possibly of offenses and warnings, without
justify their decision to culturally ever taking action to eradicate the
and socially demean an impover- underlying insensitive impetuses,
ished Black man. I recognize the or unravel the dual society. The
ways in which my failure to inter- deaths of Jordan Davis, Jonathan
vene helped perpetuate and exacer- Ferrell and Trayvon Martin attest
bate this dual society. to this pattern. On our campus,
No matter what sort of mob-men- Theta Xi's party and the Da'Quan
tality, peer-pressured concoction videos remind us there are no effec-
of rationale justified their actions, tive consequences to racist conduct,
what that group of boys did is inex- even when it mocks and insults the
cusable. Even though the vendor already underrepresented minori-
obliged their request - even if he, in ties of ourstudent body. We will con-
fact, proposed it - what they did is tinue to exist in this dual society, in
inexcusable. this cycle, until we realize each one
As I walked away from that of us implicated. You are responsible
crosswalk, stunned, guilty and and I am responsible. I failed when
angry, I gravitated toward this sim- : did not intervene the other night.
ple idea. Their actions were simply We all fail when we tolerate any rac-
wrong. They were degrading, juve- ist, sexist, homophobic or otherwise
nile, repulsive, insulting, racist and discriminatory treatment.
humiliating and they were wrong. It becomes a matter of communi-
Above all, it was not in the least ty. Somewhere along the lines these
bit funny. Yet all of the boys were boys discovered that their com-
laughing. munity was built on a dual society.
I walked away with words of They found out that there are no
anger towards the unfamiliar boys: penalties for racist behavior - that
Neither you nor I know what it is cultural exploitation is encouraged,
like to be homeless. Neither you nor even socially rewarded. If we want
I know what it is like to be Black in to dismantle the dual society, we
America. But if you can find a spare need to modify our community. We
moment between your debasement need to ensure that our community
of the homeless, I hope you consider does not value this type of conduct.
the idea that this man may have We need to identify and elimi-
slept outside in the cold 20 degree sate the ways in which we create a
weather that night. Consider that iwo-tiered society, and in the daily
he spends most waking hours on the removal of these norms, in the con-
sidewalks advertising a newspaper tinuous reflection and the constant
that might be his one shot at social modification, learn to merge into
mobility. Consider that you took one even society.
this modest, humble, simple motion It begins with moments of inac-
toward equality and you abused it. tion and moments of action. It

begins with recognizing the more
nuanced aspects of our lives that
lead to the creation of separate soci-
eties, and taking action to reverse
the trends. It begins with naming
the world.
For me and other white students
at the University, understanding
and supporting the #BBUM move-
ment is only the first step. Next
comes identifying the dual society-.ow
and disagreeing with it, saying, "I
don't want to exist in two societ-
ies, especially if I'm unfairly and
disproportionally benefiting from
it." It means examining my place in
America's primary society to see if
and how I am implicated in creat-
ing the circumstances rendering
#BBUM. necessary. Asking myself
questions over and over. Why have
I never felt the way these students
do? In what ways have I benefited
from being a white American at
this school? How can I ensure equal
treatment for every student?
It would be a lie to say that the
University acts as a pioneer in this
endeavor. Until we modifyour com-
munity, until we serve as a model
for naming our injustices and act-
ing in ways to rightthem, we are not
leaders and we are not the best. We
are not victors. Until then, our com-
munity is behind.
Comedian Aziz Ansari has a
joke he tells about how Coldstone
employees have to sing every time
they receive a tip. He's astonished
at how degradingthisis, and argues
that not even a bum on the street
would stoop so low as to sing for a
nickel. Apparently in Ann Arbor,
we'll ask them to twerk for a dollar.
Alex Winnick is anLSA junior.


6B W desaFeray ,204 Satmn

Rushing your roots: minority Greek life at the 'U'
by Emma Kerr

For students of color, the Greek life expe-
rience can provide a community where
cultural roots are shared and celebrated.
Yet the barriers that separate students
100.,racially within Greek life on campus are
also unwritten and unacknowledged.
White students rush a Panhellenic sorority
or an Interfraternity Council. Some Black
students turn to the National Panhellenic
Council - the historically Black Greek
council.
The National Panhellenic Council is
primarily composed of historically Black
Greek Institutions and the Multicultural
Greek Council primarily serves ethnicity
based Greek Institutions. Both are smaller
and less widely known, and are not affili-
ated with Panhellenic or IFC.
Erin Fischer, an LSA senior and Phi Rho
Alpha president, spoke to the different chal-
lenges students of color are presented with
and particularly the obstacles she has faced
over the past four years as one of very few
Black women in her sorority. After taking a
stance last fall against the Theta Xi "Hood
Ratchet Thursday" incident, Fischer con-
tinues to see a long-standing racial divide
within Greek life at the University.
"There's this really weird segregation,"
Fisher said, "I think coming into college
as a person of color, if you are interested in
A"Greek life at all, you either kind of disobey
and leave that identity behind and join an
IFC or Panhellenic sorority or fraternity, or
you completely indulge in that part of your
identity and join one of ... those more his-
torically Black or ethnic sororities. I think
there's this great divide where your identi-
ties don't intersect and you have to kind of
pick a side."
LSA junior Sheetal Gade, a first-gener-
ation Indian-American and an executive
board member of MGC, said a separation
exists between minority fraternities and
sororities and their Panhellenic and IFC
counterparts.
"The reality of it is that most Panhel girls
don't even know what MGC is," Gade said.
"I don't think they teach their pledges about
MGC or NPHC, like that these are your fel-
low Greek sisters and brothers."
While the endless train of freshmen
snakes down State Street every fall with
girls dreaming of walking in the footsteps
of their mothers and fulfilling their legacy,
for many women and men in the MGC and
NPHC of cultural backgrounds, Greek life
b...is not a familial tradition.
"I know in high school, all of my best
friends were white girls and their moms
were Tri-Delts and their grandmas were
Tri-Delts - they were going to be Tri-
Delts," Gale said. "I know that for me, I'm
a first-generation Indian, so my parents did
not go to college here, so they don't know
what Greek life is. They still don't under-
stand what'I do."

the thought bubble

Partly because of this. many of the Black
students involved in Greek life are there
because of the community, not necessarily
to fulfill a personal legacy.
LSA senior Joshua Allen, one of the first
of nearly 30 fraternity brothers to agree to
speak on behalf of NPHC to the Daily, is a
member of Kappa Alpha Phi. He explained
just how deep the Kappa brotherhood runs,
and how that powerful network led him to
join an NPHC fraternity.
"Years down the road, you can still ask us
who our founders are, when we were found-
ed, and we can still tell you just as quickly
as we could from day one after we got into
our fraternities and sororities," Allen said.

Asian communities. Beyond the logistics,
the members of these and NPHC sorori-
ties and fraternities bond and commit to
each other and their organizations in such
a long-term way because they make a deep-
er connection with one another, one that
emphasizes their roots.
"We really enjoy sharing that connection
with our sisters ... Our language and culture
is a deeper connection for us than just the
superficial, 'Oh, we like the same shows.'
That's cool and all, but where you come
from is something different," Gade said.
Each fraternity and sorority is equipped
with its own unique identity and mission.
For members of the NPHC, that bond is

how far outside the box people try to think
of it," Allen said.
So why do minority students have their
own separate councils and institutions-
why not join IFC or Panhellenic? Cultural
influences are part of the answer.
"I think, especially like stepping and a
lot community service that a lot of the his-
torically Black fraternities do, it's a cultural
thing," Fischer said. "I feel like it is a very
welcoming community, and I feel like espe-
cially if you come from a community back
home where you're surrounded by people
who look like you, talk like you, act like you,
and have the same background, it can be
very comforting, especially in a predomi-
nately white University."
For NPHC, it's all about the support sys-
tem, the connections, the bond and the mis-
sion. The Multi-cultural fraternities and
sororities give students the chance to forge
bonds with others who have experienced
similar obstacles and share backgrounds.
For many students, those backgrounds will
have sweeping implications for their social
circles at the University. Fischer grew up in
a predominately white suburb, which she
said may explain why she felt more com-
fortable joining a sorority that is largely
white.
Despite that familiarity, there is still
some divide within her sorority that's hard
to define.
"A lot of it is just that they are already
so predominately white that you go in and
you're the only person who looks like you.
Sometimes you can be the only person talks
like you, uses a certain dialect, I think that
there are a lot of assumptions about you,"
Fischer said, "I know when I try to have
these conversations with girls in my house,
they say 'Well we don't understand, I accept
you. I have lots of Black friends.' That's
awesome, but it doesn't mean we come from
the same place and it doesn't mean that we
are going to see things from the same point
of view."
Gade said that despite growing up in a
mostly white community, she joined a South
Asian/Indian sorority in order to prevent
her from losing her cultural heritage.
"You don't want to forget your roots.
I'm first-generation, but I'm an American
citizen - I don't want to forget, I wouldn't
want my kids to forget where they come
from, their language, their religious festi-
vals, any of that," Gade said.
She added that this was a conscious
choice for her - to either completely
indulge in American culture and forget
where she came from, or to keep her past a
constant in her present.
The cultures and rich traditions that
have grown in the NPHC and MGC com-
munities serve students in a way that IFC
and Panhellenic often can't, by giving
them a space o campus So call their own.

online comments
ON BRENDAN GIBBONS

"Let's not use weak language surrounding Brendan
Gibbons. He is EXPELLED from the University of
Michigan for RAPE. Let's also not praise the University
for finally acting upon the incident. Their tardiness
allowed him to continue representing the football
program for three additional years following his
disgraceful behavior."
- LAUREN LIPAROTO ZANGER
"You Google 'Michigan' and the first 10 stories you get
are about athletics. We've got to find ways to leverage
that level of public attention onto the other wonderful
things that are happening on campus as well."
- SAM ADOLPH
"Let us hope that his degree in social work is never
used. A rapist masquerading as someone who can help
improve quality of life or facilitate change would be a
disaster.
- HANNA SHERMAN

"Try as many different, random classes as you can ... I've taken a class
abouthippies, beatniks and punks. I've taken Women's Studies courses. Ijust
take classes I'm interested in; I think it keeps you going and more propelled
toward what you want to do, as long as you get the diverse experience and
explore different concepts."
- COURTNEY WRIGHT, LSA junior

trending

Seth Myers made
his final goodbye
on SNLs Weekend
Update on Saturday.
While Cecily Strong
teared up, Andy
Samberg,Amy
Poehler and Stefan
made appearances
to send Myers off.
Lean writer Colin
Jost will be taking
NBC COM hispplace.

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
Members of Zeta Phi Beta perform at the Annual Blue and White Stroll Off hosted by Phi Beta Sigma
Fraternity and Zeta Phi Beta Sorority at Palmer Commons on Saturday.

Hotlanta failed to live upto its name,
experiencing a blimp in its weather system -
covering the city in two inches of snow. The
result: an overreaction that caused the city to
shut down its highways.
p--

"A lot of people back home that were men-
tors of mine were Kappas, so it was definite-
ly something I wanted to be a part of."
The sense of pride, tradition and close-
ness these minority-based fraternities and
sororities experience can be attributed at
least in part to their fairly intimate size.
For the Kappas, their membership intake
this year, which has beenincreasing,
was at an unusual high of 14 new members.
"Because there are so few of us, I can
see why we are more tight knit. There are
sometimes pledge classes of IFC fraterni-
ties of 40 people and 40 people can give or
take be our entire council so we're tight in
the sense that there's not many of us so we
definitely are really close with each other,"
Allen said.
The fraternities and sororities that make
up MGC are in a similar situation. There are
10 fraternities and sororities in MGC, four
of which are Latina, four serve students of
Asian descent and two serve Indian/South

palpable when you see these brothers and
sisters perform together, particularly in
regards to stepping. Stepping, an intensive
mixture of movement, spoken word and
physical expression is a huge part of the cul-
ture surrounding these historically Black
fraternities and sororities - it's intense,
passionate and visually exciting.
The stepping thathappens at Midnight
Madness - a dance competition hosted by
NPHC held on the Diag every September -
is just a preview for the real competition,
which happens in April and is not taken
lightly. Stroll-offs are another tradition
of NPHC fraternities and sororities that
is unique. Every organization has its own
traditions when it comes to stepping and
strolling, movements that are unique to
each fraternity or sorority.
"I really enjoy going to the shows and not
only participating but watching what my
colleagues come up with too, because we all
try to'be so creative.'Ii' really funny t'fsee

a-

J

I

One of America's best actors - known for
winning numerous awards, including Best
Actor for his role in 'Capote' - passed away
this week. Though autopsy results are
unreleased, it is speculated to be due to drug

F

It's the most
watched TV event
in history, and not
without reason.
Well, maybe
without reason.
The Seahawks
trumped the
Broncos, 43-8.
How's that for
unimpressive?

APPOO " atYr



I B Wedesay Fbrar 5 204 / -heStte en

Wensdy ebur 5 01 heSaemn

WHA T

a BLACK A THE UNIVERSITY?

B Y W I L L

G R E E N B E R G

hen the
#BBUM cam -
paign gar-
nered national
attention in
November,
University administrators and stu -
dents alike were caught off-guard
by the raw emotion captured in 140
characters. And despite thousands of
tweets, there isn't one single answer
to the question 'what is being Black
at the University of Michigan?'
Black, brown, Afroamerican or
African-American - whatever the
name- it's a group that shares a trait
which has enormous implications
for their social and academic experi -
ences: their race. And while college
is a time of learning for all students,
both in and outside the classroom,
many Black students at the Universi -
ty have an extra layer to their experi -
ence: a specific racial consciousness
that hangs over the community.
A Cold Racial Climate and the
Never Ending Question
"Being Black at the University of
Michigan is like an extra job," said
Chris James, an LSA Junior from
Flint, Mich.
James is a Black man on a campus
of mostly white students. Accord -
ing to the most recent enrollment
data, the University's undergradu -
ate population is 4.65 percent Black
and 72.6 percent white - a disparity
that has grown since the passage of a
ban on affirmative action policies in
2006. Asa member of a racial minor -
ity, James said he feels the isolation
of being outnumbered. He feels an
additional set of burdens unique to
the Black community. Others feel
the same.
"I never saw any racism or any -
thing like that until I gotto Michigan
and then I was like, 'Wow, this actu -
ally happens,'" said LSA and Music,
Theatre & Dance sophomore Nadia
Weeks.
Growing up, Weeks said she was
used to being outnumbered in her
school, having been one of the few
Black students in her class until high
school. However, only when she
began her time at the University did
she start to see how her race defined
her to others.

Weeks is one of two Black students
on her dance team. As a dance major,
Weeks spends the majority of her
time within the dance school with
a group of about a dozen other stu-
dents.
During one dance rehearsal,
Weeks was practicing with her team
when another girl's foot became
lodged in Weeks' hair extensions
as the two spun by each other.
When the other dancer pulled her
foot away, a portion of both Weeks'
extensions and her natural hair went
with it. When the rest of the group
saw what had happened, they burst
into laughter. No one asked if Weeks
was all right.
"The fact that I was wearing
extensions - I don't know, it's just
something they weren't used to,"
Weeks said. 'They were laughing
at me and I was like, 'Wait, I actu -
ally could have gotten hurt - no one

hair much before and that except for
maybe the one other Black student on
the team, no one knew how to react.
For the first part of the year,
Weeks said she tried to avoid the
other Black student in the class, stay -
ing as far away from her as possible
so her professors wouldn't mix them
up. Despite her efforts, Weeks said
she frequently was confused for the
other girl.
"This girl looks nothing like me.
I wear braids; she has long, straight
hair; my complexion is much darker
than hers; our structure is way dif -
ferent; our personalities are dif -
ferent; so how could you always be
calling me her name?"
Weeks' experience on the dance
team is emblematic of the many chal -
lenges Black students at the Univer -
sity face in clashing cultures with
students who are not of the same
background. These exchanges often

or prejudice, and many times Black
students attribute these incidents
to misinformation or lack of under -
standing.
Still, many Black students are left
wondering if race was an influencing
factor in these encounters.
Engineering senior Frankie Reed
is the president of the University's
National Society of Black Engineers
(NSBE). However, Reed said many
of his peers assume he is an athlete
rather than a scholar.
"1 get it so much that I just tell
them, 'No, I'm an electrical engi -
neer,'and I guess that kind of off-sets
that thought like, 'Oh, wow, real -
ly?'" he said. "It just happens
so much that I handle it
and get through it."
Like many other
Black students,
Reed has expe-
rienced other

street. At times, it is difficult to wear
a hoodie without feeling like he's
being viewed as a threat.
For each crime alert that includes
a Black male as suspect, Reed
explained that essentially any Black
male on campus could be target-
ed. When campus crime alerts are
released with a Black male described
as a suspect, there is an inherent
anxiety with reading "afro or bald,"
in the criminal description, he said.
"I got pulled aside by DPS inside
the cafeteria and they said, 'You fit
the description of blah, blah, blah,
where were you at
such and such time,'
and I had to explain
to them,'I was in the
cafeteria the whole
time,'" he said.
As a part of the
minority, many

ceived stereotypes or give further
reason for discrimination.
"When was the last time you were
in a class and someone said, 'Why do
white people do this?'" he asked. "It's
pressure to make sure you're articu -
late when you speak so you sound
intelligent and people don't think
you're an idiot."
These encounters weigh heavily
on many Black students. What's even
more frustrating for the Black com -
munity is that these incidents are not
always explicitly racist or intolerant.
Thus, for many students, the never
ending question remains: "Would it
be different if I wasn't Black?"
Bait and switch
The first sentence of the 'Prospec -
tive Student' section on the Uni -
versity's main website reads:
"Welcome to an amazing
place filled with unparalleled
opportunities, interesting and
engaged minds, and a richly
diverse campus community."
On the site, the University
highlights the wide variety of
students "from 50 states, 127
countries - nearly 1,500 interna -
tional students - a campus com-
prised of multiple races, cultures,
languages, religions, and perspec -
tives, where intellectual and cultural
interaction happen."
Additionally, the photographs
on the page feature many students
of color, a representation many see
as disproportionate to the student
body's actual demographics. Many
Black students who are now at the
University said when they saw these
pictures and read these descriptions,
they were under the impression that
the school was a melting pot of cul -
tures, a comfortable, inclusive racial
environment.
This is not the case.
"When I chose the college I was
thinking, 'Oh, there's going to be
so much diversity, there are people
from all around the world,' and when
I got here it was something that
was completely different," said LSA
freshman Dezha Dial.
Dial said she has already seen
the interracial tension that comes
with being a Black student. She's
been called the n-word. She had a

white roommate who tr
dorm rooms because, from
understood, she took iss
with a Black woman. Dial
only place she trulyfeels sa
campus is alone in her
room.
"I don't feel like I
should hate it here. I
chose this school for a
reason. I came here to
get an education but I
also came here for an
amazing experience,"
Dial said. "College is
supposed to shape you
educationally but also
socially and there is
something socially that
is lacking here."
The problems persist
across campus and into
the city of Ann Arbor
itself.
Following a football-
Saturday this past fall,
a group of high school
students was
on a scaven-
ger hunt in
Ann Arbor.
The group
was from
the Neu-
tral Zone's
Students
Educating
Each other about
Diversity (S.E.E.D.)
program - a student grot
ed to discussing and lead
sity education workshops.
The group was walkinc
the crowded streets as1
exiting the stadium ant
downtown. At the corne
Street and East Liberty S
high school students cam
small group of University
One of them held up a bl
of a Black woman, which I
had brought along as his'
men were making obsce
gestures toward the doll,
and confusing the S.E.E
members.
The S.E.E.D. group ap
the University students a
them why they had the dol
responded with jokes a
ter. Why the rushers had t

ansferred all was not made apparent, but the he knows how easy it can be to dis - school is, and has watched as the
what Dial impact on the S.E.E.D. group was miss race, and that often many white Black community has been forced ,
sue living painful. students find ways to overlook their into itself, with its members having
said the "My whole group just stopped and own impact. nowhere else to go.
fe now on we got closer ... when I saw (them), 'This gives another kind of play - "I feel like most of the times you
are pushed
away, pushed
toward each
other and you
sort of cling
to each other
as sort of a
way of sur-
vival, a way of
showing soli-,...
darity," Col -
tier said.
Black stu -
dents are
frequently
made to feel
like outsiders
both inside
and outside
of the class-
room. During
group work,
Black Stu --...a
dents often
face difficulty
having their
ideas taken
ALLISON FARRAND Daily seriously by
Kinesiology sophomore Capri'Nara Kendall ina protest organized by the Black Student Union in front of Hill Auditorium on Janu their peers.
ary 20th.
Classmates
often assume
there was a physical, ing card like, 'I go to a diverse Uni - Black students were admitted to
'Really? Is this really versity, therefore I cannot possibly the University through affirmative
happening right now? Am be racist.'ButI think that it's away to action initiatives, despite the fact
up dedicat- I seeing what I'm seeing?" said Leo deflect and a way to not actually deal that such programs were banned by
ling diver - Thornton, a member of the S.E.E.D. with these things that are inherently a popular statewide referendum in
group. inside of us because we were brought 2006.
g through S.E.E.D. Leadership Coordinator up," Frey said. "I've seen that and Collier noted that on a social level,
fans were Danny Brown, an alumnus of the experienced that a lot on U of M's it is very disheartening to be a Black
d heading University, said many of the students campus." student at the University. There are
r of State were overcome by the incident, with often smallervenues for social events
treet, the some breaking into tears. Brown said Black or Blue than other students get to use, Black
ie across a that the significance of the blowup studentsareusuallyoutnumbered on
students. doll was likely overlooked by the At a University where Blacks com - game day or other major University
ow-up doll young men, who didn't have to think prise 4.65 percent of the undergrad - events, and rarely feel welcomed or
he said he about the racial intent and power uate population, interacting with comfortable going to fraternity par -
date." The they were carrying. those outside of one's demographic ties.
ne, sexual "They're giving this message can be difficult. Collier told a story he had heard
shocking that's saying: 'Women of color, you "It's a salad bowl," said LSA senior from a staff member of the football
.D group are not people.You're objects and the Tyrell Collier. "It's not a melting team talking to a player after a big
fact that we're dehumanizing you is pot." win:
proached not only not serious, not only not a Collier is the speaker of the Black "She asked him, 'Did you go out
nd asked concern to us, but it's funny,'" he said. Student Union and president of and party after the game?' And he
1. The men William Frey, another S.E.E.D. EnspiRED, a fashion organization was like, 'No!' She said, 'Why?' and
nd laugh - staff member and University gradu - on campus. As a senior, Collier said he said, 'Because there's no place for
he doll at ate student, said that as a white male, he has seen how racially divided the Black people to go.' She said, 'You

Black
Aq''students
say they feel a
responsibility to serve
as a representative for
the larger Black com -
munity. This occurs
both within the class -
room, with professors
sometimes tokeniz -
ing students to speak
for an entire race, and
outside the classroom,
with Black students
feeling scrutinized by
their peers, including
students that have no
experience with Black
culture or Black people
at all.
ALLISON FARRAND/ Daily Jeremy Tyler, a fifth-
Students participate ina protest organized by the Black Student Union in front of Hill Auditoriumon on January 20th. year senior and member
of the cheerleading team,
wants their hair pulled out.'" involve an awkward question, quick racially charged incidents. He said he feels like he can't make any
Weeks said she doubted most of assumption or off-color statement. described how frightened pedes - mistakes in school. He doesn't want
her team had been exposed to Black Rarely are the cases of overt racism trians sometimes avoid him on the to reinforce or confirm any precon -


