h#Mid Pan &iIaj
()NEI HUN E TWENTY(U YEAIS 0F EIT)0IIAL FREIEDOM
Ann Arbor, Michigan Friday, March 14,2014 michigandaily.com
ADMINISTRATION
University
retirement
plans face
overhaul
Adminisrators ope leving employment. Adminis-
Administrators hope d L rln:
tration differentials - additional
to save $4.4 million responsibilities with a limited
timeframe such as department
per year through cost chairs - will no longer be includ-
ed either.
TRACY KY/Daily co tanm nt The plan was recommended
Politicians speak in a panel at "Changing the Game: Progressive Women in Government" at Rackham Auditorium Thursday. byaThe Univer committe
by the Uiversity's Committee
By SAM GRINGLAS on Retirement Savings Plan and
Daily News Editor Retiree Health Benefits, which
convened meetings in the fall
University officials have to analyze changes to the Uni-
approved one more piece of a versity's contribution to retire-
Leading progressive urged University students to nal candidate and member of However, the theme that multi-year set of cost contain- ment savings. Conceived as a
fight back against the perceived the Democratic National Com- dominated the hour-nd-a- ment initiatives. cost-saving measure, the move is
politicians call for injustice by running for office mittee, State Sen. Rebekah half-long event was the need for Beginning Jan. 1, 2015, the expected to save the University
themselves at an event held in Warren (D-Ann Arbor), State more women to run for politi- University willadjustthe types of $4.4 million annually.
more women in Rackham Auditorium Thursday Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Detroit), cal office at national, state and income accounted forin calculat- Currently, employees who
night. Washtenaw County Commis- even local levels. The politicians ing its contributions to employee contribute 5 percent of their pay
government More than 100 students and sioner Felicia Brabec and South- repeatedly referenced the fact retirement savings plans. to a retirement plan receive a 10
community members attended field Mayor Brenda Lawrence that the percentage of women Under the new policy, Univer- percent matching contribution
By ALICIA ADAMCZYK "Changing the Game: Progres- were panelists at the discussion. holding office in the Michigan sity income earned beyond an from the University. Last year,
Daily StaffReporter sive Women in Government," The politicians addressed a Legislature - 18.9 percent - is employee's base pay will no lon- the University spent $242 mil-
which was hosted by the Col- number of issues ranging from at a 20-year low, notingthat this ger factor into these calculations. lion on contributions to employ-
After Michigan's contro- lege Democrats'Women's Issues the controversial abortion leaves women'svoices and needs These types of income include ee retirement savings plans - an
versial abortion insurance bill Committee, FemDems, in honor insurance law to the media's at a disadvantage. compensation received for facul- expense that has continued to
went into effect Thursday, five of Women's History Month. obsession with Hillary Clinton's "Don't wait," Brabec said. ty honors, overtime and unused grow.
progressive female politicians Debbie Dingell, congressio- hair. See PANEL, Page 2 vacation and paid time off when See RETIREMENT, Page 2
SPORTS
Michigan to face Illinois
in Big Ten Tournament
Wolverines hope than second-place teams Wis. But that's not what Michigan
consin and Michigan State, coach John Beilein is thinking.
to defend regular- They conquered what the Big "Doesn't concern me at all,"
Ten offered to be conquered he said. "I think this is a great
season B1G title With the postseason now opportunity for us to get bet-
here, it seems that Michigan ter as asteam, to win, to go after
should have an eye toward the another championship this
ByNEAL ROTHSCHILD NCAA Tournament. Its four year."
Daily Sports Editor losses in the non-conference It's the first time Michigan
season are the team's signifi- has earned a No. 1 seed in the X
The Michigan men's bas- cant stain against its rdsum, Big Ten Tournament since its
ketball team ran roughshod and now that the Wolverines inception in 1998, and it will

through the Big Ten this year. have clawed back to its pre- take its first shots against Illi-
In perhaps the toughest confer- season ranking, surely the Big nois at noon on Friday. The Illini
ence in the nation, the eighth- Ten Tournament will provide a beat Indiana - ateam that gave
ranked Wolverines went 15-3 chance for them to earn a top- the Wolverines trouble this year PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
and finished three games better two seed in the Big Dance. See BIG TEN TOURNEY, Page 6 Sophomore guard Nik Stauskas tallied 24 points when Michigan last met Illinois. The two programs face off today at noon.
RESEARCH HOSPITAL
Colleges call for sexual assault guidance Health System offers
OSCR study shows form a task force to address sexual try, including public and private we can about the policies is really free screen in gs for
assault on college campuses. institutions with varyingstudent good."
universities want "There is no doubt that rep- populations. Holly Rider-Milkovich, direc-
resentatives from institutions The findings arrive as many tor of the University's Sexual N ation al K idn ey D ay
more support in of higher education echo the institutions complete the process Assault Prevention and Aware-
president's concerns," Wilgus ofadoptingnewsexualmisconduct ness Center, spoke spoke before With obesityand System's Division of Nephrol-
handling cases said in a statement. "We are policies. In 2011, the U.S. Depart- the University's Board of Regents ogy offered free kidney health
deeply concerned about the ment of Education released a Dear last month to raise further aware- other risk factors screenings on Wednesday at
By CLAIRE BRYAN problem of sexual misconduct Colleague letter that strongly rec- ness of the University's policy the University Hospital. The
Daily StaffReporter on campus and are strongly com- ommended that institutions more changes and laud the increased on the rise, activists screenings included urine
mitted to preventing and effec- actively investigate all allegations number of reported incidents. tests and measuring blood
A new study co-sponsored by tively responding to campus of sexualmisconduct. In a statement, Kurt Bumby, look to reverse trend pressure and weight. The
the University found that 83 per- sexual misconduct." The University's newest policy, senior associate at the Center for event was held in honor of
centofsurveyed institutions with He also added that many of which was officially adopted in Effective Public Policy, said the By CHARLOTTE JENKINS World Kidney Day, a global
written policies to address sexual those surveyed identified cam- August, was used to handle former results would help institutions Daily StaffReporter initiative to spread the word
misconduct said they want more pus safety as a top concern and kicker Brendan Gibbons' perma- better adapt to new policies and about kidney disease.
support and guidance inhandling expressed a need for additional nentseparationfromtheUniversity. improve campus safety. Regie, a superhero made of The event featured tables
students found responsible for technical assistance, training In an interview Thursday, "These findings can help broccoli, is on a mission from with information from the
sexual misconduct. and resources pertaining to the Coleman responded to student inform the national conversation the National Kidney Founda- National Kidney Foundation
In a statement, Jay Wilgus, handling of instances of sexual criticism of the University's and guide our ongoing efforts to tion. Regie is part of a cur- and the University Hospital
director of the office of Student misconduct. transparency regarding the Gib- assist stakeholders in responding ricular program to promote regarding organ donation and
Conflict Resolution, said the sur- The survey, jointly sponsored bons incident by emphasizing the appropriately to campus sexual healthful behaviors to prevent palliative care. The tables also
vey's results are consistent with by the University, the Center for importance of educating students assault and implementing effec- the onset of diabetes and high contained information about
conversations he hashad with col- Effective Public Policy and the about the policy's details. tive strategies after a student has blood pressure, the leading resources such as the Michi-
leagues at other institutions. He Association for Student Conduct "It could be that people don't been found responsible," he said. causes of kidney disease. gan Comprehensive Diabetes
also noted the findings are partic- Administration, covered more realize what the new processes A full report of the survey's The National Kidney Foun- Center and the Camp Michi-
ularlyrelevantinlightofPresident than 2,600 higher education are," Coleman said in aThursday finding is slated for release in dation of Michigan and the tanki program, the latter of
Barack Obama's recent decision to representatives across the coun- interview. "Knowing as much as April. University of Michigan Health See HEALTH SYSTEM, Page 2
WEATHER Hl:39 GOTANEWSTIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM INDEX NEWS.. . . .2...P...2 OPINION.................4
LOAHERCal7 34-418-4115ore-mail 'U'reports $16 million in strategic sourcing savings Vol. CXXIV, No.82 SUDOKU....... .....3 CLASSIFIEDS.................6
TOMORROW LO: 9 news@michigsndaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS @2014The Michigan Daily ARTS ..............3 SPORTS .........................6
michiyandaily.com

.A 4



2 - Friday, March 14, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

94 f #MidliganDaily
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

LEFT Managing Photo Editor
Teresa Mathew traveled to
London, England during Spring
Break and visited Big Ben.
(Teresa Mathew/Daily)
UPPER RIGHT Washtenaw
Community College student
Cl South builds a lIfe-sized
snowman with the help of
artists Vaugn Louks and
Rachel Polk on State Street
Wednesday. (Virginia Lozano/
Daily)
BOTTOM RIGHT Kaitlyn
Weaver and Andrew Poe per-
form at FrenchieSkate Sunday
at Yost Ice Arena. (Luna Ann
Archey/Daily)

I!
I ;

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
SportsSection
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandailycom
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaiy.com


RETIREMENT
From Page 1
Asstate allocationstotheUniversi-
ty have declined over the past decade,
the University has sought new meth-
ods to contain costs. Like the shared
services initiative, alterations to the
structure of retirement plan alloca-
tions are part of the Administrative
Services Transformation Project, a
long-term project aimed to reduce
costs that minimally affect the stu-
dent experience.
"Cost containment at U-M is a
comprehensive effort, and looking at
large and growing expenses is vital to
that process," Timothy Slottow, exec-
utive vice president and chief finan-
cial officer, wrote in a press release.
"We took a disciplined approach,
utilizing expert faculty because we
know a strong retirement savings
program is crucial to the welfare of
faculty and staff."
The University also announced
Thursday it saved $16 million - $2
million more than initially pro-
for
PANEL tor
From Page 1 t
ga
"Run. We need you." diE
"We need to step up so we'll be ch
heard," Lawrence added. sio
The leaders also stressed the th
importance of mentorship - pa
whether from a male or female an
- and the need for women to ge
support each other in campaigns,
careers and in life instead of see- wI
ing each other as competitors. an
Dingell, who late last month ad
declared her candidacy to fill her oN'
retiring husband Rep. John Ding- to
ell's (D-Mich.) congressional oN
seat, could engage in a primary w
challenge with Warren, who has co

jected - through strategic sourc-
ing initiatives during the 2013 fiscal
year. Another component of the AST
Project, this project streamlines the
University's purchasing of supplies,
furniture and computers.
The University Health System,
which also received similar analysis
of its retirement allocations, opted for
more extensive changes to its current
policy.
Because a study showed UMHS's
retirement savings plan was more
than 60 percent greater than nation-
al and local peers, the committee
recommended capping the Universi-
ty's contribution at 9 percent of base
pay for certain UMHS employees.
Those employees will only need to
contribute 4.5 percent of their base
pay to qualify for the matching pro-
gram.
The University aimed to avoid
more extensive changes at the uni-
versity-wide level.
In an interview with the Daily,
History Prof. Maris Vinovskis said
across-the-board cuts to the Univer-
sity's base-level contribution would
rmed an exploratory conmittee rape c
consider a run. crats
While education, the wage insura
p and health parity were also Pro
scussed at length, the issue of allows
oice received the most pas- oppos.
onate responses from several of of pay
e panelists. Dingell called the cover
ssage of the abortion insur- ture fi
ce rider "absolutely outra- when
ous." der ve
The bill requires individuals Right
ho receive insurance through 300,01
employer to purchase an suppo
ditional abortion rider at their house
en expense and is not available ber.
women who purchase their Bec
en individual policies. Because fied ti
omen must have the rider to initiat
ver abortions resulting from effect

have made thesebenefit offerings less
competitive compared to other insti-
tutions that sometimes lure Univer-
sity professors.
Top Universityofficials announced
the changes in an e-mail that was sent
to employees Thursday morning and
obtained by the Daily.
"These reviews were part of the
University's ongoing efforts to ensure
that our benefits plans are competi-
tive, of high value to our faculty and
staff and, at the same time, respon-
sive to the financial climate for high-
er education and health care," the
e-mail said.
Kathleen Canning, professor of
history, women's studies and German
and chair of the History Department,
said the change will likely have small
irnpacts for regular faculty members,
but for faculty members serving in
leadership roles, the impacts will be
more direct.
"We need to learn more about this,
however, before assessing how facul-
ty are responding to it," Canning said.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the reductions are

widely dispersed among employ-
ees. While the provision excluding
overtime wages would likely affect
hourly staff and the provision exclud-
ing administrative differentials, for
example, Fitzgerald said the distri-
bution would prevent any one type of
employee - such as staff, faculty or
hourly employees - from being dis-
proportionately affected.
Multiple faculty members said it
is too early to judge the policy, but
the impacts, especially for employees
who do not earn income above their
base pay, are not likely to have wide-
reaching implications.
Vinovskis said the University's
policy, which does more than match
money for retirement, is more than
generous. He added that he had not
realized the University was including
income above base pay in retirement
plan calculations to begin with.
"I have faith in the University that
they're looking out for our interests,"
Vinovskis said. "They're trying to
be very judicious. We're living in a
period of time where everyone has to
make sacrifices."

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburke@michigardaily.com
lenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham, Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham evar, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michael Sugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aaricar Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Zitiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISANTa SORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon,sJakeLourimandJasonRubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaytSeth MaeogiegArtnhEdiors aiee@nhchigandaity~coe
SENIO RRS EDITORS:Gincrleo mo, Natalie Gadbis riaHaroodan
ASSISTANToARTSEDITORS: JamieBircoll,JacksonHoward,GillianJakab andMaddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul therean Managing BEhoto tditory photo@michigandaily.com
ASISTANTPHOTOEDITORSAllisonFarrand,TracyKa,TerraMolengraffandNicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
GabrielaVasquez ManagingDesignEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIORDESIGNEDITORS: AmyMackensandAlicianKovalcheck
CarlinaDuanMagazineEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: RubyWallau
Mark ssolinskiand Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SE510 o C oTOR S:Mariam Sheikh and David Na r
Astet Buttond Onlinetnditor ahufford@ieioardaily.o
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar DigitalAccounts Manager
DougSolomon UniversityAccounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasMo LocalAccountsManager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum ProductionManagers
Nolan LohSpecialrrojectsCoordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
TheMichi anD i n r5- is r ,aM ,a ,,, Fida dri hefr adadwintertrms by
be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for fan term, starting in September, via U.S. mai are $110.
Winter term Oanuary through April) is $115 yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affiliates
are subject to a reduced subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall term are $35. Subscriptions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

or incest, Michigan Demo-
have branded it as "rape
nce."
ponents of the bill say it
people who are morally
ed to abortion to opt out
'ing for health plans that
the procedure. The legisla-
rst passed the bill in 2012,
Republican Gov. Rick Sny-
toed it. It became law after
to Life Michigan gathered
00 petition signatures in
rt of the bill, and both
s passed it again in Decem-
ause the signatures quali-
he measure as a citizen's
ive process, it went into
without for Snyder's sig-

nature.
"It's inexcusable," Dingell
said. "I could use a lot of words
but I don't want to use profanity
today."
Warren, who represents Ann
Arbor in the Michigan Senate,
said while some may view choice
as a niche issue, it may come off
as too narrow. She added it is the
most telling issue of a politician's
core values and beliefs.
"I don't view it as too narrow
because in some ways, choice is
the best values indicator," War-
ren said. "In some ways it's the
only thing I need to know about
a candidate to know if I want to
support them or not."
Tlaib said she ran for office

because of

her love of
community - not as a pro-choice
candidate. However, she said she
quickly became a prominent pro-
choice activist while in office
and, like Dingell, said she was
outraged at the actions of the
Republican-dominated Michi-
gan legislature.
"The way they shape it, they're
calling me a killer, a murderer,
on the House floor. They have
no idea," Tlaib said. "The infant
mortality in my city is so high,
but you don't want to spend the
money on those children ... it's
very hypocritical."
Infant mortality is the num-
ber one killer of children in

Detroit, according to the Michi-
gan Department of Community
Health.
While Dingell said there is
still much to be done to help
women reach parity in society,
she is optimistic about the future
for women in the country.
Dingell plans to run on a plat-
form that includes a focus on
health parity for women, but said
increased funding for education
is also crucial.
"I'm really worried about
access to education," she said
in an interview after the event.
"Too many students are graduat-
ing with debt they can't afford."

HEALTH SYSTEM
From Page 1
which was created by the UMHS
Transplant Center.
The event aimed to educate
attendees about the risks of kid-
ney disease and teach them about
prevention, according to Lindsay
White, senior communications
coordinator at the National Kid-

ney Foundation of Michigan.
Julia Herzog, program coor-
dinator at the National Kidney
Foundation of Michigan, expe-
rienced kidney failure after her
kidney was damaged in an acci-
dent. Herzog said she hopes to
raise awareness of kidney dis-
ease prevention so others do not
have to go through treatments
like dialysis, the procedure that
filters blood to eliminate waste.
She said she hopes kidney disease

will be just as well known as other
chronic diseases such as diabetes
and heart disease.
"Kidney disease doesn't usu-
ally get the same type of promo-
tion as some of the other chronic
diseases," Herzog said. "It's not
as sexy or attractive as the others
because kidneys are associated
with urine and peeing."
Internal Medicine Prof. Rich-
ard Swartz, who was honored
with the Collegiate Professorship
in Nephrology, said treating kid-
ney disease is difficult because it
often goes unrecognized. Patients

have better outcomes when the
disease is detected early and
before it develops into later stages
or into kidney failure. Chronic
kidney disease presents a chal-
lenge because it requires dialysis,
meaning that patients must visit
the hospital multiple times every
week for lengthy treatments.
Kathryn Uhler, a peritoneal
dialysis nurse at the University
Hospital, said dialysis can be dis-
couraging for patients.
"The patients have to change
their diet, they might not have
as much energy, it may change

their job situation," Uhler said. "It
affects the family more than we
know."
Swartz said kidney transplan-
tation is the ultimate solution.
"We do almost one kidney
transplant a day here at the hos-
pital," Swartz said. "The problem
is we don't have enough organs."
White said of the 3,100 people
waiting for an organ transplant in
Michigan, 2,600 of are waiting for
a kidney. Herzog waited five years
for a kidney transplant, and the
average wait time in Michigan is
five to seven years.
Swartz discussed the need for
and research surrounding finding
another source of organs, adding
that while the research is cur-

rently promising, it's not yet real-
istic.
"If you work in these areas, you
trust technology," Swartz said,
"I've seen incredible things. I
think it's going to happen, but not
in my lifetime."
The prevalence of chronic kid-
ney disease is increasing across
the country, especially as obesity
rates rise.
Theresa Tejada, program
coordinator with the early child-
hood & elementary prevention
programs at the National Kidney
Foundation of Michigan, said this
is why she dresses up as Regie: to
promote the healthy behaviors
that stop kidney disease in its
tracks.

INSTUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH
RESEARCH CENTER FOR GROUP DYNAMICS
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Winter 2014 Seminar Series:
New Science on Race, Discrimination
and the Social Lives of Black Americans
Black, male, and blue:
Unpacking mechanisms
linking everyday racism,
masculinity, and Black men's
depressive symptomatology
March 17, 2014 Institute for Social Research
3:30-5:00 p.m. 426 Thompson Street
Room 6050
Free and open to the public
Follow us: @umisr, @rcgdisr
Join the conversation: #RCGDseminar
More information: http://bit.ly/RCGD-seminar

amomall

INNOVATORSA6
AND BEST:,
A PANEL ON STUDENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Where: 420 Maynard St.
When: Frtindy Mrch 32014,5-n pm
@MICHIGANDAILY

f

.1
14


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, March 14, 2014 - 3

'True Detective''s flawless first season

f

The
season
power
in fes
eight
HBO's
Deteci
has
enorm
cess.
highly
ful aw
for hi;
"Dalla
ers Cl
thew
to rein
ble Ru
Harrel
detect
the pa

HBO series what they've been looking for:
the yellow king, Carcosa, justice
culminates in and - unexpectedly - hope.
Fantastic finale Whereas similar shows like
"The Killing" obsess over mur-
derers and suspects - even don-
ByALECSTERN ning the tagline, "Who killed
SeniorArtsEditor Rosie Larsen?" - "True Detec-
tive" was more significant than
re aren't many first that; the beauty of "True Detec-
dramas that have the tive" exists way beyond Dora
to elicit such fervor, but Lange. Boasting an aesthetic so
wer than easy to get lost in - amid the
episodes, exceptional visuals, complex
"True timelines and six-minute track-
tive" ing shots - "True Detective"
achieved True transcends its investigation,
ous suc- Detective inspiring viewers to not only
Amid a Season forget about Dora Lange, but
success- Finale also question the significance of
'ards run who killed her.
s turn in HBO Potentially to the disappoint-
s Buy- ment of many hoping for a last
ub," Mat- minute twist, there's an unchar-
McConaughey continued acteristic simplicity in "Form
vent himself as the irasci- and Void" - a jolting come
st Cohle, alongside Woody down from its highly complex
lson as philandering build. In the days leading up to
ive Marty Hart. Together, "True Detective" 's finale, the
ir spends 17 years uncov- Internet was abuzz, with every-

one fr(
to Mar
intrica
to sho
land" a
conditi
that si
the ide
seems
Ma
tor all
Desi
of brie
cult -
isfacti
respon
Marty
they h
years.

om Marty's father-in-law As Marty tells Rust, "We ain't
ty himself implicated in gonna get them all. That's the
te conspiracies. Thanks kind of world it is. But we got
ws like "Lost," "Home- ours."
nd "Scandal," we've been "Ours" was Errol Childress,
Toned to expect finales who - in "Form and Void" 's
ubvert our expectations; chilling opening sequence -
a that nothing is what it quickly proves to be a villain
is a driving narrative fac- worthy of "True Detective" 's
frightening brilliance. A prod-
uct of inbreeding and abuse,
Rust and Childress is a nightmare-induc-
ing creation, complete with
lrt f's 'ourne multiple personalities and a
deep labyrinth of spiritual para-
Comes full phernalia and evidence - the
elusive "Carcosa." And within
circle. Carcosa is where Childress
meets his end, following a rath-
er traditional, yet entirely excit-
ing chase between he and Rust.
across television. Thanks to the help of Detec-
pite chasing the dream tives Gilbough and Papania,
nging down the entire Rust and Marty survive their
and never having the sat- dangerous showdown and are
on of seeing every man finally able to uncover the truth.
sible in cuffs - Rust and And after almost two decades
get their guy. The man of investigative and personal
ave been chasing for 17 standstills, each is able to move
on from the looming shadow

Dora Lange had cast over their
lives. Marty's tumultuous rela-
tionship with his ex-wife and
daughters reaches a stage of rec-
onciliation, while Rust's near-
death experience changes him
far more drastically.
In the series' heartbreak-
ing final scene, Rust sheds his
layers of pessimism and dread,
embracing hope and inviting
an unanticipated sense of opti-
mism. Unlike everything else,
"True Detective" didn't need to
rely on revelations and shock.
As Rust and Marty limp off
screen, McConaughey's perfor-
mance and the lingering words
of Nic Pizzolato's smart script
give "True Detective" all the
spectacle it needs.
While the narrative failed to
deliver any unexpected turns
or perpetrators (unless a happy
ending can be counted as a
twist), Cary Fukunaga's direc-
tion continued to surprise in
"True Detective" 's final chap-
ter. Especially in "Firm and
Void," the director's imagery

tells its own story, bringing
to life the gorgeous Louisiana
scenery and tapping into the
minds of both Errol and Rust -
the latter of whom experiences a
spellbinding, ambiguous cosmic
hallucination deep inside Car-
cosa.
Every so often, a show comes
along that changes the game.
And for its beauty, intelligence,
performances and complexity,
the legacy of "True Detective"
will live on. As a police proce-
dural, it subverted genre tropes
in favor of complexity and real-
ism. As a story about love and
marriage, it was a tragic uncov-
ering of human flaws and emo-
tion. And above all, as a story
about the relationship between
two detectives fighting for Dora
Lange and countless other vic-
tims, it showed that people have
the ability to change, that we
should live with hope despite
the evil that exists in the world
and most importantly, that in
the battle between light and
dark, the light is winning.

ering the occult conspiracy sur-
rounding the murder of Dora
Lange. In the series' final hour,
"True Detective" 's complex
camerawork and riddle-ridden
imagery juxtaposed a simpler
narrative - one that the series'
dense build-up might not have
suggested.
In the final seconds of its
penultimate episode, "True
Detective" reveals its missing
link, identifying the mysterious
"spaghetti monster with green
ears." After weeks of intense
calamity, watching Rust and
Marty's personal lives wither in
favor of dedication to their case,
"Firm and Void" resembled
"True Detective" 's premiere
more than anything else. Its
focused narrative reverted back
to the series' original setup, fol-
lowing two detectives as they
investigate the single murder
of a young woman. In the end,
Rust and Marty finally find


The University of Michigan's Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Health & Society Scholars Program present

Rb4cdecs~c.ae

Population Health: Past, Present & Future
Featuring more than 20 international experts reflecting critically on the meaning of population
health, its accomplishments over the past 10 years, and challenges and opportunities.
SPEAKERS INCLUIIE:

Paula Baveman George Davey Smith George Kaplan Paula Lantz Johan Mackenbach J. Michael McGinnis, David R. Williams
University of Caifornia University of Bristol University of Michigan George Washington Erasmus University Institute of Medicine of Harvard University
San Francisco UK University Medical Center the National Academies
Netherlands
COMPLETE INFORMATION+REGISTER: 2014PopulationHealth.us

I

i


4 - Friday, March 14, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

KARA ARGUE E-MAIL KARA AT KARGUE (UMICH.EDU
Edited and managed by students at 55
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St. O
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
Expanding community college access
Michigan needs to expand finacial aid to increase accesibility
s the job market grows increasingly competitive, high school
diplomas and GED certificates have become less of a guarantee
that a worker will earn enough to generate themselves, let
alone their families. In 2012, Michigan's underemployment rate was
17.4 percent, and the unemployment rate currently stands at 7.8 percent,
well above the national average. Higher education greatly improves
lifetime earnings and expands the number of jobs one is qualified for.
Improving access to higher education is vital to helping Michigan workers
sustain living wages. Several states, including Tennessee and Oregon,
have considered legislation that would make public two-year colleges
tuition-free. There are certainly members of the community who are
willing and able to pay community college tuition, but many cannot
come close to affording it or having real access to loans. Michigan should
increase funding for community colleges to allow for free tuition for those
who cannot afford it, reducing the financial barriers to higher education.

Abort problematic politics

Yesterday, t
titled "Abo
Opt-Out A
effect in Michi-
gan. I say mis-
leading because,
in order for
women to have
abortion cover-
age included in
an insurance
plan, we must
now pay extra
in the form of a
rider. In other
words, we must
opt in. And the o
opt in to pay extra
if we plan on hav
in the future (or
abortions, if we're
much bang for out
abortion rider).
The only thing
plans on having a
this act extends e
of rape and incest
people are callin
insurance" bill).
Minority Leader Gr
- who is a sur
assault herself -
bill in December,
absurdity of insur
"(The bill) tells w
raped ... that th
thought ahead an
insurance for it."
However, I'm
calling it the "rape
mainly because it1
the fact that wom
for a number of r
rape need not be th
reason for an abor
Ultimately, this
intrusive, utterlyt
absurd in its pren
not affect me.
It will not affec

he misleadingly like many of the students at this
'rtion Insurance University, am privileged in a
kct" went into number of ways that enable me to
get an abortion, insurance or no
insurance. I live in a county with
an abortion clinic. That in itself is
something to be proud of - only
about 14 percent of Michigan
counties have an abortion clinic.
I could shell out the $300 to $600
it costs to have an early abortion
KATIE - and if I couldn't, my parents
SEN could help me out. I have parents
STEEN and friends who would support my
decision to terminate a pregnancy.
I have parents and friends I would
nly reason we'd feel comfortable talking to about
for abortions is my abortion in the first place.
ing an abortion But what about the women
perhaps multiple in Michigan who are not as
trying to get as privileged as I am? Who is this bill
r buck with this really affecting?
Only about 3.3 percent of
is, no one really abortions in Michigan are paid
n abortion. And with health insurance. So why do
ven to incidents Michigan Right to Life advocates
(there's a reason even care about insurance
g it the "rape covering abortion?
State Senate This bill is an instance of pro-
retchenWhitmer lifers grabbing onto literally any
vivor of sexual scrap of abortion legislature
spoke about the possible, and intentionally trying
articulating the to fuck it up just for the sake of
ing an abortion: fucking it up. Only about 4 percent
'omen that were of Michigan voters - specifically,
ey should have the members of Right to Life of
d bought special Michigan - voted on this bill by
creating a citizen's petition, which
going to avoid doesn't require the governor's
e insurance bill," approval. Gov. Rick Snyder had
takes away from actually already vetoed the bill,
en get abortions deeming it "an overreach
easons, and that of government into the
e only acceptable private market."
'tion. I've avoided writing about
act is coercive, abortion because I know it's such
unnecessary and a charged issue, and it can be next
ises and it will to impossible to change the opinion
of those on either side of the issue.
ct me because I, Maybe I've given up on trying to

change people's minds, and instead
I can only express a mixture of rage
and hopeless disappointment. I
can recite statistics and plea with
heartfelt anecdotes, but ultimately,
I feel it is futile to try and sway
the beliefs of pro-life people, just
as I will never not support every
woman's unobstructed right to
an abortion.
I want to finish with a speech
that Ioreceived in an e-mail from
Senator Whitmer - one that
perfectly articulates my disgust
toward the overwhelming minority
who passed this bill. This is part
of the speech that she would
have delivered to her Republican
colleagues had they not adjourned
the Senate today.
Senator Whitmer wrote:
"As this horrible law takes effect
today, I want you to remember
what you did,
"The next time you read a story
in the news about a woman being
raped, remember that you turned
your back on her and told her
that she doesn't deserve every
available medical option that's
available to her.
"When you hear of a woman
facing a difficult pregnancy, one
that may sadly end prematurely,
remember that you told her that
her health and well-being is less
important than your ability to
get the endorsement of a radical
special-interest group.
"And when women from
across the state ask you why you
would do something so offensive,
remember that you had a chance
to stand up for them and put their
interests ahead of the absolute
worst of what politics can be,
and you chose not to."
- Katie Steen can be reached
at katheliz@umich.edu.

Tuition-free community college education
should be provided to those who cannot
easily afford it, but to do so for upper-middle-
and upper-class students is unnecessary.
The money spent to do this could be better
spent elsewhere, such as restoring education
funding. Gov. Rick Snyder proposed a
6.1 percent funding increase for public
universities and a 3 percent funding increase
for community colleges for 2015. However,
these have yet to be approved by the state
legislature and hardly make up for past cuts.
There are alternate, less costly measures
that the state could also explore. For
example, expanding loan forgiveness and
reimbursement of tuition after graduation
to all community college students in need
would incentivize degree completion.
Currently, loan forgiveness programs exist
in Michigan for teachers who are employed
for five years at a low-income school. By
expanding this program to other fields, more
community college students will be inclined
to complete their chosen field. Additionally,

Michigans current financial aid programs,
such as the Tuition Incentive Program, could
be expanded to include more assistance to
community college students. In addition,
this plan should not only apply to community
colleges, but also to trade schools and
technical skill colleges that teach students
skills they can apply in the workforce.
According to a Georgetown University
study, those with only a high school
diploma or GED make a lifetime average of
$1,304,000. Just completing some amount
of college education without even earning
a degree boosts this figure to $1,547,000.
Average lifetime earnings for associates
degree and bachelors degree recipients are
$1,727,000 and $2,268,000, respectively.
Students attending community college have
the option to either complete their degree
or even transfer to a four-year college if they
want. Providing cost-free community college
education to students who then transfer to
four-year colleges would significantly reduce
the increasing cost of higher education.

LAURA MCANDREW AND CARLY MANES I
Just a tip

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria
Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul
Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
ANNE SHAUGNESSY AND MICHAEL SCHMALE |
Advocating legal philathropy

At Wolverine Wellness at University Health
Service, University students can pick up four
free safer sex items a day. Last semester,
students obtained over 29,000 condoms from
Wolverine Wellness. A recent petition asked
UHS to make Trojan or Durex condoms
available for free. After staff researched the
available options' consumer ratings and cost,
UHS will order a product option from one
of these brands. You can expect to see it as
one of the complimentary safer sex product
varieties by Fall 2014.
All condoms sold in the United States
that claim to prevent sexually transmitted
infections are subject to the same FDA
reliability standards. Despite advertisers'
claims, particular brands offer no advantage
in safety or efficacy. Some have fun textures,
shapes or other features, but the protection is
the same. The primary differences between
condom brands are their wrapper designs and
advertisements. In a culture where sexuality
is infrequently discussed, sometimes the only
sexual health narratives we hear are from
corporations - and their voices are loud.
So it's understandable that the news that
all condom brands work the same may raise
some skepticism at first. But it's important
to know that if, after leaving this university,
the only condoms you can access are the free,
less-advertised ones from a clinic, you can
trust them. If you learn how to properly use
them and use them consistently, they will
help protect your health.
Sexual health is measured by much more
than using safer sex items. It includes other
components of your physical wellness like
sexual functioning, STI testing behaviors and
contraception use if appropriate. It includes
how you demonstrate your values through
the choices you make about sex and dating. It
includes whether the conditions and qualities
you want in your relationships are realized.
It includes the possibility of pleasure (to the
extent that you want), and freedom from
coercion or violence. It includes your self-
worth and your respect for others. Using
condoms and dental dams is effective at
preventing many STIs - but it is just the tip,
so to speak.
Similarly, sexual health programming is
just one component of supporting a healthy
campus. UHS provides medical services,
health educators who can support your

wellness goals, and student groups to connect
you to others who are passionate about
health. Professionals across other Student
Life units provide services for an even wider
range of needs. These resources are available
because maintaining wellness while in school
is complex and dependent on many factors.
Decisions about our physical health don't
happen in a vacuum; they're connected to our
mental health, to our schoolwork and jobs
and to our social lives. On average, University
students already perform risk-reducing
sexual behaviors (like using condoms, using
contraception and delaying partnered sex)
at rates well above the national average for
institutes of higher education - Go Blue!
However, we have great opportunities to
improve in several complicated health issues.
when asked in the most recent National
College Health Assessment what health
issues make it hardest for them to succeed at
college, University students didn't report that
sexual health issues were the main things
holding them back; the top four challenges
were stress, lack of sleep, colds/flu and
anxiety. Excessive drinking exacerbates all
of these issues while carrying its own risks of
increased harm. This evidence doesn't make
safer sex less important, but it places it in
context as one piece of a much bigger picture
of health indicators at the University.
Adopting a shared, evidence-based
wellness vision among students, staff and
faculty is our best hope for making big strides
in student health. Let's envision a campus
with norms that include not just safer sex,
but also sleeping enough, managing our
time to reduce stress, drinking in ways that
reduce the chance of social or personal harm
(or having fun without drinking), supporting
our friends when they are struggling and
fostering respect across our differences
so all students feel valued here. These are
big challenges that student organizers and
professionals alike are working tirelessly to
make changes to. By collectively owning this
vision, we can build a campus culture where
all students know they are goodenough and,
instead of feeling the need to sacrifice our
health for accomplishments, wellness and
self-care, inspire our success.
Laura McAndrew is a University alum
and Carly Manes is a Public Policy junior.

Before starting at Michigan, I
always considered philanthropy
a direct act. Growing up, my
family worked with organizations
like Meals on Wheels, where we
interacted directly with patrons,
delivering lunches and dinners to
their homes. When I arrived at law
school, there was a multitude of
opportunities to use legal training
to assist underserved communities.
But without previous experience
in areas of advocacy impact
litigation, or public interest, I felt
overwhelmed by the opportunities
and unsure with which group my
contribution could have the most
meaningful impact.
Before law school, I had spent
time interning in event planning
and investment management,
enjoyed working in groups and
had acquired a questionably large
mental database of pop culture
factoids. I was uncertain that this
eclectic skill set could be used to
meaningfully improve any person's
status with a legal issue. Soon,
however, I learned about a group
that held some promise: Student
Funded Fellowships.
Michigan Law's Student Funded
Fellowships is a student-operated
organization driven to provide
grants to first-year law students
- ILs - with internships in the
public interest. The SFF board uses
many different avenues to meet
this goal. Each spring, SFF hosts
two events at the law school: the
Auction, hosting more than 500
current law students, admitted
students, faculty and staff and the
Knowledge Bowl, a battle of wits
in which law students, faculty and
staff square off in a trivia contest

(thank you, countless hours spent
reading Vulture, Gawker and Perez
Hilton!). SFF also partners with
other MLaw student groups like the
Michigan Law Culinary Club and
Headnotes a capella group to raise
funds. Finally, the board works
with businesses, alumni, faculty
and students for monetary and item
contributions to reach the annual
goal of providing meaningful funds
to as many students as possible.
From Midtown Manhattan to
rural Appalachia, from London to
Phnom Penh, SFF Fellows span
the country and the globe and use
the law to serve the public interest
and underserved communities. For
example, past grantees have worked
in Michigan Law's Child Advocacy
Law Clinic, serving as the primary
attorneys for children, parents and
the Department of Human Services
in the court system. Other grantees
work for organizations like the New
York Legal Assistance Group, which
provides direct representation,
consultation, financial counseling
and community education to low-
income New Yorkers.
For SFF fellows, the grant money
allows them to pursue positions or
work in new cities that would oth-
erwise be outside their budget. For
the organizations employing SFF
grantees, they receive bright and
enthusiastic interns that help their
organizations fulfill their missions.
In turn, these organizations are
able to provide their underserved
clients greater breadth and depth of
legal services.
Soon after joining SFF, I met
Michael Schmale, another IL. We
were assigned as co-chairs to lead
the student fundraising campaign

in one of the first SFF meetings.
From Southern California, a Yale
alum and fluent in Chinese, I was
worried that to him and others
I would seem green and over my
head by comparison in executing
all of SFF's objectives. It turnsout
Michael and I work great as a team:
after student fundraising our 1L
year, we were co-chairs of the
Auction 2L year, and in our final
year, we have been co-chairs of
the entire SFF board. Like me,
Michael did not have a public
interest background and joined
SFF in hopes to leverage his skills
to make an impact on underserved
legal communities.
What is philanthropy? For SFF
supporters and board members,
philanthropy takes many different
forms. When Michael and I joined
the board our first year of law
school, we hoped our small efforts
could help our classmates finance
their summer jobs. Working with
SFF, we have learned these efforts
can provide much more. Our work
is indirect. While SFF Fellows
are our classmates, we cannot
watch them excel in their summer
positions or meet the clients whose
lives they have changed. Assisting
our peers' internship goals set
off new professional interests
and aspirations. SFF Fellows'
efforts in turn set off a network of
beneficiaries, from organizations
and their staff attorneys better
able to leverage their resources,
to underserved communities
receiving greater access to
representation and advocacy.
Anne Shaugnessy and Michael
Schmale are Law students.

f

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, March 14, 2014 - 5

Mazzaa to bring Indian
dance for a good cause

MARTINEZ GROUP
Slappin' da base, man.
Martinez Group
comes to the 'U'

By KATHLEEN DAVIS
DailyArts Writer
Michigan Mazzaa's success
story is one of simple begin-
nings. What started as an idea
tossed around
between LSA Michigan
senior and co-
director Surya Mazzaa
Iyer and his two
roommates in Saturday,
2011 has since 7 p.m.
evolved into an
expansive on- The Michigan
campus organi- Theater
zation and hosts $10-$15
one of the coun-
try's premier
intercollegiate
Bollywood dance competitions,
A2 Dhoom, which is having it's
second annual run this Saturday
at the Michigan Theater.
While the organization hosts
events to celebrate South Asian
American culture, Michigan
Mazzaa first and foremost hopes
to raise awareness of the wide-
spread issue of human trafficking
and sexual exploitation alongside
Connecticut-based human rights
organization Love146, adding an
extremely unique presence to the
university community.
"The purpose is to raise aware-
ness and funds for the fight
against human trafficking," Maz-
zaa co-director Priya Joshi said.
"But we do so through social jus-
tice and holding South Asian cul-
tural events."
2013's A2 Dhoom competition
served both as one of the first
large Michigan Mazzaa events as
well as being the first Bollywood
dance competition in the state of
Michigan. Michigan Mazzaa has
since been recognized nationally
by Bollywood America, the larg-
est South Asian dance competi-
tion in North America and will
send the winning team from A2

Dhoom
ship he
Bay Ar
The
will bec
many
sity ofl
Northw
hostun
have eit
compet
As A
and yea
tion is
and Jos
nity to,
ral ever
"I th
that ou
focused
gle tear
last yea
ing for,
second
"We
dancers
audien
reach o
this isa
of the
Americ
in our I
come fr
make a
Aftet
NGO a
human
exploit
inaugu

to the national champion- decided to choose a smaller orga-
id this year in California's nization with the same focus for
ea. 2014. After a large screening pro-
eight competing teams cess, Lovet46 was chosen, a char-
coming to Ann Arbor from ity that focuses on awareness and
places, including Univer- rehabilitation of former victims.
California Santa Cruz and All funds from A2 Dhoom will go
vestern University. As the directlyto Love146.
iversity, Michiganwill not Apart from A2 Dhoom, the
ther of its two dance teams club also hosts documentary
:e. screenings of films raising aware-
2 Dhoom is only in its sec- ness for the issue. Michigan Maz-
ar, hosting a bid competi- zaa also helped bring Hindi a
a very big deal, and Iyer cappella group, Penn Masala, to
shi attribute the opportu- Ann Arbor in 2011.
the success of the inaugu- The success of Michigan Maz-
nt. zaa has been a pleasant surprise
for its directors, and they only
hope the organization continues
to grow. Last year A2 Dhoom
reached an audience of about 600
A2 Dhoom and they hope this year will be
even more successful.
returns to "It's really neat to think some-
M ian times that in twenty years A2
 iciganL Dhoom could still be sticking
Theater. around," Joshi said. "I think it's
great that we've incorporated
our charities and cause and I
really want that to stay and foster
throughout the years, at a school
ink what did set us apart is like Michigan I think it'll be very
r main goal is very cause- easy to do that."
I," Joshi said. "Every sin- "We'd like the student commu-
m that came to A2 Dhoom nity to come out because it's neat
.r knew they were compet- to see a competition where you
a cause and not just a first, have other fellow students partic-
or third place." ipating," Joshi continued. "Bolly-
strive to really educate the wood is more up and coming and
s because they're our main more people are becoming famil-
ce at 150 people, so we can iar with it, it's a very modern style
lut to them and say, 'Hey of dance."
an issue'," Iyer said. "A lot In this balance between Indian
dancers are South Asian heritage and western culture,
ans so it's easy to say, 'It's Iyer and Joshi hope that Michi-
backyard, this is where we gan Mazzaa will set an example
rom, let's do something to for other South Asian American
difference.'" organizations at other universi-
r working with a large ties.
imed to fight the issue of "We built ourselves off of a
trafficking and sexual model," Iyer said. "I want this to
ation based in DC for the become a model for other cam-
ral A2 Dhoom, Mazzaa puses to build off from."

Afro-Cuban jazz
musicians to perform
at Michigan Theater
By GILLIAN JACOB
Community & Culture Editor
What do Eric Clapton, Quincy
Jones, Taj Mahal, Paul Simon,
Wynton Marsalis and Pink Floyd's
Roger Waters
all have in com- Alfredo
mon? They're Rodiguez
among the leg- R i
endary musi- Trio and
cians that came Pedrito
out to see The
Pedrito Mar- Martinez
tinez Group at Group
Guantanamera,
a little Cuban Friday, 8 p.m.
restaurant in
midtown Man- The Michigan
hattan where Theater
the group plays $20-$46
several times a
week. With that
much talent in the audience, you
have to believe there's something
special going down on stage.
And there is. The Pedrito Marti-
nez group comprises of four musi-
cians of virtuosic talent jamming
Cuban roots music out like the jazz
greats used to do to the American
standards. All four band members
trade high energy instrumental
solos, sing and harmonize, and
dance up a storm. Afro-Cuban jazz
has a strong history, but as anyone
coming out to the Michigan The-
ater Friday night will see, PMG no
es la Rumba de su madre.
On Friday night's double bill,
partofUniversityMusical Society's
winter season, The Pedrito Marti-
nez Group will take the stage after
the young Cuban pianist Alfredo
Rodriguez sets the tone with his
trio in his own exhilarating blend
of Latin and jazz. Rodriguez'
new album The Invasion Parade
co-produced by Quincy Jones,
features, among other powerful
artists, Pedrito Martinez himself.
That's just one example of the rich

constellation of collaborations that
Martinez has taken part in, includ-
ing one with Eddie Palmieri and
Bryan Lynch for which he won a
Grammy award in 2007.
Martinez was born in Havana,
Cuba, where he was grounded in
a folkloric and religious music tra-
dition, meeting and playing with
many ofthe greatCuban musicians.
In 2000, he came to New York. The
group is rounded out by percus-
sionist Jhair Sala from Peru, elec-
tric bassist Alvaro Benavides from
Venezuela, and keyboard player/
vocalist, Ariacne Trujillo, also from
Cuba.
"It's a very steady lineup - ithas
a lot of power in the combination of
the four individuals," said Paul Sie-
gel, the group'smanager.
Siegel explains why he so often
finds himself surrounded by leg-
endary musicians from all over the
world who've made it their busi-
ness night after night to come hear
the band play.
"They're four virtuosos, but
it's never about the technique; it's
never about the chops. Musicians
can do that sometimes for one
another, but it goes nowhere," Sie-
gel said. "They're moving people
because of the depth of what they
do."
PMG features the impressive
Ariacne Trujillo. She studiedclassi-
cal piano for 16years in Cuba's great
conservatories - while also sing-
ing and dancing at cabarets - and
then won a scholarship forclassical
composition to cometo the States.
"I'm always goingto sound clas-
sical - everything that I am - all
my techniques come from classical
training," Trujillo said. "I have alot
of influences like R&B, blues and
soul music. But when you hear me
play, classical music is there."
Martinez came to music the
opposite way.
"I never went to music school,
because in Cuba, at that time, to get
in, you needed a connection, some
clout, and I never had that kind of
connection," he said in a recent
interview. "But at the same time,
I'm happy with the way I learned

things on the street, because they
teach you things you can't learn in
school."
When the Pedrito Martinez
Group is not playing at Guantana-
mera, they are performing all over
the world. As a single mom, it can*
be a challenge for Trujillo tojuggle.
"It's hard to have the two things
that you love be music (as) your
career, and your kid ... He's seven
now and he loves everyone in the
group and he would love to go on
tour with me all the time; he's the
number one fan of the group. It's a
blessing that I can totally manage
both."
Larry Blumenfeld, who writes
about jazz for the Wall Street Jour-
nal, has a love for this music and
explains the power of the genre
today.
"Afro-Cuban music and Cuban
musicians have always been influ-
ential in the United States," Blu-
menfeld said. "Now, there is a new
generation of Cuban musicians
that is exploring its tradition and
its connections to the United States
innewways ... a generationthathas
created a revolution within that
context."
Sala and Benavides are vir-
tuosos in their own rights. Sala
often switches instruments with
Martinez, once his teacher, and
Benavides, a scholarship student
at Berkelee School of Music, has
worked with alternative, fusion
and free jazz bands, experiences
that shine through in his confident,
soaring solos. But the heart and
soul ofthe group is Martinez.
"He has the physical skills and
the magnetism to command any
audience," Blumenfeld said. "But
with this quartet that he's devel-
oped through years of weekly per-
formances at a small restaurant,
and at festivals and concert halls
around the world, he's created a
vehicle where he can share all the
depth of his Cuban tradition and
all the ambition as a modern musi-
cian."
You never know who you might
see in the audience of the Michigan
Theater Friday night...


1 ! ,i f I i i 1'
Bu cC64I I1Cstaufant p esents:
a st. patRick's day weekend ceeCBation
open At Sam on st. patiick's dAy
MARCH 14TH AND 15TH
(FRIDAY AND SATURDAY)
DJ& LIVE MUSIC FROM 10PM TO 2AM
S1.00 GREEN BEER
$2.00 SHOTS
(ALL WEEKEND LONG INCLUDING MONDAY 3/17/14)
SERVING HOT JUICY BURGERS, CRISPY CRUNCHY FRIES,
CUSTARD, CRAFT BEER, WINE, ANDLIQUOR


SAVE BIG before Spring Commencement!
Guaranteed LOWEST PRICES ON CAMPUS
Purchase your CAP & GOWN, YEARBOOK,
ANNOUNCEMENTS, DIPLOMA FRAME and
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CLASS RING!
michiganyearbook.com/grad
njostens Michiganensian
SYEARBOOK

I

0


6 - Friday, March 14, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Friday, March 14, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Michigan eyes return to .500

Murillo leaving 'M'
for 2015 World Cup

By JASON RUBINSTEIN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan baseball team
is finally heading in the right
direction.
After a shaky start to the
season, the Wolverines earned
four wins last week and have the
opportunity to win four more
this weekend at the College
of Charleston Tournament in
Charleston, S.C.
"(The team) was taking a
ton of punches, and it was a
combination of us playing really
good competition and us not
being at full strength, but the
guys didn't get discouraged,"
said Michigan coach Erik
Bakich. "These guys are very
resilient."
Michigan (6-10-1) will
first look to carry its recent
momentum in arematch against
Appalachian State, followedby a
doubleheader against College of
Charleston and a finale against
Kent State.
The Wolverines lost, 4-1, to
Appalachian State (4-13) nearly
two weeks ago, but the result
didn't carry much, if any, value
to Michigan. The Wolverines
were coming off an emotional,
streak-snapping, extra-inning
win over Notre Dame and had
little time to regroup before
playing the Mountaineers.
Michigan fell down early,
couldn't get runs on the board

Decision creates
gap in defense
and midfield as
Wolverines retool
By BRAD WHIPPLE
Daily Sports Writer
Less than a month ago, the
Michigan women's soccer team
hosted a banquet to say goodbye
to the seniors who helped
put the team in the national
spotlight.
As if filling their six starting
spots wasn't difficult enough,
the Wolverines now have to
deal with a

Cup and has six caps with the
national team.
"Being selected to play on the
world stage is a huge honor, and
we're all so happy for Christina,"
said Michigan coach Greg Ryan
in the statement. "We will miss
her next year here at Michigan,
but we want to wish her and
Mexico the very best in the 2015
Women's World Cup."
Murillo mentioned that she
wouldn't have been able to
represent her country in the
World Cup ifnot for the freedom
that Ryan, former coach of the
United States Women's National
Team, gives his players.
"I'm not sure many college
coaches would let their players
do this, but he

seventh major
vacancy.
Thursday,
Christina
Murillo
announced
she will miss
the 2014
season.
The junior
midfielder

has been in
support of this
"This is ultimately since the very
beginning,"
an opportunity Murillo said.
Last season,
I couldn't pass Murillo
missed the
up again. Wolverines'
games against
Eastern

Junior center fielder Jackson Glines excels at earning quality at-bats, which the coaching staff says has led to success.

Glines hit .529 with five doubles
and eight RBI last week en
route to being named the Big
Ten Player of the Week. Glines
currently sits atop the roster
with his .369 batting average.
Bakich believes Glines'
success is rooted in his quality

and was at-bat
dominated percentage.
by submarine "Our guys QAB
pitcher Tyler percentage is
Moore. If aren't going to calculated by
anything, . nine factors
according be surprlsed or including
to Bakich, caught " executing a
that loss to c off-guard bunt, taking
Appalachian a walk, any
State will add RBI, any
extra motivation to the team. hard-hit ball or having an eight-
"I think it left a bad taste pitch at-bat.
in their mouth," he said. It's Bakich's goal to have
"They're looking to have a every player have half of his
better approach and bring more at-bats be quality ones.
energy andaggression into the "(Glines) just had a week
game to set a better tone for the that was out of sight," Bakich
weekend." said. "Twenty-two of 26 plate
Junior center fielder Jackson appearances were quality,which
Glines has helped Michigan's is85 percent, which is about the
offense immensely all season. highest QAB percentage in a

week in a player in all the years
I've been coaching."
But Bakich is not just pleased
with Glines. Though their
battingaveragesmaynotshowit,
sophomore first baseman Jacob
Cronenworth and sophomore
shortstop Travis Maezes have
had more than their fair share
of quality at-bats.
"Travis Maezes and Jacob
Cronenworth, on the season,
are over 50 percent in quality
at-bats, but their batting
averages aren't reflective of it
yet," Bakich said. "Both of them
have made a ton of loud outs,
hitting balls extremely hard but
getting caught. All their hard
hits will start to drop.
"That's why they continue to
be guys we want in the top of the
order, even though their batting
average may not reflect it."
The Wolverines will need
every quality at-bat they can get
this weekend, especially against
College of Charleston (13-3).
The Cougars have a strong
pitchingstaffthatledthemto two

wins over No. 13 North Carolina.
Strong pitching, though, is
something the Wolverines have
faced all season long.
"We just focus on what we
need to do," Bakich said. "That's
great that Charleston has good
pitching, statistically. It's an
advantage for us because we've
seen great pitching thus far.
Our guys aren't going to be
surprised or caught off-guard if
we see good pitching."
Michigan is also optimistic
that freshman outfielder
Jackson Lamb is nearly fully
healthy. Lamb, who has one of
the most explosive bats on the
team, has been recovering from
a back injury and remains day-
to-day. If he feels 100-percent
healthy, Bakich plans to use the
freshman as much as possible.
The Wolverines have an
opportunity to reach .500
this weekend. If its dominant
pitching remains intact and the
team stays strong at the plate,
that benchmark may not be out
of reach.

will be taking
the academic year off to train
with the Mexican Women's
National Team in preparation
for the 2015 FIFA Women's
World Cup. The competition
will be held in Canada from
June to July.
Murillo plans to re-enroll at
Michigan following the World
Cup and will be eligible to play
for one final season in 2015.
"This was a hard decision
to make, but this is ultimately
an opportunity that I couldn't
pass up again," Murillo said in a
statement to MGoBlue.com.
This isn't the first time
Murillo has competed at the
international level. She played
for Mexico in the 2012 FIFA
Under-20 Women's World

Michigan and
San Diego State to participate in
a Sept. 3 international friendly
against the U.S. She started 20
of Michigan's 23 games, scoring
one goal and tallying an assist.
The Wolverines boasted an
elite midfield and back line
in 2013, making their run to
the Elite Eight possible. But
repeating that success could be
difficult this fall, when Ryan
and the coaching staff will have
to retool much of the lineup.
"It will be difficult to not be
out on the field this year for
Michigan," Murillo said. "I'm
hoping that when I come back
after a full year of training that
I will be able to contribute even
more to help this team achieve
great things."


Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

HVIstAbA I t:- - riaay, marc. 1, ;eui
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 10 57-Down 45Trains may stop 55 Hoax
1 Setcount measure atthem 56 New York
5 Aly of Sue 11 Bonafide 48 Smooth-talking college witha
11 Relocaio aid 12 Dressstyle 47 Chophose mascot sowed
14 Unrestrainedly 13 Floor choice Killian
15 Dilges 18 Pool lead-in 48 Tin Man actor 57 Coll. major
1t As per 21 Toart's guide Jack 58 Fashion letters
17 Lier with Istl 23 Seture atthe dotk 49 Make manry 60 York, aorose:
inside? 24Otherwise 5 keBreay AYbrk
19 Onemay be 25 Highest power? 515'rad the Ab6-
flipped 26 Petri dish filler 51 'Wag the Dg" t1 Do-it-
20 When many night 27 Vacation actress yourselter's
visions occur? destination 52 Ticked concern
21 Revealing garb 28 Chemical suffix ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 Nylon notable? 31 Digital
25 Bag temperature D A R T v E I Si M L O P
29 High mountain gauge? I K E A A N E I V E
30"Yikes!" 32Genetic N I L L A WA F E R S F E R
31lLock messenger ECMI I lAS E RG
34 Gerontion" 33 Uneapetted E D W A E G
poet'smonogram fictional visitors
37 Get one's kicks in 34 You,to a Friend N 0 I E L A B F U L
a painfulway? 35Functionin39- S I N C i C A P 8 A
41 Rush Down TELLAWH I IT E L IE
participant's prize 36 Scraps 0 N Y 0 A S I 0 E
42Fields 38'"_ Said":Neil W A L L W A L L A C V
43Give for a while Diamond hit I M A Y A I L C S A M E
44 Music-licensing 38nles fS F 0RESIS R K E RO
org. angles, forshr
45 Meshes 40 35mmcamera TOU G LA W BRCEAK R S
47Principal plant? option ECIt M A8BA CD U G E
53 Plygroand 44 Marathon unit: R EIDEMI R S P E D
bosuner Abbr. xwordeditor@aol.com 03/14/14
54 Like some 1 2 3 4 s 7 s 9 10 11 12 13
importantletters
59 Pay stub? 14r 15 16
60 Surprise the1
neighborhood? 1719
62 Take home 2021
63 Uversityof
Minnesota 2 12
mascot Goldy 2
64 Unsigned, briefly us 05 or 05
65 Private - 301 34
88 Protessorial dads
87 Numeras 37 s us 4
DOWN 4
1 Scrape 54 46 e
2 Mide VIP
3a- ci o 0 s 50 1yr so
4 Takefrom the top
5 Dress so so 55 s x5 vs
6'20s-'30s skating
gold medalist 59 60 61
7 Personal answer so--64
8 "My Name Is -
Le":Chaim s s667
Potok novel I
9 can't" syMartDuuay-Carpenter 03/14/14
(c)2014 Tribune Cotent Agency, LLC

SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS - Children's
summer camp, Pocono Mountains,
Pennsylvania 6/21-8/17. If you love
children and want a caring, fun environ-
ment, we need Counselors, Instructors
and other staff for our summer camp.
Interviews on UMich campus March
21st. Select The Camp That Selects
The Best Staff! Call 1.215.944.3069 or
apply at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Froot Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

$400 OFF
First 10rentals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1680.00. Great location,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
**LAST ONE** $1495 FOR THE
WHOLE APARTMENT at Forest
Glen. Price includes FREE HEAT, I
parking spot and furniture. Call to tour
your new home today. 734-761-2680.
PMSI IS LEASING for 2014-2015.
Eff. 1, 2, and 3 bdrm apts avail. in Cen-
tral Campus and downtown area. Con-
tact 734-665-5552. pmsiproperties.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. I & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$700-$1395, showings avail. M-F
IOam-3:30pm w/ 24 bornotice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
GET UPTO
1 Month Free
on
Select Units
Why Pay over $1,500 per Bed per
Year?
Save over $10,000 per Year by Leas-
ing at U. Towers. Prices starting at
$695.88
Vist us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
53 6 5. ForestlAve.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
734-761-2680
*special can end at any time*
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.
! www.HRPAA.com!
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m+utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.

BIG TEN TOURNEY
From Page 1
- Thursday afternoon,
64-54, setting up a rematch of a
game played 10 days earlier.
The Wolverines (15-3 Big
Ten, 23-7 overall) shot Illinois
out of State Farm Center that
night, going 16-for-23 from
behind the arc to get an 84-53
win and to claim the outright
Big Ten regular-season title.
In light of
the dominant
Ilinois at performance,
chigan sophomore guard
and recently
Matchup: crowned Big Ten
Illinois 19-13; Player of the Year
igan2 Nik Stauskas said
When: Friday there are still
12 P.M. things to shore up
Where: against the blue
Bankers Life and orange.
Fieldhouse "When we
TV: ESPN were watching
film the other day,
Coach Beilein
made a great point," Stauskas
said. "They got a lot of open
shots that they just missed. So
the fact that we won the game
by (31) wasn't really telling of
how well they played."
Whether Indiana or Illinois
(7-11, 19-13) won Thursday's
game, it wouldn't affect the
Wolverines' preparation for
Friday. They had played each
within the last two weeks, and
game plans hadn't yet escaped
the players'heads.
"The prep's a little bit easier
just because the scouting
reports are kind of fresh in our
minds," Stauskas said. "We'll
probably watch a lot of clips
from those games over again.
As far as remembering their
plays and stuff like that, it's just
a little bit easier."
Friday's game time presented
an interesting logistical
predicament to Michigan
Thursday.
Big Ten rules prohibit teams
from leaving for Indianapolis
more than 24 hours before their
scheduled game, but Beilein
still wanted a practice after the
Illinois-Indiana game had been
decided. With the team playing

at noon, it wouldn't get a chance
to practice on game day, but it
also couldn't practice in Ann
Arbor with knowledge of its
next opponent.
So on the way from Michigan
to Indianapolis, the team
stopped for a session at Indiana
Tech in Fort Wayne, Ind.
If the Wolverines win
Friday's game, they will play
the winner of Nebraska and
Ohio State Saturday. Win
that one, and they make the
championship, where they
could draw a team that has
played them tough this year -
Iowa, Wisconsin or Michigan
State.
While Michigan has been
as strong as any team in the
country offensively this season,
it has also sported a porous
defense. Maybe it's the new rules
this year that have made it more
difficult to play on-ball defense,
and maybe it's the Wolverines'
lack of an imposing presence
around the rim, but Michigan has
struggled to neutralize scorers.
"We have gotten better, but
we're still obviously not good
enough to shut people down,"
Beilein said. "So we better play
well offensively, or we'll have a
tough time winning."
Perhaps it's because of that
defense, but Stauskas feels like
Michigan doesn't yet have the
respect of the country. That's
why he still considers his team
to be underdogs this weekend.
"We're the No. 1 seed, but I
don't think we're the favorites
to win this tournament," he
said. "I don't think anyone
really thinks we're gonna win.
So we still have a chip on our
shoulder, and we're excited to
prove ourselves again."
That may very well be
Stauskas'own perception rather
than reality, but perhaps not.
Either way, it's to Michigan's
advantage if it feels that way.
"We understand that we play
our best basketball when we
feel like we're a little bit under
the radar," Stauskas said.
For tourney coverage
Check MichiganDaily.com
throughout the weekend k

DO YOU HAVE ADD or ADHD?
Try this helpful book, ONE PAGE AT
A TIME: Getting through college
with ADHD. A first-hand, insightful
experience. Available on Amazon.

THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S.U./Central Campus
at REASONABLE RATES.
Contactus at 734-761-2680
www.The2ndFtoorSU.com
SECURE YOUR NEW home today,
right on S. U. / Central Campus. All
new luxury aparments come with the
BEST service, amenities, and all at
REASONABLE RATES.
www.The2ndFloorSU.com

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Ip r Friday, March 14, 2014- 7
M ~COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, The facuhty of the College of lLiterature, Sience, and the Ats recognie the following studnts
HISASCIENE, ANDOF TIHEGARTSor their superior scholastic achievement and congratulate them on their recent academic honors.
Mn- iad Abd,,1gh.i 2 Dnil LouisCharde17 Jsph Waid Fmy 3 Se.Roet ak, 2 BnamnJco a 3 Khrnei.h, Lind2 Timohy Josph Nichols3 VreJeaneShroder2 01 Mre6om
IablleSAbrams, 3 Aibh Ar Chater3 Shron, MchleFkto 3 LamKahrnHd2 Chrls telm atzan2 Jsph Rbr Lp3 Cthen An Nk3 a.Lgh Shm,5 MhlEizbeth Tbr2
DyAhleeAbamson2 JennChn 7 enaFs oahnMih sfr2 Jrd Michl ani ran2 JaobRbi rik 3 Lum 3 ien6 An MreScut 2 KdalIMriTp 2
Jill M. Akdel 2 Lwec yg-nCe Elli: Chistphr Fulk4 C~dy Pig Hl6y2 SioJseKumn2 EilyPig L- 3 Adey LsNmhck3 Gbill ain wm2 Si Lng Tu2
JoahnAea e cad2 ShngChn 2 DmaA. F- 2 Mik] Dvid Hggdne 3 Ysara azmo!3 ChnLi 2 M-Katd..Nerni,,,4 Scy Elizabeth Simer2 SrhKtein iasn
EdnNwanAdler2 VctorShi Chn2 JiSmh Fdman 5 Aan SryHdli2 JliaChisti-Kh4 My Yme iuL2 Sann e iai MgSrinr5Ksy MarieTce2
AyaAlenAhmdy 3 ig Dng Chn 5 HnnhMerdith Fddshh 2 KuamaSjdhrcd2 KthrneSzan Kle24 ego iu3 Trc Ji Nrzrs 2 Ahy RceSciog,2 Nco. ere rrflo
lHya Sud AIFarfian2 i,,ahuChn es eno2 MxiaS. Hrald6 JsseKith Kd6lcy3 rohc inhm ogn2 j ihtl~s 2 Lndey Mchle S,le3 B-Troen
Michll Ah,,,ddi,, 3 Ziyi Chn, 2 Aeadrjesph Frri! 2 Jae Hny amod7 Mi Klly 3 Rchl Mrie Lh,,&2 Calls!N- Obid 3 Eily RbcaSidhp2 BejainEkTut 3
Jao oro ck2 J AseiGnvive E-JaobFild5 Nk .Mre ap.2 SydeyShreKepn 2 Ji16, Lndn 2 Ma~a ue rl3 Zhi QnSh 3 LareLTog 7
Frs lgirar, 2 Chm-Smth 4 TyrRseFieds 2 Rchel ur.Hmpon 5 Kahrn omy Kmp 3 Zhngy Lng2 Maghn Tyor OCmor 6 EfainPtrikSgr 3 W Lk Tog3
Hwni l esn8 Marann Oh CReie" S ,,6 06K6, Udma'3
RahlCmAprt2Cle Chtpher O'Kt& 2 SkaWh3 " aiaetmUu
SrhAladn2 ElizaAbth AneOlis3 Cydey KreSirimn3 CadrtNidl Un2
MIf. la AMES D. /A NGELL SCHOLARS Ki.Roe 36, Sai.Seldne,2 GythiDviV aru4
Nel aaAi Students who maintain the highest grades for two or more consecutive terms in, tpai u Om2 TnncSraze7 Ao oe2 a eae
Jra non2 JseIsral0,,,,ff2 DnCey Sr 2 Srh Nil V-2
SChanA2 a calendar year are honored annually by the University of Michigan for their Brym LeOlesi2 TraRow Sig, 5 Alid. esVa d-
Sct osiieAdren5 achievements with the James B. Angell Award. The LSA students shown here T-La-Pa-alio3 MhaelSali Ss 3 MlyieVndnbrg3
Marle ihAndw2 Mhave NidoseinanielicM2IFisher La2 enSchmHl 5 Ra lxne~ineshn
EwnA,,uo,y A am2 hv andthis dsinto. ewJ~nep3 Nifi Nmh Shah 2 Eiaeh lrmoVnwem2
KahrieAplmn2 aoli",Pappe4 EflmA yShld2 Sd Vati 3
Mmm 6S. A ,n5 Jn 11Park2 May.SrtShi, 2 Sehne - -
Holly Catheie Amstong3 Mi S-jg Prk2 AlionMarieShrar4 A inn Vsbidr2
Melni AA-stog 3 bSvenDaid Chmy 5 C.n lr Fnh3 Gegoy MrsHratn2 EiaehAneKney . 'IMng L2 Mein ,Hsto,,n Parnl2 Sh KeineSha2 NthaniL Wdhlff3
B6,Crtis Anold 3 Nta arslCesemn2 ChwiSane Fikb6r3 TmanH g2 NioasSenKrn2 Mihael Lptn2 ,, h enearuhn2 AjhReiShk2,2 MheniaVlk,6, 2
Jennifer Nicole Anold2 Sh. WiCha3 jemsElabethFire 4 Jcob A-, aal..~i 2 Aunt ,K-, 3 Aly.MriaL~p 2 Hley AiPFal 3 Tffay TogSh., 2 TyrPuD Vmdse3
Ryod Amyo arnNcl hbcs2 MeeihBraaIlimnr2 ~~SidlEdgrH,ki, 3 Hlen JeanK,,,d, 2 Sh ElaehLopz2 HrhljayintilNPad 2 Xhrg Shn 2 Ewrdlli= Vedok2
Spidh Arafidic7 Yi HngCh- 4 Alin,Pi.-Fiher 3 MryElaedhHaftahi, 2 Rghd Khraflh 3 Reid atrickLn,4 Vuhk Awn,,Paid42 YgShng 7Paul AVid,,,,, 2
Denr~ihoysa2 M,-JphCho2 LndGeFisher3 Paul Flls -orm 2 Assn. aieKcs2 ihalAanLe3 Kal Am 1Bd2 Dvid Alfed Shman 0l6aKy Vigitti 2
Larn zoah2 MdleieRse KerrChre 2 RachlMa~6he mc3 Kt MreHasn2 E8.. ieKm 7 T a Mtha866 Eiyliabeh Paull4 CmieRgShil NbciRatVlp2
Bk66nk,2 Cthy YeCow5 Krly Rt orar 3 Ntali Ulm,, Hm. 2 Mdd,i,,,Row ,,Klnbl3 S,,,,,,,,hNcol, Lst2 ChoePck 2 AhySh3 Smuel cott alwkr2
P664iV6 h Blm2 Jsph RichardChisie3 An LuseFrrnerBal3 Srah Kh.iHrpr3 Spr.Chd.Knemst2 Qrig I2 Nhi Sii Pddiddy 2 SnSh 3 Dvid Edard Wllin4
Cono amsBaaon5 JnnifeGChuag 5 Jhn Beih oter3 S.BenrdHrvy3 Mihael Sth- Kng 2 CaigJh Mk 3 MrsaJdthPrmt2 Fnc-RoeSlain 2 SmJsehWllc
Ai api 2 Cl,,,op 6rerngChng2 Ki yA cF-2 Mlly K-Harwood 2 Mia ahrieKig5 Trnam ,,Mc6c2 yS.P,,ira4,,,,,4HillryShre2 Ageq.i Wag 2
AnrwR.Bkr3 JliDeboahCimpn3 Killy MarieFank 2 JnthnMakH ,pr3 si Kikland 3 SaiMdj6 jnir n ac ah Lah Shlin3 Fg Wng2
MeganLil. Baker6 HilrJ,, ,,Ck4,ka3 SpiaFane rak4 Ay Hasin6 EnAneKikand4 Nn4,,,Mgam~i 3 Mlli Ssa aer3 ElaethGaceSh,,y 2 FshgWg2
Zr Aidl. B6b,-Fdd3 HollyEizabeth Clgg2 KteieMai rze 2 G,b,ihz ll, idy H-3 Ay ataieKish2 Chii,,,, rSzanne Mg,. 2 AdewMchel Peters 3 Zchry Phillip Sgl 5 C,,,,,,6,Yg Wng 2
AandaHeather Ba6kiky 2 A1ison Mri, Climes,3 Patrick ChrlesFrazier 2 Ky Rs LraieHuk 2 Sag mtar lapr2 enttAdewMg 3 W oePees2 JulieMihleSgr 2 JiWg3
H6lneMay. B866ly 2 Dil6AG,,6Chao2 Mathv4116,,,, AlionMchle kins3 Niole Lily KI,ian-,Mran ,2 BI,,,,,i M,hah,,,,2 Mghn liprin 2 SvenMihael Sikm 112 u.Wn3
Made6mMALriBar, 3 AexandaLeigh ohen2 GeorgeEmon,,d F,,ic4 Benjmin Rhod,,Hwkis,2 SamuelAessaidr Kin,,2 AmsaMwmq Malik5 KlI rm Pr m5 Je~sPaig Siften 3 Rcti lWang 5
Tylr Mihc Brika4 Ai RaeCh-,,4 sia 'lik2 Zo ilon,,Hwks3 44,1,,,, MrthKlie,2 86iyAnMfncsk5 i r 6,Mi luPhillip 3 Mn San,,,2 WjWng 2
JaobCritinBanad2 Csidy Bair Clhe2 Jrdan,,Timmas ~Fi .2 Mrgan Jstie,,Havve3 Chistophr obet Kine2 ShazoMils 86a3 Kyl jm P3 EmaMagli Sigr 2 Man Wang7
Kdyn Eizabh Barr62 Kya hlb ohn3 Michell NthnFiedman 2 KmbrlyMrie Hay 2 Adew Mihael K1,,,,,,,,,6 Qiton Jsph Madk 2 1- Jill Plawki 2 Bh-ceSigh 2 Man" ,Wng
Kyfi izabet6h Barren,2 Sm AiciaChn2 Rbcca,, Mria Fia7 Gng H ml Ctie s2 MllaiHapeinMnley7 cKathrineMrie Pl,,,4,ff4 jaso RSngh 2 Xi,y Wg 2
Tuoh~oehBrot r 2 Jesia AnCla4 Crly RachlFom. 3 Chistia CahirineHaly 4 Sam An ,K,,,,,,,,,2 Ymicen ,,,KhlicalM n so ur 2 il~t 86h6Pm~ K"Sigh2 Yi Wang 2
AndewDaidBrton 3 DanilWillim,,Cle3 Elabh li, Margaret Fy 3 rem usen L6,y3 aileDana K,b,,,,6 Sehn hresrboo2 ~Sfani P,lielli 2 Smy Sigh 2 Yi,h,,,,Wng3
AmndMraBaat3 Nah David Collins,,4 Imi F 3 C~i6j2aHeic5 Fiip Alksard K4yek4i 2 Kt a n achti5 M,,th henclod,,,,Png,,2 VriSinSgh 2 5qoWng 4
MthwRiselBue4,2 Klly AneConlon2 T- Marhall Ftures,- Tmty efHel 5 JeneMre ohoa 2 Elisabeth Sam Mrcos,,,6 86,,,,,,Benda, Ppk 2 Svammh,,4MsSk4 Kt~yan,
JillinSitamic Ban2 EiJoph Cbl~t C=ElzbthFrus3 Mdlie Imne ,Hrman ,,4 Kevin Thomas;,,Koh16,63 QC666Mary M26ni,,,i 2 Ena Ros Per& 2Cdy M. Skd 3 Nihol. Joh, W,yyhy 4
L..M tBek7 Brno JmsCry 6 BokeC. Gbiel2 NcolMry H,,,,,,2 San&gHour,,Kong 2 MajoyAneHndron Danziaa bha,, tnJohu koni RyMihelWarmze
Jessiu Ann ,Begly4 DanielleSapphre Cfy 2 GaeBae a maLynHriat2 Lantjy oi 4 Mrqardt3 Pemawar,,.4,,,2 Rbi Mrie Skbim 3 Cu m~ih~br
Simeser ,Mbiuddi Blgu 2 Zchr Dv rae2 M-Am Gr186ki 4 4 6JuiaPtriciaHikey 5 Kdiy.Ncol, Ksmk 5 Emily Mrtin2 VcoraMrgrtPnce,3 HueBnne,,Sall1 5 1av14 BnjminWed 2
John, K B8612 Hllr EiabthCawod BafodWlerGa,,,2 Mrcella, 8RoseHikey2 May athee Kosaek3 1Ks. Mrtina ,3 8,6,,, R,,,,,,,,,,P,pp 3 4Adam Wstingmith 2 Abby eneWinstein 4
R .. Bea,,,h 4 Victoria An ,Ciswell 2 Dvid Mihael Nolm Sean,,,PtrickHiggis 2 Mao Mnobar ,Kwsh,,l4 Nihoas pecerMa6 4F,, iPu2 CarolineMrieSith3 861,,Mtthw,,Wi.,5
AnaNcoeBrzoy3 Eizabeh Jane Critchlow 2 J,,,,,,it. 3 Ai ,,G,,,Ra 41 Hih4 Rchl,h6 Kak,,,,,3 Elna N62 Ean ,MihaelQinn 2 JoliNiholeSmith 3 L,,,,,Elit Whs2
MaronGrace Berger4 BiyJ..,,ph Crites,,2 jam,,'ine iafiGm.,,,2 Mrc Austin Hidband,2 so Mrc ,,rmn2 Al,6hMri,,2 Nih aA,, Rcmainf4 Mr ele mih6 Tyr41,,,,,,,,4,Wei,,3
LM16Beris,,,,,a 6e%A JamIiz,,, 5 4 Andew, Lincln arr3 5 MihelRfaelHipp 2 illHisch rb,b,,h 2 HetiSmponMaes2 Sacy Niol Ra465 Shlby Karen S563 Ellit AronWlls5
Mllie ,Baltwt ,,i~i ge 6 R86lJ Md sly avr3 MryL Hrt2 RebekhAnn,,,,,, ,,in4 Kateli Mys2 EmilyEliabeth Rhn 2 Kari. ,Mrie,864,,,yk3 GaffW6,h ED112
H,,,,,,,Pd,,,Brli 4 Lnce ,Hgo Cmmns2 y1Eliabeth Gawik 3 N,,, ,i6Th,,,,,,,Hck 2 CritnBuhl,8Kre6ger 4 Ay nnMzrc acb iatrRte amnRymn moi3 Michll5kyeWrner ,3
Meihigh16 rrivain 2 Saanha are Cimighm 66fcaRseGthi,gr2 OiM2iGace,,Heo 2 MyJillKresbeg 2 BaleyE. M 2 JohuaPal ,RineyS4 SudiMihelle Smolin3 Vtoria SayWest4
,Le Brnhau,,2 Samuel FederikCisimacio ,3 461il Goge2 Chle .Hr]2 ~ .m.RcdKem2 T hmas, ,MdiganMB,,6,4 Mzwl Dnva8666e i"GilSbel2 awilam:rx
AlxHarri Be6holm3 Crsope au y 2 GatsTe *Goo2 Mihal . Hffn 2 Luren,,,Kiegr4 Z M. M.,, 2 KrtaRadugu 5 D.,,,Zbmi Sb. ,4 AaEizbt Wso
Alli Bery5 Lyn Dboul3 Mrk Luis6 ,,,,,3 LcyNiol Hllnd,2 Em ar Kue ,,adsnCaim Mllug02Al os,, ih2 ~K6,,,,Catherie Somri 3 Allion Rahel Wider4
AmnaImeBm3 Mi4,,,Pul Dalessio J. 2 J346EliabehC,, 6s3 CnradRossH,lcaw2 Ry Roy I666sg 5 Ahyizabeth4, Dgai3 jess6,Ashley R4,7 GCeoryMihel Solii2 Smuel,,Nhoas Waley3
Mojm wdBswas 3 U,h NglocDng 2 Cad , isn acsnSaulHwrd3 M umr3 ~2 KseyNcolMKnney 2 Nilsh 186,hik R-1, 5 Chd" ,,Dminic Srg2 4,,,as,,arieWite 2,,,,
Ryn athe lae RchlMorgan ,Dnils 3 iL-ren ,Ptr,,icia Gile 3 F66 Hieh 3 PtrickkMihael IK,,,,,,,64 Man.Marie Mcaughli 5 T,ik,,86 Ryhaudhuri 7 Hly hi anc 5 Hiary ckdW86iar2
Ber aninDaid lachrd Ad- am 3 Chl,,,Eiabeth ilk 3 B,,h,,,,Hang 2 RachlAne K,,k,,63 TmSsan,,,MMnus,,,2 Dni6611qe TyorSotwth3Een, 1116 SF13
CaiaCadi lno5 rsi r rDry4 SbieNei il2 Iogi. F,,,,,6,,H,,g 2 joh"BrceKu 7 NmM,6,ff2 aiiiicn2 M cl h-Sp~b.3 Cl6Rw ,Wifmt 5
A86,,,,dr Dona,,ld BIy 2 Cr,istnaNcole Dasi 2 And=Mriilespi 5 1866,,6 Mrian ,Hbbe6ll3 Mg.,,,Rth Ki6,,,,,,i 4 886,, RoseMdia.,,2 WFlliamSion ,,Ragn, 2 Jne EiabthSpm, ,2 S56Elizbth,6W",3
Smah Nicole, Ber,,, 4 11A,,s16,Rose Dv~id3 Jcob Slmon G, i,,,,4 Lah PF1ughr H,bigr5 GoiaH-inrgKwn3 Cdy RbertMlher3 3DevonFliciy16cdfr 2 1e4, KiSpuling2 E,iA,dewWildrS
MollyEri 886ck2 Aam,,6Danil Dvison,,7 Saci Rw,,iki 3 Erc,6yHuene 2 A..,,,Mre 6,, ,,,63 Pik,,1,,Cb4, Mnd 4 BradyU,,oyd Rmell6 Kahryn lizabethSp,,,,,,,3 Cfi,, PatriciaWilksco,2
Feida Ane ,BI,,,,,,i,,2 NcoleM,,,,6,,Dvid..,,3 s,,,,,i I,4,,,,, Ga6,,brielle H,,,,,,,5 Lcas ,Seven ,,LFenire ,8 Katherine Ane ,Mi 2 Athn Wlia rad2 S5am,,Eily Spilr 3 R.. F,,6Wdi,,,2
jakiBok d 2 Dmi,y Davydm ,2 Emily Me Ckiher4 MdlieMrieHulse 4 Olver Lm2 Ar.Larnc tgr2 ziinRees4 UjynMaieSrigse 2 Ja a.ikia
Hata al Bgow2 Klly Lnne Day 6 Jnnikr ,MlliCIicit2 Mckenzie ,Ellen ,Hm,,bl 2 Kate F,,,,,,,,,Lmbert,,5 JesieaLindsey M8611,f2 Emily EnRha,,m,2 Age,S8iuba,2 A Perry ,Withrop 2
John GeCald Bhn,2 LoganPaul D1Roos2 Ellen ,,,C,6,,,, Elizabe1th6,6Hntley2 Steven,,DniLm,,prt 4 CssicLnne Mihael2 Cad Le,Riness4 Nmam ,,,Shnd Sdzsra826A.Cbbel F1G- Witeveen2
Kat, ,8 ,,,, N 4 ,~h erine Gld 2 863,,Lk.RH,,,,2 Kr istn a,,,,,,j Lain62 idyHilt Mda 3 3 Carln ae h 2 MegS,,i ,,ynnS,,Andrew,2 Vcoi Eiaeh oct
ls e h,,,,,,,,d,,,Bello 3 1 g ,,,,,,ld g2 DA,6, DeanC3 J..!,A2ne gT,,,,,3gKidi,,Ann 2 61 61116, 2 AEmily,,Nic ol i chards6,4,,6186 h86im 5 63,Seth ,Benja Hin Wolin
PairAs dy2iseEommrito5 JohuaDn 3 Sra liabt Gdin5 ar hin Hur ,,,g ~ ,,, 1,,,l,,,,,,2 NichoA,llas Pad Lai5 dgM.12C74y~ 16 }468b4,~,,6,h ,,W
Rebecca Bormer88642 yan, Q,,T,,D.Ar463 Mario6J86Cic ,lGoetz42 Ler idhHg6 nA min ,,,2 Kelly Mde 6,,6T,,,,gL2 JacquelieReceMiller 2 3 886i,,Graceihrdn42 166, S,,Lynn,Str6,, 2 16,,,,,hW462
jlmsia SamBorlon 3 abneielge-DC,,ldicus2 Sn YeHwang3 Kaie Latin 512 n,fr aie Mllr ,Star Leichard..3iipp,,izabeth6,11,Scamp ,,,2 T 416,,an Wo3
Da..DnieBw.-,,,2 mh ,,Kaye,,,,, i,43 a,,,,,i,,,C,,ld,,,,,5, Eic H,,2,Emly Ane Lske2 4,1,66Mchele Miler3 JsphLird 1Rih 32 SNmkMaie Lyappl2 CutigYigh2
TiAty ya Bas 3 NiiDa 52 61,, 4 C,,,,, SIygr42 Jul~i Hong L 2 Ch4 idi,,Ming. 3 Patrick H iggsy 2 eah Danielle Stei3ber2 jY ,Sd,,,,,Y ,,a ,
JarredVicto DonlyB 2 KirynScottevoll2 Jaquel661ead(2 nan 3yNBahe athry Mino 3 E,3y I,,,,,pa 4 Nna CariellySteiberg
Jee y tphnBru M cEniA aige Goldst6462 K icA,,,,,, ri ly-gar 5 JuNin Le ,,,,3 WdlAnii,,,,,,Mirc 4 E,,,,Ll.Michelle Ritche32 Niol Lyn S 4 ,,2 i. X.yZ 3
61,,,4i4,C,4c,,Irene66 4 T,,,,3,6 And=,, Kim4 GolCdwa3sserM44,,6a,,, ,,,,6amantha3,86Mai2 I, ,,2R,,,,,2 T,,,,,,,,SlliLee,335'YMs Z,,8,,,2
Dana ,Lee,,,,,Braunshel,p2 Sarah Melissa DiamondLi2,Marc ,,63,,6,,,,,,2 B,6,,LAee ,,,2 Fdo avcvihM,,,86,,3,E5uardHRene,,,,, 4 16,664 NHarrisnJmes, Sern, ,2 Alxaner i, Yangp13

111 dlle AronButje2 Mhian Kathleen Doyle 2 E611nJ3,,eGray2 Clra hrstieJ,,,,d,,,esscaAlly eh,,,,,2 Bnai WloeMss3 CuteyEiaet yasi oadSun3 ll Ncoe2 ~ t
MargretCather,,ieBurns ,3 Timothy Doyle3 ErinCray2 Jones,,2 AlexisChr iine ,,,,,,,,2 Nicole MdrieMtt 2 H3 C,,,, e~o611 4 3L6nda6S4n 2Con Zhag 3
Ashey DanielleBrnside 3 Sara6Elizabeth Dri6 5 Virginia, Sld,,,Gray 2 GrceRadlph Judge 3 Emily Carroll Letts,,2 NiKelseAMozolaM7,,,,2Hani SaaHy2JAaRyn3 16,4,, 6,a 2 jenny Gloria Zhang3
Andrea Susan ,,Byl 2 Vronica K8a6hleenDulin 2 Melanie, Rac6el(Greenspan ,2 Hish,,,46,,,,d Kddurah ,2 Sa AeCndr Lvei3,, yaMuku661,,3 ,66,,2 18686 Sagerd,,2, 5,,,,,F,665arSy,,,,85S Kevi Juan ,Zhag 3
Hannah Jane ,,Byl 2 Cecilia Koai D,,,,,,,,,,l 2 Spi lxnr resan2 Smnh iheKgn2 Mel66a,,IreneLevin, 4 CriB,,,Muno P,,MV4AlisnL.S,g 2 Sarah Marie 8Soll 2Lily Yfli Zhg 8
Joseph 1686,, C,,dgi, 8 Mark44Adam,(Durha,,,2 1661,, Eizabeth CGriffin,4 Bnjmin Michael4,,,n3 Laura,,,Elise ,Lvine 4 4 AyuiLuiM uraa4 A,,2 ma,,,,na,,MarieS,lvi ,,2 CIs,,ael,,Tsm ,3 2Mo Zhng 3
Rbecca ,,,S,,,hi,, C,,,2 Kelsey MaeF6,,l,,4 Lura,,Anne,,G,,4,,,2 Joshua,,,Seven Kahn,2 E86,,18SaraLewis ,2 A ictor~Sia M~pyers4 oranMagart Y,,6,,3,MdeeieaueT,,,6, 43 Yig Z6,,83
Nicole B,,,,,,,Carbone,,,2 4AdamBuce, 61,,86,,r3 41,,,,Marie, G,,,,4,4,3 Michelle,,,,eK16862 Lue laehL ewis, 186,,643 Chritina race a 5 Mura CaireSndrs2 Lsli3 eg 4Yue,,73,,,4
Nicholas MichaelCar,4,,i 2 Noah Charles Tobias Elsen 2 1Renee,, U Gros,,2 AlyaMie ~Kaiser3 Sarah jean Lewis-Craw ,,3 GC6,8ihael Nma5 h,,,,Cl6SinghSand,,,2 Hana JnTenig4 S2 Yufan Z6,,g 2
Spncr lak amihal Jnifer,,Beth Eisenberg 3 Sh,,nghua G0,,,, 2 Anne,,Hele,, Kali,,,,si 5 Baihan ,Li 3GJamBnin6,,Nadel 4 Bla3keb6Srig Sanfrd3 lexnda . 2 drecu2 Crln ogZh
Mikla Anne ,Carpenter 2 Ni,,i,,,Hassan,,,, 6-H,,,,2 Ana,,Maria, Guay 5 Lln jyKaln2Collin, Li3 3 ,,,,,Bj86Nad4 Nln Chen Peg Santl6a3 Mathe Aa 2 3,,, JeryYiyang Z6,,,3
Meredith HranCarrel33 John Anthony Ellenkiotis8 4,,,,, hich Gugeneim2 Harry Qin Kammerrnan ,,,,2 Geyang 12 Austin Daniel Natiger 5 A4,4,,,,,,a,, gi2 GabrilleMarieTh,,,,,,2 AexndrpobtZ8 eud8y2
Matthew Jacob Catado,3 E611abethAnnEnglish 3 PB,,, Guta3,ereyzr Kala 2 Li,, ng U2Ahiirrjn2 AnF,,,,Nicole Sarvr KahlenRoele hompson16,,,4 Ru 886,,i,2
SpnerGore 86k 5 Krt1 NeansEke BokeRne usaso JleBethKaplan,,5 Z6,,,,,, Li 2 h CmairaN,,,7,nn~Li,, p ,,yn2 F,g,,nNoele 66862 N,,,,3,, ru Z 4
Cather,,ineChan,,2 ZyaSama&Edeig 4 ALil Venikata C,,iGota2 MiheSlleD,,a, Ippy 3 Jacob Doug8lalight 5 jaspr ,Lhng Ne3 1686,,,, LorinS4,,,86,s 6 tik Kyl T,,p7 Nicholas PeterZing,2
Willim,,WahChan, 2 AdesFabian Espinoza 2 Lnday,,E,,izabeth Cutt~ig2 Mariana,,Athena,,,16r,2 DanLin,3 Kriten Ann ,Nelson,4 Teo amsShf 3 Cou~rney B,,ynipon6 Alsa RoseZo,,86ski 4
Dep hnhaehr3 Z,,4,ary3onEspoio 6 ASnaNiole Giazdo,62 A4drea E6186eth, puska2 36 6,,,,Lin,2 MchAmusy esn2 Eric3John, Sch,,,,,,,,ki 4 Anastasia Lda Tkach 6 HsanAdahZreik 4
Madison,,,3,,dyn Ch,,,,,,,,2 DenaJacEter 8 1Saaicele yslicH2 Ad,,,,homas Karaba,,6,, 2 Li6,,,Lin,2 EMika616an N,,,stor 4 FelPmelaSharf k2 RbecaLnn,,,,M Br AexZny3
AlexZY Chang 3 K86ri4Dnille Evans 2 8Kimberly,,Grace,,Ha,624,5 bi,,8 1,, akar5 Shan,,Lin 2 McalRbr eit6 Lue lsaShne lr aiy onsote ao ihe utd
Leland (DerekChang 2 TylrCaltnEvans ,2 S41nha izm86,,,,5Alx ,,, tz5 Steve ,Lin 3 Grace Ngotnganawon,,g 2 JstnMihalSchn-Lit86ege2 Li,,goTong 2 JfryDewZsha
M,,6,,1,,86Rp~~E hi,, ,,ff,,,yT~g, 0i F * 30,0,,g, 0046 0 0 0 0 0 806, 0 , 0,d,,,D,,*i L,,0d0,,d 1868110 ,, 0 0,N 0h,9,, 0 04 0,,0,, *,0,i0gh 0,, . 4l 0 0 116,,0 ,,0,,0S* ,60
61 yA,,4,,,,,,4,,,,,,, V66Chen atthw 06,,,, shr StphM ie 18,,,, Hndly Charlotte ApheKin Een LuseLoenan ark ajnieMlleniJ enod ahristop ,6,E86 hrdSulliva
Mak1aulAdas KtheineElzbeChilton H,,ary1 C. edmBan d,,,, H H,,Ruby EJ,,,,,, irb0,y JacobBernard,, 6141 MJackKelly6NMurphyd'VictoriaLeeL4,,,D,4JeffreyEliotKSun
Maxi A5,,,,RynFChin JefreyTig Hi Fng iMi4,, 16,, ,,66Kr,,,,Citine ,Hyte AuustEdmnd616,,Aleandr DvidLovlan, MiclyogNachman M Plip Cuningam Rley i,i Htn Swain,
Brandon Wihliam Alexande 18A86on NicholasC,,,,,, Gabril,,le GraciGet JCesRd Hedrckon Edn iuhg ooHannah686 8,,,Aley Lcas atthw Garie3,,,,,RyaLeeRogs Claire Ilene Tai3.
BleAde lmn VciCun in oeGg ihalBradHny Beda oehKsi san James,,A,,, C,1, M,,,8,Macket-8h,,,,,, h,,,, n (6,16N,,,i Aaron4ichael sen MrijlzaehTa
Aysa mn Erc PieCoe J4e Aukua anh BadnMhitohrgetn ario amsaselKrnky Also icl dpc ara Irhm aralh Syny ehRoe pk avdThmsn-oa
Aust,,,in ,4meFsrt-yar innopldlJesrsolegecaasGrebliibelhoorg86n,, 166an Emily Sh,,,, Ainsey RayWil Vead
Kurren Alec Ba1646 if they acmpleedtBlA S T FofSMAN chIa.TE Daie Gerg Pal DJoas,1,ula4,,,,,,, 566p iaxllui, Wang6,
Mtthew4Patrick ,, hi,,sa6 Benjamin Pan8An,,61hh6 3,,,e,,hm!Wahni
Sara Josphine Beid students here have earned this distinction. Micl T. Payne MichaelShen 3,,,Xie
JessicaMichelleBet lh ndre Mic4llePesc M icha6elDvid3,6S86,,,Cc Yang
6na aaleBoratp,,Cayla Maie F1, n Hanna,,h PrySihel HdleyElizabeth Ya,,eych
Mitchell Jamesgould BoyCeGahrilla Maria, (6g,,,6ii 3Juli Renee Gips, Hannah Louise,,H,,,,4i,, Ryn Mtthw6,,,, Cran. McCdll Z,,4,,,,p3a,,,,P1,4, eey uh Smn mlyGae eitgo
NbigailDwBchmeyer Rachel Ann De4auw, e(6,,n6Dean lynnd,, hiI,,,AnnHrsman Jams Jeh La,, czk 86861o RobertMM1,,, 8661,, Pabhu3,,,,,,MaSkeltonSM ,,, P8,, Yin~ ~
Noh HaClepBurns 3,,,,xande61Al6on Denni Clese Myh,,,,,,Mdisn FneHorton Hanna Ram4Lee Iabel Ire61.61ullen E4,,,,Rose4mkkQi,, PJaso liamSkheap6 hoee Eizabeth Youn
16,,h,, Chang Katherine Annette Eh614rs M8,enzieLeCGordon ranonGar 46,,,, ZeenLi Sarah RoseMirona Shrya Rnjan Carsten Ro6bert p, grWli Zhao
(6anile(6nacChen oranAlxa86861ih acelBeth 6C,,,, DanelDavi (6dlKaprlian ucenLiang M1661,,3JaeMitchell Helena Martine Rant, LlaMie Sqil6,
Elie -s86raCen KiFang 61r4,ReinterH64,,,, H,,1,76Elizabeth8Katz M,,ChristineLicciar41 Cassandra Kathleen,,Mocek av8,,,,86 6 ,,4 arahMarieStc
Mlle66Chen, Lam,,Ali Fwaz, Hussein JofferHakim Jula Luren K166mJeffryUin 16d izabe8thhiMollop David Fraer64ed 3Johua AaronSt1llma
T lxne hn EiyRs ek alJsp aitn JoehJh isln aataEte hc Awnt aari oead Mrae ayRam akAeadrSoe



8 - Friday, March 14, 2014

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Tournament implications on Senior Day

By ERIN LENNON one last series at Yost Ice Arena
Daily Sports Writer is as high-stakes as ever. The
Wolverines have the chance for
ie No. 14 Michigan hockey redemption against Minnesota,
might be finishing its the chance to reinforce their
[ar season, but a series dominance at home and the
ist No. 1 Minnesota is the last chance to prove a postseason run
ce to getstarted. is still possible.
ith a second-place finish in A month ago, the Wolverines
:onference and a bye in the were given a chance to make
'en Tournament out of reach, a statement against a team

that spent four months atop
the standings, but they simply
couldn't.
When the Golden Gophers
came out firing on all cylinders
Feb. 14, Michigan recoiled,
looking slow and timid.
Despite well-matched hockey
through the second period, the
Wolverines fell quietly on the
road. But when Michigan scored

junior goaltender Luke Dwyer,
which seemed like the kind of
win this team needed following
the loss of senior captain Mac
Bennett to injury.
"We're extremely hot and cold
right now, so we have to find that
consistency heading into the
playoffs," said Bennett, who is
expected return to the starting
lineup Friday.
Though Michigan coach Red
Berenson has spoken about
improving each week, peaks and
valleys have proven the story of
Michigan's season.
Impressive home wins over
then-No. 4 Boston College, Ferris
State and Boston University
contrast with two ugly losses to
a second-year program in Penn
State, whose only two conference
victories came against Michigan..
The Wolverines' home success
shows that home-ice advantage
is a very real factor, and the

Children of Yost could serve as
a sixth man when goals are at
a premium. Michigan is eight
games over .500 because of its
dominance athome.
But regardless of the venue,
Minnesota is Minnesota. And a
post-season appearance on the
line, no matter how far away,
starts athome.
"Senior weekend is nice
and all, but I want to win a Big
Ten championship," Bennett
said. "I want to win a national
championship."
Minnesota at Michigan
Matchup: Minnesota 24-4-
6; Michigan 17-11-4
When: Friday 6:30 P.M.,
Saturday 7 P.M.
Where: Yost Ice Arena
TV: ESPN News (Friday), Big Ten
Network (Saturday)

--___

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Freshman netminder Zach Nagelvoort will be tasked with stopping the Gophers.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Season on pause as
WNIT bid beckons
By MAX COHEN WNIT. Her St. John's teams
Daily SportsEditor made three appearances In
the tournament, most recently
The games are done for now, in 2009, when the Red Storm
and the schedule is blank. All the reached the third round.
Michigan women's basketball At this juncture in her tenure
team can do is wait. at Michigan, Barnes Arico views
It isn't a guarantee that the the WNIT as a chance to continue
Wolverines' season will continue, establishing the legitimacy of the
but it's almost a sure thing. program. Though this season
Though Michigan's hopes of an will not appear as successful on
NCAA Tournament at-large bid paper as her first year in Ann
were effectively dashed in its close Arbor, which featured an NCAA
second-round loss to Michigan Tournament victory, playing
State in the Big Ten Tournament, well in the WNIT would create
the prospect of postseason play is momentum forthe program going
still very much alive. forward and end the season on a
The Wolverines (8-8 Big Ten, high note.
18-13 overall) are likely below the The Wolverines will return
bubble for the NCAA Tournament the vast majority of their
after a regular season in which minutes next season, meaning
many of their defeats came in extra practices now can set the
close games against quality tone and expectations for the
opponents.For now, Michiganhas upcoming year. of the returning
its sights seteon a probable berthin players, only junior guard
the WNIT with the possibility of Nicole Elmblad played more
hosting tournament games. Based than 10 minutes in last year's
on projections, the Wolverines two NCAA Tournament games,
will likely be one of the better Big so participating in postseason
Ten teams to fall shortof securing games will give the rest of the
an NCAA Tournamentbid. team needed experience before
Michigan won't know its fate the addition of a heralded
until the postseason selections are recruiting class.
announced Monday night. But the "We go in Crisler every dayand
team is practicing nonetheless, there's a lot of banners hung by
choosing to view a WNIT bid our men's program,"Barnes Arico
as a stepping stone instead of a said. "There's not one hung yet by
second-rate option. the women's program. And that's
"Anytimewegetanopportunity our goal, to win championships.
to compete for a championship So let's go and try to hang that
and continue to play and continue banner in the WNIT and get
to practice, I think it's going to somethingstarted."
help our program," said Michigan Michigan could possibly
coach Kim Barnes Arico on start its journey toward its first
WTKA Tuesday. "So we're banner while playing in Crisler
excited about the opportunity to Center. The Wolverines have
compete in the WNIT and to win made themselves available to host
a championship." WNIT games, but like the next
Barnes Arico has some step for this program, that will be
experience coaching in the announced Monday.
JACKSON GLINES IS
1-FOR-i ON THE ROAD
HE KNOWS WHAT THIS MEANS

I

i


