Iie llidjigan0aitj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, February 20, 2014

michigandaily.com

ENVIRONMENT
Lakes see
highest ice
levels after
cold winter

Eighty-five percent
of Great Lakes
currently frozen
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily News Editor
As students return home for
spring break, those who live in
coastal regions surrounding
the Great-Lakes could witness
some ofsthe highest ice levels in
decades.
As of Wednesday, ice coverage
acrosstheGreatLakeswashover-
ing just above 85 percent, mean-
ing only a small fraction of the
surface areas of the lakes remain
unfrozen, according to George
A. Leshkevich, a researcher at
the National Oceanic and Atmo-
spheric Administration's Great
Lakes Environmental Research
Laboratory.
The Ann Arbor-based NOAA
lab, one of seven similar national
labs, conducts the majority of
the administration's Great Lakes

research. The lab partners with
the University's Cooperative
Institute for Limnology and
Ecosystems Research, which is
overseen by the School of Natural
Resources and Environment.
CILER was founded with the
goal of "fostering University and
NOAA partnerships in the Great
Lakes region," according to the
CILER webpage.
NOAA uses satellite imagery,
shipping reports and aircraft
observations,inconjunctionwith.
computer models, to estimate
the ice coverage throughout the
winter months. Leshkevich said
the southern lakes typically see
ice levels peak around the middle
to end of February, where the
northern lakes see their peak
around the beginning of March.
. The high ice levels are likely
due to the early onset of winter
weather this season, combined
with last month's polar vortex,
which caused below-average
temperatures across many of
the lakes. The ice levels contrast
See ICE, Page 3A

Bangladeshi garrnent worker Reba Sikder, 18, and her translator and fellow survivor Kalpona Akter discuss their tragedies and new hopes and goals for better
rights in Bangladeshi sweat shops. "We need these jobs but we want these jobs with dignity," said Sikder.
Workers engage students

Bangladeshilaborers
share traumatic
factory experiences
By STEPHANIE SHENOUDA
Daily News Editor
The University's chapter
of United Students Against
Sweatshops, a student-led
organization, hosted two Ban-
gladeshi garment workers who

shared their experiences about
working in a clothing factory at
a meeting on Wednesday.
To prepare for the event,
students turned an East Quad
Residence Hall classroom into
standing-room-only to show
their solidarity with the work-
ers. The move was part of a
longstanding goal of encourag-
ing the University to pressure
their licensees to sign a legally
bonding and one-of-a-kind doc-
ument allowing their workers

the right to refuse unsafe work-
ing conditions. The group met
with the President's Advisory
Committee on Labor Standards
and Human Rights on Wednes-
day afternoon to request they
require all University apparel
licensees to adhere to ethical
practices.
The event began with a
demonstration where USAS
members constructed a "power
map" exposing the discrepancy
between the companies that

produce collegiate apparel, the
factory owners and the workers.
They said students' voices are
impactful because of the stake
they have with universities, as
they're the target audience for
their apparel.
Translated by labor orga-
nizer Kalpona Akter, former
worker Reba Sikder described
the working conditions she
and her co-workers faced on a
daily basis, working 110-hour
See WORKERS, Page 3A


ACADEMIC$
Grant
expands
Islamic
studies
$3 million donation
to create virtual
curriculum for
Fall 2015
By AMIA DAVIS
DailyNewsEditor
Next year, instructors will use
projector screens and laptops for
more than just presenting Power-
Points and documentaries.
Starting in the Fall 2015 term, the
University will expand its Islamic
Studies program through a $3
million grant from the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation by creating the
Islamic Studies Virtual Curriculum
program.
The University's Department of
Islamic Studies and the Committee
on International Cooperation will
govern the program, which includes
all universities in the Big Ten Con-
ference and the University of Chi-
See STUDIES, Page 3A

Professor discusses
issues surrounding
Obamacare's launch

The History of Race exhibit is displayed at Hatcher Graduate Library Wednesday.
Hatcher diSplays exhibit
on the 'U's h istory of race

Culture of
Medicine Club
hosts ACA expert
By TOM MCBRIEN
Daily StaffReporter
As the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act,
also known as Obamacare,
continues to take effect, the
reasonwhyit wasimplemented
in the first place is often lost
among the political rhetoric.
However, Public Health Prof.
Scott Greer explained some
of the answers in a lecture
Wednesday night to about 15
members of the Culture of
Medicine Club.
Greer, who has done
research in Australia, Cana-
da, Spain, Belgium, Germany,
France, the U.S., the U.K. and
the European Union, said the
facts surrounding health care
are often difficult to discern.
"I've learned that practi-
cally nobody actually under-
stands how public health
is organized in most of the
world," he said.
When asked why the ACA is
such a big transition in the first

place, Greer placed most of the
emphasis on the United States'
employer-backed systembefore
the ACA.
"The U.S., unlike other sys-
tems, did not manage to break
past the point at which health
care was essentially an employ-
er-provided benefit," he said.
According to Greer,
Obamacare produced two
strange effects: employee
stiffing and job lock. "Job lock"
is a term referring to when an
employee will refuse to leave
their current job because
they cannot afford to lose
their benefits. This impedes
entrepreneurialism and an
unhealthier work force.
Greer added that this
emphasis on employer-
financed health care created a
strange system in the U.S.
"It's weird in the sense that
something that is, by design,
evanescent in a functioning
capitalist system - namely, a
big company - is made into
part of the welfare state."
Another difficulty with the
previous system was the dras-
tic transition from being unin-
sured to being on Medicare.
"There's a significant num-
See OBAMACARE, Page 3A

To celebrate Black
History Month,
library presentation
poses questions
By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
In commemoration of Black
History Month, the University
Library system decided to do
something a little more than
usual this year.
The University Library-

sponsored MLK Day Com-
mittee, along with the School
of Information and the Office
of Academic Multicultural
Initiatives, among others, cre-
ated the History of Race at
U-M display in the Hatcher
Library. The exhibit opened
to the public on Jan. 20 and
will be on display through the
end of February.
While the committee holds
a yearly commemorative pro-
gram for MLK day, this is the
first year the group created an
exhibit to examine diversity
and acceptance throughout

the University's history. In
prior years, the committee
has hosted speakers to dis-
cuss racial issues. Last year,
political activist Angela Davis
spoke at the University.
Darlene Nichols, librarian
for diversity and inclusion at
the University, said the exhib-
it aims to contribute to the
conversation about race on
campus by "providing an edu-
cation experience that could
draw people in differently."
The committee worked
with staff from the
See HATCHER, Page 3A



WEATHER HI 36
TOMORROW LO 22

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Sign hung from Mason alleges'Vdefends rapists
MICHIGAN DAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS......................... 2A SPORTS.......................7A
Vol.CXXIVNo.72 SUDOKU..................2A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
@2014TheMichigan Daily OPINION ...................4A B-SIDE .................,.1 B
michigandaily.com

,a

1

e


2A - Thursday, February 20, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
O1e MidWiwan 0ail
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-4te-ails ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahie@micbigandaity.ram kraigeman@michigandaitycoin

SNOW D IFNf

Alum wears 'U' pride on sleeve

Michael Ben graduated from
the University in 1997 with a B.A.
in Political Science. He is currently
a partner and leader of the Securi-
ties and Corporate Governance
at Honigman Miller Schwartz
and Cohn LLP, where he counsels
companies. He was awarded Top
Lawyer by DBusiness in 2011 and
2012 and recognized as a Rising
Star by Michigan Super Lawyers
from 2009-2013.
How did your experience at
the University prepare you
for a career in law?,
Classes at the University
taught me how to think analyti-
cally, communicate effectively,

write persuasively, consider
alternative viewpoints and to be
detail-oriented. Students were
hard-working, smart, creative
thinkers and open to new ideas,
and I gained a lot of confidence
from competing with and learn-
ing from the diverse community
at the University. A lot of my
undergraduate friends went to
law school or business school
and they have been a great
resource for me throughout my
career.
What is your most memorable
moment at the University?
Socially and academically,
it was a perfect match. I made

most of my life-long friends at
the University and it cemented
my core values as a person, so
I am thankful for that. I have
been going to U of M athletic
events since I was three, and it
was a dream come to attend as
a student.
What advice would you give
to students who arejust
graduating and looking for
careers of their own?
Wear your U of M gear wher-
ever you live or travel; you will
be amazed at the number of
alumni throughout the world
that love this University.
-AMIA DAVIS

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
rorrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@nichigandaily.com
Sparts Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandailyacom
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
fianancemichigandaily.com

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
Business sophomore Christopher Elie builds small
snowmen around campus Wednesday.

' ' ' ' roc tg-apoj, yo'

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Accusations
BY ADAM RUBENFIRE
A banner was seen hang-
ing from 3401 Mason Hall
on Wedneday afternoon. It
read, "This administration
defends rapists." At the time
of publication, it was not
known who was responsible
for the banner. A University
spokesperson declined to
comment on its content.
Good Day
BY LEJLA BAJGORIC
In the spirit of Ice Cube's
track "It Was A Good Day,"
four Los Angeles friends
started Project Good Day
Blimp, which attempts to
give the youth of South
Central a good day. The
group raised $25,000 to
put the song lyrics on the
Goodyear Blimp, which then
flew over the city.

New Single
BY ALLEN DONNE
ScHoolboy Q previewed
one of the new tracks off his
soon-to-be-released album,
Oxymoron, on Hot 97 on
Feb. 18. While many fans
expected he may release the
entire album over the radio
braodcast, his new song,
"Blind Threats," showcased
his story-telling ability.
Social Contacts
BY ABHISHEK CAULIGI
Social media and online
interaction often replaces
face-to-face contact with
other people. While social
media allows us to connect
with others in new ways,
it also poses problems for
basic conventions of contact.
Read morefrom these
blogs at michigandaily.com

Romeo & Juliet
WHAT: The Department
of Musical Theatre
Studio performs one of
Shakespeare's classics.
Admissions is $10 with an
MCard.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Arthur Miller
Theatre

Days of Fire
WHAT: Peter Baker will
discuss his book, Days of
Fire: Bush and Cheney in
the White House, which
explores George W. Bush
and Dick Cheney's contro-
versial partnership.
WHO: Gerarld R. Ford
Presidential Library
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Gerarld Ford
Library

Photography Pirate lecture
of crisis WHAT: The lecture will
reJpns

A Bengali white tiger
refused to eat 27-year-
old Yang Jinhai after
being taunted for 20 minutes,
TIME Magazine reported.
Jinhai climbed over the gates
at Chengdu Zoo in China and
commanded the tiger to eat
him.
The b-side takes a look
at the overlooked parts
of Ann Arbor's hip hop
scene. Motivation, AA's pre-
miere hip hop fashion store
and Rill Ill, an independent
rap producer are profiled.
"> FOR MORE, SEE THE BSIDE
Residents of Greene
County, Pennsylvania
are outraged by their
compensation - 100 gift cer-
tificates to Bobtown's Pizza
- issued by Chevron for the
natural gas explosion that
killed a worker on Feb. 11,
CNN reported.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas Managing News Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham, Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASsiNaSTamNEWS tE D O a A mkha dain, , A n, oHilaa yCawfaiAmia
Dai, Shha G", Ana a rb.O,, Thomaas McOOie,Emile'O,,',,.5a Rdainand
MichaelSugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Want Editorialrtge Editors ariniaardiaarsgnichigandaiy.ro
SENIOR EDITORIALPAE ITORS: Aarica M arsadVictors ihNndbyle
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Z0iga ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SERSORSEDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
Akshay Seth Managing Arts Editors akse@miichigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSITAT ARTS EDITORS: Jamnie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
ToAas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
ASISTANT PHOTO EDTO RS: llson arranTracyKi Terra Molengraff and Nicholas
Wiasroaonas adba'la
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasquezManaging Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackens and AliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPT MAGAZIEDTR:MxRadwiand Amrutha Sivakumar
STATMENPHO EITO: Rby abOlla
STATEMENTLEAD DESIGNER:AmnyMackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SEN IOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar igital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daily (OSsN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fal and winter tems by
students at the University o ihia.O ne copy is avalable free o charge to al readers Additional copies may
be picked upat theDalys ofiefo 2.SubscrptosfrflltrsartnginSeptemberva alat e $i10.
Winter ter , anua houg h r i)is oog (Sep embe ugh Apri> ist$195aUniversty affilates
be prepaid The Michgan Daly 5 a member of The Asso ated Press and The Assocatedegate press


cover the car
WHAT: Patricia Keller, pirate Nushin
professor of Spanish Litera- Takeyoshi.
ture at Cornell University, WHO: Cente
examines photograph's of Studies
Spain's economic crisis and WHEN: Tod
discusses how photography WHERE: Sc
can be used for intellectual Work Buildir
thought and taking action.
WHO: Romance Languages CORRECTIONS
and Literature
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m. 0 Please rep
WHERE: Modern in the Daily t
Languages Building tions@michi

reer Japanese
ma Murakami
r for Japanese
ay at 12 p.m.
hool of Social
ng
ort any error
to correc-
igandaily.com.

Prosecutors widen scope of
coal ash spill investigation

Dan River tainted
by spill, residents
warned not to drink
water or eat fish
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - Federal
prosecutors widened their inves-
tigation triggered by a massive
coal ash spill in North Carolina,
demanding reams of documents
and ordering nearly 20 state en-
vironmental agency employees to
testify before a grand jury.
The subpoenas were made pub-
lic by the N.C. Department of En-
vironment and Natural Resources
on Wednesday. They also ordered
state officials to hand over any re-
cords pertaining to investments,
cash or other items of value they
might have received from Duke
Energy or its employees.
Charlotte-based Duke also
confirmed it was served with a
new subpoena, the second re-
ceived bythe nation's largest elec-
tricity provider. Company spokes-
H-S

man Tom Williams declined to
discuss it.
On Feb. 2, a pipe rnning un-
der a coal ash pond collapsed at
Duke's Dan River Steam Station
in Eden, coating the bottom of the
Dan River, near the Virginia border,
with toxic ash up to 70 miles down-
stream.
Meanwhile, state officials said
Duke successfully contained "about
90 percent" of the flow from a sec-
ond pipe at the dump spewing ar-
senic-laced groundwater into the
river.
Public health officials have ad-
vised residents not to touch the
river water or eat the fish.
State environmental Sec. John
Skvarla refused to answer when
asked at a media briefing if he had
been served with a subpoena.
Skvarla was appointed last year
by Gov. Pat McCrory, a Republican
who worked for Duke Energy for
more than 28 years. Josh Ellis, Mc-
Crory's spokesman, confirmed the
governor had not been subpoenaed.
Among those ordered to appear
before the grand jury next month is
Tom Reeder, the Division of Water
5-m

Quality director who oversees the
state's enforcement of environ-
mental violations at Duke's 31 coal
ash dumps located at114 coal-fired
power plants spread across North
Carolina.
The 20 subpoenas disclosed by
the state agency follow two Feb. 10
subpoenas, which were issued the
day after a story by The Associated
Press raised questions about a pro-
posed deal between state officials
and Duke that would have fined
Duke $99,111 to settle violations
over toxic groundwater contamina-
tion at two facilities.
Thesettlementcameaboutafter
a coalition of citizen groups tried
to use the U.S. Clean Water Act to
sue Duke in federal court last year.
The state agency intervened three
times to use its authority to issue
violations over the pollution and
take the case to state court, where
the agency quickly negotiated the
proposed settlement that includ-
ed no requirement Duke actually
clean up its past pollution or pre-
vent further contamination.
The citizens groups opposed
the deal, saying it shielded Duke
from far harsher penalties it might
have faced in federal court had the
state not intervened. The state put
the settlement on hold last week,
the day after the AP reported on it.
Skvarla said he briefed Mc-
Crory before intervening, but he
never discussed the specific terms
of the settlement. Environmen-
tal groups have suggested Skvarla
shepherded a "sweetheart deal"
with Duke to shield the governor's
former employer from far harsher
penalties.
Since his first unsuccessful
campaign for governor in 2008,
campaign finance reports show
Duke Energy, its political action
committee, executives and their
immediate families have donated
at least $1.1 million to McCrory's
campaign and affiliated groups
that spent on TV ads, mailings and
events to support him.
The groups want Duke to re-
move its coal ash from the leak-
ing, unlined pits adjacent to rivers
and lakes and move it to sealed
landfills licensed to handle toxic
waste. The company has said it
plans to "close" an unspecified
number of its dumps, perhaps by
covering the acres of ash with gi-
ant tarps to keep rainwater out.

A demonstrator stands next to a burning barricade during an opposition protest outside La Carlota airport in Caracas, Ven-
ezuela, Tuesday. Members of the opposition are protesting after their leader Leopoldo Lopez surrendered.
0 0
Venezuelan opposition head
waits to hear about char ges

Justice official says
homicide, terrorism
not likely charges
CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) -
Held at a military jail, opposition
leader Leopoldo Lopez waited
to learn Wednesday if he will
be charged for violence that has
erupted during protests that have
revitalized challenges to 15 years
of socialist rule in the oil-rich na-
tion.
Lopez, who dramatically sur-
rendered to authorities before
thousands of cheering supporters
Tuesday, was to appear before a
judge to learn what charges he
would face for organizing mass
demonstrations that have resulted
in at least six deaths and more than
100 injuries over the past week.
The hearing was closed and the
outcome had not been announced
by late Wednesday as sporad-
ic protests continued to erupt
throughout the capital, with pro-
testers setting fires in the streets
and police firingvolleys of tear gas
and blasts from water cannons.
The government of President
Nicolas Maduro has accused Lo-
pez, a 42-year-old former mayor
and the leader of the Popular Will
party, of attempting to foment a

coup in the South American na-
tion and authorities had said he
could face charges that include
homicide and causing grievous
bodily harm.
A judicial official told The As-
sociated Press that prosecutors
were leaning toward discarding
homicide and terrorism charges,
opting instead to pursue less se-
rious counts such as arson and
incitement to commit crimes.
That would allow the possibility
of Lopez being released pending
trial, according to the official, who
agreed to discuss the matter only
if not quoted by name because the
decision had not been made pub-
lic.
Hundreds of supporters waited
outside the courthouse for news
of the decision, watched over by
National Guard troops. Caracas
Mayor Antonio Ledezma, a mem-
ber of a different opposition party,
showed up at one point in a sign of
unity among the foes of the Madu-
ro government.
"We are all united in demand-
ing the release of Leopoldo Lo-
pez," Ledezma told the AP. "We
are rallyingbehind him."
The crowd dissipated after
hours of waiting when officials
decided to hold the court hearing
at the military jail outside Caracas
where Lopez was being detained.
The opposition has planned na-

tionwide marches for Saturday to
protest both his detention as well
as the rampant crime, shortages
of consumer goods and inflation
rate of more than 50 percent that
has made life difficult for many in
the country of nearly 30 million
people.
The jailing of Lopez has made
him a cause celebre among op-
ponents of Maduro, eclipsing to
some degree Henrique Capriles,
the opposition's two-time losing
presidential candidate who was
building support for another chal-
lenge in two years.
Capriles attended a rally on
Feb. 12 in Caracas led by Lopez
but did not appear on the stage to
address the masses of demonstra-
tors. Clashes with police erupted
afterward, after the opposition
leaders had left, and resulted in
three deaths. In Twitter messages,
he accused the government on
Wednesday of infiltrating opposi-
tion demonstrations to provoke
violence.
Maduro accused Lopez of lead-
ing a "fascist" plot to oust the so-
cialist government, the political
legacy of the late Hugo Chavez,
and authorities issued an arrest
warrant for him. He surrendered
theatrically on Tuesday, dressed
in white to signify peace, adorned
with a crucifix from his wife and
surrounded by a sea of supporters.

I

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 20, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, February 20, 2014 - 3A

ICE
From Page 1A
low to moderate levels in the last
couple years.
"The warming effect that
we've seen - both air tempera-
ture and water temperature -
and then with polar vortex come
down draws the heat out of the
lake, change things radically, so
we end up this year with a lot of
ice cover," Leshkevich said.
While the ice is particularly
severe this season. Leshkevich

said this demonstrates the
increased variability of recent
years. Historically, ice levels
fluctuate from year to year, but
when averaged out, ice levels over
the lastseveral decades have been
on a very gradual decline.
"Theicecoverhasbeenvariable
throughout the years, even in the
70s and 80s," he said. "Overall
it will still be downward, but it
seems like we're seeing greater
fluctuation in recent years."
Average ice cover at this
point in the season is 35 percent,
according to Leshkevich. The
current levels are the highest

since 1979, when the lakes were
almost 95 percent covered.
While the ice may present
obstacles for ships and
beachgoers, Leshkevich and
other scientists said it represents
an important component of the
Great Lakes' ecosystems. Surface
ice prevents winter evaporation,
which helps maintain water
levels, and some species of fish
rely on the ice to protect nesting
grounds from winter storms.
Several factors - mainly
wind, rain and air temperature
- could influence whether the
ice continues to grow or begins

melting. If cold weather persists,
the ice could theoretically
continue to grow and approach
nearly 100 percent.
While the early winter season
may have been the key player
in the ice formation this year,
Leshkevich said global climate
change may be playing a role
in the overarching change in
fluctuations.
"A lot of climatologists
attribute (the ice) to both natural
variability and perhaps some to
climate change, to global change,"
he said. "At least that's what I'm
hearing from them."


STUDIES
From Page 1A
cago. The committees will
establish courses available to all
students in theCIC.
Political Science Prof.
Pauline Jones Luong, director
of the Islamic Studies program,
said that in order to test the
technology and teaching, the
program will offer a small
number of courses the first year.
The number of courses offered
will then increase yearly.
According to Luong, the
courses will cover all aspects
of Islam, including its theology,
history and culture. The courses
will be enough for students to
earn an Islamic Studies minor.
"It's going to be broad, but
we want to make sure that
we include courses that will
be offered consistently for
students," Luong said.
Funding for the grant will
last five years, but Luong said
she hopes the live-streaming of
courses within the CIC becomes
integrated with the existing
curriculum.
Most of the courses students
can choose from will be offered

through the University, but
students can also enroll in
any of the courses offered by
participating CIC schools,
including Northwestern
University, the University of
Chicago and Purdue University.
If one of the courses is not
offered through the University,
students will have lecture either
in a classroom with a large
projector screen or on their own
personal laptops, depending on
the number of enrolled students.
"Our students are going to
benefit from this because there
are going to be some years where
faculty are on leave and cannot
teach students, but students
will still be able to have access
to those courses because of the
virtual curriculum," Luong said.
Loung added that creating the
Islamic Studies Virtual Curricu-
lum displays the University's
leadership - especially pertain-
ing to education - which not
only enhances the University's
Islamic Studies program, but the
programs of the CIC as well.
"We're the leader in many dif-
ferent ways, but one of the ways
we want to be a leader is figuring
out how to teach students most
effectively through this medi-
um," Luong said.

WORKERS
From Page 1A
weeks for months at a time for
the equivalent of $48 per month.
Sikder worked in Rana Plaza,
a factory in Savar, Bangladesh
that collapsed on April 23, 2013.
At 2 p.m. workers were told to
leave, but were brought back
the next day after being told
the building had been evaluated
by an engineer and was safe.
Approximately 1,000 people
were killed and many were
trapped for several days.,
Before the collapse, Sikder
observed visible cracks in the
building's walls and said debris
would regularly fall on her
co-workers' heads. Sikder and

several co-workers were trapped
during the disaster and were
rescued after two and a half days.
"I want this brand to pay
and build a safer place," Sik-
der said through a translator. "I
don't want anyone to have to go
through what we went through."
Public Policy senior
Maya Menlo, USAS Worker
Rights Consortium Board
Representative, said she hoped
the event opened students' eyes
to the realities of these workers'
lives, as well as how important
their involvement is.
"Most students probably know
that their (University) apparel
isn't made in the most ethical
way, and our group isn't asking
them to boycott Adidas tennis
shoes or refuse to wear apparel,"
Menlo said. "It's all about this

precedent-setting document
that would force companies to
allow their workers the right
to safe working conditions and
making sure that nothing like
this happens again."
Menlo added that there
have not been any incidents
at factories where University
apparel is made, but that
ensuring this does not happen is
a major area of concern.
"We want to make sure there
isn't ever any blood on the block
'M' and one way to do that is
through awareness, making sure
that students know what's going
on in these factories and what
the workers lives are like."
Engineering sophomore Nahi-
yan Bakr, who is originally from
Bangladesh, said the event was
meaningful since he was at home

when the incident occurred.
"I wasn't at the factory or
anything, but I know as close to
first hand as many of my peers
what the incident was like and
what happened that day," he said.
"I wanted to see (the group's)
perspective on the situation
and what they think should be
done because it's a problem and
awareness needs to step up."
Bakr added that the event was
a good step in getting students
involved and aware of how they
can contribute to the cause.
Last year, USAS staged several
similar events to raise awareness,
including a march to University
President Mary Sue Coleman's
office, a demonstration for better
factory conditions, and avigil for
improved wages for sweatshop
workers.


0

Biden talks
heal ahiicare
law in Minn.

Marijuana may
prove lucrative
for Colorado

HATCHER
From Page 1A
University's Bentley Historical
Library and research assistants
from the School of Information
graduate program.
Rackham student Madeline
Sheldon, a research assistant
on the project, said the history
of diversity is very important at
the University.
"To see that displayed in the
exhibit made me feel proud that
I can be associated with that,"
Sheldon said.
The outer portions of
the exhibit features more
contemporary information
about campus diversity, while
the inner sections display
information dating back to the
founding of the University in
the 19th century.
Nichols said while some of
the information used in the
exhibit was previously known,
the research team uncovered
new information using old
documents, including historical
newspapers and reports from
the Board of Regents from the

University's early history.
One exhibit panel describes
the beginning of the current
Rackham Barbour Scholarship
for female students from Asian
countries in 1914. The scholar-
ship's recipients must contrib-
ute to their native countries
upon entering their careers.
"Getting to meet someone
from another country was
pretty unusual in this part
of America in the dead of the
Midwest," Nichols said.
Another panel at the exhibit
asks students what diversity at
the University means to them.
Students can place their own
answers to that question on
the panel with provided sticky
notes.
"Something I really like
about the exhibit is that no
matter what your background
is or what you're looking for
you can find some content that
connects with you and speaks
to you," said Rackham student
Molly Malcolm, a research
assistant on the project.
Nichols said the there are
plans to present the exhibit
online when the physical
location closes this month.

VP encourages
enrollment despite
exchange issues as
deadline approaches
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -
Vice President Joe Biden said
Wednesday that it would be a
good start for the federal health
care law if 5 million to 6 million
people sign up by the end of
March, an acknowledgement
that enrollments might fall
significantly short of the Obama
administration's unofficial
target of 7 million.
Biden, who was attending
a private fundraiser in
Minneapolis, made a brief
unannounced stop at a coffee
shop and visited with a handful
of women who have signed up
for coverage. Open enrollment
under the federal law ends on
March 31, after which people
without insurance are subject
to federal tax penalties.
Biden acknowledged the
rocky rollout of the admin-
istration's Affordable Care
Act website and the difficulty
people have had in signing up.
Minnesota has been among the
numerous states, along with the
federal Healthcare.gov site, to
experience rampant technical
problems that hampered enroll-
ment.
"We didn't want this to start
off as shaky as it did," he said.
"But it's complicated."
Before the exchanges
launched, the Obama
administration projected
monthly enrollment targets
based on a congressional
estimate that7millionwould sign
up during the six-month open
enr6llment period. Signing up
enough individuals - especially
younger, healthier people - is
critical for the insurance pool at
the heart of the law to function
properly, keeping premiums low

for everyone.
Immediately, enrollment
figures starting falling behind
the targets. Although the
pace of sign-ups has picked up
substantially, there's still a lot of
catching up to do from the initial
months. About 1 million enrolled
in January - the first time the
administration met its monthly
target.
Biden acknowledged that "we
may noteget to 7 million, but if we
get to 5 or 6 million that's a hell
of a start."
In total, nearly 3.3 million
had enrolled through the end of
January. That's about 75 percent
of what the administration had
hoped to achieve by that point in
the open enrollment period.
Biden's office said the four
women picked to meet with
Biden either signed up for
insurance under the federal
law, or have worked as a
navigator assisting others in
the signup process. In the brief
conversation, Biden related
several health crises in his own
life, including a serious car
accident and a brain aneurysm,
saying he appreciated the sense
of security knowing he could
count on his insurance.
Dressed in a dark suit with
a dark scarf around his neck,
Biden briefly worked the room
at Moose and Sadie's, located in
a trendy urban neighborhood
near downtown Minneapolis.
His voice was hoarse, and he
was difficult to hear over the
coffee shop's din. He did speak
up when he spotted a woman
with a San Francisco Giants
cap.
"They allow you to wear that
in Minnesota?" he said.
Biden was attending a private
Democratic Party fundraiser
at the restaurant Bachelor
Farmer. Owned by the sons of
Democratic Gov. Mark Dayton,
the restaurant hosted a dinner
for President Barack Obama in
2012.

Report indicates
legalized cannibus
sales could bring
millions to state
DENVER (AP) - Colorado's
legal marijuana market is far
exceeding tax expectations,
according to a budget proposal
released Wednesday by Gov.
John Hickenlooper that gives
the first official estimate of how
much the state expects to make
from pot taxes.
The proposal outlines plans
to spend some $99 million next
fiscal year on substance abuse
prevention, youth marijuana use
prevention and other priorities.
The money would come from a
statewide 12.9 percent sales tax
on recreational pot. Colorado's
total pot sales next fiscal year
were estimated to be about $610
million.
Retail sales began Jan. 1 in
Colorado. Sales have been strong,
though exact figures for January
sales won't be made public until
early next month.
The governor predicted sales
and excise taxes next fiscal year
would produce some $98 million,
well above a $70 million annual
estimate given to voters when
they approved the pot taxes last
year. The governor also includes
taxes from medical pot, which
are subject only to the statewide
2.9 percent sales tax.
Washington state budget
forecasters released a projection
Wednesday for that state, where
retail sales don't begin for a few
months.
Economic forecasters in
Olympia predicted that the
state's new legal recreational
marijuana market will bring
nearly $190 million to state cof-
fers over four years starting in
mid-2015. Washington state sets
budgets biennially.
In Colorado, Hickenlooper's
proposal listed six priorities for
spending the pot sales taxes.
The spending plan included
$45.5 million for youth use
prevention, $40.4 million for
substance abuse treatment and
$12.4 million for public health.
"We view our top priority as
creating an environment where
negative impacts on children
from marijuana legalization
are avoided completely,"
Hickenlooper wrote in a letter to
legislative budget writers, which
must approve the plan.
The governor also proposed
a $5.8 million, three-year
"statewide media campaign on

marijuana use," presumably
highlighting the drug's health
risks. The state Department of
Transportation would get $1.9
million for a new "Drive High,
Get a DUI" campaign to tout the
state's new marijuana blood-limit
standard for drivers.
Also, Hickenlooper has
proposed spending $7 million
for an additional 105 beds in
residential treatment centers for
substance abuse disorders.
"This package represents a
strong yet cautious first step"
for regulating pot, the governor
wrote. He told lawmakers he'd
be back with a more complete
spending prediction later this
year.
The Colorado pot tax plan
doesn't include an additional
15 percent pot excise tax,
of which $40 million a year
already is designated for school
construction. The governor
projected the full $40 million to
be reached next year.
The initial tax projections
are rosier than those given to
voters in 2012, when state fiscal
projections on the marijuana-
legalization amendment would
produce $39.5 million in sales
taxes next fiscal year, which
begins in July.
The rosier projections come
from updated data about how
many retail stores Colorado
has (163 as of Feb. 18) and how
much customers are paying for
pot. There's no standardized
sales price, but recreational
pot generally is going for much
more than the $202 an ounce
forecasters guessed last year.
Mason Tvert, a legalization
activist who ran Colorado's 2012
campaign, said other states are
watching closely to see what
legal weed can produce in tax
revenue.
"Voters and state lawmakers
around the country are
watching how this system
unfolds in Colorado, and
the prospect of generating
significant revenue while
eliminating the underground
marijuana market is
increasingly appealing," said
Tvert, who now works for the
Marijuana Policy Project.
Meanwhile, The Denver
Post reported Wednesday that
banks holding commercial
loans on properties that lease to
Colorado marijuana businesses
say they don't plan to refinance
those loans when they come
due. Bankers say property used
as collateral for those loans
theoretically is subject to federal
drug-seizure laws, which makes
the loans a risk.


OBAMACARE
From Page1A
ber of people whose first interac-
tion with the health care system
after they get on Medicare ends
with them getting a foot ampu-
tation for untreated diabetes,"
he said. "What's cheaper, a podi-
atrist once per year, time with
a nurse, and insulin, or paying
Johns Hopkins a $30,000 bill
minimum to get a foot amputa-
tion?"
Greer said he was optimistic
about the future of University of
Michiganhealthservicesdespite
the challenges facing research-
focused medical centers.

"Now the insurance
companies have turned on the
academic medical centers due
mostly to cost. I think UMHS
is probably going to do fine
because it adopted the farseeing
strategy of being the hospital of
reference for the entire state,"
Greer said.
LSA junior Katarina Alajbe-
govic said she thought the lec-
ture was informative, especially
given the vast sum of informa-
tion regardingthe new laws.
"I think it's good to know
what's going on," she said.
"Especially because it's so politi-
cized - when you go on the
news, you can't be sure you're
getting an accurate description
of what's goingto change."

FrenchieSkate 2014

IT'S FIVE O' CLOCK IN THE MORNING
AND WE'RE STILL AT THE DAILY
WRITING THIS AD FOR YOU
(JUST KIDDING IT'S ACTUALLY 2)
BUT STILL YOU SHOULD LIKE US
ON FACEBOOK TO SAY
'THANKS FOR STAYING UP SO LATE FOR US'
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/MICH IGANDAILY


I


4A - Thursday, February 20, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

M $iclhinan 4:iluJ
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDFIOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Predatory banking
The 'U' needs to be transparent in its partnership with TCF
S ince 2001, TCF has been known as the "Official Bank of the
MCard," allowing students to link MCards with their TCF
checking accounts and use MCards as ATM and debit cards. At
least 852 colleges nationwide have similar exclusive relationships with
banks. A February 2014 report by the Government Accountability Office
took issue with the these relationships, noting that they often benefit
schools more than students. In order to protect the financial interests of
students, the University should reevaluate its relationship with TCF bank.

Opposing party clichds
oing to parties is one to leave. I have nothing else to do, so noticed there are increments of time
of the most overlooked the conversation lingers until one of where the group splits. This places
struggles of gay college stu- them whispers, me in a situation that not even my
dents. Males and "Are you having fun, Mikey?" closest friends can alleviate.
females typically "Yeah," I half-heartedly lie. Fast forward to this year. I'm at
go out separately, "I just think you would have more a party with a group of my close
and I find myself fun if you had a guy with you." friends. They wouldn't think
alienated from "Yeah, I agree," I respond. of ditching me, but in our little
both groups. In However, inside, I disagree. I gang, a few are talking with their
my experience, absolutely, irrevocably disagree. significant others, some are talking
guys travel it Being gay shouldn't place me in the to potential hookups, and the rest
packs looking ' "needs-a-boyfriend-to-have-futt" are greeting a friend. I'm all alone,
for girls. Social- MICHAEL subcategory. I'm a human being that and the feeling of isolation sinks
ly acceptable SCHRAMM wants a place in a group. College into my stomach. I'm panicking.
homophobia has parties are such an emphasized Everyone but me is occupied.
already nudged portion of college life, so I just want Then, a thought hits me: Why am I
me outside the pack, and lacking a to get the full experience. That's not letting this bother me?
desire to pursue women leads to fur- too much to ask for. It's irritating Whether I like it or not, this
ther isolation. Then we have the girls. that something so simple feels situation is my reality. Ican choose
I usually go out with them, but being impossible to attain. to be miserable or make the best of
the only guy causes me to feel out of I'm now irritated at them, so I say my situation.
place. Couple this with the constant goodbye and keep circling. Perhaps "No one's paying attention to
fear of intruding on girl time - or I'm being too harsh on them. After me," I think to myself. "I should
even worse, a "girls' night," - and all, I can't read their minds, they just dance."
I'm unsure how to handle a simple probably don't realize how upset I I close my eyes and lose myself in
social gathering. I quickly faced am, and I'm no one's responsibility, the 2-Chainz-dubstep hybrid play-
these realizations my freshman year. though I wish they wanted to help ing. Somewhere between the shoul-
I had never been to a party before me. Regardless, I'm feeling horrible der shrugs and finger pointing, I
college, so initially I believed these as I circle the party. And somewhere, find a smile on my face. I exist in
issues stemmed from my inexperi- amid the grinding couples and alco- this happy zone until the song ends.
ence with social outings. However, holic stench, I look around,
two nights into my freshman year, it I'm faced with noting that abso-
became clear that I was stuck i this the reality that Perhaps being lutely nothing
state of limbo. - in an over- has changed. All
Agroupofmygirlfriends-andone wltelming sea gay intensifies my that's happened
boyfriend -- are going out. As soon of people - Iam -o-parti is I've allowed
as we get to the party, I'm passively utterly alone. lsolatlon at myself to have fun
ditched. The group of girls goes to I have two but loneliness is a on my own.
"dance with each other" and tell me options: solve I've finally
that I should stay with the couple. I the problem or UniVersal problem. arrived at a
don't want to be a third wheel, but I stop trying to go significant
nod my head and say, "Sure." But after out. I choose the conclusion: It's
10 minutes alone with the couple I latter this time and head home, butI solely my responsibility to have fun
can tell by their body language that know I can't forever. at a party. Having good friendships
they want me to leave. Couples want Because if feeling alone at parties certainlyhelps; you can'tdance alone
alone time, so I partially understand. stings, never goingburns. Assuming all the time, but when you are alone,
Unfortunately, this forces se into my that parties are outrageously fun is you don't have to feel unpleasant.
own alone time. It's awkward and clicht. The truth is they aren't, but It's what you make of the situation,
uncomfortable. Everyone around watching others acting like they and - though I sometimes fail in
me is socializing, yet I'm encased in are makes partying appear more making this decision - if I actively
a conversation-less bubble. It hurts outrageously fun than it is. Little choose to have fun, I'll have fun.
because no one understaids how is more traumatizing than seeing I'm sure everyone experiences
much I want to belong. a group of smiling people walk isolation at parties. Perhaps being
I'm not sure how to occupy my past toy door, heading towards an gay intensifies the problem, but
time. I take a lap, giving me some evening I can't be a part of. After loneliness is a universal experience.
time to think. I run into a few of my experiencing this enough times, Maybe you're the guy who doesn't
guy friends, and we do the "bro hug." I realized I needed to address the like hooking up with girls. Maybe all
We chat, but after a few exchanged problem. your friends have found a dancing
words, we say goodbye. They'd So I changed my strategy. I found partner, leaving you solo. Maybe
never tell me this, but I know they're groups who enjoyed going out with your friends are busy chatting with
thinking that I don't belong with me. I finally enjoyed parties, but others. Regardless, it's during these
them in these social scenes. even during the best evenings I still moments you have to create your
I continue circling, and through experienced alienating moments. own fun. It opposes party clich6s,
the flashing strobe lights and loud Unfortunately (for me), parties are a but if you're faced with isolation, you
music I come across the girls who generally heterosexual scene. If guys have to make the best of it.
ditched me. They smile and say hello, are looking for a hookup, it's usually
but I know they're only making a girl, and vice versa. Even if a mix - Michael Schramm can be
small talk. It's clear they want me of guys and girls go out together, I've reached at mschrammgumich.edu.

The GAOreport found that about 11 percent
of colleges and universities nationwide
provided debit card services similar to TCF
- these 852 colleges tend to be larger in size,
encompassing 40 percent of college students.
The study was conducted in response to a
recent increase in the number of colleges
establishing partnerships with banks. The
trend spurred new concerns about fees and
whether the universities provide students
with adequate information about non-
affiliated banks. The study found fees were
not higher than average (although higher
than credit unions), except for a case where
a fee was placed on using a PIN instead of a
signature. Neutrality was the main issue of
the study. Students are often encouraged
to sign up with the university's affiliated
card provider, and some universities
receive payment based on the number of
accounts opened or transactions made. The
terms of the agreement betweeni TCF and
the University are unclear, which raises
another issue the study found - contracts
between colleges and card providers are not
made publicly visible. GAO consequently
recommended that the U.S. Congress call for
card providers to publish agreements with
colleges. They also suggested that colleges
provide unbiased information about the
partnered banks to help students make the'
best financial decisions for themselves.
The University's connection with TCF
provides students with easy and free access to
ATM services. It has also made it convenient
for students to manage their personal
finances on campus. However, students are
often misled or inadequately informed on the
services they are receiving. At orientation,
where many University students sign up with
a school-sponsored TCF campus checking
account, the details of agreements are often

glossed over. Students are often distracted
by the excitement of registering for classes
and being at a new school, and this is not a
conducive space for entering in to financial
agreements. Students don't realize that they
may be putting themselves at risk of falling
victim to hidden fees and charges that are
less than clear.
The official account agreement for TCF
and the account holder contains fees such
as a $37 overdraft fee and a $3 fee for using
non-TCF ATMs. The list of fees, provided
on the TCF checking account summary,
however, is not comprehensive - one section
is labeled "other service fees." This is not
available on the consumer's physical copy of
what they signed. Online, one finds other fees
that include a $5 statement-update fee and
$35 stop-payment fee. These fees are fairly
standard. However, the degree to which the
University benefits from this relationship
should be made public.
Students often blindly sign up for these
accounts, some even believing it is just part of
the Mard process. The agreement between
the University and TCF raises the question
of what kind of responsibility the University
has to its students to provide information
concerning the possible issues that surround
banking with TCF. Not encouraging financial
literacy, especially an understanding of
the specific bank backed by the University,
shows a support for the predatory nature of
banks that target college students. Because
it markets the bank, the University has a
responsibility to provide all information
concerning the bank: this includes what
benefits the University receives from the
partnership, an overview (independent
from TCF) of how the TCF accounts work
and further knowledge of how students can
manage their finances on campus.

Identifying GMOs
ate my sophomore year, I recall an increase in severe stomach inflammation
Googling "how to cook chicken," for pigs fed GM crops containing insecticidal
and despite several valiant attempts, toxins, a condition that would likely lead to
I opted for a salad that cancer in humans.
evening. A year later, I As a result, the European Union has
am making progress. I've tightened its GM food safety testing
graduated to making fish, requirements as many consumers continue
roasting vegetables and I to reject GM foods. Countries such as India,
know how to successfully Peru, Bolivia, the Philippines, Mexico, Japan
light and use a grill. As and South Korea have all issued moratoria on
college students transition GM food crops. Scientists in Russia believe a
from the comfort and total ban on GM products may be necessary.
convenience of dining LAUREN So why is the United States behind the curve?
halls and Blue Bucks, and MCCARTHY The FDA maintains that products from
take on the challenges GMOs have been in the U.S. food supply for
of off-campus housing, about 20 years, also noting that people have
the sometimes unfamiliar responsibility to been modifying plants for thousands of years
properly feed oneself is inevitable. through breeding and selection; however,
At 19 years old I was still unsure of how now genetically engineered plants are
to prepare raw meat, much less accurately modified through modern biotechnology. The
define gluten or understand the significance FDA defends their position that since genetic
of a "Non-GMO" label on my favorite flavorof modification does not significantly alter the
Kettle Brand chips. As we grow conscientious food, labeling is unnecessary.
of the food and nutrition we need to fuel Studies have shown that 90 percent of
our day-to-day operations, the GMO debate Americans would like GMO labels on their
warrants consideration. food, but federal and stategovernments do not
GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, require labeling for all genetically modified
are defined as plants or animals that have foods and have been slow to make adaptations
been genetically engineered with DNA from to relevant legislation. Just as consumers are
bacteria, viruses or like-organisms. These now able to ensure that products are gluten-
are experimental combinations of genes from free and dairy-free, shouldn't they have the
different species that otherwise cannot occur same right to easily identify non-GMO foods?
in nature or in traditional crossbreeding. If the products are genuinely as safe as
Contrary to biotech industry assurance, so GMO producers claim, then identifying their
far none of the GMO traits currently on the products shouldn't be any different that list-
market offer any consumer benefit, rather, a ing other ingredient such as sugar or flour.
growing body of evidence links GMOs with Research suggests that labeling will not
health problems, environmental damage and depreciate the GMO industry, but it will pro-
violation of farmers' and consumers' rights. vide consumers with the ability to make at)
In October 2013, the Associated Press informed decision about what they choose to
documented the dramatic and tragic increase ingest. Even if it is ultimately discovered that
in cancer and birth defects that have occurred GMOs bear no significant harmful or long-
in commercial farming areas of Argentina term effects, consumers deserve the right to
following the introduction of genetically take genetic modification into consideration.
modified crops. This data subsequently What is the hsarm in erring on the side of cau-
confirmed recent animal studies that suggest tion? When it comes to issues of health, it is
that GM - genetically modified - corn and well worth it to avoid taking any risks.
the herbicides sprayed on it may cause an
increase in cancer in the same strain of rats - Lauren McCarthy can be
used in Food and Drug Administration drug reached at laurmcnumich.edu.
safety tests. Yet another large study showed

THE UN
College
place to
We, the
Israel Co
dialogue
individua
equal op
voices to
on the ba
acknowle
rights an
opinions.
makes ros
be heard
to the Is
One mu:
individua
Israeli-Pa
care for
we see h
concerne(
region as
that ex'
concern f
the futur
and for t
is J Stree
puts on it
and educ
the Isra
There is c
that seek
educate a
issues tha
and Israel
kind of d
on campt
single gr.
voice" for
or the "Pa
Studen
Equality's
in suppot
Sanctions
efforts f
- the
Divestme
Israeli pr
to the c

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble,
Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman,
Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
IVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ISRAEL COHORT I
Time for dialogue
campuses are the ideal ideas in an environment where attest to the strength of dialogue;
learn from each other. we can put forth our concerns direct negotiations between
University of Michigan and to listen to others in order to the Israelis and the Palestinian
hort, define this type of achieve a better future. The boycott Liberation Organization resulted in
as an opportunity for itself perpetuates the conflict by the acknowledgment of both sides'
Is to come together, with ignoring both sides of the equation. rights to exist in peace and security.
portunity for everyone's It must be established that the Dialogue has worked in the past,
be heard. Dialogue rests situation between the Israelis and and continues to be the integral
sic notion that everyone the Palestinians is not a zero-sum aspect in conflict resolution.
dges the other party's game. By advocating for BDS, SAFE Our desire to have a dialogue
d legitimacy to its own simplifies the situation into one and to work towards a two-state
This form of dialogue that is black and white, claiming solution - the only solution that
Omin for multiple voices to to be the only possible way, which takes into concern the needs of
, particularly in relation directly contradicts Palestinian both Israelis and Palestinians - is
raeli-Palestinian conflict. President Mahmnood Abbas's recent sincere. A two-state solution will
st not assume that all claims that the BDS movement is provide nation states for both the
Ils interested irn the more harmful than helpful for the Jewish people and the Palestinian
lestinian conflict only Palestinian people. Abbas recently people. The international
one side. on campus, stated: "We do not ask anyone community, Israel and the
ow different groups are to boycott Israel itself. We have Palestinian Authority are working
d with the future of the relations with Israel. We have feverishly to move forward with
a whole. one such group mutual recognition of Israel." With these issues and are on the brink
emplifies this holistic the president officially recognizing of a breakthrough. BDS directly
or the region - for both that BDS is an inefficient means threatens these efforts, just as the
'e of the Jewish people of achieving peace, he insists that president of the PA affirmed. Why
*he Palestinian people - Israel must be part of the solution. impede the road to peace?
t UMich. J Street UMich We encourage groups on campus to We would like to invite you to
s agenda the idea to lobby do the same, and it is for this reason take part in these efforts by joining
ate for the rights of both that we see dialogue as imperative us and I-LEAD at our upcoming
elis and Palestinians. to finding a way to involve all the event with "Onevoice", a grassroots
learly a large community individuals affected. organization that brings together
s to raise awareness and This is precisely why we join Israelis and Palestinians to
bout the large number of Abbas in condemning SAFE's discuss the burning issues at hand.
t affect both Palestinians argument that "opening a platform Please join students, Israelis and
lis in the region. With this for discussion on the boycott ... Palestinians, who are committed to
iverse activism prevalent would normalize these people's bettering the lives of both people,
Us, it is unfair for one marginalization in society." Plain at Hillel on Feb. 25 at 6 p.m., 1429
oup to claim to be "the and clear, the rejection of dialogue Hill St.
either the "Israeli cause" and the lack of willingness to We are ready to work towards a
mlestinian cause." bring people together to exchange sustainable future for both people.
its Allied for Freedom and ideas and implement change - is Will you be a part of this change?
s recent article written precisely what allows conflict to
rt of Boycot Divestsment continue,mboth onour campus and in Sincerely,
directly negates our the Middle East. SAFE claims that The University of Michigan
or such dialogue. BDS dialogue would not do anything Israel Cohort
movement for Boycott, for the Palestinian people, but we
nt and Sanctions of all believe - with proof embedded in This article was written by
'oducts - is detrimental recent history - that the opposite is members of the University of
abjective of exchanging true. In fact, the 1993 Oslo Accords Michigan Israel Cohort.

0

I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
s EVENT SPOTLIGHT: UMMA's Fridays After 5
By Alicia Adamczyk, Weekend Roundup Editor I Photos by Adam Glanzman, Daily Staff Photographer

f you're looking for a
study break this Friday
(or feel weird showing
up at Charley's too early),
the University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art has you
covered.
This Friday marks the
second Fridays After 5
event, where students and
community members can
enjoy all of UMMA's exhi-
bitions and general splen-
dor for three extra hours,
free of charge.
After receiving feed-
back from community
members that said the
normal business hours of
the museum were incon-
venient, UMMA paired
with students in the Ross
School ofBusinessto think
of a creative solution. Co-
merica Bank sponsors the
events, which is the only
way UMMA could afford
to keep its doors open the
extra three hours, accord-
ing to Sydney Hawkins,
UMMA's communica-
tions marketing manager.
Hawkins said the four

scheduled After 5 events
are trials for the museum.
After the July 18 event,
UMMA personnel will
evaluate the success of the
series and determine if and
how it can continue them.
Hawkins said the first
Fridays After 5, which was
held in November, was
popular, leading her to
believe this Friday's will
also be successful. She
also made the distinction
between this event and
the UMMA After Hours
events, which have free
food and a live band for
students.
While Friday's event
will not have giveaways
and entertainment,
Hawkins said students are
still in for a treat.
"It's definitely a good
opportunity for students
who are busy during the
day," she said of Friday's
event. "I think coming at
night adds a little bit of
a different vibe than you
get during the day."

FIVE REASONS
TO ATTEND
FRIDAYS AFTER5
1. Fridays After 5 is FREE,
and the only time UMMA
galleries are open past 5
p.m. this month.
2. You can view works by
Picasso, Monet, Warhol
and Rodin.
3. There are currently
five special exhibitions
on view, including the
spectacular Doris Duke's
Shangri La: Architecture,
Landscape and Islamic
Art. You'll be able to
get a dose of sunshine
and beaches through
the brilliant light boxed
photos throughout.
4. Impress your date with
a dose of culture!
5. The UMMA Store will
be open late as well.
-Sydney Hawkins,
UMMA's
Communications
Marketing Manager


The Midterm
Diaries: A story of
procrastination

to try this
weekend

Thursday, February 20, 2014 - 5A
CAMPUS
EVENTS
Diversifying UM: Black
Student Activism
5 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
The Alumni Center
TheAtre des Bouffes du
Nord: The Suit
7:30 p.m.
Power Center
Images of Identity
Improv Comedy Show
9 p.m.
The Michigan League
.
Men's Tennis vs. LSU
6 p.m.
Varsity Tennis Center
Men's Ice Hockey vs.
Penn State
6:30 p.m.
Yost Ice Arena
Menstruation
Celebration, hosted by
What the F
7 p.m.
Arbor Brewing Company
Swaranjali: Indian
classical music & dance
7:30 p.m.
Michigan League Ballroom
UMix: 21, feat. casino
games & a screening of
'Gravity'
8 p.m. to 12 a.m.
The Michigan Union
TheAtre des Bouffes du
Nord: The Suit
8 p.m.
Power Center
Men & Women's Track
Silverston Invitational
10:30 a.m.
Indoor Track & Field
Building
A2Share Clothing Swap
1 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Canterbury House
Women's Basketball vs.
Iowa
1:30 p.m.
Crisler Center
Women's Tennis vs.
Western Michigan
6 p.m.
Varsity Tennis Center
Men's Ice Hockey vs
Penn State

7 p.m.
Yost Ice Arena
Theatre des Bouffes du
Nord: The Suit
8 p.m.
Power Center
Men's Tennis vs.
Vanderbilt
12 p.m.
Varsity Tennis Center
Men's Basketball vs.
Michigan State
12 p.m.
Crisler Center

Midterm examinations: the
runner up to finals for being a stu-
dent's worst nightmare.
The fol-
lowing is
a running,
commen-
tary of my
thoughts
Monday
night when
an unforgiv-
ing midterm
exam forced
me to cram
BRAD for it the
WHIPPLE next day. It
Daily Weekend is not only
Columnist an insight to
my gradu-
ally decaying
psyche, but also assures those who
are far more prepared than I am
that they will do just fine.
It's 8:04 on a Monday night,
and I sit here at my desk about to
delve into the material for my first
midterm tomorrow, one of the
three dreadfulbeauties that stand
between me and a spring break
entirely dominated by deep-dish
pizza and "couch-potatoing."
I'm trying to make sense of the
notes sprawled out on my desk as
the voice of my GSI, whom I met
with earlier in the day, haunts my
memory:
"After every midterm, I have
students in my office crying. I'm
not trying to scare you, but pre-
pare for the worst results."
Thanks. These are words of
wisdom I really needed in my
most desperate hour. I've never
understood why teachers think
dramatizing a test will put stu-
dents at ease, because it does the
exact opposite ( i.e. causing us to
bury our head in our hands and
feel helpless). Students, just tune
out the fear-inducing words -
they're trying to weed you out.
It's now 8:39 p.m. and I finish
the practice exam with a score
I'm extremely pleased with. Then
again, my GSI said tomorrow's
exam is harder than previous

ones. I won't fret just yet.
I worked out beforehand,
which I've heard improves test
performance when done con-
sistently. But to be honest, I just
feel more exhausted than moti-
vated, wanting to curl up in a ball
under my covers, especially with
the third polar vortex circulating
outside.
I glance over four weeks of
notes, or, in my eyes, a foreign
language. I find listening to music
helps me concentrate - "his
palms are sweaty, knees weak,
arms are heavy, there's vomit on
his sweater already, mom's spa-
ghetti." OK, maybe not this song.
But I do love Eminem. And spa-
ghetti. I feel fine.
On a completelyunrelated note,
my roommate is playing Xbox
while drinking a 2-liter bottle of
Mountain Dew. There's nothing
more to say about that. There's
also the extremely loud thump-
ing noise in the room above me
like the one you hear in "Jurassic
Park" as water in a glass ripples.
Honestly, being eaten by a T-Rex
sounds a hell of a lot better than
my midterm.
Have you ever spent 46 min-
utes aimlessly scrolling through
various websites? Well I have. It's
9:25 p.m. now, and past my bed-
time. Wait, who am I kidding?
I haven't gone to bed by nine
o'clock since the third grade.
Captain's log: 10:27 p.m. I have
made it through my many pages
of lecture notes, but now, they are
unreadable - stained by blood,
sweat and tears.
Midterms can be the bane of
our existences this next week as
we daydream about the so-soon-
you-can-feel-the-sand-between-
your-toes trip to Florida or simply
being home in your own bed. But
for next week to come easy, you'll
have to hunker down and study
all weekend. Skip going out on the
town, because you have to work
hard to play hard.
Or maybe if you're lucky
enough, a T-Rex will come your
way.

By Alicia Adamczyk and
Emilie Plesset
Weekend Roundup Editor and
Daily Weekend Contributor
If you plan to lock yourself
in your room this weekend
with a mountain of books to
study for an upcoming mid-
term, here are a few study-
break activities that don't

provoking," wrote senior arts
editor Natalie Gadbois it
her review of the film. "The
film risks ridiculousness, but
grounds itself i nuanced and
powerful performances from
the entire cast."
SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY 22

requ
Ann
Ta
some
films
the T
aters
can
Llew
ing,
are a
thre
tain.
genr
bein
outrc
pres:

ire subjecting yourself to Many film adaptions of
Arbor's snowy tundra. popular books are hitting
theaters in the next few
FRIDAY, months. The film version of
FEBRUARY 21 "Divergent," "the first book
of the popular "Divergent"
ake a study break and see trilogy which takes place
e of the Oscar-nominated in a future dystopian Chi-
s currently screening at cago, comes out March 21.
Michigan and State The- If you're overwhelmed with
. "Philomena," "Ameri- statistics problems or pages
Hustle" and "Inside of a history textbook, take a
'yn Davis" are all show- study break and read a book
and if Daily film reviews for fun before the movie
any indication, any of the comes out. Other popular
e films is sure to enter- books that will be adapted
into movies include "The
(American) Hustle' defies Fault in Our Stars," "The
e by simultaneously Giver" and "The Maze Run-
g heavy and hilarious, ner." So many great literary-
ageous and emotionally to-screen options!
ent, kitschy and thought-

SUNDAY,
FEBRUARY 23
After two weeks of ice
skating, bobsledding and
curling, the Sochi Olympic
Games will conclude Sunday
evening with its closing cer-
emony. Support team USA
by tuning your television to
NBC and invite friends over
to watch the extinguished
Olympic flame, a perfor-
mance by Russian opera
singer Anna Netrebko and a
performance by South Kore-
an musicians to promote the
2018 Winter Olympics in
PyeongChange South Korea.
But in all honesty, you can
forget the concerts - specta-
tors should watch just to see
if the faulty snowflake ring
will open properly this time
(better late than never?).
The ceremony will air live
on NBC at 11 a.m., and will
be replayed at 8:30 p.m. And
if you'd like to extend your
Olympics viewing, the Sochi
Winter Paralympics will
begin March 16.

STAFF PICKS: Midterm Survival

STUDY FOOD to b
Stree
frIT

It was Monday night. My
roommate and I were both at
our desks, completely concen-
trated on the work we had put
off all weekend.
I don't believe in psychics
or mindreading, but this was a
legitimate moment of ESP. We
turned to each other at the ex-
act same moment, one thought
on both of our minds: cheesyb-
read.
The first words out of my
mouth were, "regular or feta?"
Regular. "Chipati for sure, any
other sauce?" Ranch. The rest
is history.
As an out-of-state student, I
couldn't wait to try all the new
experiences Ann Arbor had to
offer. Reflecting on my two-
and-a-half years here, no one
experience will measure up to
the miracle that is Pizza House
cheesybread.
A delicacy that can be en-
joyed during the week or ott
weekends, cheesybread brings
people together or comforts an
individual in moments of soli-
tude. It doesn't have a one-size-
fits-all mentality, offering a va-
riety of dipping sauces and the
option to upgrade to a jumbo.
If you need some love,
cheesybread will come in the
shape of a heart. If you happen

tar yo
wf
Ines s
find
camp
head

visiting a certain Church Zingerman's.
t bar, cheesybread will wait The shop is comfortable
ou just across the street. and warm, with big glass win-
hen I hear fellow Wolver- dows that allow natural light
sigh that they have yet to in and a playlist of tasteful
love or companionship on background music. The staff is
us. I smile and shake my always friendly and the crowd
I've already found it. is usually made up of regulars
who sometimes talk but mostly
- Katie Burke, Managing work quietly. As an added plus,
Editor the shop is rife with electrical
outlets so you can go all day
STUDY SPOT without worrying about charg-
ing your laptop.

CHECK OUT MORE CONTENT ONLINE:
Curated study playlist
Study stress tips
& so much more!
WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

With midterms quickly ap-
proaching, weekend plans of
lying in bed all day and wasting
time with friends are quickly
giving way to long days spent
studying in libraries and coffee
shops. But with students across
campus trying to study, the sec-
ond floor of the UgLi becomes
more of a social gathering
than a work space, Starbucks
is always packed and too loud,
and even the Ref Room fills up
with friends noisily whispering
across the long tables.
Rather than brave these
more popular study spots, I've
turned to my new favorite,
Glassbox Coffee and Juice. Lo-
cated on the corner of Washt-
enaw and South University, this
small coffee shop boasts a wide
variety of coffees and teas, as
well as freshly pressed juices
and baked goods courtesy of

. Maya Kalman, For the
Daily

Makja difference, see the world,
and gain skills to launch your career
peacecorps.gov/openings
Apply now for 2014 -15 programs!
Campus Office: 734.647.2182 or peace.corps@umich.edu

4


6A - Thursday, February 20, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Thursday, February 20, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

UK court backs detention
of ournalist's partner

Accused man
possessed files
stolen by Snowden
LONDON (AP) - Britain's
High Court on Wednesday
endorsed the decision by police
to hold journalist Glenn Green-
wald's partner at a London air-
port on terrorism grounds last
summer. The ruling sent chills
through free expression advo-
cates and media groups.
The panel of three judges said
London's Metropolitan Police
officers acted properly when
they invoked Britain's Terror-
ism Act to stop David Miranda
at Heathrow Airport on Aug. 18,
seizing encrypted devices and
questioning him for nearly nine
hours. Writing on the panel's
behalf, Lord Justice John Laws
said that the devices contained
a large number of files stolen by
former National Security Agen-
cy contractor Edward Snowden,
including nearly 60,000 "highly
classified UK intelligence docu-
ments."
The detention "was a propor-

tionate measure in the circum-
stances," Laws said. He said the
objective - finding out whether
there was anything in the files
which might be a boon to terror-
ists - "was not only legitimate,
but very pressing."
Both sides acknowledge that
Miranda was carrying intel-
ligence documents at the time
when he was detained on his way
from Germany back to Brazil.
But defenders of the 28-year-old
student argue that the docu-
ments amounted to raw mate-
rial for Greenwald's reporting
on the National Security Agency,
which has rattled the intelli-
gence establishment and sparked
a broad-based movement to rein
in or at least reform the agency's
domestic surveillance programs.
The government, they say,
wasn't trying to determine
whether there was anything
in Miranda's files which could
somehow help terrorists. Rath-
er, it arbitrarily tarred him as a
terror suspect in order to seize
his files and intimidate his col-
leagues.
The use of terror legislation in
this case has drawn widespread

criticism.
Rosie Brighouse, a legal offi-
cer with London-based Liberty,
said the law had been used in a
"blatantly abusive way," while
Paris-based Reporters Without
Borders demoted the U.K. three
ranks in its World Press Freedom
Index following the incident.
Others accused the govern-
ment of trying to put investiga-
tive reporters in the same bag as
nihilistic killers.
"It is only in the U.K. where
our journalism is considered not
just criminal but 'terrorism,"'
Greenwald said Wednesday in a
statement carried by The Inter-
cept, his new media venture.
Some legal commentators said
that was taking things too far.
"It's pushing the judgment to
say that it equates journalism to
terrorism," said Carl Gardner, a
former government lawyer and
legal blogger.
David Lowe, a former coun-
terterrorism officer who
teaches law at Liverpool John
Moores University, said the
quantity and the sensitivity of
Miranda's material made him
an exception.

EFREM LUK A T SY/AP
An anti-government protester, center, throw a Molotov cocktail during clashes with riot police in Kiev's Independence
Square, the epicenter of the country's current unrest, Kiev, Ukraine, Wednesday.
Ukraine leader names new
army chief after protests

Ex-soldier who killed Iraqi
family hangs himself in prison

Three other former
soldiers are serving
sentences in
military prison
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) - A
medical examiner said Wednesday
that a former soldier hanged him-
self at a federal prison where he was
servinglifesentencesforrapingand
killing a teenage Iraqi girl and using
ashotgunto slayher family.
PimaCountyAriz.,DeputyChief
Medical Exniner Dr. Eric Peters
said an autopsy completed Tuesday
concluded that 28-year-old Steven
Dale Green's cause of death was
suicide by hanging. Prison officials
foundhiminhis cell Saturday at the
federalpenitentiaryin Tucson.

Green, of Midland, Texas, was a
private in the 101st Airborne Divi-
sion based at Fort Campbell on
the Kentucky-Tennessee state line
whenhe deployed to Iraq.
Green and three other soldiers
went to the home of an Iraqi fam-
ily in Mahmoudiya, near a traffic
checkpoint in March 2006. At the
home, Green shot and killed three
members of the al-Janabi family
before becoming the third soldier
to rape 14-year-old Abeer Qassim
al-Janabi before killing her. He was
convicted and sentenced in2009.
Three other soldiers - Jesse
Spielman, Paul Cortez and James
Barker - are serving lengthy sen-
tences in the military prison at Fort
Leavenworth, Kan., for their roles
in the attack. Each is eligible for
parole in2015.
Green was the first American

soldier charged and convicted
under the Military Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction Act. Signed in 2000,
that law gives the federal govern-
ment jurisdiction to pursue crimi-
nal cases against U.S. citizens and
soldiers for acts committed in for-
eign lands.
Green was discharged from the
military in May 2006 after being
found to have a personality disor-
der.
In multiple interviews from
prison with The Associated Press,
Green frequently expressed regret
at taking part in the attack and
frustration that he was tried and
convicted in the civilian system,
which does not afford inmates
parole, while the others involved
went through the military jus-
tice system and have a chance to
be released from prison.

~, - VI-

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 _. of 36 Day - 48_ Canal
1 - Club drawers 37.._ to Joy" 49._.for life
S Eat - 5- Shankar 38 Suit St Rib-
9Film - 7 Cakesters 4t-Series: auto 5 'to that!"
13 Sleep. _ 8 circle races 52 "Lord knows
14 Mata - 9 motel 41 -A-porter: _!"1
15 "tm - you!" 10 "A Room of ready-to-wear 53-. Abby
16 "_ to please!" Own" 42 Joe 54 birth to
17 _-steven 11 'Takea 44 Caveat. 55.. ".. saw
18 SWAT.-, compliment" 45 Civil _: Elba'
19 Blank 12 CD-_ protest 56_ and flow
22-ofbounds 13 "I'm in _":
23 Electric - "Wowl" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
24 Blank 20Soap_- A C P LU G A S P E B A Y
31 "it - o 21._ and potato OR ENT SPIA I P E
3"Yreakn a soup K N G C T T OIN A G H A
33 "Y'retakinga 24 Van A SEAL BROTH FIR
big -n' 25Carry-: CAESARS A D S
34 -.-TURN tuggage Mesy ne IT
35Goodforwhat 26Victoa 00 R A P L T A
_ you 27 Olive _- E M P E 8 R P E N G u I S S
36 Costa del- 28--level C P E T Y P E A U K
37 _ Elevator 29 Peau de._: t T A S P U R T a
38Company, satin-weave MONAR CH NOTEIS
39 the s tales coth ORG MAYOR P A C
41 Sn Diego 30 _-22-Across: 8 AM P K A I E R R 0 L L
41 -- solve E T ALDE Ti S I E S T A
43 Blank 31tSet RE DIO S T Y P E R T ON
46 Hopping~- 32 torch xwordeditor@aotcom 02/20/14
47 Jacqueline
Kennedy.1.2.13a 145 5 6s 17 8 9 10o 1rr1a
Bouvier ~4 15
48 Blank1
56 Quod re 17 18
demonstrandum 19 20 21
57_toone'sI
senses 22 23
58 Shed - 12 93
59 --Honey
60 "Rsock of _ " r en m 34
61 From beyond
the
62_ nuts s m w 41 4
63 "_-a-Cop": 44
1988 film1
64 "Jane _" 4 en
DOWN a a1 3 54
1 X-Ray_: U.K. 56 57 s8
punk band
2 Take_: doze 50
3 Golda __ 72- - 64
4 "It's the -
story" By Paulunsberger=/
(c)2014TribuneContentAgency,LLC 22014


Riots reflect division
between nation's
various constituencies
KIEV, Ukraine (AP) -
Ukraine's protest leaders and the
president they aim to oust called
a truce Wednesday, just hours
after the military raised fears of
a widespread crackdown with a
vow to defeat "terrorists" respon-
sible for seizing weapons and
burning down buildings.
The two sides agreed to negoti-
ate in an effort to end the violence
that left at least 26 people dead
and more than 400 injured on
Tuesday. Protesters say the casu-
alty toll is substantially higher.
The intense clashes between
police and protesters led Presi-
dent Viktor Yanukovych to
declare that the military would
take part in a "national anti-
terrorist operation." The param-
eters weren't specified, but the
military's involvement and Yanu-
kovych's appointment of a new
military chief of staff fueled new
worries.
As protective fires blazed
around the tent camp in Kiev
for a second night and protesters
defending it showed no signs of
yielding, Yanukovych met with
top opposition leaders. A state-
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
*AVAILABLE FALL2014*
Large 3 drm. ose.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m+ utis. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-199.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for,2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. I & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$655-$1395, showings avil. M-F
1llam-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
PMSI IS LEASING for 2014-2015.
Eff. 1, 2, and 3hdrm apts avail. in Cen-
tral Campus and downtown area. Con-
tact 734-665-5552. pmsiproperties.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATES
www.he2ndFloorS.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
HELP WANTED
**STUDENT PAINTERS NEED-
ED** May-Aug. 2014. Dexter,
M. Looking forhardworkingandmoti-
vated individuals. Will receive EPA
Certification and more. For more info
contact paulamod@umiched
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This

Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

ment on his website said they had
agreed on a truce and negotia-
tions.
Vitali Klitschko, a leader of the
protests that have sought to keep
Ukraine open to Europe and out
of a close alliance with Russia,
said Yanukovych assured them
that police would not storm the
protesters'encampmentonKiev's
Independence Square, according
to the Interfax news agency.
The brief statement on the
president's website did not give
details of what terms a truce
would entail or how it would be
implemented. Nor did it specify
how the negotiations would be
conducted or give an indication
of how they would be different
from previous meetings of the
president and the opposition
leaders.
Perhaps crucially, there was no
immediate indication of whether
radical elements among the pro-
testers would observe the truce
or be mollified by the prospect of
negotiations.
Although the initial weeks
of protests were determinedly
peaceful, radicals helped drive an
outburst of clashes with police in
January in which at least three
people died. And the day of vio-
lence on Tuesday - the worst
in nearly three months of anti-
government protests that have
paralyzed Kiev - may have radi-
calized many more.
The two sides are locked in
a battle over the identity of this
nation of 46 million, whose loyal-
ties are divided between Russia
and the West. The protests began
in late November after Yanu-
kovych turned away from a long-
anticipated deal for closer ties
with the European Union.
After Yanukovych shelved the
agreement with the EU, Russia
announced a $15 billion bailout
for Ukraine, whose economy is in
tatters.
Political and, diplomatic
maneuvering has continued, with
both Moscow and the West eager
to gain influence over this former
Soviet republic. Three EU for-
eign ministers - from Germany,
France and Poland - were head-
ing to Kiev on Thursday to speak
with both sides before an emer-
gency EU meeting in Brussels to
consider sanctions against those
responsible for the recent vio-
lence in Ukraine.
President Barack Obama
also stepped in to condemn the
violence, warning Wednesday
"there will be consequences" for
Ukraine if it continues. The U.S.
has raised the prospect of joining
with the EU to impose sanctions
against Ukraine.
On a visit to Mexico, Obama
said the Ukrainian military
should not step into a situation
that civilians should resolve
and added that the U.S. holds
Ukraine's government primar-
ily responsible for dealing with
peaceful protesters appropriately.
Russia's Foreign Ministry, in
turn, described the violence as
an attempted coup and even used
the phrase "brown revolution,"
an allusion to the Nazi rise to
power in Germany in 1933. The
ministry said Russia would use
"all our influence to restore peace
and calm."
In Kiev, Ukraine's top secu-

rity agency accused protesters
Wednesday of seizing hundreds
of firearms from its offices and
announced a nationwide anti-ter-
rorist operation to restore order.
Demonstrators, meanwhile,

forced their way into the main
post office on Kiev's Indepen-
dence Square, also known as the
Maidan, after a nearby building
they had previously occupied
was burned down in fierce, fiery
clashes late Tuesday with riot
police. Thousands of activists
armed with fire bombs and rocks
had defended the square, a key
symbol of the protests.
"The revolution has turned
into a war with the authorities,"
Vasyl Oleksenko, a retired geolo-
gist from central Ukraine, said
Wednesday. "We must fight this
bloody, criminal leadership. We
must fight for our country, our
Ukraine!"
Before the truce was
announced the bad blood was
running so high it has fueled
fears the nation could be sliding
toward a messy breakup. While
most people in the country's
western regions resent Yanu-
kovych, he enjoys strong support
in the mostly Russian-speaking
eastern and southern regions,
where many want strong ties
with Russia.
Neither side had appeared
willing to compromise, with the
opposition insisting on Yanu-
kovych's resignation and an early
election and the president appar-
ently prepared to fight until the
end..
Opposition lawmaker Oleh
Lyashko warned that Yanu-
kovych himself was in danger.
"Yanukovych, you will end like
(Moammar) Gadhafi," Lyashko
told thousands of angry protest-
ers. "Either you, a parasite, will
stop killing people or this fate
will await you. Remember this,
dictator!"
Before the truce announce-
ment, Yanukovych had blamed
the protesters for the violence
and said the opposition leaders
had "crossed a line when they
called people to arms."
"I again call on the leaders
of the opposition ... to draw a
boundary between themselves
and radical forces, which are
provoking bloodshed and clashes
with the security services," the
president said in a statement. "If
they don't want to leave - they
should acknowledge that they are
supporting radicals."
He called for a day of mourn-
ing Thursday for the dead.
In Moscow, the Kremlin said it
put the next disbursement of its
bailout on hold amid uncertainty
over Ukraine's future and what it
described as a "coup attempt."
French Foreign Minister Lau-
rent Fabius told reporters that
he and his counterparts from
Germany and Poland would meet
both sides in Ukraine ahead of
the EU meeting on possible sanc-
tions. He said he hoped the two
sides "will find a way for dia-
logue."
Possible sanctions include
travel bans and asset freezes,
which could hit hard the pow-
erful oligarchs who back Yanu-
kovych.
Ordinary Ukrainians, mean-
while, are struggling amid a
stagnating economy and soar-
ing corruption. They have been
especially angered to see that
Yanukovych's close friends and
family have risen to top govern-
ment posts and amassed fortunes

since he came to power in 2010.
Yanukovych's dentist son, Olek-
sander, has become a financial
and construction magnate worth
$187 million, according to Forbes
Ukraine.

SPRING BREAK-SPI, TX. Sleep 6
ppt. Next 1o water park. Ph/tot 24/7:
866-943-6362ext. 3.condorental@bor-
der-tech.com for rental.
JAMAICA
LIVE CONCERTS
BEACH PARTIES
STS &'dxOm
800-648-4849

1.0S A2.7J1S
$1485 FOR A FULL 2 bedroom at For-
est Glen Apts. Price includes FREE
HEAT, I parking spot and furniture.
$1485 for the whole apartmenl!! d y
Call us So tour your new home today.
734-761-2680.
$400 OFF
First 10 rentals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1680.00. Great location,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680

* 5


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 20, 2014 - 7A


Lohan provides depth on 'D'

Fr
b
pla
Th
defen
consi
It
week
nearl
surre
State
Minn

eshman cleared first time since Nov. 2.
"We'll piece together the
y doctors, will weekend," said Michigan coach
Red Berenson. "But I like some
iy this Friday vs. of our options now. I just think
we're going to be deeper on
Nittany Lions defense.
"That's our goal, is trying to
By GREG GARNO get our team going the way we
Daily Sports Editor think they are capable of The
players can't wait to just get
e Michigan hockey team's going."
se hasn't found any With that in mind, it's time
stency as of late. to consider how the Wolverines
allowed three goals in a will pair together on defense
end against Wisconsin before they make a run at a
y a month ago but bye in the first round of the
ndered seven to Penn Big Ten Tournament and look
two weeks ago and nine to to solidify a spot in the NCAA
esota last weekend. Tournament.

can play defense, but who?"
Bennett said. "With Lohan back
in the lineup, it adds a little
bit more competition for the
defensive pairings, so we have
to make sure everyone is giving
it their all."
.When Downing returns
Saturday, expect Berenson
to continue to pair the two
together. With the chemistry
that they've developed, any
other combination would be
unwise.
Lohan with freshman
Nolan De Jong:
Lohan may struggle to reach
peak physical form, but the
defensive presence he brings
should balance out well with the
offensive presence of De Jong.
"I think he just needs to
get into some good contact,"
Berenson said of Lohan. "We've
done enough drills and he just
needs to play against somebody
else, other than our players. But
I like his stick and his defensive
awareness - he'll be good
defensively."
At 6-foot-5, Lohan excelled
at clearing out the crease in
his month of playing time.
Meanwhile, De Jong is the only

But with the announcement
that freshman Kevin Lohan
has been cleared by doctors
to return, the 10th-ranked
Wolverines finally have some
depth at a position that has
been shaky at times this
season. Michigan will be
without freshman defenseman
Michael Downing and junior
forward turned defenseman
Andrew Sinelli on Friday
against the Nittany Lions due
to suspensions, but on Saturday,
the team will be healthy for the

Senior Mac Bennett and
Downing:
Few pairs have played as
well together as Bennett and
Downing. Arguably two of the
strongest defensemen on the
team, they have a combined
plus/minus rating of plus-12.
Bennett brings a superior
skating ability that pairs well
with the physical, enforcing
style that Downing supplies.
"I don't think it's a question
of whether we have guys that

defenseman other than Bennett
to fire more than 30 shots this
season.
Though Lohan paired with
senior Kevin Clare earlier in the
year and will do so again Friday,
according to Berenson, the
possibility of a more balanced
pair should work well over the
long run. But that's entirely
contingent on whether Lohan
can stay in the lineup.
Clare and either Sinelli or
junior Brennan Serville:
Berenson now has the luxury
of having more defensemen
than he needs to play, which
leaves him the option to either
rotate them every other game,
or find a pair that clicks.
"We'll see how we're doing
and which defenseman we want
to give a rest or sit out," he said.
"We may end up with a rotation,
but we'll see."
Clare and Sinelli have played
together in nearly every game
since Lohan's injury, and the duo
might be best servedby spending
more time with one another.
That pair presents another
offense/defense dimension that
could give life to an offense
that also needs help. Sinelli's
first goal of the season Saturday
at Minnesota highlights the
converted forward's ability to
attack.
His exceptional skating
ability compensates for Clare,
who lacks the speed and turning
ability of his counterpart. But
Clare makes up for his skating
ability with a knack for blocking
shots. This season, he's blocked
a team-high 54 - nine more
than Bennett, the Wolverines'
next-best shot-blocker.
Sinelli isn't a defenseman
by trade, though, so replacing
him with a more experienced
Serville might also be beneficial.
Serville hasn't had a standout
season, but he has been quietly
effective at times.
The trio could be effectively
rotated based on the opponent
- a more physical pairing could
be used against high-scoring
teams. But this weekend's
games will go a long way in
helping Berenson find the most
feasible options.
lies twice

Junior guard Shannon Smith scored 23 points to lead Michigan over Indiana.
Home on the road:
'M' bests Hoosiers

Wo
9
In
a batt
Ten's 1
Shann
Smith
stole
spotlit
Sm
Michi
Indias
Wedn
total e
Me
Siera
Hoosi
14 and
Both
of
perfor
agaim
"(SI
bigges
said
Barne
Smith
doesn
shoot
bounc
Mis
and or
of th
take
fell f
rafter
Tuesd
the ca
men's
Iowa'
As
bleaci
Assen
back
floor
to st
equip
howe
India'
the sit
the ga
ThE
differ
from
accusi
to inju
Ten,E

Iverines move to opportunity to practice in the
building earlier in the day. But
-1 on the road the rapid adjustment didn't have
much of an effect on Michigan.
By LEV FACHER "We didn't think about
Daily Sports Writer that," Smith said. "There was a
basketball court, and we stayed
what was supposed to be on it."
le between two of the Big A 21-8, post-timeout run
best freshmen, junior guard midway through the first half
on gave Indiana (4-9, 17-9) a 32-24
INDIANA 58 lead with less than a minute
the MICHIGAN 70'. to go before halftime, but a
ght. buzzer-beating putback from
ith scored 23 points in senior forward Val Driscoll cut
gan's 70-58 win over the lead to six.
na in Bloomington on "We did not come out of the
esday night, her highest gate sharp," Barnes Arico said.
ver in a Big Ten game. "But once we settled down, we
anwhile, the Wolverines' became a lot more effective in
Thompson and the the halfcourt."
ers' Larryn Brooks tallied The Wolverines regained
I nine points, respectively. the lead slightly more than
guards fell well short three minutes into the second
Smith's best scoring half after capitalizing on back-
rmance since she put up 23 to-back Hoosier turnovers,
st Notre Dame on Dec. 14. resulting in buckets from Smith
hot selection) is the and junior forward Cyesha
st thing with Shannon," Goree.
Michigan coach - Kim Thompson put the nail in
s Arico, stating that the coffin with 3:15 remaining
is at her best when she in the game, converting on a
't view herself as a 3-point 3-pointer after junior forward
er. "Her strength is off the Nicole Elmblad missed a layup,
e and in the open court." got her own rebound and found
chigan and Indiana's first the freshman open frombeyond
nly regular-season meeting the arc.
e season almost didn't Michigan extended the lead
place after a metal beam to double digits with just over
rom the Assembly Hall 11 minutes to go in the game,
s and into a row of seats and it didn't look back. A key
lay afternoon, prompting factor in the run was limiting
ancellation of the Indiana Indiana's long-range shooting,
basketball game against and the Wolverines came just 15
on Tuesday night. seconds away from disallowing
a result, the retractable the Hoosiers to make a 3-pointer
hers at both ends of in the second half.
ibly Hall were folded "That was definitely the game
during the game, using the plan all night long," Barnes
space behind one baseline Arico said.
sore heavy construction Indiana guard Alexis
ment. The precautions, Gassion's 3-pointer with 15
ver, didn't stop a few seconds left was Indiana's
na fans from poking fun at first of the second half, but it
tuation and showing up to came far too late to make any
ime in bicycle helmets. significant difference.
e layout change provided a The win keeps Michigan in
ent shooting background contention to finish with one of
what either team was the top four spots in the Big Ten
tomned to, and to add insult standings. That would give the
sry, the Wolverines (8-6 Big Wolverines abye inthefirstround
7-10 overall) didn't have the of the Big Ten Tournament.

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Freshman defenseman Kevin Lohan will play this weekend after missing much of the season with a torn lateral meniscus.
How Swede it is: Hagelin tall

By DAVID MALINOWSKI
For the Daily
The Daily keeps tabs on former
Michigan athletes representing
their nations in Sochi, Russia, in
the men's hockey tournament.
Virtually everything that
could possibly happen in hockey
has happened in the 2014
Winter Olympics.
Between the upsets and
surprise performances from
normally underperforming
nations, the Olympics have had
no shortage of stories. After the
conclusion of the quarterfinal

Michigan hockey players will
have a chance to compete for gold,
while one has been sent home to
ponder what went wrong.
Former Michigan forward
Carl Hagelin picked the right
time to heat up, as he netted two
goals for Sweden in a 5-0 victory
over Slovenia. Hagelin came
to the bench after a hit to the
head from Slovenia's Sabahudin
Kovacevic midway through the
game, but he was able to play
through a bloody lip to pace his
team in the blowout win.
Swedish goaltender Henrik
Lundqvist recorded 19 saves and
earned his second shutout of the
tournament. The clean sheet
was the fourth of his career,
cattiirr noxr (-hrmn,- r .on

The New York Rangers' star
had to stay focused early in the
contest thanks to a strong push
from the surprisingly proficient
Slovenian team.
Alexander Steen scored the
game-winning goal with 1:10
left in the first period, and tallies
from Loui Eriksson and Daniel
Sedin added insurance in a four-
goal third period.
Former Michigan forward
Max Pacioretty and Team USA
rolled over Ondrej Pavelec
and the Czech Republic with
a 5-2 win at Shayba Ice Arena.
Pacioretty played 11:14 over
17Jn t -a r,-rn--~a ~n np +n

on goal as he continued his
mediocre showing on the
international stage.
Former Michigan forward
Brian Lebler and Austria
didn't fare as well as his fellow
Wolverines, as they were
handed a 4-0 loss by Slovenia
in the qualifying round. Lebler,
who plays professionally in
Austria, recorded four shots on
goal and 14 minutes of ice time
in the defeat.
Sweden will battle Finland
on Friday for the opportunity to
play for a gold medal. Yesterday,
the Finns were responsible for
ousting Russia, stunning the
host nation with a 3-1loss.
The United States, on the
other hand, will have its long-
awaited rematch with Canada
in the semifinals. Canada,
which topped the Americans
in the gold-medal match of
the 2010 Winter Olympics,
has had trouble scoring goals,
and recently lost a vital cog in
John Tavares to a knee injury.
Tavares, the captain and leading
scorer of the New York Islanders,
will miss the remainder of the
Olympics and possibly part of
the NHL season after twisting
his leg on the boards against
Latvia in the second period.
While Canada's strong talent
on paper hasn't amounted to
much scoring, the United States
has claimed the tournament's
leading scorer in Phil Kessel.
The standout Toronto Maple
Leaf netted his fifth goal of
the tournament against the
Czechs yesterday, the most by an
American Olympian since John
Leclair in 2002.
Although Hagelin and
Pacioretty both face significant
obstacles with their teams in
the semifinals, the opportunity
for Sweden and the United
States playing for the gold medal
remains a very real possibility.

FIL E PHOTO/Daily
Former Michigan forward Carl Hagelin scored twice to help Sweden advance in the Olympic men's hockey tournament.

4.


8A -- Thursday, February 20, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Stats mask frontcourt's defensive struggles

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
While the Michigan men's
basketball team has had mixed
results defending opposing big
men this year, the Wolverines
hadn't been exposed this season
quite like theywere byWisconsin's
Frank Kaminsky on Sunday.
Kaminsky scored 25 points on
16 shots along with 11 rebounds
in the 75-62 Badgers win.
Michigan was criticized for
not double-teaming the 6-foot-
11 forward, but the truth of
the matter was that putting an
extra man on Kaminsky meant
leaving another man open. With
Wisconsin's deadly arsenal of
3-point shooters, that would be
just as risky.
"He just dominated," said
Michigan coach John Beilein.
Kaminsky's shooting prowess
also forced Beilein to distribute
minutes unequally among his
forwards - he played fifth-year
senior Jordan Morgan for 29
minutes, while redshirt junior
Jon Horford received just nine.
Horford, while taller, lacks
lateral quickness and the ability

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Junior forward Jon Horford (left) and fifth-year senior Jordan Morgan (right) have matched Mitch McGary's numbers, but statistics don't tell the whole story.

Kaminsky scored 14 points
on 50-percent shooting in the
teams' first matchup, Purdue's
AJ Hammons netted 16 'on
50-percent shooting in late
January and Noah Vonleh of
Indiana tallied 10 points on
56-percent shooting along with
12 rebounds a few weeks ago. But
the Wolverines haven'tyethad to
face perhaps the best big man in
the league.
That's Adreian Payne of
Michigan State, who was out with
an injury for the Spartans' 80-75
loss to Michigan on Jan. 22. The
forward averages 16 points and
eight rebounds, and he figures to
give Morgan and Horford all they
can handle on Sunday.
Michigan can tryto neutralize
him with a double team, a
luxury it couldn't afford against
Wisconsin - Michigan State
simply doesn't have the same
caliber of 3-point shooting.
The Wolverines will also hope
the Spartans don't get Branden
Dawson - who reportedly
broke his hand after slamming
his fist against a table during a
film session - back for Sunday's
showdown.
If healthy, his 10 points and
nine rebounds per game at power
forward will make the Michigan
frontcourt's toughest task of the
season even tougher.
BY THE NUMBERS
Jon Hsrlor d
4.9
Points perngame, coming on 60-percent
shooting.'
4.6
Rebounds pergame
14:48
Average minutes per game, splitting
time with Morgan.

to
pu
st'
ml
J

defend on the perimeter, and trying their best," Beilein
atting the onus on Morgan to said. "But (Kaminsky) made some
op the Wisconsin big man for great moves and finished around
ost of the afternoon. the hoop."
"They're going to keep moving Since sophomore forward
Mitch McGary exited the picture
BY THE NUMBERS in late December to have back
lordan Morgan surgery, Morgan and Horford
have been widely praised for
replicating the star's production.
In fact, one coach went so far as to
saythat Michigan is better off the
Points per game, coming on 68-percent way things are now.
shooting. "Once McGary was out and
they knew he was out, and they
could only worry about who
41they are, not who they could be,
Rebounds pergame. I think that helped them," said
Nebraska coach Tim Miles after
the Wolverines' 79-50 win on
Feb. 5. "Now that the roles are
17:12 identified more clearly, they've
Average minutes per game, splitting just taken off"
time with Horford. However, the notion that

the Wolverines' frontcourt minutes per game.
production has sufficiently That McGary's numbers over
replaced that of their preseason half a game are comparable
All-American is merely a to Horford and Morgan's over
product of 38 minutes
psychological speaks more to
gymnastics. the difficulty
While Morgan "Once McGary of handling
and Horford's McGary's
combined 12 w as out ... I absence than
points and . it does praise
10 rebounds th nk that the production
per game in h of his
Big Ten play helped them . replacements.
align closely Making
with McGary's sense of how
career Michigan has
averages, those statistics fail to done defensively in McGary's
consider the allocation of playing absence is more difficult. The
time. McGary has averaged jury's still out on how well the
20.6 minutes over his career, Wolverines can defend opposing
while the aggregate "Morford" centers.
numbers since the new year While no opposing big men had
have been over the course of 38.1 scored more than 16points against

Michigan in Big Ten play until
Kaminksy's Bill Walton-esque
show Sunday, it's not as if they've
had much trouble scoring against
the Wolverines. Middling centers
like Stanford's Stefan Nastic,
Minnesota's Elliott Eliason,
Northwestern's Alex Olah, Iowa's
Adam Woodbury and Ohio State's
Amir Williams have gone 5-for-6,
5-for-6, 4-for-5, 3-for-3 and 3-for-
4, respectively, against Michigan.
Most of the responsibility
for those performances falls
on Morgan and Horford, but
opposing teams also like to
set screens to force switches
so that the center can attack
sophomore forward Glenn
Robinson III, giving them a
more advantageous mismatch.
Michigan defended the
league's more capable centers
acceptably, but nothing more.

SOFTBALL
Patient Romero paces offense,
best under the most pressure

Freshman attackman Ian King scored two goals as the Wolverines earned a win over in-state rival Detroit Wednesday.
Lacrosse makes history

Set
v
Wit
at the
in P
agains
man I
with
Michi
imme(
he cou
"W
defens
shot
attack
Aft.
stratel
King f
fired
net, so
Herna
on th
he fou
midfie
cockec
a shot
betwe
and p.
the go
The
the Mi
was vi
Detroi
thrille

program record "All week, our coaches
talked about how it was such a
vith two wins big rivalry," King said. "They
expected big things out of us and
By MINH DOAN we delivered."
Daily Sports Writer The win marked a momentous
occasion in program history, as it
:h the hostile away crowd gave the Wolverines more than
Ultimate Soccer Arena one win in a season for the first
ontiac, Mich. cheering time ever.
t him, sophomore faceoff "It's a very important step
Brad Lott won his faceoff for us," Paul said. "Everything
two swipes of the stick. we do is a process and beating
gan coach John Paul Detroit for the first time, getting
diately called a timeout so our second win, going on a win
ld set up aplay. streak and winning a close game
e wanted to move the are all important steps for us."
ie around and get a quick But the win didn't come easy.
off," recalled freshman After leading 8-6 at halftime,
man Ian King. the Wolverines came out of the
er the timeout ended, the gate flat in the second half, and
gy Paul dialed up worked. it showed. The Titans went on to
ound an open look, but he score five of the next six goals to
wide. Standing behind the end the quarter with an 11-9 lead.
sphomore midfielder Mike "It got pretty loud when they
.ndez retrieved the ball made their comeback," Paul said.
e reset and improvised as "It's a very loud place to play and
.nd a streaking sophomore it created some communication
Ider Kyle Jackson, who problems for us."
d back his stick and ripped In years past, Michigan might
t. It threaded the needle have wilted and lost the game,
en two opposing defenders but in a season in which it's
ast the sprawling hand of trying to prove itself as a Division
altender, into the net. I contender, the Wolverines
tally ended the game as showed their resilience by
chigan men's lacrosse team clawing back.
ctorious over in-state rival Behind two goals each from
t, 14-13, in an overtime Jackson and King, the Wolverines
r Wednesday night. went up 13-11 with a little over

four minutes left to play.
But attacker Alex Maini and
midfielder Mike Birney proved
why they're Detroit's two leading
scorers last year and tied the
game. Birney scored with just 33
seconds remaining to send the
match to overtime.
But Jackson's heroics gave
Michigan the landmark win.
While scoring runs finished
the game, a big Michigan scoring
run also started the game. Of the
first nine goals, the Wolverines
put away seven to open up a
commanding 7-2 lead before
Detroit countered with scoring
runs of their own.
"We just came out fired up to
play," King said. "Obviously, it's
a rivalry and we came out ready
to play."
Overall, eight different
Wolverines had points, and six
tallied goals. King led the scoring
with four goals but was quick to
give credit to his teammates for
settinghim up.
"It's a team effort, and I just
puttheball in thebackofthe net,"
Kingsaid. "Don't forget aboutthe
five other players setting me up."
Before the season, the
Wolverines set their sights on the
East Coast Athletic Conference
championship.
With two wins this early in the
season, theyare well on their way
to achievingthat goal.

Sophomore
batting .536
two grand s
By JAKE LOUR
Daily Sports Wri
When sophomore
Sierra Romero came
plate for the first time
against Louisiana-Lafa
team trailed 1-0.
When her team n
she usually delivers.I
on softball's biggests
hit a two-run blast for
runs of the game in IV
lone win of the Women
World Series.
Last Friday, Rome
up to bat with sen
fielder Nicole
Sappingfield
on first base,
hoping to
erase the
deficit. But w
she never got
the chance. a'
Louisiana-
Lafayette ne
gave her
nothing to
hit, and she
walked on four pitches
In the third inning, I
Lafayette walked Rom
In the fifth, with th
runner on, the Ragi:
gave her another free p
In those three
Michigan scored or
and it ended up lo
When Romero got a(
hit in the last two in]
singled, then doubled
Wolverines scoredf
and nearly strung ti
comeback.
"Last weekend, I gt
but just because I w,

star
with
ams
IM
ter
shortstop
e to the
Saturday
iyette, her
eeds her,
Last year,
stage, she
r the only
Michigan's
's College
ero came
ior right

walked a lot doesn't mean that
I wasn't going up there looking
to hit," Romero said Wednesday.
"Anything I get that I think I can
handle, I will take full advantage
of it."
The next day, Louisiana-
Lafayette came back with a new
strategy: don't intentionally
walk Romero. That didn't work
nearly as well.
The Wolverines went on to
win in five innings by mercy
rule, 15-1.
Romero singled and scored in
the first inning, giving Michigan
an early 2-0 lead. The next
frame, she came up with the
bases loaded and hammered her
second grand slam of the season
to break the game open.
"She does a good job of
letting people pitch around her,"

Hutchins said.
"She doesn't go
after too many
"If they're bad pitches. She
understands
ling to give US her part is to
get on base."
free base, we Louisiana-
t. Lafayette
'ed to take it." hasn't been the
only casualty
of Romero's
slugging.
Sunday against Boston College,
Louisiana- Michigan had no hits through
ero again. five innings and trailed 4-0 after
me leadoff five and 4-2 after six. In the top
n' Cajuns of the seventh, the Wolverines
ass. still trailed 4-3 when Romero
innings, stepped in. Down to Michigan's
nly once, last strike, Romero came
sing, 8-6. through, lacing a go-ahead two-
chance to run single into the outfield.
nings, she Through nine games, the
, and the sophomore is hitting a torrid
five runs .536 with three home runs and
ogether a 17 RBI, snore than one per at-bat.
She also has nine walks and a
at walked, .649 on-base percentage.
as getting "Coming into this year,

coacheshavehadachancetoscout
me and go through weaknesses or
how to pitch to me," Romero said.
"Going into last year, I was new,
so they didn't know. This year, I
have to be patient."
When Romero digs in, she
is careful to be patient and not
lunge for the first pitch - even if
it's a strike. That plate discipline
is what puts her on base, even if
the opponents won't throw her
anything over the plate.
"I'm definitely a lot more
picky," Romero said. "I need to
wait for my pitch and be very
selective.
Even though I might only
see one strike, I need to make
sure it's a strike I know I can
do something with. If it's
something I'm not going to
be able to hit to the best of my
ability, I need to be patient
enough to let that go."
Romero also gets help from
good protection in the lineup.
Senior first baseman Caitlin
Blanchard and sophomore
outfielder Sierra Lawrence,
who are both hitting .333,
immediately follow her.
Lawrence hit first-inning grand
slams against Memphis and
Central Arkansas last weekend.
Both slams scored Romero after
the shortstop walked.
"If they're willing to give us
a free base, we need to take it,"
Hutchins said. "If they pitch
around her and she falls for it,
swings at it and gets herself out,
that workws for them. She does
a nice job of making sure people
pitch to her, and when they don't
pitch to her, she knows we'll
make them pay."
The reigning Big Ten Player of
the Year has a strong supporting
cast behind her. But she'll be the
one who continues to pace the
offense - at least when she gets
the chance.

WE LIKE SPORTS. WE DON'T
CARE WHO KNOWS.

.#

t



the bsideC
The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com Thursday, February 20, 2014
MOTrIVATION:


l
-- 4.
.
. :. _ ,
3 '.
.
i " '"
- . _ - . - - , rt
-.

r
add&

"4 lik

>5

Mike Moeller formed the Motivation streetwear brand after graduating from the Ross School of Business and forming a successful online business selling rap mixtapes.

A

A7~

4)

For most people, the words "local boutique"
likely conjure an image of an ambitious, some-
what characteristically feminine, entrepre-
neurial effort - smaller, local, independent
fashion shops for women or high-end stores
for both sexes. One might, then, be surprised to
learn that the store Motivation on South Uni-
versity, with its ominous window mannequins,
sleek modern interior and masculine sensibil-
ity, is also technically a boutique - an indepen-
dent fashion company founded and based solely
in Ann Arbor.
Motivation is owned and operated by Uni-
versity alum Mike Moeller and was opened in
2007 after Moeller graduated from the Ross
School of Business. Originally from Pittsburgh,
Moeller came to Ann Arbor for undergrad as
well, and he met his fianc6e, Indra Lachhman,
with whom he owns and operates the store,

while working as a card swiper at Stockwell pretty much it. American Apparel wasn't even
Hall. around then. ... There were only one or two
Over the summer between undergrad and other stores in Michigan selling the brands that
grad school in 2003, Moeller started an online we were selling."
business selling rap mixtapes, and in four years,
had made enough money from the website - Streetwear: Wherefore art thou so dope?
nearly one million dollars in sales in the last
year alone - to purchase the property he cur- The numerous shelves and racks of attire
rently owns on South U and open Motivation, that envelope you upon entering Motivation are
his envisaged clothing store (and later, fashion pleasantly overwhelming and filled with high-
brand). top shoes, eye-catching shirts and designer
Moeller saw the opportunity to capitalize hats, all of which essentially comprise the fash-
on a largely untouched local market - the sale ion mishmash that is streetwear.
of fashion lines indigenous to Los Angeles and "Streetwear isn't urban; people kind of con-
New York City - so he launched a business sell- fuse it with that," Moeller said, "It's like a mix of
ing streetwear apparel. hip hop, skate, surf, punk rock, high-end influ-
"I just felt like there was nothing like this at ences, and kind of all of that mixed into one."
the time in Ann Arbor," Moeller said. "There
was Bivouac for guys clothes, but that was See MTVTN, Page 4B

I

I



2B - Thursday, February 20, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

., S Kft , ; .

EPISODE REVIEW

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily

Despite being nerve-wracking, ComCo auditions are an enjoyable time for all involved.

Real with Rill Ill

Matt Hughes talks
local hip hop scene
By ADAM DEPOLLO
Online Arts Editor
As we follow our favorite musi-
cians on Twitter and Instagram,
vicariously experiencing the excit-
ing life of stardom, it's easy to for-
get that there was a time when
Kanye West was locking himself
"in a room doing five beats a day
for three summers" or when Jay Z
was Big Daddy Kane's hype man,
filling up stage time during cos-
tume changes. We experienced
a collective shock when Beyonce
reminded us that, not too long
ago, she lost to a now-defunct
rock band from Michigan on "Star
Search." Such a loss seems incom-
prehensible in light of her present
fame, but back then she was just
another young musician trying to
make her way into the industry.
The gap between celebrity and
obscurity is vast and unforgiving.
But as difficult as it may be to tra-
verse, there are people out there
like Beyonc6 or Jay Z in the mid
'90s, going to school and working
side jobs Monday through Friday
so they can have their weekends
free to write music and do shows,
slowly trudgirig toward recogni
tion.
Ann Arbor is, of course, home
to a range of musicians in vari-
ous stages of this journey. I went
to the Blind Pig last winter to see
Riff Raff, a rapper who, at the time,
was quickly ascending the ladder
of celebrity but still not quite atcthe
top. He showed up more than two
hours late, which really worked to
the detriment of his opening acts
- all rappers and producers from
the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti area. A
duo made up of Ypsilanti-based
producers Crackzilla and Milosh
had to spend the majority of their
set responding to the impatient
audience's boos with middle fin-
gers and "Go fuckyourself"s.
But the first opening act, Paper
Rockets, got on stage before the
audience got tired of waiting for
Riff Raff and received an appro-
priately warm response for some
excellent work. Delivering humor-
ous lyricism with retro flows and
beats built around an eclectic
selection of samples, Paper Rock-
ets made an impression - they got
their name on the same playbill as
Riff Raff and gained at least one
new follower on Soundcloud.

This past week I met for coffee
with Paper Rockets's main pro-
ducer, Matt Hughes, a.k.a Rill Ill.
Hughes came in while I was order-
ing a coffee and sent me a text to
let me know he arrived. He wore a
gray North Carolina hat and a blue
jacket and didn't really stand out
from the crowd.
Hughes is originally from
Detroit, but moved to Ypsilanti
when he was in middle school and
has lived there ever since. He's
currently attending Eastern Mich-
igan University, where he studies
illustration.
"Yep, I do all of my album cov-
ers," he said, indicating his par-
ticipation in a common practice
amongunderground musicians.
Throughout our talk, Hughes
pointed out the many ways in
which being a rapper or a hip-hop
producer requires you to be self-
sufficient. He's been rapping for
nine years and producing for about
six, but the need for self-sufficien-
cy is what got him to start produc-
ing in the first place.
"Really, (I started producing
because it was) hard to get beats
from people, you know, shady pro-
ducers. Eventually I was just like
'Fuck it, I'll do it myself', "he said.
Through a whole lot of practice,
however, Hughes has begun to
churn out an impressive quantity
of high-quality beats. Part of his
success can be explained by the
fact that he doesn't just draw from
the traditional R&B and funk cata-
logue that the majority of produc-
ers use to make their beats. I asked
him about his song "Ride Then
Die," which seemed to have a har-
monica sample on it.
"Yeah, I was listening to the
sample yesterday; it was like a
prog-rock sample from the '60s. I
don't remember the band,"he said.
"First off, (I picksamples based on)
whether or not it's at the Salvation
Army. Then covers, I look for what
kind of instruments are being
played on each track, things like
that, you know."
"Usually I'm kind of a lab rat,"
he said. "Just me in the studio, you
know, chugging it out." Like most
producers these days, Hughes does
all of his work on his laptop. He
uses a production software called
FL Studio - the same program
used by Soulja Boy, Lex Luger and
9th Wonder, among others - in
conjunction with a USB turntable
to put together his tracks.
But there is a downside to being
a "lab rat," Hughes explained.

"People that actually, you know,
stop and listen, like, (they give
me) a lot of good reception. But it
is hard to, you know, reach out to
people. Like I said, I'm a recluse,
that's my Achilles Heel, the mar-
keting."
Hughes isn't just a lonely artist
trying to get his music out there,
however. He is plugged into a
thriving community of under-
ground rappers and producers
in the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti area,
connected by online music-shar-
ing networks like Soundcloud and
Bandcamp. These musicians give
encouragements to each other
in the comments section of their
songs and regularly help each
other to land gigs and marketing
opportunities - this interview
was set up by another Ann Arbor
producer, Joonthemonsoon.
Paper Rockets's opportunity to
open for Riff Raff last year came
out of this community of musi-
cians. "We were just randomly
hanging out in the apartment,
you know, and Kyle Hunter from
(Ann Arbor hip hop trio) Tree
City called us up and was like 'Do
you wanna open for Riff Raff?',"
Hughes said.
Following one member of the
Ann Arbor hip-hop scene on
Soundcoud invariably leads you
to the rest of the community. The
most famous members are Tree
City, but a few of the other big
names are Professor Megablown
(who Hughes hangs out with on
the weekends) and the producers
I've already mentioned, Joonthe-
monsoon and Crackzilla.
Music is the foundation of this
community and, of course, all
of these musicians are focused
on improving their craft. When
I asked Hughes whether Paper
Rockets had put out any records,
he said "No, we're the type of peo-
ple that'll, like, work on an album
for a long-ass time. By the time it's
ready we've gotten so much better
that we've gotta scrap it."
When it comes down to it,
though, whether or not Hughes
finds success as a professional
musician isn't the real point. "I'm
going to try to be a freelance illus-
trator as soon asI can, but I'll prob-
ably stay in school, go to art school
at Eastern," he explained. But does
he see music as a part of his life
in the future? "Oh yeah," he said.
"I'm going to do that whether or
not anyone's listening."
ARE YOU
THE BEST?
CAN YOU
WRITE?
PROVE IT.

E-mail John Lynch at
jplyn@umich.edu to.
request an application
for Daily Arts.

It's asad reality thatsome-
times even the strongestfriend-
ships fade. This week on "Girls,"
Marnie
makes a
desperate
attempt at Girls
salvaging
the remains "Beach House'
of her
friendships HID
byplan-
ning a sophisticated, luxurious,
"healing"trip for the epony-
mous girls. But when Hannah
runs into Elijah and invites him
and hisgroup of gay friends over
to the house, Marnie's perfect
weekend goes awry. From that
point on,tension builds between
the friendsuntil Shosh (who is
apparently a cruel drunk) finally
loses it and rips into everyone,
sparkingthe huge fightcat this
episode's core.
One ofthe best things about
"Girls" is that it embraces (and
mocks) imperfection (see:
Hannah's horribly unflatter-
ingAmerican Apparel bikini).
MUS
It's startling to see Nicki
Minaj, an artist who's so
associated with a vibrant
colorful
style, go B
black-and-
white for Lookin' Ass
her latest
video, Nigga
"Lookin
Ass Nicki Minaj
Nigga," Young Money
in which
she for-
gets her pop hits in favor of a
much more straightforward
hip-hop sound.
We don't get a full look
at Minaj until about 30 sec-
onds into the video. Starkly
dressed in all black, she's
emotionless, showing off her
body and holding enormous,
guns, those traditionally
masculine toys. Great as it
is to see Minaj still dem-
onstrating her top-tier rap
skills, the video's content
doesn't do much to stick
with the listener. The huge

firearms are supposed to be symbolizing anger against
shocking, but really, "scantily leering viewers, or are they
clad girl with big guns" has simply another means of
been done before.. , sexualization? The video is
While it has a fantastic ambiguous about whether
minimalist aesthetic, the Minajis an empowered
video is diminished by a woman or is simply a sex
message that's too muddled. symbol, and by consequence
Minaj seems self-conscious loses any potential state-
about the way she's per- ment-making power.
ceived, but are the guns -ADAM THEISEN

Script database Black Listis
the future of the TV industry

HAY ILVE
A COMEDY BY NOEL COWARD
One of the world's
most hilarious classics,
this tale ofa weekend
getaway gone awry has
charmed audiences
since 1925..

By MADDIE THOMAS
TV/New Media Editor
What if I said that you (yes,
you!) could become an award-
winning screenwriter for the low,
low price of just $25 a month?
With The Black List, an online
database through which anyone
can submit an original script and
have it read by hundreds of indus-
try professionals, that dream
could become a reality.
"The Black List is where film-
makers find great material to
make films and great material
finds filmmakers to make them,"
the official website boasts. And
there's some truth to it - seven
of the last twelve screenwriting
Oscars were awarded to scripts
first featured on The Black List,
including hipster icon "Juno"
and last year's Best Picture win-
ner, "Argo." In November 2013,
the site expanded its reach and
added a category for episodic
content and teleplays - an
exciting move in a world where
television is becoming increas-
ingly creative and increasingly
respected.
In some ways, The Black List
is "American Idol" for writers
- a way for undiscovered tal-
ent to get exposed to industry
execs and find writing jobs. The
film industry has been using the
database as a tool for scouting
new talent for years, and now
the TV industry is hopping on
the bandwagon. Cable channels
TNT and TBS are the first to
take advantage of the expansion,
recently announcing plans to
make both blind script deals and
staffing considerations to prom-
ising writers. This could mean
anything from funding produc-
tion on a pilot script, to offering

writini
on TV.
opport
a telep
then b
profess
the fir
each g
hour-I
TNT a
For
ers try
try, thi
secret
jobs it
fields,
can't a
Angele
per mo
ship is
pitch s
step in
levelin
Th
tow
the
Th
realm
been a
terms
ronme
in film
produc
While
is und
the tot
(unless
starrin
etc.),
lot of

g jobs for shows already makes it to the screen. Not to
To be considered for the mention the fact that writers for
unity, anyone can upload television have steady jobs with
lay to the site, which will payroll as opposed to the one-
e evaluated and rated by time deal of a movie script. There
sional script readers. Then are far more empty seats at writ-
ve top-rated teleplays in ers' tables than there are empty
enre (half-hour comedy or seats for Best Screenplay nomi-
ong drama) will be sent to nees at the Oscars.
nd TBS. The Black List's ability to
any and all aspiring writ- discover and foster young tal-
ing to break into the indus- ent is also important. Shows
is is awesome news. It's no about twentysomethings and
that it's not easy to procure thirtysomethings have existed
n creative entertainment since the inception of television
especially for those who and probably always will. Some
ifford to move out to Los of the best shows about millen-
s and hire an agent. At $25 nials on TV today - "Girls" or
)nth, a Black List member- "The Mindy Project" for exam-
a more affordable way to ple - were created and written
cripts and get read. It's a by millennials. But not every
the right direction toward talented young writer has the
gthe playingfield. connections or resources of a
Lena Dunham or Mindy Kaling.
The Black List, with its access to
opportunities and the feedback
te first step it gives its writers, could be a
great starting point.
rard leveling The Black List isn't magic:
there's still a steep upward
TV playing climb for newbies. obviously
writers with a name or repu-
field. tation in Hollywood (like Ben
Affleck or Bo Burnham) are
going to get more attention from
those clued into the database.
e site's expansion into the The television side of the site
of television couldn't have is still far from fully developed,
more beneficial move in too - it's not like FX or AMC
of job creation. The envi- are scouring the site for the next
ntal dynamics for writers "Breaking Bad." For now, The
production and television Black List is a work in progress.
ction are totally different. It's a great resource that will
in film the screenwriter hopefully become even greater
oubtedly at the bottom of as networks figure out how to
:em pole in terms of power best utilize it. One thing's for
s they are also directing, sure: the more Black List scripts
g, executive producing that succeed, the more reputa-
a television writer has a ble it will become. And that's a
final say in what actually win-win for everyone.

p


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 20, 2014 - 3B

'True Detective' episode five
recap: Plot lines weave together

baked .buzzed .bored.
In this series, three Daily Arts writers
in varying states of mind visit the same
place and write about their experiences.
this week's destination:
'TRAPPED IN THE CLOSET' SING-ALONG

By CHLOE GILKE
and AKSHAY SETH
Daily Arts Writer
and Managng Arts Editor
Akshay: Nothing quite like that
brilliant 6-minute tracking shot
this week, but I think we saw the
biggest leaps in terms of actual
story development since the pilot.
Chloe: I certainly was not
expecting Rust and Marty to catch
Ledoux so soon.But the scene with
Rust and Marty "tracking" with
the help of DeWall and the rev-
elation of Ledoux's headquarters
was exhilarating. Marty shoot-
ing Ledoux was a shock: until the
reveal that he was hiding innocent
children in his shed, I wasn't sure
what would have made Marty
snap and finally kill him. But it's
tragically ironic that Marty would
be so driven by his emotions and
concern for kids, considering that
in the 2002 scenes he was abusive
and cruel to his own daughter.
Akshay: I could kind of see
it in his eyes as he walked out
toward Ledoux that he was prob-
ably going to end the suspected
killer's life. I think it's a tie-in back
tothosesexuallyexplicitdrawings
he found his daughter making and
also to that general sense of out-
rage he feels whenever he sees his
ideaof a "normal" familylife being
threatened. The tracking scene
was really excellently executed,
not just because of the action, but
because I thought it was a little bit
funny how far it veered from the
way Rust and Marty were describ-
ing it to Gilbough and Papania,
the "company men." Pizzolatto
gave us the scene with moments
of taut silence interjected with
the most stereotypical, exagger-
ated descriptions you can heartwo
cops giving. It was masterful. And
I think it culminated perfectly
with that awfully bloody head-
shot, which we got through Rust's
eyes.- -- - -11
Also, Pink Floyd tees shouldn't
be worn when blowing someone's
brains out. Justsaying.
Chloe: Yeah, that Pink Floyd
shirt was just gorgeous. People
who complained the show was too
serious definitely got their little
moment of humor.
And this week we also saw the
first real discrepancies between
the 1995/2002 narration and what
Marty and Rust told Gilbough and
Papania. The cover-up of their
involvement was brilliant: Even
though their friendship had fallen
apart years ago (we have a date
now, too - 2002), they are evi-
dently still on the same page and
protectingeach other (awwww).
Akshay: FYI, Chloe is having
a conversation with (Daily Arts
Writer) Alex Intner on Twitter
while we do this recap. #Multi-
Tasking. Anyways, I think it's a
testament to the obsessive, metic-
ulous nature ofthisshow how well
they're able to handle the jumps in
time. We don't just jump forward
or backward to give the viewer
more exposition, like we got about

the set-up for Rust and Marty's
falling out. I think Pizzolatto did
it to embody that ideal of repeti-
tion and reincarnation we always
see Cohle spewing on about. Rust
gets romantically involved with
another woman (and it inevitably
falls apart). Marty gets back with
Maggie (I'm pretty sure it'll fall
apart). The investigation reopens.
It's all an ingenious reference to
how "time is a flat circle."
Chloe: I may or may not also
be watching an episode of Louie
at this moment #SuperMultiTask-
ing. But yeah, the recycling was
so well done. Marty is nicknamed
"Captain America," and reuses
the "captain" name to insult his
daughter later in the episode. Reg-
gie mentions the "yellow king,"
which is apparently a reference
to literature that I didn't under-
stand because my familiarity with
Southern Gothic is woefully lack-
ing. But that just goes to show that
even though "True Detective" is
only written by one person, it's
not short-sighted. Pizzolatto is
evidently pulling out all the stops
with this season and using his
sole-writer status to create true
auteur TV. Uh, oh.I'm movinginto
film theory territory. Rescue me,
Akshay
Akshay: I can't. I wrote an
11-page paper about Dorothy
Arzner over the course of a horri-
ble, film theory-spiked all-nighter
that I don't want to think about. I
wonder what Arzner would make
of "True Detective." ("They're all
secretly gay"). I AM DIGRESS-
ING. I think one of the tiny short-
falls of having just a one-person
writing team is that every char-
acter other than the main duo has
kind of been one-dimensional and
forced to the sideline. The most
relevant example are "the com-
pany men." Their detective work
leading up to the conclusion that
Cohle was singularly responsible
for all the new deaths -the only
explanation being "he blacked
out" and didn't remember doing
them- seemed kind of weak. Now
that we're finally moving into the
territory of present-day and the
fresh murders, I'm hoping we'll
see Papania and Gilbough provide
a more active draw to the story
other than just being the people
that ask the questions.
Chloe: I agree. Maggie has also
been sort of shoved aside. I was
hoping she'd play a bigger part in
the series (maybe the resistant
Skyler White to Marty's devolv-
ing Walter), but Maggie is mainly
around to be a foil for Marty and
serve as the object of the audi-
ence's sympathies. That being
said, Michelle Monaghan is fan-
tastic with the material she's given
(especially when she tells Maisie
off forgetting involved in her argu-
ment with Marty and Audrey).
I just hope we learn more about
Maggie in the next few episodes of
the show. I just realized that we're
on episode 5, though. Three more
to go! But somehow the show just
keeps getting more intriguing, and
I won't expect anything but the
best from its third act.

On a completely unrelated
note, Rust's practically catatonic
2002 wife was pretty hilarious.
She's a doctor, but apparently not
much else. And that is definitely
Edward's mom from "Twilight"
and I feel like we need to make a
bigger deal about this.
Akshay: I feel like Pizzolatto's
mantra whenever he gets to writ-
ing dialogue for a character other
than Cohle or Marty is "THIS
ISN'T ABOUT YOU" *shuts door*.
In any case, I'm excited to find out
what ends up being the final argu-
ment that caused the rift between
our two protagonists. I'm think-
ing it involves Maggie because I'm
not certain about the exact num-
ber, but I think Marty said "It was
right under my nose" around 974
times. I really don't feel Cohle is
responsible for any of the murders,
and I think the last scene with him
breaking into the religious school
to find more devil's nests is an indi-
cation of his innocence, but also a
confirmation that he's being reab-
sorbed by his obsession with the
case. I think thatobsession is what
kept him going back to the crime
scenes once bodies started show-
ing up again. If it all ends with
him looking in his eye-mirror and
saying, "HOLY LEDOUX IT WAS
ME THE WHOLE TIME," I will
lose a lot of faith and throw a lot of
things.
Chloe: Rust as murderer would
be waytoo obvious. It's the theory
I had the minute the pilot episode
ended (seemed like a pretty smart
idea at the time, don't judge). If
that's really all Pizzolatto has in
store for us ... well, I am not even
going to entertain that. Rust is def-
initely back and re-investigating
the case out of passion, not out of
necessity or sloppy criminal work.
Let's be real here. If Rust were
reallythe killerhe would certainly
make sure there was not a trace
of incriminating evidence. He's
just looking-at thecase again and
searching on his own for the real
killer because he's been brought
back to the same place. Events
repeat themselves, "time is a flat
circle," you know. And here we
are again. Quoting Rust, quoting
Ledoux.
Akshay: READ THIS PIZZO-
LATTO. LOOK HOW WE TIED
IT ALL BACK TOGETHER.
The buildup to the finale is going
to be memorable, just because I
think more and more people are
going to start ostracizing Cohle
for his reestablished disrespect
for authority and "crazy" theories
about it all being tied to the top.
Whatever happens, I'm beyond
doubting this show at this point.
I feel like every episode has been
better than the last and I don't see
that streak breaking any time in
the next three weeks. CIRCLES.
Chloe:Atthispoint,Ican'teven
imagine toppingthis episode. We'll
need a 12 minute trackingshot and
Rust killing someone while wear-
ing a Lynyrd Skynyrd tour tank
top. Preferably in 2012. 1 canit wait
to see what the next episode has in
store for us. We'll talk then!

nE.
0

We met Twan - the Twan - in the lobby of the theater because *******
knows him interviewing him, but ******* is wasted now and maybe I'm not
just high but also super turnt. "Bump and Grind" dance party commences
and I'm pretty into it as the combination of weed & Fireball gotme tripping
like an infant that's just learning to walk. Here are hundreds of turnt col-
lege kids in a pristine Christine chapel of a theater - Holy shit, I'm so sick
with this word shit. Get at me.
Here's a sociologist's dream case study: A nearly all-white audience
giggles as the word "ni**a" appears on-screen for the first time in the sing-
along, and I'm high enough to spend the subsequent 25 minutes contem-
plating the state of modern day racial relations.
"I'm about to climax!!!" screams an audience of horny millenials in a
dark room listening to Kells. "Everyone's mad, but their all cheating on
each other, so none of them really has the right to be mad," suggests the
sage Gillian Jakab to my left.
I leave to take a piss while Gillian goes to the counter and haggles her
way into free popcorn and when we re-enter, the plot has thickened of
course, and a midget and heavy set white trash woman have entered the
"Closet" story as I munch the munchies away on this popcorn - thanks
Gillie - and candy cigarettes.
- DAILYARTS WRITER
Okay so I'm hoarse already I've never been more in love with R. Kelly
in my life, getting a little emotional got to talk to Twan and I feel like
I'm in Disneyland might've just eaten a whole tub of popcorn lol R.
Kelly is mayhem.
I brought fireball into the theatre sry. I lost my voice I'm catching
some Holy Ghost Im so fucking trapped right now. Serious creative
liberty on these subtitles by the way.
But actually it's like chapter 17 now and people are going nuts I feel
like I'm on a crazy pirate ship, oh shit Twan was just dreaming! Nobody
was shot thank god that crazy Italian Joey, R Kelly has the worst Ital-
ian accent ever.
They gave us condoms and fake money in the goodie bags but where
did mine go? Where??
Made it outside and In not sure if anything I just saw was real
though I swear I've run into Big Man the Midget before somewhere I
promise.
-DAILYARTS WRITER
The absurd. The offensive. The incredible.
I took my place in Michigan Theatre's red velvet Theatre - that's
theater with a capital T - complete with a balcony and potential for an
orchestra. The perfect operatic sensibility, paired with the intoxicated
cult of crazed "Closet" fats aroundne (most notably the friends I came
with and the others I waved to across the theater exchanging "haha
isn't this hilarious?" expressions,) struck me as more than amusing.
R. Kelly's hip-hopera narration began taking us down the twisty-
twervy road of musical melodramatic violence, sex and lots of betrayal.
In order to avoid becoming carsick on the journey, I had to leave behind
the analysis that a sober mind provides and try to get on the level of my
baked and buzzed friends. No one can enjoy "Trapped in the Closet"
through a critical lens - you'll find the glorification of almost every
negative, and you'll try to put a finger on what all the hype is about.
The hype is the hype. The audience is fueled off each other's absurd
enthusiasm.
This enthusiasm seeped into my bloodstream duringthe pre-screen-
ing dance party as songs like "Bump and Grind" clouded my thoughts
and the imagined nicotine from the candy cigarettes in our goody bags
gave me a head rush. Soon, I heard my voice joining the chorus shriek-
ing R Kelly's lyrics and cheering wildly after every chapter. When we
saw Twan after the show - forget it - my excitement was that of a
'Trapped' junkie.
- GILLIAN JAKAB
SO YOU THINK
YOU CAN FLY?
FOLLOW US
@MICHIGANDAILY

TRAILER REVIEW

SINGLE REVIEW

The first red-band trailer
for Seth MacFarlane's lat-
est feature film opens with
a title that
reads "Ari-
zona, 1882"
accompa- A Million
nied by
a shot of Ways to
Monument Die in the
Valley, Utah. West
It's a subtle
spoof of Universal
genre con-
ventions
that bodes well for "A Million
Ways to Die in the West."
However, MacFarlane swiftly
kicks subtlety out of the
saloon with a montage alter-
nating between gruesome
deaths and MacFarlane's hor-
rified sitcom reactions. Seth
even gives a strangely anach-
ronistic speech calling the
old West "a terrible place in
time." This film takes its title
seriously.
"A Million Ways to Die in
the West" is MacFarlane's

Mike Gibney, a.k.a. "Gibbz",
is a Brooklyn-based producer
who has been one of the most
enigmatic
figures in
electronic
soul until Again and
now. Later, Again
Gibney
found a Gibbz
niche as a Self Released
collabora-
tor with the
group "Exmag" - a coalition of
likeminded producers, including
"Gramatik." Gibbz was featured
prominently on Exmag's first
album, released last month.
For many Exmag fans, Gibbz
became a subject of curiosity,
leavinglisteners unsure whether
he was purely a contributor of
vocal tracks, or a larger creative
presence. Gibbz answered those
questions on February13, when
he released his firstsingle,
"Again and Again."
"Again and Again"ts remi-
niscent of Exmag, while main-
taining its own original flavor.

second live action film, after
the moderately successful
"Ted", and the first in which
he acts. He stars alongside
Charlize Theron and a
diverse supporting cast that
includes Liam Neeson as the
villain, Amanda Seyfried,
Neil Patrick Harris and
Sarah Silverman. Unfortu-
nately, this trailer makes

UNIVERSAL
MacFarlane's Western look
about as funny as a bathroom
stall with a penis drawn*
on it. Hopefully they saved
the best jokes for the actual
film, because the success or
failure of "A Million Ways"
could determine whether
MacFarlane continues with
live action films.
-KARSTEN SMOLINSKI

Gibbz allows his voice to take
center stage, while layering his
own mixes in the back, creating
a highly personalized energy
that's easy to groove to. Vocally
and instrumentally, it's a sure
sign of good things to come
in the future. If there is any-
thing wrong with the song, it
is that it gets a bit repetitive. A
surprise change-up could've

SELF RELEASE
definitely improved the track.
However, for those following
the choral mantra of the song
- "We get fucked up again and
again, and again. You fill my
cup again, again, and again," -
I doubt they'll give a shit about
the compositional subtleties
and enjoy Gibbz' successful
solo debut.
-NICK BOYD

I




4B - Thursday, February 20, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, February 20, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MTVTN
From Page 1B
Streetwear is a conglomera-
tive style for an evolving and
hip-hop-fluenced Generation Y,
one of outrageously patterned
pants and bucket hats with
tropical accents and Toucans -
basically, the current wardrobe
of L.A. rapper Schoolboy Q - as
well as more subtly appealing
attire such as designer, print
t-shirts and crew neck sweat-
ers. In its first years of opera-
tion, Motivation solely featured
established West Coast and East
Coast brands, which were not
widely available in local stores
at the time.
"In general, the brands that we
carry kind of limit who they sell
to,"Moeller said, "They don't really
sell to the malls - so you can only
really find them in boutiques like
this."
Though Moeller initially only
sold streetwear brands such as
L.A.'s The Hundreds and N.Y.C.'s
Mishka, in the past five years, he
has steadily been cultivating and
expanding his own brand.
"When we first started the store,
we carried about 20 brands, and we
didn't have our own stuff," Moeller
said. "But in 2009 and 2010, we
started developing our own Moti-
vation line, and now we're up to
around 40 different brands that we
carry, and our own brand is about
40 percent of our sales. We're
always trying to transition into
carrying more of our stuff and less
of other brands."
From the outset, Moeller was
the sole conceptual voice behind
the brand, and the Motivation line
as it stands today is still almost
exclusively his creative brainchild.
He is, however, looking to incor-
porate outside voices from other
designers inthe future.
As with any fashion company,
Moeller recognizes that the Moti-
vationmustkeepup withchanging
trends:
"Since we've opened, styles have

definitely changed. Back then it
was all about the bright crazy shirts
and people were wearing stuff a lot
baggier," Moeller said. "Now, six
years later, everyone's wearing it
super tight or their size, and every-
thing's a lot more subdued."
These days, Moeller explained,
people still want animal print
clothing, just not the wild neon
prints they wanted a few years
back. Graphic t-shirts aren't en
vogue anymore, and snapback
hats have replaced fitted caps as
the preferred piece of headwear.
Moeller noted that while he does
take trends into consideration
when creating his own products,
he normally tries to keep with the
established Motivation line style -
blacks, greys, darker palettes. Still,
he does look to other sources for
inspiration.
"Since we're in a college town,
that's kind of like our theme,"
Moeller said. "Everything here
kind of ties back to college in some
way."
"We do roses on a lot of stuff,"
he said, handing me a black t-shirt
with a pattern of red flowers, "You
know, a shirt like this that basically
looks like it has the Rose Bowl all
over it."
The streetwear Mecca
Fortunately for Moeller, Moti-
vation was not forced to close as a
result of the recent South Univer-
sity Avenue water line break that
brought caused devastating dam-
age to businesses and led to the
street being closed and excavated.
(On the other hand, Blue Lepre-
chan and Pancheros, among other
nearby establishments remain
closed for repairs.)
To a certain extent, it seems
like Moeller is comfortable, yet not
entirely satisfied, with his store in
Ann Arbor; He talks about possi-
bly expanding to a second store in
Los Angeles - a streetwear mecca
that's almost never affected by
the unholy wrath of God that is
a Michigan winter - or possibly
somewhere else in Michigan if L.A.

-ca-
Mo tivation hopes to e xpand jots more cities in Michigan is the nsoxt few years.

is out of reach.
Recently, Motivation has largely
survived on the strength of the
sales from its worldwide online
store, which account for 30 percent
of the store's business. (Moeller
explained how Instagram is a par-
ticularly useful tool for the store,
as it allows Motivation to visually
present new apparel to its follow-
ers as soon as it arrives in store.)
Another 30 percent of sales are
wholesale to other stores that want
to carry the Motivation brand - of
which there are currently over 80
such establishments across the
country - and the final 40 percent
comes from the business's in-store
demographics.
"Ialwaystellpeoplethatwehave
two types of customers," Moeller
said. "The University kid who's just
walking by that maybe needs a pair
of shoes - youknow,youmightnot
be into all the streetwear brands,
but you like the shoes or something
like that.
"And then we also have the
streetwear consumer who will

seek us out]
these brands
have peoplec
and Toledo ju
It's probabl
of the pricesa
hibitive or ex
students. Mo
discrepancy:
"There ar
we sell like B
that have t-s
Moeller said.'
even for me."
"But we a
pieces that ar
pIe's budget,r
sumers are ti
to be aware o
brand might
for the avera
better-quality
produced, an
the U.S."
A brand b
To gain tra
ture industry

because we have all pop culture support. So just as rap-
that they like. We pers need the backing of a record
driving from Detroit label and fans - and just as Kanye
st to get here." claims he could change the world
ly fair to say thatsome with the backing of a major cloth-
at Motivation are pro- ing company (Please, for the love of
cessive for University God, someonejustgive him what he
eller recognizes this wants so he can stopyellingatSway
for not having the answers) - so
e definitely brands too does Motivation need the pro-
illionaire Boys Clubs motion and credibility it receives
hirts for 50 dollars," when hip-hop stars wear Moeller's
"And that's expensive now-famous "MTVTN" emblem.
Notable artist and felon Chris
lways try to bring in Brown has, on numerous occa-
en't going to bust peo- sions, been seen wearing the
and because our con- Motivation brand after finding
he students, we have the line at a store in L.A. Though
f that. Our particular Brown isn't necessarily an artist -
be a little expensive that Moeller would traditionally
ge consumer, but it's support as a sponsor of the brand,
stuff; it's not mass there are many other hip-hop stars
d a lot of it's made in that not only rock MTVTN butalso
showlovebycomingto the store on
South U when performing in Ann
uilding notoriety Arbor or Detroit.
"Because I had that CD busi-
action in any pop cul- ness earlier and my relationships
, an enterprise needs with record labels and with people
in the industry," Moeller said.
"we've always tried to just use
that to our advantage. Our first
week here we had Lupe Fiasco in
the store for a meet-and-greet."
In the back of the store, behind
the black curtain that separates
the storefront - where cus-
tomers are likely greeted with
something like Drake's Nothing
Was The Same as background
music - from the manager's
office, there is a wall covered in a
Jackson Pollock-like splattering
of signatures from artists that
have visited the store. Among
the myriad names are members
of A$AP Mob, Big K.R.I.T., Big
Sean, Wiz Khalifa, Trey Songz,
and The Clipse. When rappers
are performing in Detroit and
aren't able to stop by the store,
Moeller makes sure to send them
complimentary apparel.
The Detroit art and music
scene undeniably has respect
for Moeller's store as well, and
Motivation feeds off the energy
of the city - having local rapper
Boldy James, for example, model
various MTVTN items in last
NICHOLASWILLIAMS/Daily year's spring lookbook. None-
theless, cities like Los Angeles,

where about half of Motivation's
manufacturers are based out of,
certainly remain more desirable
locations for business and music
industry connection.
The future of MTVTN
In 2014, Motivation has
already expanded its reach by
selling some of its products on
web retailer KarmaLoop and
in mall retail outlet Zumiez.
Moeller explained that the store's
future expansion will, naturally,
be largely dependent on the social
networking diaspora it can build
among the streetwear crowd.
Ten years from now, Moeller
hopes to have four or five
more stores established and a
streetwear brand with a more
worldwide name, like L.A.'s The
Hundreds. Despite his belief
that the business's success will
come through its Internet pro-
motion, Moeller admits that the
storefront boutique is equally as
important to Motivation's image
and local, grassroots appeal.
"People want more exclusive
stuff, so they come to boutiques
like this, not PacSun," Moeller
said, as Drake's "Successful"
played and one of the workers
greeted a young couple from L.A.
that walked through the door.
"And you see that we're more
hands-on with the customers, it's
not just like fashion fast food."
Though he just recently
purchased a house in Ann Arbor,
and though he and his fiancee
Indra are getting married later
this year, Moeller still has his
eyes set on L.A. Six years after
opening the store and building a
dedicated fanbase in Ann Arbor,
Moeller still burns with the same
- here it is ... the moment you've
undoubtedly been waiting for
since the opening sentence of this
article - motivation.
"I came up with the name
Motivation because it described
my mindset when I started the
store, and it still does today,"
Moeller said. "I was a young
ambitious business owner ready
to take a major leap of faith and
build a business form the ground
up."

mAL.A

Many famous rappers have been known to stop and browse at Motivation when they're in town.
Eadwek sh.s at t14 e b est
dee pments ln th eea ament wodd.
Hre Is TVha , h ,(adm sd)hswe
Nomir td Y t Not Nomninat
"A ,0,M T
7 st-, g ,y,)-Igbcantender
AduetN t lne" disqualld


I


