At a sexual assault survivors’ 
forum on Nov. 13, Maya Crosman, 
a 2016 University of Michigan alum 
and survivor of former U-M lecturer 
Bruce Conforth, questioned the 
University’s investigation process 
into Conforth, who retired without 
any punishment in 2017.
“I cannot be sure what happened 
at (the Office of Institutional Equity) 
when Conforth was allowed to retire 
with his reputation intact, but it is clear 
that justice was not given to the brave 
women who reported him and the 
brave women who were still getting 

abused by him,” Crosman said. 
Crosman was one of six survivors 
who spoke during the first portion of 
the forum at the Michigan League, 
titled “Survivors Speak Up Against 
U-M’s Pattern Of Enabling Sexual 
Abuse.” The event, hosted amid 
heightened community focus on 
sexual misconduct because of the 
allegations against late University 
athletic doctor Robert Anderson, 
addressed 
the 
University’s 
mishandling of sexual misconduct 
on campus and discussed policy 
changes to prevent future abuse. 
Isabelle Brourman, a 2015 University 
alum and survivor of Conforth, and 
U-M professor Rebekah Modrak 
organized the forum with help from 
Crosman and Katherine McMahan, 

a 2008 University alum and survivor 
of Conforth and Cassie McQuater, 
a University alum and Conforth 
survivor.
Conforth, a lecturer at the 
University from 2001-2017, was 
accused of using his popularity 
among the student body to abuse and 
threaten multiple female students. 
Brourman said the purpose of Nov. 
13’s panel was to share the stories 
and research from survivors of 
sexual abuse at the University.
“There have been enough of 
these stories for us to know that it’s 
not just something that falls through 
the cracks,” Brourman said. “It’s 
not a single report that was ignored, 
and it’s rather a routine pattern of 
complainants who’ve come forward 

and a pattern of being ignored, their 
information being taken and being 
filed away.”
McMahan shared that she was 
abused by Conforth in 2007 while 
attending a blues concert. McMahan 
was the first known complainant 
against Conforth.
“He waited for me outside the 
bathroom, he grabbed me and tried 
to get me to go home with him,” 
McMahan said. “It finally took me 
pushing him away and going back to 
the table to get away from him.”
McMahan first reported her 
story to the University in 2008, 
which led to the University giving 
him a “last chance agreement.” 

Jonathan Vaughn intends to run 
for the University of Michigan’s 
Board of Regents in 2022, he 
announced at a U-M sexual assault 
survivors forum on Nov. 13. 
Vaughn is a former Michigan 
football player and a survivor of late 
athletic doctor Robert Anderson. 
Since Oct. 8, he has been leading 
numerous other survivors in camping 
outside 
of 
University 
President 
Mark Schlissel’s house to protest 
the University’s handling of sexual 
assault allegations against Anderson. 
“I’ve said it before, I’ll say it again: 
President Schlissel is a puppet, and 
the puppet masters are the Board 
of Regents,” Vaughn said on Nov. 13. 
“Far too long now, 50 some odd years, 
this culture of rape, sexual abuse and 
cover-up has become a syndicate. It’s 
become a syndicate not only with 
the faculty being afraid of reporting 
or supporting — because there’s this 
one faculty member who told me it’s 
career suicide — it’s also a syndicate 
that the brands that support this 
University and some of the media 
that support this University say 
those things like, ‘We can’t continue 
to cover the largest sexual abuse 
and rape cover-up in the history of 
sports, because for the most part 
it’s just two Black men speaking up 
about something that happened 30 
years ago or a wrestler who couldn’t 
keep his scholarship.’ Those are the 
things that we’ve heard.”
“Well, I’m here to tell you this 
today: the Board of Regents is a 
publicly voted on position, and today 
I want to announce that I’m going to 
run,” Vaughn continued. “And there 
are seats that are available in 2023, 
2025, 2027, 2029.”

Katherine White (D) and Michael 
Behm (D) are the two regents up 
for re-election in 2022. Regent Ron 
Weiser (R) has said he is also an 
Anderson survivor.
The University’s Office of Public 
Affairs declined to comment. 
The forum, held by six survivors 
of sexual assault at the Michigan 
League on Nov. 13, also featured 
panelists such as Anderson survivor 
and former Michigan wrestler 
Tad DeLuca, survivors of former 
U-M 
lecturer 
Bruce 
Conforth 
and attorney Sarah Prescott, who 
represents eight survivors of former 
Provost Martin Philbert.
Vaughn has said he will remain 
outside Schlissel’s house for 100 days 
or until Schlissel and the regents 

speak with him and other Anderson 
survivors directly. While Schlissel 
has indirectly spoken to survivors 
at Board of Regents meetings and 
expressed his support in media 
interviews, he has not spoken to 
them directly or acknowledged their 
presence directly since they have 
been camping outside of his home.
In 
an 
interview 
with 
The 

Michigan Daily on Nov. 11, Schlissel 
said he has been listening to Vaughn 
and the other survivors but chooses 
not to directly approach them. 
“The way I’ve chosen to listen 
to members of the survivors’ 
community doesn’t include stopping 
by the front of the house and 
listening to a group of folks in tents,” 
Schlissel said. “But rest assured that 
myself and the regents are listening 
to not just Mr. Vaughn and the 
others who are out there, but the 
broader community.” 
Schlissel announced on Oct. 5 
that he will be resigning from the 
presidency in June 2023, leaving his 
post two years earlier than planned. 
Schlissel’s generous exit package 
has stirred backlash from across the 

University community. 
The University president reports 
to the Board of Regents. If Vaughn 
were to win in 2022, he’d start in 
January 2023 and be Schlissel’s 
superior for six months. 
Managing 
News 
Editor 
Liat 
Weinstein can be reached at weinsl@
umich.edu. Daily Staff Reporter Daniel 
Muenz contributed to reporting.

michigandaily.com
Ann Arbor, Michigan
Wednesday, November 17, 2021

ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY ONE YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

 UMich sexual assault survivors of 
Conforth, Anderson speak at panel

 
CALDER LEWIS & 
KRISTINA ZHENG 
Daily News Editors

NEWS

Jonathan Vaughn to run for 
U-M Board of Regents in 2022

Anderson survivor has been camping outside of Schlissel’s house since Oct. 8

JEREMY WEINE/Daily
Isabelle Brourman, a U-M alum and survivor of sexual assault by former lecturer Bruce Conforth, addresses people gathered at a sexual assault survivors forum in the Michigan League Saturday, Nov. 13.

ADMINISTRATION

Panelists talk University’s culture of assault, policy changes needed going forward

LIAT WEINSTEIN
Managing News Editor

The Michigan Daily sat down with 
University of Michigan President 
Mark Schlissel Thursday to discuss the 
ongoing protest of former athletic doctor 
Robert Anderson survivors outside his 
house and the recent 40% growth of the 
University’s endowment. Read part two 
of the interview for Schlissel’s thoughts 
on the Bright Sheng controversy and 
University employees who remain 
unvaccinated. This interview has been 
condensed and edited for clarity. 

The Michigan Daily: Jon Vaughn 
and other survivors of late University 
doctor Robert Anderson’s sexual 
abuse have been camped outside 
your house day and night for over a 
month. They say you haven’t spoken 
with them yet, and that they are 
committed to remaining there for 
100 days or until you and the regents 
speak with them. Why haven’t you 
gone to speak with them?
Mark Schlissel: I want to 
reiterate that I do appreciate 
Mr. Vaughn. He’s a passionate 
advocate for something that’s really 
important. I admire him for the 
courage of stepping up and speaking 
out about what he went through. But 
as I said at the last board meeting, 
the regents and I are listening in 
many different ways. 
We’ve heard directly from folks 
who sign up to speak in public and 
at our meetings, and when they do 
that they’re speaking not just to us, 
but to the assembled media, so it gets 
really quite wide coverage. We’ve 
heard directly from many Anderson 
survivors. We read media reports, we 

get other direct messages from the 
survivors, and I want to reiterate how 
important it is as we work to update 
and improve our sexual misconduct 
policies and practices and we try to 
continue to make campus safer, that 
the experiences and the opinions 
of survivors of all different types — 
because survivors aren’t monolithic, 
you know, many of them have 
different opinions from one another 
— that all of our policies are vetted 
and discussed with the survivor 
community, and we promise to 
continue to do that.
We’re continuing to meet in 
mediation with attorneys hired by 
the Anderson survivors, including 
Mr. Vaughn and his attorney, and 
will continue to heed the judge’s 
advice not to discuss the process of 
mediation outside of these mediation 
sessions. I really know Mr. Vaughn is 
interested in sharing his story — he’s 
been doing it quite widely. I’ve been 
listening to him and other survivors, 
and perhaps where we don’t agree is 
how that listening should occur. But 
rest assured, we are listening. 
I can’t provide an update on the 
mediation. The University remains 
apologetic, sincerely, for what the 
survivors went through, and we want 
to treat them well. The mediation, 
as I said, is confidential, but we are 
very anxious to come to a good, 
fair closure. And all the while we 
continue to implement new policies 
and processes and procedures, all 
aimed at making the campus safer. 
We’re a long way from where 
we need to be, and everybody 
needs to contribute. Mr. Vaughn 
is contributing, the survivors of 
what happened 30 years ago are 
contributing, as well as the survivors 
of today. So we’re committed to 
doing this together and getting it 
right.

TMD: You said that you think 
that you and some of the survivors 
might disagree on how the listening 
should occur. Can you expand 
on that and what you think that 
disagreement might be?
MS: So, for example, I’ve been 
invited to attend an open forum 
up in the Michigan League this 
weekend. A panel of survivors, as 
well as an attorney representing 
some of the survivors, and media 
will be there. My concern is if I sit in 
a forum like that, I become the story 
rather than the survivors becoming 
the story, and they really deserve 
to tell the story without the hoopla 
of the president being called out 
continuously. 
Fortunately, the organizers of 
that forum are live streaming it on 
YouTube, so I can watch it here in the 
president’s house without disrupting 
the proceedings by being there. 
Others may disagree, but that’s my 
choice as the best way to get input 
from that forum without disrupting 
the forum in a way that might 
diminish the ability of the survivors 
to tell their stories.
TMD: What has it been like for 
you to have this camp outside your 
house? How has it affected your day-
to-day life? 
MS: 
Probably 
under 
Mr. 
Vaughn’s influence, this group of 
survivors and supporters have been 
enormously 
respectful, 
despite 
how aggrieved they feel and how 
passionate they are. They have made 
their points known — there are 
placards up and there’s a bulletin 
board where people can sign and 
the like, and there have been some 
demonstration-type protests with 
chanting and the like — but that said, 
I do not feel mistreated. 

Schlissel on Anderson survivor 
protesters: “I do appreciate Mr. Vaughn”

UMich President does not plan to speak directly to those outside his house

CALDER LEWIS & 
ELISSA WELLE & 
JUSTIN O’BEIRNE 
Daily News Editor & 
Daily Staff Reporters

Content warning: descriptions of 
sexual assault
More than 50 students in the Ford 
School of Public Policy walked out of 
their classes and marched through 
the halls of Weill Hall on Nov. 12 in 
protest against the admission of a 
Public Policy and Social Work master’s 
student who was found guilty of Title 
IX violations related to sexual assault by 
his undergraduate university, Eastern 
Mennonite University. 
In a Nov. 10 email addressed to Public 
Policy master’s students, an individual 
named as Ryan Decker — who The 
Michigan Daily was unable to verify 
the identity of — expressed his dismay 
that a current Public Policy graduate 
student had been granted admission to 
the Master of Public Policy and Master of 
Social Work programs at the University 
after committing sexual assault. 
The Daily obtained a copy of Decker’s 
email. Because the student hasn’t been 
criminally convicted and is not a public 
figure, The Daily is not publishing the 
student’s name. 
“I am horrified to learn that (name 
omitted) has been granted admittance 
to the prestigious Masters of Social 
Work and Masters of Public Policy 
programs at the University of Michigan, 
given his history of sexual assault,” 
Decker wrote. “It’s baffling- how was 
someone who was found guilty of 
violating Title IX at another university 
allowed into these programs?” 
The protesters have created a list of 
three demands: the immediate removal 
of the particular graduate student’s 
ability to come to campus, transparency 
on the University’s admission process 
and for communication from Ford as 
they address the situation, and for Ford 
to create safe spaces for survivors of 
sexual misconduct. 

In addition to Nov. 12’s protest, 
the demonstrators initially said they 
planned to continue to boycott their 
classes and picket outside of Ford 
every day from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. until 
the demands are met. However, they 
stopped their picket midday Nov. 15 after 
some in Ford raised concerns that the 
protest could create an uncomfortable 
or triggering atmosphere for survivors 
walking to class, according to messages 
reviewed by The Daily. 
The protest comes amid intense 
focus on the issue of sexual misconduct 
on campus recently because of the more 
than 2,000 allegations against former 
University 
athletic 
doctor 
Robert 
Anderson, which may be the most 
sexual abuse accusations against a single 
person in U.S. history. 
Other recent occurrences of sexual 
misconduct at the University include 
allegations against Computer Science in 
Engineering professors Walter Lasecki 
and Jason Mars and the upcoming 
trial of former interim CSE chair Peter 
Chen. In addition, former provost 
Martin Philbert retired in June of last 
year after being placed on leave due 
to allegations of sexual misconduct, 
and SMTD professor Stephen Shipps 
retired in 2019 after 40 years of sexual 
misconduct allegations were brought 
against him. Former SMTD professor 
David Daniels, former LSA lecturer 
Bruce Conforth and English professor 
Douglas Trevor have also been accused 
of sexual misconduct.
Following Decker’s email, Public 
Policy Dean Michael Barr wrote in an 
email to all Ford students Nov. 10 night 
that addressed “sexual assault in broad 
terms.” 
“I know it will be frustrating to some 
of you, but for confidentiality reasons 
I am not able to comment about the 
particular case raised or the student 
mentioned in the email,” Barr wrote.

Public Policy students walk out 
of class to protest admission 
of master’s student found 
guilty of Title IX violations

GEORGE WEYKAMP 
Daily Staff Reporter

Group of students call on Ford School 
administration to take action on behalf of survivors 

Read more at MichiganDaily.com
Read more at MichiganDaily.com

See SCHLISSEL, Page 2

GOT A NEWS TIP?

Let us know: Call 734-418-4115 or 
e-mail news@michigandaily.com

IN DEX

Vol. CXXX, No. 59
©2021 The Michigan Daily

NEWS.........................2

ARTS...........................3

MIC.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

OPINION....................5 

STATEM ENT..............6

SPORTS......................7
michigandaily.com

For more stories and coverage, visit
Follow The Daily 
on Instagram, 
@michigandaily

GABBY CERITANO/Daily
On Sept. 23, 2021, a crowd gathered an hour prior to the first in-person Board of Regents 
meeting since the pandemic. Jonathan Vaughn, among others, gathered to protest the 
University’s handling of allegations of sexual abuse against late University athletic doctor 
Robert Anderson. 


I feel like Mr. Vaughn and others who 
are camped outside are not disrupting 
my ability to come and go from the 
house. I have guests at the house where 
I do the University’s business quite 
often — that’s why I live on campus. 
That hasn’t been disrupted. So I want to 
really shout them out for the respectful 
way that they’re persistently advocating 
their cause, and that’s the way change 
happens. I understand the passion, and 
I respect the high level of character with 
which they’re propagating their protest.
TMD: The protesters have said you 
enter and leave your house through 
the side door, and have not directly 

acknowledged their presence in person. 
Why do you always leave out of the 
side entrance of your house? Even if 
you won’t have a conversation with the 
survivor protesters, could you physically 
acknowledge their presence?
MS: Well, obviously I just did, 
because I told you the nature of their 
character and actually complimented 
them, but the way I’ve chosen to 
listen to members of the survivors’ 
community doesn’t include stopping 
by the front of the house and listening 
to a group of folks in tents. But rest 
assured that myself and the regents 
are listening to not just Mr. Vaughn 
and the others who are out there, but 
the broader community. I get emails 
all the time, and we’ll continue to listen 
throughout the process.

TMD: In terms of physically 
avoiding the protesters, this protest has 
garnered significant regional and even 
national media attention. How do you 
think that your physical avoidance of the 
protesters reflects on the University?
MS: I don’t have more to say. I 
explained the rationale for how I’m 
engaging and how I’m learning about 
the experiences of not just Mr. Vaughn, 
but the many others who have been 
impacted by Dr. Anderson, and then all 
the other episodes of misconduct that 
have occurred through the years at the 
University. 
TMD: You said the mediation is 
confidential. At this time, I’m curious 
to know if there’s a specific protocol in 
place that prohibits you from speaking 
to survivors?

MS: I’m not an attorney, but the 
judge-ordered behaviors have to do with 
the mediation and aspects of relevance 
to the mediation.
TMD: Is the 4.5% disbursement rate 
of the endowment up for reconsideration 
given the recent 40% growth of the 
endowment? 
MS: The endowment is actually what 
makes us different from most large public 
universities. This year we’re taking $404 
million out of the endowment. Compare 
that to the $330 million we got from the 
state of Michigan — we’re getting more 
out of the endowment. That amount 
grows every year, and it’ll grow even 
faster because of this spectacular year the 
endowment had. 

What we worry about in good 

Ruth Simmons, president of Prairie View 
A&M University, a historically Black universi-
ty in Houston, Texas, will be the main speaker 
at the Winter 2021 Commencement on Dec. 19. 
Simmons is also recommended for an honor-
ary Doctor of Laws degree, if approved by the 
Board of Regents. 
Simmons became the first African-Amer-
ican president of an Ivy League institution 
when she took the role as the 18th president of 
Brown University in 2001. She is also an advo-
cate for social justice and equal opportunity in 
education. Simmons graduated summa cum 
laude from Dillard University in 1967 and was 
a member of the Fulbright Scholars Program. 
Simmons also earned a Master of Arts degree 
in 1970 and a Ph.D. in 1973, both from Harvard 
University.
When Simmons left Brown in 2012, she 
publicly announced that she was retiring from 
leading colleges. Yet five years later, she took 
on the job of president of Prairie View A&M in 
an interim president role, which later became 
permanent. Simmons told the Texas Tribune 
in 2017 that students’ “determination, their 
commitment to try to better themselves” 
convinced her to keep the job past the interim 
period.
Simmons worked in numerous roles at the 
University of Southern California and Spel-
man College from 1979-1991. She was also 
vice provost at Princeton University Simmons 
from 1992-1995. Simmons served as the presi-
dent of Smith College from 1995 to 2000 and 
launched the firSst engineering program at an 

American women’s college.
During her tenure at Brown, which lasted 
from 2001 to 2012, Simmons created a pro-
gram to expand faculty and increase financial 
support and resources for students. She also 
worked on initiatives to increase education 
around the school’s historic relationship to 
slavery, an issue that is personal to Simmons, 
who is the great-granddaughter of slaves. 
Brown was the first school in the country to 
make public its role in perpetuating and prof-
iting off slavery, with a comprehensive report 
published in 2006.
Simmons is a fellow of the American 
Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of 
the American Philosophical Society and the 
Council on Foreign Relations and serves on 
the boards of the Houston Museum of Fine 
Arts, the Smithsonian National Museum of 
African American History and Culture and 
The Holdsworth Center. She is also the recipi-
ent of the United Negro College Fund Presi-
dent’s Award, the Eleanor Roosevelt Val-Kill 
Medal, the Foreign Policy Association Medal, 
the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and Harvard 
University’s Centennial Medal.
E Hill De Loney, a leader in community-
based research and advocate for public health 
in Black communities, Cleve Moler, founder 
of the mathematical software company 
MathWorks and Kathy Anne Perkins, the-
ater scholar and lighting designer, were also 
recommended for honorary degrees and will 
be awarded at the commencement if granted 
approval from the Board.
The Board will vote to approve these 
degrees on Dec. 9.
Daily Staffer Reporter Kate Weiland can be 
reached at kmwblue@umich.edu

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
News
2 — Wednesday, November 17, 2021 

The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is publishing weekly on Wednesdays for the 
Winter 2021 semester by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available 
free of charge to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily’s office 
for $2. If you would like a current copy of the paper mailed to you, please visit store.
pub.umich.edu/michigan-daily-buy-this-edition to place your order.

BRITTANY BOWMAN
Managing Editor babowm@umich.edu

BARBARA COLLINS and LIAT WEINSTEIN 
Managing News Editors news@michigandaily.com

Senior News Editors: Emma Ruberg, Hannah Mackay, Calder Lewis, Jasmin 
Lee, Kristina Zheng, Lily Gooding
Investigative Editor: Sammy Sussman
FOIA Manager: Ayse Eldes

ELIZABETH COOK and JOEL WEINER
Editorial Page Editors tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Senior Opinion Editors: Julian Barnard, Brandon Cowit, Shubhum Giroti, Jessie 
Mitchell, Evan Stern

ELISE GODFRYD and ELIZABETH YOON
Managing Arts Editors 
 arts@michigandaily.com

ALLISON ENGKVIST and MADDIE HINKLEY
Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com

ANDIE HOROWITZ
Managing Statement Editor statement@michigandaily.com
Deputy Editors: Samantha Cole, Leo Krinsky

MADISON GAGNE and OLIVIA BRADISH
Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com

Senior Copy Editors: Caroline Atkinson, Anjali Chiravuri, Ethan Patrick, 
Kelsey Burke, Emily Wilson, Vanita Seed, Ellen Howell, Kathryn Kulie, Rena 
McRoy, Alison Chesnick

PARTH DHYANI and NAITIAN ZHOU
Managing Online Editors 
 webteam@michigandaily.com

IULIA DOBRIN and ANNIKA WANG
Managing Video Editors video@michigandaily.com

Senior Michigan in Color Editors: Noor Moughni, Maya Kadouh, Eliya Imtiaz, 
Jessica Kwon, Lola Yang

Senior Sports Editors: Drew Cox, Lily Friedman, Jack Kingsley, Brendan Roose, 
Daniel Dash, Jared Greenspan, Jacob Cohen

Senior Video Editors: Margaret Rudnick, Jordan Shefman

Senior Social Media Editors: Kirti Aplash, Natalie Knight, Cristina Costin, 
Ryan Postman, Evan DeLorenzo, Sarah Kent, Bella Morreale

Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com

ARTS SECTION
arts@michigandaily.com

SPORTS SECTION
sports@michigandaily.com

NEWS TIPS
tipline@michigandaily.com

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL PAGE
opinion@michigandaily.com

TARA MOORE
Business Manager
business@michigandaily.com

CLAIRE HAO
Editor-in-Chief
eic@michigandaily.com

PHOTOGRAPHY SECTION
photo@michigandaily.com

NEWSROOM
news@michigandaily.com

CORRECTIONS
corrections@michigandaily.com

LANE KIZZIAH and KENT SCHWARTZ 
Managing Sports Editors sports@michigandaily.com

Senior Arts Editors: Kari Anderson, Drew Gadbois, Andrew Pluta, Grace 
Tucker, Sophia Yoon
Arts Beat Editors: Lilly Pearce, Peter Hummer, Mik Deitz, Sabriya Imami, 
Kaitlyn Fox, Anya Soller

SHANNON STOCKING and ALLISON YIH
Managing Design Editors 
 design@michigandaily.com

ANAMIKA KANNAN and GABRIJELA SKOKO
Michigan in Color Editors michiganincolor@michigandaily.com

HALEY JOHNSON and ASHA LEWIS 
Managing Social Media Editors socialmedia@michigandaily.com

Editorial Staff

Business Staff

Senior Photo Editors: Emma Mati, Miles Macklin, Becca Mahon, Julia 
Schachinger
Assistant Photo Editors: Grace Beal, Tess Crowley, Kate Hua, Jarett Orr, 
Dominick Sokotoff

RORI MILLER
Creative Director

EMILY OHL and GERALD SILL
Managing Podcast Editors podeditors@michigandaily.com

SCHUYLER JANZEN
Sales Manager

ADVERTISING
WMG-contact@umich.edu 

JACK GRIEVE
Digital Managing Editor jgrieve@umich.edu

ALEX HARRING and SARAH SZALAI 
Co-Chairs of Access & Inclusion accessandinclusion@michigandaily.com

Senior Podcast Editors: Doug McClure, Max Rosenzweig, Avin Katyal

NEWS BRIEFS

HBCU president Ruth 
Simmons named Winter 2021 
Commencement speaker

 Former Brown University president was first 
Black person to lead an Ivy League institution

KATE WEILAND 
Daily Staff Reporter

Associate Editor: Julia Maloney

ALLISON ENGKVIST/Daily
Every Wednesday and Saturday morning, 120 vendors travel from different parts of Michigan and Ohio to set up their stands and prepare for another busy day at the Ann Arbor 
Farmers Market. Picture captured Nov. 6 at the market.

PHOTO

Senior Layout Editor: Sophie Grand

Six-year-old Julian Gagnon was rewarded for his discovery 
and donation of a rare mastodon tooth to the University of Mich-
igan’s Museum of Paleontology, according to a Michigan Radio 
article published in October.
Gagnon, who discovered the tooth while taking a hike with 
his family in Rochester Hills, Mich., received a behind-the-
scenes look at the University’s Ann Arbor Research Museums 
Center and the paleontologists’ labs as a thank you for his dona-
tion.
Gagnon first noticed the fossil when he walked near a creek 
at Dinosaur Hill Nature Preserve. Michigan Radio reported that 
Gagnon was initially interested in a bright spot in the water, and 
did not know what he had found.
“I walked over there and I saw this cool rock, and I kind of 
picked it up and looked at it,” Gagnon told Michigan Radio. “I 
didn’t know if it was a rock or if it was a dinosaur tooth.”
His family urged him to take it home, where they researched 
Michigan’s native prehistoric creatures and decided to con-
tact the paleontologists at the University. Dr. Adam Rountrey, a 
Research Museum collection manager and 3D specialist at the 
Museum of Paleontology, told The Daily that after identifying 
the mastodon tooth from Gagnon’s email, the University sent a 
team of paleontologists to Dinosaur Hill to search for additional 
material with Gagnon and his family. 
Rountrey said he was impressed that Gagnon found the tooth 
under such difficult conditions.
“The water in the stream there, Paint Creek, I believe it’s 
called, it was fairly deep and running pretty quickly,” Rountrey 
said. “So it was hard to see the bottom when we were sort of 
searching around the area where he had found the tooth. I think 
he was really lucky to have found it under the water like that.”
Rountrey said they did not find any further signs of fossils 
during their search and that the Mastodon tooth is the first ver-
tebrate fossil the museum has received from Dinosaur Hill. He 
said after Gagnon agreed to donate the tooth to the museum, 
they invited him to take a behind the scenes tour of the research 
museum center to see where the fossil collections are stored.
“So we gave him a tour here, he donated the tooth, and we’ve 
agreed to produce a 3D model of it,” Rountrey said. “And (we also 
produced) a couple of 3D prints to get back to Julian and for the 
Nature Preserve to have for their interpretive programs.”
Gagnon, who liked the idea of becoming an archeologist when 
he was older, told Michigan Radio about his experience giving 
the University ownership of a certified fossil.
“I signed my name like two times on a very special piece of 
paper with a very special pen,” Gagnon said.
LSA sophomore Oona Woodbury said she has grown more 
interested in paleontology since taking the Earth 103 mini-
course called “Dinosaurs and Other Failures” and heard about 
the Mastodon tooth during class. She said she wishes she would 
have begun searching for fossils when she was younger and 
hopes that Gagnon’s story will inspire people to explore their 
geologic environments.
“I hope it makes people think about where our scientific 
knowledge comes from,” Woodbury said. “We do kind of, in 
paleontology at least, rely on things being donated to the public 
to be able to study them and to advance our scientific learning … 
And it’s so cool that this kid got this great experience, and it’s just 
the tip of the iceberg of this whole topic.”
Daily Staff Reporter Vanessa Kiefer can be reached at vkiefer@
umich.edu.

Six-year-old donates rare 
Mastodon tooth to Michigan 
Museum of Paleontology

Julian Gagnon found fossil while hiking in 
Rochester Hills, Mich.

CAMPUS LIFE

BECCA MAHON/Daily

Prairie View A&M President Ruth Simmons was chosen as the Winter 2021 Commencement speaker.

SCHLISSEL
From Page 1

VANESSA KIEFER 
Daily Staff Reporter

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


Two years ago, I embarked on a crusade: I 
removed every social media application from 
my phone save for Snapchat and YouTube. I 
got rid of TikTok, Instagram, Twitter, Face-
book, Pinterest — all in an effort to improve my 
mental health and mitigate my growing phone 
addiction. During the pandemic, I would cycli-
cally download and delete these apps, a bit like 
a toxic relationship. Of course, I still have full 
access to some sites like Instagram, Twitter 
and Tumblr on my laptop, so I haven’t totally 
removed myself from the proverbial grid. 
The interactions I was still having with social 
media, either on my computer or on my occasion-
al “cheat days,” were still negatively affecting my 
mental health. I continued to fall prey to the com-
parison and isolation that pervade social media, 
and after some time of quietly dealing with these 
repercussions, my crusade was clocked by a real-
ization. My issues weren’t coming from the social 
media sites themselves, but from the content I 
was seeing on them. My Instagram and TikTok 
feeds were a personal hellhole of unachievable 
beauty standards, upsetting news, even more 
upsetting memes and users flaunting lifestyles I 
could only hope to afford. 
All of this is to say that Instagram, Tumblr 
and TikTok are not inherently bad or bad for 
you, but their algorithms, or how these apps 
decided what content I would and wouldn’t 
see, were bad. Or, more accurately, I had trained 
the algorithm badly. So my crusade changed. I 
was no longer removing these apps from my life 
altogether. Rather, I began asking myself, how 
do I make social media serve me? What I dis-
covered through various guides and videos was 
that it is entirely possible to train my algorithm 
to show me content that improves my time 
online — bands and shows that I like, people 
that represent me and actually good memes. 
So after almost a year and a half of experiment-
ing, I can proudly present four steps on how to 
change your social media algorithm, and what 
this change can do for you. 
1. Budget your likes, follows and comments
We’ll start easy with the foundational step of 
this process — not every single post that comes 
across your feed or messages deserves your 
digital currency. I know, I know, it’s tempting 
to like every Instagram post or YouTube video 
that you click on, whether out of habit or a sense 
of obligation, but this is one of the most damag-
ing things you can do in the quest for the perfect 
algorithm. For example, I couldn’t understand 

why I kept seeing deep-fried TikToks (which 
I, respectfully, hate) on my For You Page, until 
I realized that it was because my roommate 
kept sending me them and I kept liking them. 
So I stopped liking and interacting with them 
entirely. You can’t always stop people from 
sending you posts you may not love on social 
media, but you can mitigate how much you 
interact with that content. By freely giving likes 
and follows to anything and everything, your 
algorithm is more likely to continue showing 
you that same anything and everything, rather 
than curating itself thoughtfully and positively. 
2. Interact with things you’re passionate 
about
My Instagram Explore page used to be a 
messy hodgepodge of anything I paid atten-
tion to beyond a click or a view — hence bud-
geting those likes and shares! Memes or news, 
models or cooking, you name it. It was there, 
and so was I. So, just as I began to turn away 
from giving a like to anything I opened, I start-
ed furiously liking only the content I really 
loved. Any Florence + The Machine post on 
my Instagram Explore page? Like. A “Down-
ton Abbey” scene on my TikTok For You page? 
Comment. Whatever the equivalents are for 
you, start interacting with them when you see 
them on your feed! The more you do that, the 
more your social media algorithm will figure 
out what topics you’re actually interested in 
and start making your feed something you 
actually want to view and interact with. 
3. Follow people who represent you
Social media, for the longest time, fed into 
my own lack of self-confidence. Everywhere 
I turned I was met with Victoria’s Secret 
models and Paris runways and that began to 
destroy me. I don’t say that to slander these 
women — I say it to highlight the difficulty of 
growing up as an imperfect young woman in 
a social media landscape obsessed with being 
perfect. Still, I was the one interacting with 
impossible beauty standards, so one day I 
purged my social media of people who didn’t 
represent me. I turned to following and lik-
ing mid-sized women, writers, body positiv-
ity activists, musicians and anyone who I saw 
myself in. Maybe for you, this means following 
more people of color, individuals with disabili-
ties or members of the LGBTQ+ community. 
Soon, though, your feed could saturated with 
people and accounts that reflect you and 
inspire you to be the best achievable version of 
yourself possible. There’s a way to escape that 
unachievable version of beauty and happiness, 
and all it takes is a reorientation of who you 
allow to grace your social media.

4. Stop hate-following
Why do you still follow that girl from high 
school whose life choices you simply reject? 
Seriously, why? Don’t tell me, I know the 
answer because I did it too — and still do, if I’m 
totally honest. 
I am Sisyphus and hate-following is my boul-
der. 
Why do we do it? Why keep following people 
whose Snapchat stories leave you red in the face 
and with a sour taste in your mouth? For the 
drama, mostly. Getting angry over what some-
one posts is like a hit of adrenaline, but despite 
that fleeting high, it is unhealthy. We are left 
with an overload of negativity invading our 
mental health that can have tangible effects on 
our real life, such as increased anger or obses-
sion with others’ lives. 
How do you think I feel after watching that-
girl-from-high-school’s Instagram story? Not 
any better about myself, I can tell you that. 
Unfollow the people you know you can’t stand 
— I’ll do it if you do — and, if you still crave a bit 
of drama, vent to a roommate or watch “River-
dale.” That’s what I do. 
***
It’s no secret that social media can have 
negative effects on mental health — we’ve 
known this for a long time. Social media sites 
are “designed to be addictive and are associat-
ed with anxiety, depression, and even physical 
ailments,” and can instigate jealousy toward 
others or a crippling sense of FOMO — “Fear 
of Missing Out” for those of you who missed 
the memo. It is difficult to express, personally, 
how growing up in the social media age was 
damaging to my perception of self and the out-
side world, and I know I’m not alone in feeling 
this. 
However, half this battle is what we con-
sume on social media, not just the consump-
tion itself. I understand that, and because it 
would be foolish of me to suggest that we all 
delete all of our social media all at once, I want 
others to understand this as well. Today we are 
all so deeply invested in our online presence, 
and considering we spent over two hours on 
social media every day in 2020, I don’t see this 
investment losing traction. If we’re going to 
continue to live in the virtual landscape, why 
shouldn’t we make it as comfortable and safe 
as possible? It takes time and honestly a lot of 
concentrated effort to create a welcoming and 
positive digital environment for oneself, but 
that time and effort are more than worth it in 
the long run. 

“Eternals” was always bound to be 
weird.
First and foremost, the Eternals 
are the brainchild of Jack Kirby, the 
oft-neglected creative engine of Mar-
vel, renowned and cherished for his 
creativity and wacky artistry. For ref-
erence, the visual designs of “Doctor 
Strange” and “Thor: Ragnarok” are 
heavy with the fruits of his labor.
It’s also got a truly gonzo, behe-
moth cast that throws together a 
dozen names from disparate corners 
of the acting world, including the likes 
of Angelina Jolie (“Come Away”) and 
Kumail Nanjiani (“The Lovebirds”) 
— that’s right, Angelina and Kumail, 
co-stars.
Perhaps most bafflingly, it’s helmed 
by director Chloé Zhao. Yes, the 
Zhao who just won Best Picture for 
“Nomadland,” a quiet indie film about 
the woes of a transient working class 
in post-recession rural America.
“Eternals” was always bound to be 
weird, most of all for a Marvel movie. 
And woefully, wonderfully, it is. There’s 
on-location shooting, with natural light-
ing and limited green screen! There’s 
absolutely no character from any other 
Marvel movie present! And … there’s 
sex! Chaste, tame, downright boring 
sex, but sexy sex times all the same! 
The film is of biblical, operatic scale 
— opening with a title crawl, the film 
throws out colored and capitalized 

words to describe a Marvelized cre-
ation myth that will be the first of many 
moments of exposition. The Eternals, a 
race of immortal, preternaturally beau-
tiful space gods, are sent to Earth by the 
Celestials, another race of space gods 
(these ones giant and not at all attrac-
tive), to safeguard humanity from the 
predatory Deviants — stringy space 
beasts that look like wolves and lizards 
and wolf-lizards and have the grimy, 
prismatic sheen of oil on water.
Their one rule: Only punch some-
thing if it’s a Deviant. Otherwise, sit 
back and watch as humanity devel-
ops across the millennia. The fall of 
Tenochtitlan? Not their problem. The 
dropping of nuclear bombs on Japan? 
Not the mission. Thanos snapping his 
fingers and murdering literally half of 
everything? That’s chump change — 
trust in the Celestials. 
After thousands of years, a Devi-
ant finally arrives in London and tries 
to bite off the head of Gemma Chan 
(“Let Them All Talk”). Bam — the 
film begins, time to get the band back 
together.
“Eternals” is a janiform crea-
ture: Each strength is matched by 
an imperfect foil, producing a film 
composed of conjoined blessings and 
curses left and right.
For one, there is a whole lot of talk-
ing. Zhao’s strength is quiet character 
dramas, and this sensitivity and focus 
on the tender and the personal is abso-
lutely present in “Eternals.” Charac-
ters quip and squabble and break up 
and make up, communicating with 

each other clearly and without reser-
vation. Sometimes this ventures into 
the cardinal sin of a visual medium 
— telling rather than showing, a crime 
Zhao rarely commits in her filmogra-
phy. “Eternals” exposits like no other, 
frequently punctuating the film with 
awkward flashbacks that themselves 
are mostly the characters standing in 
a circle hashing it out, grinding the 
pace to a yawning halt. 
It doesn’t help that the characters 
are thinly-drawn and weirdly poor 
acting abounds. With 10 Eternals and 
a few other supporting players, there 
is precious little screen-time to go 
around. Chan, who receives the lion’s 
share of minutes in her role as Sersi, a 
people-lover with powers of transmu-
tation, struggles to emote in more than 
one way. Richard Madden (“1917”) 
does well as a brooding Superman 
clone but lacks any and all chemistry 
with Chan, with whom his Ikaris is 
supposed to be hopelessly in love. Don 
Lee (“Start-Up”) is fun to watch as 
Gilgamesh, a bruiser who fantastically 
bitch-slaps monsters with galore, but 
often fumbles the delivery of his lines. 
Lia McHugh (“Songbird”) barks her 
dialogue as ever-adolescent illusion-
ist Sprite. Jolie as the mentally ill war 
goddess Thena; a gloriously buff Nan-
jiani as Kingo, a Bollywood movie star 
with finger guns; Lauren Ridloff (“The 
Sound of Metal”) as a super-speedy 
Makkari; Barry Keoghan (“The Green 
Knight”) as the jerkishly moralistic 
mind-controller Druig; Brian Tyree 
Henry (“The Woman in the Window”) 

as Phastos, a really good engineer that 
can make magic blueprints; and Salma 
Hayek (“The Roads Not Taken”) as 
Ajak, the healer and motherly matri-
arch of the team — are all charming 
and wonderful in their own ways, but 
have pitifully little to do.
If you got tired reading through 
that exhaustive gallery, well — yeah.
This lethargizing focus on feelings 
means that, despite most characters 
being more or less one-note, the film is 
completely character-driven — it’s all 
about people forming convictions and 
acting accordingly, never beholden 
to the plot. Everyone has a personal 
ethos, and it’s a delight watching them 
realize them in ways that run counter 
to what one has come to expect from 
Marvel fare. 
“Eternals” still has some of the usual 
stakes and tropes of a Marvel movie — 
the world is ending (oh no!) and char-
acters are wont to shout nonsense like 
forming a “uni-mind” and trying to 
stave off the “mad weary” (which is 
actually spelled “mahd wy’ry,” because 
of course it is). The CGI baddies are 
bland and boring and perhaps the big-
gest disappointment of the film, mak-
ing little sense and acting in baffling, 
ultimately impotent ways. 
Where “Eternals” begins to shine 
as maybe something special is in the 
locus of conflict. It’s not really about 
beating up some bad guy. These 
threats exist, but the dilemma isn’t 
external, it’s entirely internal — not 
a question of will our heroes save the 
day, but should our heroes save the 

day, how should they save the day. It’s 
ponderous, contemplative — what’s 
worth more, one life now or ten lives 
later? Which is nobler, loyalty to a 
cause or loyalty to those you love? 
In some ways, “Eternals” is self-
reflexive of the superhero genre as a 
whole. The Eternals grapple with the 
questions the audience often has look-
ing in — why do super-powered folk 
primarily use their gifts to punch stuff? 
Can’t they — shouldn’t they — do more? 
The irony is not lost when Nanjiani’s 
Kingo, who endeavors to filmically 
document the Eternals’ adventures, 
shouts, “We need action scenes,” as he 
blasts monsters in the face with lethal 
and admittedly thrilling precision.
“Eternals,” is a thorny, philosophi-
cally rich, audacious sci-fi epic. Its 
greatest irony is that it’s overlong while 
all the while feeling unfinished — if 

only there were a little more develop-
ment here, a few more minutes there. 
But within that ill-constructed chas-
sis is a bounty. Under Zhao’s direction, 
it’s beautifully shot, the visual effects 
are beautifully rendered and by some 
miracle, it sidesteps the cacophony 
of Chrises and populates itself with 
faces and bodies that reflect the world 
we live in. It struggles under its own 
weight, but it does not crash. Flawed 
but meaty and, above all, interesting — 
a singular entry in the MCU.
The fact of the matter is that comic 
book movies and blockbusters at large 
are the most dominant genre on the 
planet, with a death knell nowhere in 
sight. “Eternals” takes big, ambitious 
swings. They may not land quite right, 
but if more blockbusters go the route 
of “Eternals,” cinema will be all the 
better for it.

Content warning: abuse, sexual 
assault
The first time I saw University of Mich-
igan alum Andrew Lippa’s “The Wild 
Party” was when I was a freshman in high 
school. It was a time when I loved literally 
every single musical I listened to on Spo-
tify, but still, this production excited me. 
It was my first time going to a theatre that 
wasn’t housed in my school or dedicated to 
national tours.
It felt like I was watching “real” theatre. 
I loved every moment of it. I remember the 
show so vividly. It explored how abuse and 
addiction affect each other, and how adult 
themes can be explored in theatre. As I left 
the theatre, it felt like I was stepping into 
adulthood, as being able to watch a story 
of abuse without being talked down to felt 
validating as a young person.
I don’t feel like that anymore. “Wild 
Party” isn’t a story that validates me. I didn’t 
realize that until weeks after sitting in the 
Mendelssohn Theatre on Oct. 16, watching 
University Production’s “The Wild Party.”
This is a critique of the story, of the 
characters and nothing else. I have noth-
ing short of praise for the actors and tech-
nicians working on “Wild Party.” Their 

work made the production vibrate with a 
pandemic’s worth of energy waiting to be 
released.
This is a critique of Andrew Lippa, a 
U-M alum, and his lack of awareness and 
inability to update a problematic script.
The story of “Wild Party” was not con-
ceived by Lippa. Adapted from the long-
form poem of the same name by Joseph 
Moncure March, “Wild Party” represents 
the superfluous freedom of living in the 
1920s. (How free were the ’20s when only 
white men were allowed to vote?)
The musical carries a lack of aware-
ness in the way it represents its protago-
nist, Queenie. Queenie is a woman who 
has lived as a vaudeville dancer, enjoying 
herself through sex. That is the length of 
Queenie’s textual personality. Instead, 
the script focuses on the way she looks, 
describing her with lyrics such as “her 
face was a tinted mask of snow,” “her legs 
were built to drive men mad” and even 
“she liked her lovers violent.” Lippa estab-
lishes Queenie as a figurehead of sexual 
promiscuity. Yet, nothing else of Queenie’s 
personality or history is explored besides 
her sexuality. Instead, Lippa limits what 
Queenie can be as a protagonist, letting the 
focus fall to Queenie’s abuser: Burrs. 
We never hear about the complexity 
of their relationship besides understand-
ing that it is abusive. How am I supposed 
to understand Queenie as a woman when 

we are robbed of her individual story as 
it exists outside of her relationship with 
men? Queenie as a character has so much 
more internally to explore rather than the 
relationships she has with her partner 
Burrs and new lover Mr. Black.
Still, we watch these two men speak for 
her. She is sexually assaulted in the first 10 
minutes of the show, only for the script to 
use the event as a catalyst for a wild party. 
Queenie uses the party as a way to escape 
the trauma she experienced, but the script 
avoids the assault in favor of focusing on 
the love triangle between Queenie, Burrs 
and Mr. Black instead.
How much agency can a character have 
in deciding to throw a party? Not enough 
to make up for two and a half hours of men 
talking over her. Calling her a “child,” a 
“whore,” a “slut,” a “bitch,” all culminat-
ing in her supposedly “poor and virginal” 
nature, a paradox Lippa is unable to speak 
appropriately on.
Why does virginity need to be a plot 
point in Queenie’s story?
Why does a chorus need to sing over a 
depiction of assault?
Why are theatres outside of Broadway 
so opposed to the idea of updating scripts? 
Why do licensing agencies, schools, direc-
tors, producers, everyone that controls 
theatre hate the idea of changing words 
that have rotted with time?

Why did the University production not 
change its language for the show? Why rely 
on a misogynistic script? Why leave the d 
slur? Why have Mr. Black murder Burrs 
instead of Queenie? Why? Why does a man 
have to save the day? Why, why, why? 
These 
are 
rhetorical 
questions; 
they don’t need an answer because the 
answer is clear to everyone except Lippa. 
I feel guilty having watched this musi-
cal twice, enabling Lippa to profit off of 
a script that does so much harm and so 
little good.
I loved “Wild Party” in high school 
because it allowed me to see explicit 
themes in theatre for the first time. Now, 
I don’t need to see abuse for the sake of 
feeling validated at my age. I’ve come to 
understand that explicit themes that war-
rant trigger warnings must be offered 
alongside artistic justification. 
Shrouded in layers of misogyny, “Wild 
Party’s” truth comes from the perspec-
tive of a privileged white man. This is not 
satire. I find “Wild Party” to be an escapist 
pipe dream for Lippa to indulge his deeply 
harmful desires.
Somewhere along the line, Lippa lost 
Queenie as a protagonist, shifting her to 
be a fixture to validate the male-centric 
themes that make the musical easier to 
write but so much worse to watch. “Wild 
Party” needs to be better. And so does 
Lippa.

How did we come to this? 
A review of ‘Wild Party

MADDIE AGNE
Daily Arts Writer

MATTHEW EGGERS
Daily Arts Writer

Design by Lindsay Farb

‘Eternals’: A beautiful, rare Marvel flick, equally awkward and audacious

JACOB LUSK
Daily Arts Writer

This image is from the official trailer for “Eternals,” distributed by Walt Disney Studios 
Motion Pictures.

Arts
Wednesday, November 17, 2021 — 3

Social Media 101: How (and why) to fix your algorithm

Design by Kristina Miesel

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


4 — Wednesday, November 17, 2021
Michigan in Color
The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com

The home screen of my Nintendo Switch 
lights up with the words “Animal Crossing: 
New Horizons” spread out across the screen. 
In the background, I can see my villagers 
Cherry, Punchy and Leopold running across 
the main plaza as the theme song for the game 
plays. All of my other villagers are somewhere 
fishing, running or in their homes creating a 
DIY recipe that I will soon have for myself. 
When we were sent home from college in 
March 2020, I felt as if I had no control over 
what was happening in school or my personal 
life. As someone who believes I have the power 
to determine the outcome of situations, I strug-
gled because my schedule was thrown into the 
wind. Everything was changing, including how 
my classes were taught and where I was living. 
I no longer lived in a residence hall with my 
friends, woke up at an hour that could be consid-
ered “morning” and had all three meals of the 
day in a dining hall. Instead, my new schedule 
consisted of me waking up at noon and having 
my first meal for the day at 2 p.m. All of a sudden, 
I had all the free time in the world. At first, this 
was exciting because it felt like a never-ending 
spring break. I woke up every day, watched 
“The Great British Baking Show” and tried 
to replicate the recipes I’d see. However, after 
about three weeks of failed pastry attempts, I 

was over it. I would finish my online classes, try 
to make chocolate chip banana bread, fail and 
go back to my room to continue watching “The 
Great British Baking Show.” Every day began to 
feel mundane, and I knew I needed a change in 
routine to spice things up. 
I contemplated playing video games at the 
end of March 2020, but was quick to dismiss the 
idea because it was something I was discour-
aged from doing in my childhood. Since I was 
the youngest sibling and the only girl, my par-
ents would restrict how much time I spent play-
ing video games. I’m sure they believed gaming 
was something only boys could do because of 
how gory and violent the games my brothers 
played were. Also, during my childhood, I never 
took interest in video games because I was only 
exposed to first-player shooting games and was 
under the impression that violence was a major 
component of any video game. 
I never owned a Nintendo Switch and didn’t 
even know it was a console until the pandemic 
hit. After moving in with my boyfriend and 
seeing his Nintendo Switch setup, I became 
interested and wanted to explore new games. 
My only exposure to Animal Crossing in pass-
ing was through “Pocket Camp,” a variation 
of the original “Animal Crossing” that can be 
downloaded on your phone. He suggested I 
play “Animal Crossing: New Horizons,” and 
after watching the trailer I was captivated by 
the idea of whisking myself to my very own 
island getaway.

When I played Animal Crossing for the 
first time, I felt I had finally found peace. The 
game’s journey started off with being greeted 
by Tom Nook, the infamous raccoon who 
would soon take all of my bells (the game’s cur-
rency). Once there, as the only human charac-
ter on the island, I met other animal villagers 
who accompanied me on my journey. From 
there, I was able to build my deserted island 
into a paradise, where my new shops and busi-
nesses were able to grow.
“Animal Crossing” is a very relaxing yet 
complex video game because it is based in real-
time. Therefore, the time of day will influence 
the fish you get, the shrubs that bud, when 
your trees have fruit and whether you can 
go shopping. You have to play long enough to 
unlock certain aspects of the game that allow 
you to change the layout of your island.
Playing “Animal Crossing: New Horizons” 
helped me find my foot in the gaming world. I 
discovered a game that served as a way to help 
ease my anxiety about what the world looked 
like and provide me with a sense of control. 
Now, I still play “Animal Crossing: New Hori-
zons” and have expanded to play “Pikmin 3 
Deluxe” and “Stardew Valley.” However, I 
always go back to Animal Crossing because 
of the vibrant trees, the cute animals and the 
endless peace I find when stargazing on my 
island.

In elementary school, I learned about the 
five senses: sight, touch, hearing, smell and 
taste. I would be lying if I said I actively sit 
around and think about how these senses 
make up my personal reality. In fact, I have 
taken these senses for granted for a long time. 
I wake up every day to my blaring alarm know-
ing that I will open my eyes to see my messy 
room. I make a note to myself to clean it and it 
inevitably gets lost underneath papers on my 
desk. I grab my phone and feel the slippery 
glass screen that’s covered in my fingerprints 
because I never remember to clean it. My sec-
ond alarm painfully blares the ringtone that 
I’ve grown to hate while I quickly enter my 
passcode. I reluctantly get out of bed and pop 
a hazelnut K-Cup in the Keurig, and the brew-
ing coffee aroma fills the kitchen. After adding 
creamer, I take a sip and purse my lips together. 
I always end up making it too sweet.
I go about my day knowing that my reality is 
presented to me through these senses, even if I 
don’t actively think about it. But lately, my five 
senses have been acting differently. They now 
serve as a reminder of past moments in my life 
— moments that I long for.
S
ight
I aimlessly scroll through TikTok when 
I catch a glimpse of the time. It’s 8:00 at night 
and I’ve done nearly none of my homework 
that’s due in the next two days. I’ll wake up early 
and start tomorrow, I think to myself. I slip my 
feet into my pink house shoes that are tucked 
under my bed and walk toward the closet to 
pick out my outfit for tomorrow. My eyes scan 
through jackets, sweaters and my long sleeves 
until I see it — the one striped short-sleeved 
button-up shirt that I “borrowed” from my dad.
I know I should see this shirt and think of 
my dad, but I don’t. My mind races back to 2018, 
when Thatha, my grandfather, was given a 
plain, light blue button-down shirt from a family 
member. He looked at it and let out a quiet sigh. 
While the other family members were talking, 
he turned to me and told me with a small smile 
that he has a closet full of shirts that look exactly 
like the one he was just given. I laughed and he 
said that he can show me the short-sleeved but-
ton-up shirt that he wore to my parents’ wed-
ding nearly 25 years ago. According to him, it 
looked just like the one he just got. Before I could 
ask him to show me, my auntie asked Thatha a 
question, and the short-sleeved shirt conversa-
tion shifted into a discussion about what the plan 
would be for tomorrow. The moment slipped 
away from us.
Now I stare at my one borrowed striped 
button-up, short-sleeved shirt and think of him. 
Did he have one just like the one that I have too? 
I grab it from my closet, deciding I’ll wear it 
tomorrow.
T
ouch
My friends and I pile into the back of a 
Toyota Camry and set out towards the Salva-
tion Army just down the street. The car ride is 
short and filled with potholes, laughs and quiet 
music playing under our loud voices. Once 
there, we walk in eagerly. None of us are look-
ing for any clothing item in particular, but this 
is our favorite pastime in our suburban home-
town. 
As soon as we walk in, the sound of plastic 
hangers clanging against each other fills the 
room. My friends and I split apart and contrib-
ute to this noise as we look through clothes. I 
head towards the women’s section and feel the 
clothes, pushing aside the ones that I’m not 
interested in. I swipe through fuzzy cordu-
roy pants, a smooth satin dress, pilling cotton 
shorts and a rough sequined skirt. My hands 
freeze for a second and then scramble back to 
find the skirt that I so brainlessly just pushed 
away. Once I find it, I delicately run my fin-
gers over the fabric. The seams on the edge of 
the skirt are splitting, indicating its age. The 
threads poking out from the stitches are so soft, 
they slip out of my fingers. The pink sequins 
are rough and scratchy to the touch. The skirt’s 
thick cotton is exposed in the areas where the 
sequins have fallen off. 
It doesn’t make sense, but I expect to pull 
out a lehenga. There’s no reason why a jeweled 
lehenga would be sold in a thrift store in my 
predominantly white hometown, but my fin-
gers assume while my brain catches up. I brief-
ly think about how my auntie used to laugh at 
me for being too picky when we were shopping 
for lehengas for my brother’s Munji, a religious 
thread ceremony. I wonder the next time I will 
have an occasion to wear a lehenga. I would 
have been at my cousin’s wedding if it wasn’t for 
school and COVID-19, I think to myself. I push 
the thought out of my head, trying to convince 
myself that a scratchy sequined shirt shouldn’t 
make me miss itchy lehengas and the way my 
auntie used to poke fun at me for my particu-
lar taste. I spend the rest of my time roaming 
around the thrift store waiting for my friends 
to finish, unable to forget the skirt and my fam-
ily that I haven’t seen in years.
H
earing
I step out of my car into the parking 
lot of Meijer on Ann Arbor-Saline Road. My 
fingers go numb in the frigid weather as I pull 
my phone out of my jacket pocket. 11:30 p.m., it 
reads. I only have a few things to pick up, but 
I quickly walk inside knowing that they might 
close a little before midnight. 
I head toward the bundles of browning 
spinach. All of the good ones have been picked 
through earlier in the day. This is the price to 
pay for grocery shopping at night on a weekday. 
As I dig through the bunches of spinach, I hear 

a man laughing behind me. His laugh is so loud, 
it echoes in the nearly empty grocery store. The 
pitch is low and full, but it feels slightly forced 
— as if someone had told him he had to laugh 
on-command. I drop the spinach and whip my 
head around to the direction of the sound. A 
middle-aged white man in jeans and a jacket 
is headed towards the check-out. He is telling 
another man about his day, and they both smile 
through their masks. I slowly turn my head 
back around and grab the spinach I’d dropped.
I try not to be disappointed with the person 
who laughed. I just expected the man behind 
the laugh to be my dad. There is no reason 
that my dad would be in my college city’s gro-
cery store at night, I tell myself. Still though, 
I thought I would turn around to see my dad 
dressed in his work clothes on a work call. I 
thought the laugh that I’d heard was his “work 
laugh,” the type of forceful laugh that used to 
fill my childhood home early in the morning 
during the summers. His real laugh is silent, but 
his work laugh booms. I wonder if he’s on a call 
at home, if he’s been working too much.

S
mell
The elevator opens to the fourth floor 
of Bursley Residence Hall. My shoes click as I 
walk down the empty hallway. I reach into the 
bottom of my backpack in search of my housing 
card. Once I find it, I swipe my card and swing 
the door open. As soon as it opens, the scent of 
jaji (jasmine) floods into the hallway. I stand 
in the hallway stunned. The smell is subtle, 
yet familiar. It’s sweet and floral, but not over-
whelming. Once I finally walk into the dorm, 
I expect to see flowers; but instead, my room-
mate tells me she’s bought a new candle — it 
smells exactly like jaji. 
The scent takes me back to Gandhi Bazaar. 
Amma holds my hand as we walk the packed 
streets of Bangalore, her hometown. She 
walks with purpose towards a stand in the 
corner of an intersection. I follow her, trying 
not to get lost in the sea of people. She slows 
down and looks at me, smiling in anticipation 
of my excitement. We are in front of a stand 
that is filled with flower petals weaved on 
thread. The flowers hang from the tops of the 
stand and lay on the table. Women sit on the 
ground carefully weaving the flower petals 
onto the thread. The aroma of jaji is so strong 
that it momentarily dulls the smell of pollution 
from the cars. Amma lets me pick out jaji for 
both her and myself. She carefully tucks it in 
my hair, which still smells of jaji days after I 
take it out. 
But for now, I set my backpack down near 
my desk that is scattered with notebooks and 
pens. I sleep and dream of the next time I will 
be able to go to India and put jaji in my hair.
T
aste
After finishing our meal at an Indian 
restaurant in my hometown of Rochester 
Hills, my parents and I place an order for 
Madras coffee. I am chugging my water in an 
attempt to get rid of the lingering spicy flavor 
in my mouth when the three cups of coffee 
come to our table. In the States, Indian food 
and coffee usually taste different compared to 
what we consume in India. I can never put my 
finger on what it is, but something just feels 
off. Still though, I hold the small metal tum-
bler that is hot to the touch and take a sip. My 
tongue burns in the process.
The hot coffee goes down smoothly and 
leaves a slightly bitter taste in my mouth. The 
frothed milk on the top of the coffee tastes 
creamy but isn’t overwhelming. It’s sweet but 
not sugary. Upon my first sip, I don’t just taste 
the coffee — I get a taste of familiarity as well. 
For the first time, coffee in the States tastes 
exactly like the coffee my relatives would make 
for me when I visit India. I take another sip and 
think back to the times where my siblings and I 
would joke that our family is the only family that 
would offer you coffee before you even brush 
your teeth. Thatha and Ajji would make us cof-
fee first thing in the morning when we were jet-
lagged. We would sit in silence as we waited for 
the coffee to kick in. When Amma woke up, she 
would ask her parents why they would give her 
12-year-old daughter coffee, but I would take a 
few sips anyway, refusing to let our coffee morn-
ings be taken away. 
***
These moments of nostalgia from the five 
senses crept up on me when I least expected 
and reminded me of the memories that I hold 
closest to me. I took the senses for granted 
because I got in the routine of expecting 
things to be what they appear to be and 
nothing more — coffee as just a warm drink 
or a sequined skirt as a niche thrift find. It 
was in these unsuspecting moments that 
my preconceived idea of the senses became 
something entirely greater — reminders of 
my past. I didn’t realize the power of the five 
senses until their conclusions came first, and 
my logic came second. Once we recognize 
the duality between the senses’ simplicity 
and power, we open ourselves up to a new 
appreciation for the things that we once 
marked as routine.

Limitations are broken. Barriers and 
boundaries fade away. And in a euphoric 
and ephemeral instance, we advance into an 
ethereal plane of existence. It’s like a spell that 
quells any fear and anxiety. In the midst of the 
collective art-making experience — whether 
it be the synchronous rhythm of a dance, the 
communal harmonies of a choir or the coop-
erative unison of an improv troupe — each 
elicit a certain kind of forgetting of the self, 
which in turn, allow us to transcend our very 
being. Today, the self, as a transcendent spiri-
tual entity, remains widely ignored as we stay 
stuck in the clutches of a capitalist society. 
Indeed, on the stage of late-stage capitalism, 
the theatrics of performance from the profes-
sional to the interpersonal are characterized 
by that of individualism. In other words, the 
essence of capitalism — with its fixation on 
commodity fetishism and persistence on 
privatized property and resources — robs us 
of cultivating a collective experience of daily 
living founded on artful expression, spiritual 
sustainment and a dismantling of dominant 
hierarchies of oppression. 
Even in creative fields in which collective 
art-making is paramount to prosperity, our 
penchant for individualistic modes of thought 
and action still persists. The professionaliza-

tion, specialization and commercialization of 
arts entertainment industries under capitalism 
promote a culture of elitism and competition, 
rather than collaboration between artists. The 
sanctity of the art-making process is neglected 
in pursuit of profit. Artists become brands and 
market themselves accordingly. A hyper-fix-
ation on appearance and aesthetics emerges, 
eschewing any authentic content creation. Yet 
this corrupted creative climate is only a mere 
symptom of a major systemic problem. Under 
capitalist hegemony, societal institutions, espe-
cially universities, play a massive role in main-
taining our individualistic personas.
Our entire higher-education experience is 
highly individualized. Under intense duress, 
we’re pressed to put our energy into earning 
good grades and passing classes for our own 
self-benefit rather than gaining intellectual 
insight for the good of humanity. In group proj-
ects, our main concern is always our own good 
marks. We’re career-focused on ourselves 
rather than collectively focused on our society. 
And at this school, especially, making money is 
our main goal. We maintain a facade of favor-
ing equity and striving for liberation, while 
simultaneously striving to live lavishly in ser-
vice to oppressive corporatized systems, and 
see no problem with this whatsoever. Many 
of us might espouse anti-capitalist agendas or 
say we hold socialist sympathies but how often 
does that translate into our real labor practices 
and lifestyles? We may justify our journeys 

into the corrupt corporate substratum, claim-
ing that “we’re working to make change with-
in the system,” but how often is this truly the 
case? How often do we delude ourselves under 
the impression that we’re working towards 
a collective good while in reality channeling 
most of our energy and efforts towards our 
own individualistic material gain? How long 
must those most affected by the blood-thirsty, 
super-exploiting extravagances of imperial-
ism wait while we “work within the system?” 
Operating within these oppressive systems 
not only has harsh material consequences, but 
yields dire, direct impacts in the metaphysical 
realm as well. Our current grind culture cre-
ates a spiritual deficiency with such efficiency 
that many of us don’t even bother to construct 
any form of relationship with divinity or that 
which is beyond our own sensory experience. 
In today’s time, we’ve forgone the act of caring 
for and cultivating our own souls and instead 
choose to embark on an endless search for sus-
tainment in material possessions. 
In order to free ourselves from the shack-
les of our self-centered chains, we must cul-
tivate what Christian author Timothy Keller 
deems as “self-forgetfulness.” In this forget-
ting of the self, we exemplify the true essence 
of “gospel humility,” which, as Keller claims, 
“is not thinking less of myself, it is thinking of 
myself less.” 

An ode to Animal Crossing

The power of the five senses

Forgetting the self

MEGHAN DODABALLAPUR
MiC Columnist

ANCHAL MALH
MiC Columnist

KARIS CLARK
MiC Columnist

Design by Madison Grosvenor

Design by 
Janice Lin

When the moon 
becomes full in your second 
house of material desires, your fi-
nances may be at the forefront of 
your mind. Now is not the time to 
spend frivolously as you may ex-
perience sudden income changes. 
However, new work opportunities 
may present themselves, so keep 
your eyes open. 

The full moon shines 
upon you! The lunar eclipse and 
full moon in your first house of 
self mean that you may undergo 
a great transformation. Change 
can be quite intimidating, but this 
moon phase promises a lot of pros-
perity and happiness as you grow 
into your most authentic self.

The lunar eclipse occurs 
in your 12th house of endings. 
You may be going through a really 
difficult emotional and personal 
change right now. Even though 
Geminis are often characterized 
by their energetic nature, it’s im-
portant to take time to slow down 
and relax. Check in with and don’t 
overexert yourself.

Full moons and 
eclipses are always 
especially impactful for 
Cancerians since the moon is 
your ruling planet. This week, 
the full moon occurs in your 
11th house of community, 
placing great emphasis on 
your friendships. 
The full moon in your 
eighth house of mysteries reveals 
the secrets you’ve hidden yourself to 
avoid having to make difficult deci-
sions. Air signs such as Libra often 
avoid their emotions, and Libras 
especially want to project a balanced 
and put-together image. However, 
it is time for you to examine your 
relationship with intimacy and 
finances. 
The lunar eclipse oc-
curs in your seventh house 
of partnerships, indicating a 
radical shift in your platonic 
and romantic relationships. 
You may suddenly let go of 
old feelings or quickly develop 
new ones. While tensions may 
arise, there will also be many 
opportunities to deepen your 
relationships as well.

The moon becomes 
full in your 10th house 
of career ambitions. Your 
work life may face a major 
change, relieving you of your 
current responsibilities and 
re-routing your course on 
a newer and possibly more 
fulfilling career path. 

The lunar eclipse 
occurs in your ninth house 
of philosophy. You don’t al-
ways prioritize your desires, 
Virgo. Synthesizing your 
productive nature and your 
own wishes, you should pur-
sue your intellectual inter-
ests — not just the subjects 
that are most “productive” 
or conventional.

The sun finally shines 
upon you! With the sun in 
your sign and your first house 
of self-identity, now is your time 
to explore your deepest passions 
and meet new people. This is 
also a great time to step back 
and analyze your overarching 
vision of your dream life. Think 
about your aspirations and 
then work toward them.

The full moon and lunar 
eclipse in your third house of com-
munication may stimulate your social 
life. You may suddenly encounter new 
opportunities to meet new people. Try 
to be open to trying new things, because 
they may lead to new connections. When 
the sun moves into Sagittarius and your 
10th house of career ambitions, your 
work takes a much more central 
focus in your life.

The lunar eclipse in your 
fourth house of home and family 
points to internal struggles relat-
ing to your personal life. You may 
be processing difficult memories 
or struggling to deal with family 
issues. Aquarians often avoid emo-
tion, but confronting your feelings 
head-on will allow you to move 
forward with your life. 

With the full moon in your 
fifth house of creation, you may 
experience a shift in passion for your 
creative projects. Perhaps you’ve lost 
the inspiration for a project you’ve 
been working on for a long time. 
Eclipses lead to sudden changes, 
and this can be very disorienting 
and stressful, but once you let go of 
projects you no longer feel 
connected to, you can find 
new inspiration.

by A n d y N a k a m u r a

YOUR WEEKLY
Scan this 
QR code to 
see your full 
horoscope!

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


T
he Ann Arbor Public Schools 
district is in trouble. Within the 
past few weeks, AAPS has canceled 
in-person school three times. On Oct. 
22, three schools went remote. Five 
days later, it was one school. The most 
recent closure, on Nov. 1, affected 
every school in the district.
Naturally, parents were upset. 
For working parents, the need 
to find emergency child care is 
an 
exceptional 
burden. 
AAPS 
discontinued their before and after-
school care program this year, and 
the cost of private childcare has risen 
dramatically as providers attempt to 
recoup losses from the pandemic. 
Following 
the 
announcement 
about the Nov. 1 closure, parents 
took to Twitter and an AAPS 
school board meeting to voice their 
discontent. Many parents proposed 
solutions, such as raising substitute 
teachers’ pay, or opening cafeterias 
and gymnasiums up for group study 
halls if individual classrooms could 
not be staffed. Others raised concerns 
about teacher burnout, while still 
others took the time to contrast the 
empathetic messaging from their 
student’s principal with an email 
from Superintendent Jeanice K. 
Swift, which they considered glib.
In a recent Daily article, LSA junior 
and AAPS parent Patrick Gallagher 
criticized the school board for not 
coming up with a plan to prevent 
the possibility of a staff shortage. He 
pointed to low wages for teachers and 
support staff as the primary factor 
driving the shortage, emphasizing that 
the pandemic is no longer new and that 
the administration should have been 
aware of the precarious hiring situation 
before the school year started. 
To gather additional comment 
on the closures, I reached out to 
lecturer Adam Stevenson. Stevenson 

is a lecturer of economics at the 
University, a parent of two children in 
AAPS and also teaches a class on the 
economics of education. 
When asked about his reactions 
to the closures as a parent, Stevenson 
groaned. He did not enjoy telling his 
middle schooler at 9:40 p.m. on Oct. 
21 — while saying good night to her — 
that she would not be going to school 
in the morning. Her reaction to the 
news: a plaintive “I’m not going to see 
my friends!” 
Stevenson 
distinguished 
the 
difference between the systemic 
issues facing teachers and the acute 
problems facing AAPS. Systemically, 
he argues “it’s definitely true that 
hiring is becoming difficult across 
many industries — most industries — 
and so wages are rising more rapidly 
than they have been, which makes it 
easier for people to quit a current job 
and opt-in to another job instead. And 
so to win that bidding war for workers, 
wages are going up, and by and large 
schools can’t do that because wages 
are determined by teacher union 
negotiations.” However, he asserted 
that he finds it “very difficult to 
believe that’s a particular explanation 
for what’s going on right now,” 
specifically in AAPS. In short, hiring 
enough full-time teachers is not the 
problem. Then what is?
Teacher absences. According to the 
school board’s data, the fill rate for staff 
absences oscillated between 51-65% 
throughout October. If teachers called 
out sick, or for any other reason, the 
district could not find an adequate 
number of substitutes to replace 
them. Without enough staff per 
student, guaranteeing safety became 
a concern, and closures became 
necessary. According to Stevenson, 
“the extent that the COVID crisis can 
explain (the absences) is that people 
who would’ve done substitutions are 
either unwilling to work under sort of 
risky circumstances or they’re getting 
better bids from someone else.”

At the Oct. 27 school board meeting, 
that exact sentiment was raised by 
Amanda Bergren, a former teacher 
who often substituted while pursuing 
her teaching degree. She commented 
that the pay for substitute teachers — 
about $100/day — is exactly the same 
as it was when she was a substitute 
twenty years ago. She urged the board 
to raise the pay, adding that she would 
consider teaching again if the price for 
giving up her time were not so low. 
Talking with Stevenson helped me 
establish a couple of key points about 
the closures. First, raising teacher pay 
is a non-starter, and more importantly, 
not the likely culprit behind the 
closures. Salaries cannot be legally 
raised until next December, when 
the current labor contract expires. 
Teachers should be paid more — but 
that is a decades-long problem that 
cannot be resolved overnight. Second, 
the immediate issue for the district 
is recruiting more substitutes, and 
unfortunately, the district will likely 
fail to attract enough of them without 
a dramatic increase in pay. 
So, if raising teacher pay is not an 
option, and hiring enough substitutes 
is unlikely, how can AAPS prevent 
further closures? 
Increase the pay for substitutes. 
AAPS took a step in this direction by 
raising the wage from $130 to $150 on 
Mondays and Fridays, the days with the 
most absences. But that is not enough. 
An extra $20 might incentivize a middle 
schooler to mow their neighbor’s lawn, 
but it certainly would not motivate a 
working adult to dedicate their day 
to monitoring a classroom, especially 
when other jobs pay better. I should 
know. I worked in an after-school care 
facility my senior year of high school for 
$8.25/hr. Children are a joy in general, 
but not after they’ve jammed a tiara on 
your head or insulted the kind of car 
you drive. (A 2011 Chevy Malibu is not 
lame.) 

L
iquor stores thrive in a college 
environment like Ann Arbor. 
Sporting 
events 
and 
consistent 
partying throughout the school year 
make it a prime place for a booming 
alcohol economy, representing a 
portion of the state of Michigan’s 
$123.8 million in gross liquor sales 
as of March 2020. But there is a 
clear asymmetry between college 
alcohol culture’s profitability and the 
community’s interests in the mental 
and physical health of its students. 
Central Campus offers a host of 
liquor stores: State Street Liquor, 
Champions Party Store, Campus 
Corner and Blue Front Ann Arbor, 
to name a few (all located on some 
of the most frequented streets on 
Central Campus). Although clearly 
in demand, is it morally permissible 
to sell so much alcohol so close to 
designated learning spaces and 
student housing? 
These liquor stores’ proximity to 
student hubs reveal that the University 

of Michigan’s commitment to alcohol 
moderation education such as “Stay 
in the Blue” only puts a Band-Aid 
over the pervasiveness of college 
drinking culture. It is obvious that 
these stores are designed to sell to 
not only the adults that come to enjoy 
athletic 
events 
each weekend and 
of-age students, but also potentially to 
the underage students that are excited 
to party two, three and even four to 
five nights a week.
The truth is, college drinking 
culture 
is 
ingrained 
into 
the 
economic fabric of Ann Arbor as well 
as college campuses across the United 
States, and this is done through 
institutionalized 
social 
norms 
bonding drinking with celebrations 
and social connection, something 
that students desperately crave after 
a year and a half in a pandemic. 
Football, 
basketball, 
hockey, 
fraternities and sororities, the end 
of midterms, holidays and more are 
all celebrations that are intrinsically 
bound to copious consumption of 
alcohol. Even parents’ weekend is 
often an opportunity to hit the beer 
bong with mom or dad, which can 

further normalize students’ drinking 
behavior.
Some may argue that college 
drinking 
culture 
is 
far 
too 
widespread to attempt to reduce it 
by restricting alcohol sales within 
a certain radius of central campus. 
However, the belief that “that’s 
just the way it is” does not justify 
the moral implications of literally 
placing alcohol in front of underaged 
students. The U.S., even amongst 
its growing educated population, 
is plagued by alcoholism. College 
students are far from exempt. 
The National Institute on Alcohol 
Abuse 
and 
Alcoholism 
reports 
that 33 percent of college students 
who drank alcohol in the past 
month admit to binge drinking, or 
consuming 4 to 5 drinks per occasion 
for women and men respectively. 
The high rate of overconsumption is 
not without systemic cause. Alcohol 
is a social institution enabled by 
economic landscaping and social 
norms. Specifically, alcohol is a 
university institution.

D
ear President Schlissel,
If you’re reading this message, 
walk outside your door and talk to 
Jonathan Vaughn. In case, President 
Schlissel, you don’t know who that 
is, you may want to check out the 
student, local, statewide and national 
press coverage that his courageous 
statement has attracted. He is one of 
more than 2,000 students and athletes 
who survived the abuse of Dr. Robert 
Anderson, and he would like to talk 
to you. Now that you must know who 
Jonathan Vaughn is, walk outside your 
door and speak to him. 
If you’re still reading at this point, 
President Schlissel, and not outside 
talking to Jonathan Vaughn, then 
I have to imagine there must be 
some problem preventing you from 
talking to him. Let’s brainstorm some 
solutions.
Maybe you’ve been looking for Jon 
all over campus but can’t find him 
to speak with him! Finding your 
way around campus, especially with 
changing bus routes, can always be 
tricky. Thankfully, he’s right outside 
your house! If you’re still having 
trouble finding him, send me an email 
about directions, and I’d be happy to 
walk you the 10 steps out your door to 
the sidewalk. 
If you’re still reading, President 
Schlissel, then it must not be a problem 
of directions. Maybe you’re staying 
inside because you’re worried about 
catching COVID-19? A reasonable 
fear, given that we are living in an 
ongoing pandemic. If you are staying 
inside because you’re concerned 
about catching COVID-19, don’t you 
think it’s a little hypocritical that 
you aren’t giving faculty the same 

opportunity? You provided a ringing 
endorsement of “Work Connections” 
in the face of faculty members telling 
you the current process is a failed 
system. While I can’t cure hypocrisy, 
I can say that it does breed discontent. 
Studies have shown outdoor, masked 
and 
vaccinated 
meetings 
have 
incredibly low chances of COVID-19 
transmission. Put on a mask, walk 
outside your door and talk to Jon.
If you’ve gotten this far, President 
Schlissel, then it must not be 
directions or a COVID-19 worry 
that’s stopping you. Perhaps you’ve 
lost your voice and are worried Jon 
won’t be able to hear you if you go 
outside to speak with him. I know my 
voice would undoubtedly be hoarse 
if I spent even half the time making 
empty promises of accountability 
and transparency as you do. To your 
credit, it is astounding you found the 
words to keep your job scandal, after 
scandal, after scandal, after scandal, 
after scandal; we’ve all been waiting 
for years for the other shoe to drop. 
If your voice is sore from all of the 
platitudes, as someone who works 
with singers as part of my degree 
in the School of Music, Theatre & 
Dance, I suggest warm water with 
honey and lemon, a humidifier for 
your bedroom and vocal rest. Drink 
some tea, walk outside your door and 
talk to Jon.
If you’ve made it here, President 
Schlissel, then it must not be 
directions, COVID-19 or a sore voice 
that’s preventing you from doing, 
quite literally, the bare minimum 
for these survivors. Perhaps your 
schedule is too busy; maybe you’ve 
penciled in too much time to think 
about how you’re going to spend your 
early removal package! If that’s how 
much a failed presidency costs, I can’t 
even imagine how much we’ll have to 

spend on a successful one. But look, 
I get it, especially at this point in the 
year, things just pile up. I’d suggest 
budgeting time a little differently; 
why don’t you take some of the time 
you spend ignoring the Faculty Senate 
and use it to talk to Jon? Make some 
free time, walk outside your door and 
speak to Jon.
If you’ve read this far, President 
Schlissel, I can’t say it is looking good 
for you. I would like to think I’m an 
intelligent guy, but truthfully, I’m 
running out of solutions for you. 
Suppose it’s not about directions, 
COVID-19, losing your voice or a 
packed schedule. In that case, the 
only remaining problem I can think 
of is that you’re a selfish, cowardly 
embarrassment to the University 
of Michigan. We’re supposed to be 
the “Leaders and Best” around here, 
remember? If you can’t muster up 
the courage to go outside your house 
and talk to someone who is far braver 
than you, then you don’t deserve 
to be the head of this University. 
Being the “Leaders and Best” is not 
a passive description of who we are, 
but a higher calling we are charged 
to pursue in all we do; if we don’t have 
that in the highest office, what are we 
as an institution? If you can’t do this 
one small act that would make a large 
impact in the lives of these survivors, 
and survivors of other scandals under 
your tenure, then I suggest you close 
this article, gather your personal 
belongings and resign immediately 
instead of in June 2023 as planned. 
Make sure you sneak out the backdoor 
so you don’t risk bumping into a real 
“Leader and Best.” 
If you feel, President Schlissel, 
that none of these possible problems 
address your neglect of Jonathan 
Vaughn, feel free to reach out. I’m sure 
we can think of something.

Opinion

BRITTANY BOWMAN
Managing Editor

Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building
420 Maynard St. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
 tothedaily@michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at the University of Michigan since 1890.

CLAIRE HAO
Editor in Chief
ELIZABETH COOK 
AND JOEL WEINER
Editorial Page Editors

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of The Daily’s Editorial Board. 
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS

Julian Barnard
Zack Blumberg
Brittany Bowman
Elizabeth Cook
Brandon Cowit

Jess D’Agostino
Benjamin Davis
Andrew Gerace
Shubhum Giroti
Krystal Hur

Jessie Mitchell
Evan Stern
Elayna Swift
Jack Tumpowsky
Joel Weiner

H
oliday season is well underway 
and although many might 
argue it’s only just begun, for over 
a billion people around the world it 
peaked last week, on Nov. 4. Before 
any Thanksgiving turkeys or Karamu 
feasts were served, before any dreidels 
were spun or carols were sung, 
people lit hundreds of thousands of 
candles to honor a festival of lights. 
There exists no Halloween hangover 
arduous enough and no Dia de Los 
Muertos celebration tiring enough to 
prevent this annual commemoration 
of the victory of good over evil from 
captivating all those that choose to 
celebrate it. Rooted deep in Indian 
mythology, an everlasting symbol of 
the strength that lies in togetherness, 
kindness and respect for one’s values 
and beliefs, it isn’t just a festival, but 
an emotion shared by a subcontinent 
that holds 1.4 billion people and a 
community that houses even more. 
So, let me take this opportunity to 
wish you a very happy belated Diwali. 
I am one of the many Indians 
studying at the University of Michigan. 
As I prepared to leave the city and 
country I had lived in for the first 19 
years of my life and come to Ann Arbor, 
I was warned of the most commonly 
cited side effects of being in Ann Arbor, 
aside from cold weather: non-home 
food, the lack of native Indian speakers 
and homesickness. For the most part, I 
can proudly say that that’s one virus I 
have avoided in my three months away 
from home. 
All of that changed when I was 
woken up on the morning of Nov. 

4 by a phone call from halfway 
across the world. It was the evening 
of Diwali and my brother, parents 
and 
approximately 
100 
other 
people whom I call family were all 
gathered in one place celebrating the 
biggest festival of the year. Yup, that 
homesickness I mentioned… hit me 
like a shovel. It’s not like there weren’t 
any Diwali parties or celebrations on 
campus, but there was something 
special about the way my family did 
it that made me feel, for the first time, 
like I genuinely missed being home.
The importance Indian culture 
places on the community has never 
evaded me. It’s something I am 
extremely proud of, and I’m sure others 
are as well. I was brought up with the 
constant reminder that what we have 
is difficult to find anywhere else, an 
idea that was further drilled into me 
as I prepared for the next step in my 
journey: my four years in Ann Arbor 
and at Michigan. I had been warned 
by many that it would not be as easy as 
it had been back home to find my own 
community, and as Diwali approached, 
I couldn’t shrug off the nagging 
feeling that they might have been 
correct. Admitting that to myself was 
disappointing because all everybody 
had to say about Michigan was that it 
isn’t just a school, it’s a family. That was 
the very reason I chose to come here. 
Alas, I spent most of Diwali doing 
what I’d do on any other Thursday. The 
day just passed me by, but there was 
one thing to look forward to: the pooja. 
Pooja is that part of the Diwali festivities 
where one prays to god and distributes 
sweets to all those in the household. My 
friend, Shrey Sehgal, had graciously 
decided to host a Diwali pooja at his 
house and at 8 p.m. that day, I found 

myself in what was the closest thing to 
home I could have imagined. I watched 
as Shrey and his roommates, almost all 
of whom have no connection to India 
or Indian culture and no real obligation 
to participate in these traditions, sang 
along to the hymns, followed all the 
customs and even listened intently 
as Shrey and I explained the history 
behind the festival. 
On my way home, I walked past 
the block “M” on the diag and was 
pleasantly surprised to see it lit up in 
honor of Diwali. I quickly took a picture 
and put it up on my Instagram. As I 
scrolled through the never-ending 
wave of Instagram stories, I came 
across Saanika Kulkarni’s. It was a 
picture of five plates of food she cooked 
herself. The captain read: “An honour 
treating my friends to diwali food.” I 
couldn’t help but laugh at myself. Less 
than two hours ago I was lamenting 
my first Diwali away from home, and I 
hadn’t even given it a chance.
I had been so grateful all my life for 
what my community had given me that 
I thought being part of a community 
could only mean one thing. So much 
so that I didn’t recognize the one I am 
part of right now even though it was 
right in front of me. Yes, nothing I have 
at this university will be like it is back 
home, but it can still be one hell of a 
community. Shrey’s pooja, Saanika’s 
dinner and a Diwali-themed Diag 
reminded me that this place is full of 
passionate people that are not only 
accepting of but open to those who 
want to express themselves. A place 
where people care enough to respect 
each other’s background and interests 
is a place where I belong. 

Celebrating community at Michigan

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
 Wednesday, November 17, 2021 — 5

RUSHABH SHAH
Opinion Columnist

AAPS has a problem. The solution is 
raising pay for substitute teachers.

ALEX YEE
Opinion Columnist

Is it morally responsible to allow the 
proliferation of liquor stores on campus?

ALEXIS HANCZ
Opinion Columnist

Dear President Schlissel, talk to Jon.

ANDREW GERACE
Opinion Columnist

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Travis Scott, Kyrie Irving and other celebrities 
— don’t evade personal responsibility

I 
like concerts, as I’m sure most people 
do. They’re fun, they’re impulsive 
and, if done well, they keep you coming 
back. The rush of adrenaline one gets 
from watching their favorite artist 
roam the stage alongside thousands of 
other screaming fans is pure dopamine. 
That said, I’ve only been to a handful of 
them, so I won’t necessarily say I’m an 
expert. 
However, I don’t enjoy live music 
where the crowd is totally, or perhaps 
mostly, uncontrolled. I really wouldn’t 
enjoy it when an ambulance shows up 
and the artist continues to perform. 
Personally, I would feel guilty about 
attending a concert, especially when I 
read the news the next day that eight 
people passed — the number has 
since risen to nine. 
I understand that Travis Scott, 
a multimillionaire and masterclass 
entertainer, did not intend the crowd 
at the Astroworld Festival to start 
trampling each other, let alone for 
people to die. However, he is not 
totally innocent either. When 50,000 
people are clamoring to get close to 
a stage, what do you think is going to 
happen?
Hindsight is 20/20, sure. Yet, for 
some reason, the Houston police 
chief felt strongly enough to enter 

Scott’s trailer before the show to 
convey concerns about the size and 
energy of the crowd, likely because 
Scott is known for making crowds 
rowdy. Shockingly (not really), the 
rapper didn’t listen. A sold-out festival 
of hype-fueled fanatics sounded 
cool beforehand, I agree. But when 
there is a potential safety issue, the 
implications grow much larger than 
new marketing material or a fun 
memory. Now, his negligence has 
resulted in a slew of lawsuits.
I could even look past all this 
if Scott stopped his show. But he 
didn’t and, internally, we all know he 
wouldn’t anyway. Don’t kill the vibe, 
they all say. Scott loves to open his 
songs with “It’s Lit!” Sorry, Travis, 
but there is no disguising the optics on 
this one. You can’t evade the negatives 
of the situation or the downfalls of 
your judgement. You have to face the 
music and acknowledge that you are 
culpable, at least to some extent.
Kyrie Irving denied himself the 
vaccine. Not just any common flu shot 
you could get at Walgreens, however, 
but rather the one prospective chance 
at immunity from a pandemic that 
has claimed the lives of millions. Who 
is Kyrie Irving, you might ask? He 
plays professional basketball for the 
Brooklyn Nets. Oh, and he signed a 
four-year, $136 million-dollar contract 
to do so. Times must be tough. 
He lives in New York City, a 

metropolitan 
area 
that 
just 
so 
happened 
to impose a vaccine mandate. While 
the National Basketball Association 
doesn’t have one, the vast majority of 
players have decided to get vaccinated 
anyway. If 95% of players in the league 
can be poked by a needle, so can 
Irving. Nevertheless, he claims it is 
“his choice” and has no plans to get it 
anytime soon.
He 
is 
right: 
Ultimately, 
no 
organization or administration can 
force immunizations. However, it’s 
his job — he can’t cash in on his payday 
without his 4×3 white piece of paper 
from the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. Also, at a certain 
point, how much is his absence costing 
the organization? There’s quite a 
good possibility that fans from all 
over New York and, to a lesser extent, 
the country, are coming to see him 
play. They shell out hundreds for the 
experience, only to arrive and he’s not 
there. That can’t reflect positively on 
the Nets. No player is more important 
than the team, and there are many 
other point guards who would gladly 
replace him. 
Each of these celebrities is in the 
wrong, there is no doubt. But the real 
question remains: Why did they each 
take the actions they did? It would 
seem that the solutions here are simple: 
stop the show and get the vaccine. 

SAM WOITESHEK
Opinion Columnist

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


Now that Halloween has passed and the holiday 
season encroaches upon us, my anticipation for 
a relatively new “holiday” tradition has begun. 
Like many other Spotify users, early November is 
when I begin both eagerly awaiting and bracing 
myself for Spotify’s 2021 Wrapped. Launched by 
the music streaming giant in 2015 and originally 
called “Year in Music,” Spotify Wrapped gives 
listeners a summary of their streaming habits over 
the past year. And social media sharing is integral to 
Wrapped’s marketing model, since Spotify provides 
graphics about listening stats which can be added to 
Instagram stories or shared on Twitter.
This social aspect is why some users, including 
myself, may feel a slight sense of dread as the New 
Year approaches: What embarrassing realities 
might Spotify expose about my music taste? I didn’t 
listen to that many “Glee” songs this year, did I? 
What about all those late-night study sessions spent 
singing along to Broadway show tunes? Or, for those 
of us who pride ourselves on our “alternative” tastes, 
could we be surprised to find Wrapped reveals our 
listening habits to be a bit, well, basic?
It’s possible that a few cringe-worthy tracks will 
end up in my Wrapped playlist. But the musical 
shame I’m most bracing myself for this Wrapped 
season is not a question, but instead a certainty: the 
English rock band the Smiths will definitely repeat 
as my most-played artist of the year.
My shame about the Smiths has nothing to do 
with concerns about having cheesy, basic or “bad” 
taste. They’re considered one of the most influential 
bands of the 1980s and British music website 
“NME” ranks their album The Queen is Dead as 
the greatest album ever. Beyond their sound, they 
were subversive and anti-establishment during 
an especially conservative era in British politics, 
utilizing their influence to challenge then-Prime 
Minister Margaret Thatcher. The working title for 
The Queen is Dead, in fact, was Margaret on the 
Guillotine. More personally, as someone who has at 
times felt isolated by my convictions about animal 
exploitation, their 1985 track Meat is Murder is a 
frequent comfort, and one of the only animal rights 
songs I’ve found to be a pleasant and powerful listen 
rather than overly self-congratulatory.
Clearly, the Smiths were an important and high-
caliber band, both musically and politically. So if it’s 
not embarrassing taste I’m concerned about, what 
exactly is my issue with the Smiths topping my 
Spotify Wrapped once again this year?
It boils down to one name, a name that has 
probably already invaded the mind of anyone 
familiar with the Smiths: Morrissey.
Stephen Morrissey, mononymously referred to 

by his last name, served as the Smiths frontman 
and is responsible for the lyrics that have resonated 
with so many from the 1980s through today. This 
includes those on “Bigmouth Strikes Again,” which 
Morrissey wrote to poke fun at the music media 
for overanalyzing everything he said. In recent 
years, however, “Bigmouth” has become an apt 
characterization of Morrissey. And I’d wager pretty 
much every Smiths fan desperately wishes he would 
just shut up.
Unfortunately, his big mouth strikes again and 
again. For example, during a performance on “The 
Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” in 2019, 
Morrissey wore a “For Britain” badge, solidifying 
his support for the far-right political party founded 
by anti-Islamic activist Anne Marie Waters. (Even 
former right-wing politician Nigel Farage, known 
as Mr. Brexit, has characterized her supporters 
as “Nazis and racists.”) He has made disparaging 
comments about British politicians of color, 
characterized Chinese people as a “subspecies” and 
claimed everyone “prefers their own race.” And 
during the #MeToo movement, Morrissey victim-
blamed the survivors of Kevin Spacey and Harvey 
Weinstein.
The Guardian writer Tim Jonze argues that 
evidence of Morrissey’s violent views were there 
in the 1980s, such as his distaste for “Black modern 
music.” Still, his takes are jarring and almost absurd 
to anyone familiar with his lyrics or personal 
life. Morrissey is the son of Irish immigrants. 
He is also a product of Manchester, arguably the 
prototypical “working-class” city. He wrote lines 
such as “I am human and I need to be loved / just 
like everybody else does.” He embraced sexual and 
gender ambiguity; for example, he often performed 
with a bunch of gladiolus flowers, a stereotypically 
feminine object, hanging out of his back pocket. 
More than anything, his lyrics were often dedicated 
to feeling unheard and uncared for by the world. 
How could somebody who seemed to stand for 
so many of the right things, to be an advocate for 
the marginalized, turn out to be so wrong and 
misguided?
Perhaps there isn’t an answer to that question. 
But for any Smiths fan that finds themselves as 
vehemently opposed to Morrissey as I do (which 
should be every Smiths fan), there’s a more 
important question to ask ourselves: Well, what am 
I meant to do now?
This question is not unique to fans of the Smiths. 
It’s difficult to completely avoid the works of 
every controversial creator, especially since they 
exist within all forms of content. Maybe John 
Lennon or Michael Jackson will feature in your 
Spotify Wrapped. Maybe Woody Allen or Quentin 
Tarantino directed one of your favorite films.

The first time I can remember considering 
my career was browsing through the games on 
Barbie.com. 
I was 5, maybe 6, squished into a chair with 
my best friend during a playdate. We pecked at 
the keyboard with pointer fingers still sticky 
from snack time, until a glimmering pink 
screen asked us the fateful question:
Which Barbie do you want to be?
We had myriad options to choose from: 
Hairdresser Barbie, Fashion Designer Barbie, 
Sports Barbie, Makeup Artist Barbie, Doctor 
Barbie, Salesgirl Barbie, Lifeguard Barbie, 
Schoolgirl Barbie — the list went on. And these 
days, that list is even longer; Barbie’s become a 
writer, an astronaut, a small business owner 
and president, among other things. 
In some ways, the breadth of her career 
choices is empowering. This toy, a staple that 
many girls have looked up to for generations, is 
telling them that they can have any career they 
aspire to. At the same time, Barbie is offering 
them education on what some of those options 
can be. That’s a really noble, and important, 
message.
But it’s also Barbie. 
Despite all of the aspirational messaging, 
she’s still a plastic, stylishly-dressed, perfectly-
coiffed standard we’re telling girls to live up 
to. Even if Barbie is no longer always white, 
blonde, blue-eyed and stick-thin (which she 
still is the majority of the time), her main appeal 
continues to lie in dressing her up and playing 
with her hair. Her main draw is still her looks. 
And somewhere beneath it all, even with the 
countless impressive careers she’s had over 
the years, Barbie is what she always has been: 
superficial. Making her a pediatrician or salon 
owner or athlete won’t cover up the fact that her 
“progress” feels a little, well, fake. 
The new Barbie is what some might call a 
girlboss. 
“Girlboss” is defined as “to make something 
or someone appear as a feminist idol or 
inspiration for profit, despite the numerous 
flaws of the person.” The term was coined 
by Sophia Amoruso, founder of the fast 
fashion website Nasty Gal, who wrote a 2014 
autobiography titled #GIRLBOSS. Amoruso’s 
literal rags-to-riches storyline was inspiring, 
and she gained a massive following with many 
young professionals looking up to her. That is, 
until Nasty Gal filed for bankruptcy protection 

in 2015, citing “toxic” workplace culture and 
leadership issues.
After the fallout of the ordeal, the term 
slowly became a less aspirational mindset and 
more of a backhanded compliment. My editor, 
whom I would characterize as “take-no-shit, 
badass bitch,” admitted that being called 
“girlboss” makes her uncomfortable and that 
she takes it as more of an insult. The girlboss 
went from an example of ambition and hustle 
to a personification of tokenism and unhealthy 
attitudes. University of Michigan Rackham 
student Megan Kelly, who studies sociology 
with a focus on gender and work explained 
how this developed to me over Zoom. 
“There’s just a broader sort of idea of, what 
are the consequences of saying that the way 
that omen should succeed at work, is to do 
more, the sort of the ‘lean in’ type of thing,” 
Kelly said. “Part of what’s important about that 
is that it’s not just individuals. It’s 
built into the way we structure 
jobs, the way we think 
about work in the United 
States, 
and 
therefore 
encouraging people to 
sort of invest themselves 
more is essentially saying 
that the way to succeed 
is to put more into 
that system and it 
doesn’t 
really 
do 
anything to address 
the root causes. That’s 
problematic 
because 
no 
matter how hard you lean in, 
that’s not going to fix those 
systemic inequalities.”
The 
girlboss 
essentially 
became 
the 
early-2000s 
postfeminist caricature of the 
career woman. You know the 
type: the queen of the stiletto-
heeled 
walk-and-talk, 
she’s 
working 24/7 (she’s the glue 
holding the 
office 

together), constantly cradles her phone 
between her shoulder and her ear so she can 
multitask and has a stylish designer wardrobe 
far beyond what her salary could realistically 
buy. She’s probably played by Katherine Heigl, 
and there is a very strong chance that, at some 
point in the movie, she falls in love with (a) her 
boss, or (b) a man she meets because of the job 
she’s always at. And just like that, with a wave of 
her ever-present PalmPilot or BlackBerry and a 
click of her sky-high, sexy-but-still-professional 
heels, the girlboss fixed everything that was 
wrong with our workplace culture. The 
girlboss gets her career and her happy ending. 
She didn’t need feminism anymore. All the 
progress has been made.
In part, the girlboss became that because the 
goal we gave her was impossible. (Unattainable 
goals for women? Groundbreaking.) We 
wanted the girlboss to fix everything that was 
wrong in our workplaces: the competitiveness, 
the workaholism, the fraternity-style sexist 
collegiality, the racism. The girlboss was 
supposed to represent the change in the 
workplace, but more than that, she was 
supposed to bring that change to the 
workplace. 
Instead, she 
was right at 
home there within 
all of these workaholic, 
toxic patriarchal structures, 
and we couldn’t forgive her for 
it. Instead of changing the system, the 
girlboss just took on those traditional 
leadership roles and claimed the problem 
had been solved by the nature of her 
being there. But, by deeming her “girlboss” 
instead of just “boss,” we kept her separate, 
somehow othered, in the workplace world 
that she’d become a part of. 
“It gets wrapped up with her being a 
woman in a position of authority,” Kelly 
said. “(Girlboss is) an attempt to reconcile 
femininity and being like, 
‘Yes, I can fulfill our 
cultural ideals of 
femininity, 
and at the 
same 

time, I can have a powerful position at work. 
I can combine those two things successfully.’ 
Yeah, when you criticize that term, of course, 
you’re kind of suggesting that those two things 
are not compatible in some way. But I also think 
that there are reasons to think based on our 
culture that those two things are already not 
viewed as compatible.”
Even in the spaces created by, and 
theoretically for, girlbosses, the problems 
remain, proving that the change promised 
by the girlboss was surface-level at best and 
negligent at worst. Nasty Gal had a toxic 
environment. 
Reformation 
and 
Glossier 
(girlboss-founded 
clothing 
and 
makeup 
lines, respectively) had thinly disguised but 
ever-present racism. Those brands are still 
thriving (at least for now), whether it’s because 
of their vocal commitment to change and 
accountability in the wake of these stories, 
or because of their widespread popularity. 
Interestingly, though, the viral fashion blog 
Man Repeller folded after former employees 
called out their ex-(girl)boss for performative 
activism; it likely won’t be the last company, 
female-founded or otherwise, to shutter under 
increased scrutiny for these issues.
These cases made one thing clear, though: 
The girlboss didn’t change the system. She 
was a product of its benevolence, and as a 
result, she became a part of the system. We 
found the chance she affected insufficient, 
as we realized that not only was she a part of 
the broken system, but also that she wasn’t as 
representative of us as we thought (or hoped) 
she was. 
She was white, cis-gendered, straight and 
very often wealthy, and eventually, the actions 
of many so-called (even sometimes self-titled) 
girlbosses reminded us that her gender identity 
alone did not ensure she would fight for change 
that would include everyone.
“It’s possible for a woman to be both a 
feminist and to be racist,” Kelly said. “It is 
possible for people to be working towards 
something that feels liberatory for them as a 
white woman, and for those things to not 
actually represent or perhaps even be 
harmful to women who are not white, 
and so it could be that they’re just 
completely blinkered to the fact 
that the feminist ideals that they 
are advocating for represent 
their own experience as white 
women.”
In the end, the girlboss went 
from iconic to ironic. Maybe 

that’s just a product of our culture, because 
these days, we’re making everything ironic, 
even (maybe especially) things that started 
out sincerely. Or it could be a generational 
gap: girlboss was a millennial ideal, but a 
Gen Z insult. So while millennials may think 
of it as a compliment, Gen Z-ers are taken 
aback by its less-than-shiny implications. But 
for ever-increasing numbers of us, girlboss 
falls somewhere on the spectrum between 
backhanded compliment and outright insult.
And let’s not lose sight of the fact that in 
this use of the term, we’re still denigrating 
ambitious women in the professional space. I 
don’t mean that the problematic examples this 
article discusses should be forgiven because 
they’re women, nor do I mean to minimize their 
very real shortcomings. But by using “girlboss” 
as an insult, are we implying that it’s degrading 
to be compared to career-driven women? 
Are we implying that that’s a bad thing for a 
woman to be? There’s something off-putting 
about insulting someone by comparing them to 
career-driven women, like we still see ambition 
as a bad thing for a woman to have. 
“The question is, can we criticize the parts 
of the individual’s actions that are problematic 
without criticizing her as without, without 
also criticizing her for being a woman who is 
ambitious in her career and has pursued certain 
goals?” Kelly said.
Ultimately, there are so many complexities 
lurking beneath the pale-pink, boldface-type 
package of the #girlboss. It’s a tangled web 
she’s been woven into, and it’s unclear whether 
unraveling it is even possible or desirable. The 
girlboss has come to represent so much toxicity, 
but we still want — we still need — the change she 
claimed to champion and represent. But how do 
we get there without becoming something of her 
ourselves? It seems to be yet another impossible 
task set by the patriarchy, now in the looming 
shadow of our past problems. 
In the face of this seemingly perpetual 
conundrum, I’d like to hold onto a little of that 
girlboss optimism. Don’t get me wrong — 
she was unhealthily committed to her job, to 
outdated, harmful power structures and ideals 
and her empowerment was often exclusionary. 
I don’t endorse any of that. But at the same 
time, the girlboss was so sure she could make 
a difference, and I’d be lying if I said I didn’t 
envy her in that regard. In the end, the girlboss 
isn’t the answer to the problem (in some ways, 
she even helped perpetuate it). But maybe, 
somewhere in her story, there’s a lesson to be 
learned on how to solve it. 

Gaslight, gatekeep: How “girlboss” went from aspirational to insulting

My favorite high school French teacher, 
Madame Orlowsky, began each school year 
by telling her students a story. She told us to 
close our eyes and picture ourselves within 
the narrative she was about to tell.
The tale went like this: You are out 
camping in the middle of the woods when you 
hear a rustle of branches nearby. Suddenly, a 
huge bear enters the clearing with two cubs 
following in her footsteps. She immediately 
sets her eyes on you, recognizing a threat 
to the safety of her children. The bear gets 
visibly more aggressive as her protective 
instincts activate. 
Possible plans of action flood through 
your head, common dilemmas of fight-or-
flight: Are you going to freeze up in fear? 
Should you run away? 
Ultimately, you decide to stand your 
ground. You stand up, put your hands on 
your hips, and tell the bear, “I’m no threat 
to you, and you don’t scare me.” You make it 
clear that you have established a temporary 
space for yourself, and though you don’t 
mean her or her cubs any harm, you are not 
going to pack up your trip because of a single 
brush-up with danger. You remain confident 
despite any distress you might feel. The bear 
recognizes your self-assuredness and her 
aggression subsides. She walks to the edge 
of the clearing, her children in tow, and 
disappears back into the woods.
The metaphor in Madame Orlowsky’s 
story was clear. Her fictitious tale highlighted 
how challenges are unpredictable and 
inevitable. They force you to reflect, to assess 
your situation and determine how you will 
endure it. If you approach the circumstances 
with conviction, rather than weighing 
yourself down with panic, your problems 
may just walk away.
By beginning her classes each year with 
this story — even before cracking open a 
single page of a French textbook — our 
teacher encouraged an atmosphere of 
fortitude and positivity in the classroom. I 
recognized the significance of her narrative 
upon hearing it for the first time.
I would not learn the depth of its real-life 
applicability until much later.
***
Gathered in a clearing, me, my parents 
and the rest of our hiking group began 
walking single-file onto the path, folding us 
into a world of towering pines. The Alaskan 

wilderness seemed incredibly alive, the 
rushing of the river and singing of birds — 
the constant soundtrack of our day at Katmai 
National Park and Preserve. As we walked, 
we talked about the exciting prospect of 
seeing some of the most thrilling wildlife in 
North America: the grizzly bears. 
My brother’s baseball team was 
participating in several tournaments 
throughout Alaska. My parents, wanting 
to both explore the legendary Alaskan 
landscape and escape from the endless 
baseball games, brought me on a day trip 
to the remote national park. We’d been to 
Alaska over a decade before, but on our 
second trip, my mother made a visit to 
Katmai a priority. It was almost guaranteed 
that you would see at least a handful of 
large grizzly bears gathered at the river 
that ran through the park. The trails from 
the rangers’ lodge led you right to the 
Brooks River, where you could see bears 
catching live salmon jumping out from the 
waterfalls. The prospect of witnessing this 
feat of nature astounded me; it seemed like 
a scene out of “Brother Bear” rather than a 
real-life possibility.
My head was filled with a mix of 
anticipation, elation and nervousness. 
Our group had just finished our bear 
safety training in which park rangers 
simultaneously 
emphasized 
the 
magnificence of the animals as well as the 
necessity of extreme caution. We were in 
their home, and one stupid human action 
could result in alarming consequences for all. 
I was at the front of our small procession, 
looking up at the canopies while keeping 
my eyes peeled for unexpected animals. 
I breathed in the fresh air, reveling in the 
remoteness for a moment when my peace 
was disrupted by a panicked shout of “Get 
off the path!”
I looked back, hearing another round of 
“Get off the path!” from a few others before 
I registered that my parents were flinging 
themselves into the surrounding woods 
adjacent to the trail. My mind processed 
what my body did not immediately register: 
There was a bear, running full speed, 
coming directly at me. If I didn’t move, it 
would plow right through me.
I followed my parents’ lead and jumped 
to the side and hurdled into the woods and 
over a fallen tree milliseconds before I was 
trampled by the racing bear. The creature 
was so close that if I had reached out my 
hand, I would have been able to stroke its 
thick brown fur. The safety course warned 

us not to make sudden movements because 
they startle the animals. But in this case, 
moving rapidly out of the way was the only 
way to prevent any serious bodily harm.
I took in the people standing within 
the trees around me, still not believing 
what just transpired. We all seemed to be 
wondering the same thing: What was the 
bear running from?

We got our answer seconds later as 
another bear came charging in. It slowed 
down, coming to a stop directly in front 
of me, less than 20 feet away. Cantering in 
close behind it were two cubs, following 
their mother as she ran off the previous 
young male bear who came too close to her 
offspring.
We remained silent, not believing that this 
had happened less than five minutes into our 
Katmai adventure. The mother proceeded to 
take in her surroundings, her glance settling 
on the people crowded into the trees.
The rangers advised us to give the bears 
a wide berth of 50 feet and to move aside if 
we saw them walking on the trail, granting 
them the path for their own foot travel. I 
had quickly broken this first rule — I was 
definitely less than 50 feet away. But, abiding 
by the rangers’ instructions, we all moved 
deeper into the woods, slowly giving her the 
path while keeping an eye on her movements. 
She remained there for several moments, 
staring back at us. For the moment, I simply 
absorbed the bear family’s beauty and the 
wildness of the moment.
After no more than 30 seconds, she and 
her children continued on their way, now 
rid of the foolish male that had threatened 
her family.
I don’t think Madame Orlowsky ever 
expected me to experience a real-life 
manifestation of her metaphor. Upon 
reflecting on my encounter, I now see that 
I didn’t run away, freeze or stand up to the 
bear like she had outlined in her narrative. 
Instead, I took a literal step back, observed 
the bear and respected her dominance 
within the woods. 

Artist on the guillotine
Confronting the bear in the woods

ABBY SNYDER
Statement Correspondent

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
6 — Wednesday, November 17, 2021

S T A T E M E N T

MARY ROLFES
Statement Correspondent

SARAH STOLAR
Statement Correspondent

Read more at MichiganDaily.com
Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Designs by Megan Young 
& Katherine Lee | Page 
Design by Sarah Chung


This was supposed to be a season 
of destiny for the Michigan field 
hockey team.
Coming off a season in which it 
swept the Big Ten and earned the 
national runner-up, the Wolverines 
entered the 2021 season expecting 
greatness. That expectation was 
made even greater due to the 
circumstances, with the season 
coming 20 years after Michigan’s 
lone national championship and the 
NCAA finals being hosted in Ann 
Arbor.
The 
season 
seemed 
almost 
perfectly designed to have a fairytale 
ending. Instead, it ended more like 

a nightmare. After a string of late-
season losses, the Wolverines walked 
away from the 2021 season short of 
their lofty goals. 
Sunday’s game against Harvard 
ultimately proved the final straw. 
Despite finishing with a lead in shots, 
and putting the pressure hard on the 
Crimson in the fourth quarter, it was 
ultimately Harvard that prevailed 
with the shootout victory. 
“It’s not easy to lose a game like this,” 
Michigan coach Marcia Pankratz said. 

“We just couldn’t get it done.”
It didn’t start out this way. Early 
and decisive wins against North 
Carolina — which has won the last 
three national championships — and 
then top-15 Wake Forest cemented 
the Wolverines at the top of the 
NFHCA Coaches Poll. 
Even more impressive were the 
omissions in those games; three of 
Michigan’s top players, including 
senior midfielder Sofia Southam, 
were away on national duty. Once 
they returned to the team, it was all 
engines go.
In their first five games after the 
return of the national team players, 
the 
Wolverines 
outscored 
their 
opponents 33-4. This, in a sport in 
which three goals is considered 
an offensive flurry. Though later 

games saw much tighter results, 
including a double overtime against 
Northwestern, Michigan continued 
to win games, and entered a 
showdown against No. 2 Iowa as the 
top-ranked team with a 11-0 record. 
Against the Hawkeyes, cracks 
started to form in the Wolverines’ 
play that would become crevices 
as the season moved on: Michigan 
dominating possession and peppering 
the 
opponent 
with 
shots, 
but 
not enough finding the cage; the 

Wolverines earning a litany of corner 
opportunities, but not converting. 
And, 
ultimately, 
Michigan’s 
opponents finding a brief window of 
opportunity to put the game away.
“The kids are resilient, we had our 
chances, and we just couldn’t convert 
them.” Pankratz said.
Of their five losses, only one 
Wolverine loss — their 1-0 Big Ten 
Tournament 
final 
loss 
against 
Rutgers — was put away in the first 
half. The others saw Michigan lead or 
keep the game tied late, but ultimately 
have a win slip through its fingers, 
either in the fourth quarter, overtime 
or shootout.
“I hope everyone remembers 
how this feels,” fifth year back Halle 
O’Neill said. “I hope they come back 
next season with a vengeance.”

Save for O’Neill and fifth-year back 
Emma Tamer, the Wolverines plan to 
return the rest of their starting lineup, 
in large part to the NCAA’s COVID-19 
eligibility relief. 
Given that, it’s unlikely the bitter 
end of this year’s season will be 
forgotten any time soon. 
“It’s been nip-and-tuck between 
this season’s ending and last’s,” 
Pankratz said. “We’re gonna enter 
next season with the same high 
expectations we’ve had all this year.”

In 1997, The Daily football beat predicted 
that Michigan would finish the season 7-5. 
They predicted the Wolverines would 
lose to Northwestern, Minnesota and 
Wisconsin 
and 
finish 
fourth in the Big Ten 
with an appearance in a 
meaningless bowl game. 
And then Michigan 
went to Penn State.
It 
went 
into 
the 
early-November 
game 
undefeated, but questions 
remained 
about 
how 
good the team actually 
was: Was it a classic 
Michigan ‘just enough to stay competitive in 
the Big Ten’ good or were fans looking at a trip 
to Pasadena? 
By 
halftime, 
those 
questions 
were 
answered. The Wolverines turned what was 
supposed to be a competitive grudge-match 
into a 24-0 slashing in the first two quarters. 
“That’s the moment where I was like, 
‘Wow, they could do this. This could happen,’ 
” former Daily football writer Nick Cotsonika 
told The Daily. “And Bo Schembechler was so 
fired up. He was in the press box (because of 
his role in the athletic department). … And he 
just looked at me, facing me. He grabbed both 
my shoulders, shook me and then walked 
away. Not a word. Just grabbed me, shook me 
and walked away. There was this feeling like 

‘Oh my god, right? What is going on?’ ” 
After the game, with a final score of 34-8, 
Nittany Lions coach Joe Paterno said that 
Michigan had “as much right to be voted No. 
1 as any team in the country.” 
That week, the Wolverines jumped from 
No. 4 to No. 1, a position they held onto 
through the remainder of their undefeated 
season and a trip to the Rose Bowl. 
This year, our football beat predicted 
Michigan would end 8-4. They thought the 
Wolverines’ worst losses would be against 
Indiana, Northwestern and Maryland, and 
they’d finish fourth in the Big Ten East with a 
trip to the Las Vegas Bowl. They really wanted 
to go to Las Vegas. 
And then Michigan went to Penn State.
The 21-17 game was much closer to what 
Cotsonika expected the 1997 game to be — a 
hard-fought, down-to-the-wire battle — 
and maybe even more competitive than the 
Wolverines were expecting coming into it 
on Saturday. After methodically clawing 
their way to an eight-point lead by the start 
of the fourth quarter, the Wolverines found 
themselves tied, 14-14, with less than eight 
minutes to play. 
Michigan had been there before. Two 
weeks ago, the Wolverines blew a 16-point 
lead in a top 10 road game in East Lansing. 
They fumbled a 17-17 tie against the Spartans 
at home last season. And blew a seven-point 
lead against Ohio State in 2017. And an eight-

point lead in Iowa City in 2016. And then a 
10-point lead over the Buckeyes two weeks 
later. And a six-point lead over No. 7 Michigan 
State the year before that. 
The idea that Harbaugh can’t win on the 
road has been beaten to death so many times 
that it feels more like an immutable fact than a 
cliché. But, with four minutes left on the clock, 
Erick All took the first step to rewriting that 
narrative.
On 2nd-and-10 in what would become 
the last scoring drive of the game, junior 
quarterback Cade McNamara found All on a 
crossing route. The junior tight end cut up the 
field, outrunning two Penn State defenders en 
route to the end zone. 
“I want to give Michigan a bunch of credit, 
obviously a really good football team that we 
battled for four quarters,” Nittany Lions coach 
James Franklin told reporters on Saturday. 
“… (Aidan Hutchinson and David Ojabo), 
you can make the argument maybe the best 
combination of two D-ends of the country.”
It wasn’t a watershed moment that’s going 
to lead to a national title. I’d be hard-pressed to 
find an argument comparing Hutchinson to 
Charles Woodson, Michigan already has one 
loss with another likely on the horizon and — 
potentially most crucially — college football is 
a totally different landscape than it was in the 
late 1990s. 
But the Wolverines are still returning 
to Ann Arbor with higher stakes, gone of 

the biggest road wins of Harbaugh’s tenure 
and status as at least a semi-serious playoff 
contender. Pending a Michigan State loss in 
Columbus next weekend and a Michigan win 
in College Park, the Wolverines’ game against 
Ohio State after Thanksgiving will be a de facto 
Big Ten East title bout. But, regardless of what 
happens down the line, this win carries weight. 
With a lot to prove coming off of a 
historically-low 
2-4 
season, 
Harbaugh 
showed not only can he win on the road, but, 
more importantly, his team can come through 
with a high-pressure, fourth quarter win late 
in the season. 
A win like Saturday validates athletic director 
Warde Manuel’s decision to bring Harbaugh 
back. And it shows that all the changes his 

program’s gone through since last year have 
proven it’s moving in the right direction.
This might not be the year Harbaugh beats 
the Buckeyes, but he could come pretty damn 
close. Only one of Michigan’s past six contests 
against the Buckeyes have been decided 
by less than a touchdown. Win or lose, the 
Wolverines could be looking at their first trip 
to the Rose Bowl since 2007. Win or lose, this 
season could be the turning point that thrusts 
Harbaugh’s program into the upper echelon 
of college football.
“We’re not mediocre,” safety Marcus Ray 
said of his team after the 1997 Penn State win. 
“And we’re not done yet.”
Twenty-four years later, neither are these 
Wolverines. 

LANE

KIZZIAH

SportsWednesday: This isn’t 1997. But it is something. 

GABBY CERITANO/Daily 
After a win at Penn State, the parallels between Michigan’s 1997 and 2021 seasons are clear.

ALLISON ENGKVIST/Daily 
Harvard upset the Michigan field hockey team in the NCAA Tournament quarterfinals this weekend. 

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com 
Sports
 Wednesday, November 17, 2021 — 7

Tel Aviv University Sackler School of Medicine 
New York State/American Program 

 
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program 
offers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in 
English, leading to the M.D. degree. The Program is chartered by the 
Regents of the University of the State of New York and is accredited by 
the State of Israel. 

 

Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the 
U.S. and Canada. One of these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was 
selected by Newsweek magazine as one of the top 10 hospitals around 
the world. 

 

Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and 
return to the United States for their residency training. Since its 
commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed their 
residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United 
States and Canada. 

 

www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about Sackler 
SOM. For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org 
 
Applications for the Class of 2026 are available on our website 
 

 

 

 

 

Tel Aviv University Sackler School of Medicine 
New York State/American Program 

 
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program 
offers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in 
English, leading to the M.D. degree. The Program is chartered by the 
Regents of the University of the State of New York and is accredited by 
the State of Israel. 

Familiar struggles doom Wolverines’ 
season in NCAA Tournament loss

DAVID WOELKERS
Daily Sports Writer

Penn State outlasts Michigan’s volleyball team in spirited 3-1 contest

Friday evening, No. 15 Penn 
State (18-7 overall, 11-4 Big Ten) 
came out victorious over the 
Michigan volleyball team (14-10, 
7-8). The Nittany Lions beat the 
Wolverines 3-1 for the second time 
this season in a competitive contest 
in which Michigan refused to go 
down quietly. 
Penn State played aggressively 
and remained in control for almost 
the entire night. However, a large 
and energetic crowd came out to 
support the Wolverines for their 
Pink Game, feuling the home side’s 
resolve. Despite being down at 
least five points at some point in 

each set, the Wolverines showed 
impressive spirit. They fought their 
way back to a level score late in 
three separate sets. 
Penn State seemingly had the 
first set secured when it took a 
22-15 lead, but the Wolverines 
steeled themselves and proceeded 
to go on an 8-1 run to tie the set 
at 23. This caused Penn State 
to take a timeout. The Nittany 
Lions managed to pull themselves 
together during that timeout and 
took the set, 26-24.
The second set was a similar 
story, but this time Michigan won 
out. Aftering falling behind 11-20, 
the Wolverines went on another 
impressive run, this time 10-1, to 
tie the set. Then, after a back and 
forth, a service ace from junior 

opposite May Pertofsky put it away 
for Michigan 25-23, drawing the 
game even at a set apiece. 
The 
third 
set 
was 
much 
more balanced throughout. The 
Wolverines hung with Penn State, 
even taking an 18-17 lead. But, the 
Nittany Lions rallied from there to 
take the set 25-19.
After its third set victory, 
Penn State capitalized on the 
momentum and slowly pulled away 
from Michigan over the fourth 
set, building a five point 21-16 
lead. However, as they had done 
all night, the Wolverines rallied. 
Pushing within two points, it 
seemed they had a chance to finish 
the comeback. But the Nittany 
Lions managed to finish them off. 
Penn State challenged the final 

play of the match, leading to an 
overturned Wolverine block error 
and the Nittany Lions winning the 
day. 
“I thought we played well, we 
just weren’t quite steady enough,” 
Michigan 
coach 
Mark 
Rosen 
said. “Penn State was a little more 
consistent in the pass game, a little 
more consistent attacking wise… 
that’s part of the game and we’ve 
got to get better at that, but overall 
I thought we played well.” 
As 
the 
season 
progresses, 
players like outside hitter Jess 
Mruzik have grown. A sophomore, 
she led the Wolverine offense on 
Friday and as players like her gain 
more experience, those tight late-
set situations will turn more in 
Michigan’s favor.

IAN PAYNE
For The Daily

JENNA HICKEY/Daily 
For the second time this season, the Wolverines fell to Penn State in four-set fashion.


The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
Sports
8 — Wednesday, November 17, 2021 

When the Michigan women’s soccer team 
took the field against Bowling Green on Friday, 
its starting lineup had only one thing that it 
noticeably lacked: 
Underclassmen. 
Of the Wolverines’ 11 starters, three were 
juniors, four were seniors and another four were 
either graduate students or fifth-year seniors. 
And from the way Michigan dominated the 
Falcons en route to a 3-0 victory, it’s clear that 
this leadership is central to the team’s success. 
Every facet of the Wolverines’ lineup is 
anchored by experience. On offense, Michigan 
was led by senior midfielder Meredith 
Haakenson and fifth-year midfielder Nicki 
Hernandez. 
Defensively, 
senior 
Sydney 
Shepherd and junior Jade Riviere stymied 
the Falcons. Even in the net Michigan had 
experience with fifth-year senior and four-year 
starter Hillary Beall posting a clean sheet.

From the game’s opening kickoff, the result 
never looked in doubt. Not only did the Wolverines 
outshoot, out-muscle and outscore the Falcons in 
what would be a physical opening to the NCAA 
Tournament, they flat out out-played them as 
well. Michigan was the aggressor throughout the 
entire game. Offensively, it dominated possession, 
playing the vast majority of the game in Bowling 
Green’s territory and constantly threatening to 
put the ball in the back of the net. Defensively they 
were stifling, holding the Falcons to five shots, 
none of which were on target. 
The poise that the Wolverines played with 
on Friday stems from experience, and that 
experience is part of what separates this team 
from past iterations of itself. They play like a team 

who has been here before — because they have. 
All 11 of the Wolverines’ starters were members 
of the 2019 team that suffered a crushing 
overtime loss in the Big Ten Championship 
and made it to the third round of the NCAA 
Tournament. And it is precisely the experience 
that they carry with them that propels them to 
victory. 
“To have that experience is unbelievable,” 
said Michigan coach Jennifer Klein. “It’s so 
valuable to have players that know what to 
expect. They’re not going to get rattled under 
pressure or when dealing with adversity.” 
This Michigan team isn’t one that gets 
nervous, or at least it doesn’t play like it, 
something that came through in Friday’s game. 
Defensively, the Wolverines didn’t stutter. They 
didn’t make unnecessary passes, they didn’t 
cough up the ball in dangerous situations and 
any time the Falcons approached the net, they 
didn’t shy away from making tackles in their 
own penalty box — because they have been there 
before.
“Their composure has been great,” said Klein, 
speaking of the defense. “They start 
our play for us, and they did a very, 
very good job tonight.”
Offensively, the experience and 
confidence of the Wolverines was 
equally apparent. On all three of 
their goals, the Wolverines played 
meticulously and with patience. 
When 
Haakenson 
opened 
the 
scoring in the 18th minute, it was 
the result of three straight crosses 
into the Falcons box off of a corner. 
When Hernandez stormed down 
the left side of the field and into a 
one-on-one situation with Bowling 
Green’s goalkeeper in the 59th 
minute, she took the time to cut to 
the left at the last moment before 
firing the ball into the top-left 
corner of the net. 
The Wolverines play with the confidence and 
composure of veterans, and this makes every 
player on their team better — underclassmen 
included. In the 77th minute, Haakenson would 
once again take the time to create a better 
opportunity for her team, and it once again 
resulted in a goal, this time for sophomore 
forward Kacey Lawrence’s third goal of the 
season. 
With Michigan’s 3-0 victory, it keeps its title 
hopes alive. As the Wolverines continue their 
tournament run, experience will be necessary. 
Shepherd explained it best:
“We’ve gone through this before, we know 
what it’s like.”

Wolverines’ experience shows in 
its 3-0 victory over Bowling Green 

In old EA Sports NHL games, every 
roster included a “hero line” that you 
could use in close games or in tough 
road environments. Each team’s best 
players would all take the ice together, 
and you could wreak havoc by ripping 
shot after shot on goal.
Against Penn State last weekend, 
the No. 1 Michigan hockey team 
played with a hero line of its own.
Michigan coach Mel Pearson 
broke 
up 
sophomore 
forwards 
Thomas Bordeleau and Brendan 

Brisson — a duo that had struggled 
to create 5-on-5 chances. Instead, 
Brisson took the ice with sophomore 
forwards Kent Johnson and Matty 
Beniers. The trio combined for six 
out of the Wolverines’ 11 goals on the 
weekend against the Nittany Lions.
Most teams can’t afford to put their 
best shooter with their best facilitator 
and hottest hand. They might send 
them out on a power play, but throwing 
them into a 5-on-5 situation puts all 
the offensive eggs in one proverbial 
basket. If they can’t get the job done, 
the offense is out of luck.
But the Wolverines aren’t like 
most teams. With depth scorers 
like Bordeleau, junior 
forward Johnny Beecher 
and freshman forward 
Mackie 
Samoskevich 
— all valuable NHL 
prospects 
— 
the 
Wolverines can afford to 
concentrate their offense 
on one line.
The on-ice product 
looks 
astonishing, 
with slick tape-to-tape 
passing that utilizes all 
players on the ice. It’s 
like a big game of keep-
away, and Michigan’s 
got the puck. A sheer 

abundance of scoring options permits 
that movement, and teams like Penn 
State can’t just choose to shut down 
one shooter.
“It’s pretty easy to play with 
guys like that because they get 
open well,” Beniers said. “You don’t 
really have to ever call for pucks 
because they know you’re there. 
They’ll just pass it to you.”
Despite the trio’s success last 
week, the Wolverines need to ensure 
they can find opportunities four 
lines deep. Teams with experienced, 
skilled forwards like Notre Dame 
and Minnesota will find the right 
aggressive backcheckers on the ice to 
shut down one good line.
That’s something that Western 
Michigan exploited, stymieing the 
Beniers-Johnson-Brisson unit when 
they played together on the man 
advantage. The Wolverines scored 
once on 11 power plays over the series, 
losing the first game and barely 
squeaking out an overtime win at 
Lawson Arena. If those three struggle 
to score, it can be game over for the 
offense.
Shutting down that line bodes 
well for other teams, but the added 
attention opens up chances for other 
players to score. As a result of Penn 
State’s defensive mistakes — which 

came from shadowing the top line 
all series — Beecher tallied a goal 
and an assist this past weekend.The 
Wolverines are a deep team, and 
Pearson knows someone in their ranks 
can step up and feed the scoresheet.
“I like to run a team where you 
have 12 guys that can score,” Pearson 
said. “There’s really not a bottom six 
or top six even though numbers might 
indicate there is.”
It’s risky to frontload an offense, 
but as long as they’re scoring, it all 
works out. Sending out Johnson-
Beniers-Brisson 
worked 
against 
Penn State, and there’s little reason 
to break up their chemistry if that 
success continues. They’re scoring 
and backchecking hard, and that’s 
something opponents have to pay 
attention to.
“I’m not saying no one can shut us 
down,” Beniers said. “But I think it’d 
be really difficult.”
Michigan showed what its top 
dogs can do when they play together, 
proving it can kill opponents with a 
brutal offensive onslaught. In close 
games down the road, the Wolverines 
will likely find themselves needing a 
goal.
When that time comes, Michigan 
doesn’t need to make its own hero 
line. It’s already on the ice.

Wolverines’ top line carries offensive weight

CHARLIE PAPPALARDO
For The Daily

CONNOR EAREGOOD
Daily Sports Writer

STATE COLLEGE — The inevitability 
had set in. 
After leading by eight points for more 
than a full quarter of play, the No. 6 
Michigan football team found itself trailing. 
Moments earlier, Penn State had taken 
a three-point lead after a strip sack from 
defensive end Arnold Ebiketie led to a field 
goal. One drive before that, the Nittany 
Lions had converted on three fourth downs 
as part of a 15-play, 53-yard touchdown 
drive that tied the game. 
As junior quarterback Cade McNamara 
trotted onto the field for a comeback 
attempt with just under six minutes 
remaining, echoes of the Wolverines’ 
loss to Michigan State two weeks prior 
reverberated through Beaver Stadium. 
Michigan — especially Jim Harbaugh’s 
Michigan — couldn’t do it. It didn’t have the 
playmakers to pull out a comeback win on 
the road. 
And yet, it did. 
Six plays into perhaps the Wolverines’ 
season-defining 
drive, 
McNamara 
connected with junior tight end Erick All 
on a crossing route. As All cut up the field 
for what would become a 47-yard, game-
winning touchdown reception, one thing 
became abundantly clear: 
This 
Michigan 
does 
have 
the 
playmakers. 
Despite the Wolverines’ struggles to 
put the game away throughout the second 
half, they made big plays — on both sides 

of the ball — when they most desperately 
needed them. In those situations where the 
Michigan teams of the last six years would 
have folded under pressure, the Wolverines 
found the ability to make game-changing 
plays. 
“I think we got the most talent in the Big 
Ten,” senior edge rusher Aidan Hutchinson 
said. “Guys who stepped up this game and 
made a play.”
On the offensive side of the ball, 
McNamara was that playmaker. Regardless 
of any occasional missteps — he failed to 
connect on a few deep balls throughout 
the game — he made the right decisions 
and threw accurate balls when the offense 
needed him to. 
That was true even before the game-
winning touchdown pass. Early in the 
second quarter, after the Wolverines failed 
to convert a single first down on their initial 
two drives, McNamara orchestrated a 
15-play, 90-yard drive that consumed 7:30 
minutes of game clock. Seventy-eight of 
those yards — including a 21-yard dart to 
sophomore receiver Roman Wilson for the 
touchdown — came through the air. 
“He threw the ball before I was even 
looking,” Wilson said. “That was probably 
the best ball I’ve seen — I mean, he throws 
a lot of good passes — but at least that 
I’ve caught from him. I mean, that was 
beautiful.”
On defense, too, Michigan’s playmakers 
stepped up when they were needed most. 
On Penn State’s opening possession, after 
a pair of runs from quarterback Sean 
Clifford and a successful fake punt put the 
Nittany Lions in prime scoring position, 

Hutchinson and freshman linebacker 
Junior Colson sacked Clifford to force a 
field goal. It was the defense’s third sack on 
that drive alone. 
In moments where the Wolverines’ 
offense continued to sputter, the defense 
continued to make plays. Hutchinson 
ended Penn State’s third drive with a strip 
sack; junior edge rusher David Ojabo did 
the same on the final possession of the first 
half. After McNamara’s fourth quarter 
fumble gave the Nittany Lions the ball 
at Michigan’s 16, fifth-year safety Brad 
Hawkins put a hit on Clifford that forced 
another field goal. 
The defense rarely gave Clifford the time 
to make plays of his own. When the dust 
settled, the Wolverines had tallied seven 
sacks. 
“It gives us confidence,” McNamara 
said. “It makes us want to do well for them 
even more. We know it’s our job to go down 
the field and score points, but when they 
give us that extra momentum, it just gives 
us more confidence to go do it even more.”
That playmaking on both sides reflects 
a message that Michigan has preached all 
year: complementary football. Time and 
again this season, the defense has picked 
up the offense in moments where it has 
struggled. In most scenarios, the offense has 
been there to do the same for the defense. 
It’s been visible throughout the season. 
It was most visible in Saturday’s game. It 
was even visible after the postgame press 
conference, when Hutchinson expressed 
his faith in McNamara as the two stood up 
to leave:
“That’s my quarterback!”

In crucial moments, Michigan finds its playmakers

BRENDAN ROOSE
Daily Sports Editor

Sitting in the visiting media room 
at Beaver Stadium following the 
Michigan football team’s comeback, 
Jim Harbaugh was asked about the 
Wolverines’ performance in familiar 
territory.
Saturday had the makings of a 
textbook example of a game Michigan 
would lose in years past. Hell, even 
in weeks past. The sixth-ranked 
Wolverines blew an eight-point lead 
over Penn State midway through the 
fourth quarter and found themselves 
trailing less than a minute later. But 
instead of wilting the way Michigan 
did under similar duress in East 
Lansing two weeks prior when the 
Wolverines blew a 16-point second-

half lead, they responded with a game-
winning knockout blow on the next 
drive.
In doing so, they showed just 
how 
far 
they’ve 
come. 
More 
importantly, 
Saturday’s 
outcome 
revealed something important about 
Michigan’s makeup.
“This is a great win,” Harbaugh 
said on Saturday. “No doubt this team 
is full of all the championship qualities 
in guys, in football players. They were 
born to do this. They approach it like, 
‘We’re born for these kinds of days. 
Let’s go have at it.’ ”
Asked 
about 
his 
team’s 
championship qualities again on 
Monday 
afternoon, 
Harbaugh 
doubled down:
“I do believe they have those 
traits,” Harbaugh said. “I think 
they’re developing them. I know 

when I’m there on the sidelines, just 
the togetherness that our football 
team has. They’re for each other, and 
I’m sure it probably comes through 
on the TV, at least (for) people that 
watch the game. They saw the same 
thing coming through the TV: the 
excitement our team has and the 
togetherness.”
That wasn’t the case against 
Michigan State, but Michigan used 
its loss to the Spartans as a learning 
experience. The Wolverines met 
for a players-only meeting 48 hours 
after returning from East Lansing, 
determined 
to 
prevent 
similar 
downfalls in the future.
Michigan’s 12-player leadership 
council, which is responsible for 
communication between the team and 
coaches, called the meeting. All season 
long, it has allowed certain players to 

emerge as prominent voices within 
Schembechler Hall.
“We have a lot of great leaders,” 
senior linebacker Michael Barrett said 
Monday. “We have a lot of guys trying 
to win. We have a lot of guys trying to 
win. We have a lot of guys that like to 
play together, and just like (Harbaugh) 
said, that togetherness and having 
all those guys coming together, 
buying in and locking into it, that’s a 
championship team to me.”
Since Harbaugh’s winter staff 
overhaul, the program has become 
increasingly player-driven by design. 
According to Barrett, players made a 
pact during January workouts to hold 
each other accountable this season. 
Last year’s frustrating 2-4 campaign 
taught players there’s a big difference 
between saying they’re buying in and 
actually buying in.

“You can feel it, just with all the new 
changes,” Barrett said. “Everybody’s 
coming together. I feel like a lot of guys 
feel like it’s a brotherhood. It’s a little 
different than it has been before.”
Regardless of age or position, the 
Wolverines agreed to take a new 
approach this season. So far, the 
results are showing. Michigan could 
control its own destiny atop the Big 
Ten standings by Thanksgiving, 
though a looming showdown against 
No. 3 Ohio State still stands between 
the Wolverines and Harbaugh’s first 
trip to the conference title game in 
Indianapolis — let alone a College 
Football Playoff berth.
But with both still on the table, 
Michigan plans to ride its self-
proclaimed “championship qualities” 
as far as it will take them.
“(We have) our ability to handle 

adversity, and we definitely have 
enough talent,” junior quarterback 
Cade McNamara said. “I think overall, 
our mentality as a team has shifted. 
This team is ready to finish this season, 
and by the end of it, we should be 
competing for a championship if we do 
what we’re supposed to do.”

Why Jim Harbaugh sees ‘championship qualities’ in his Michigan team

DANIEL DASH
Daily Sports Editor

EMMA MATI/Daily 
The Michigan women’s soccer team has no shortage of experi-
ence, which could fuel a deep NCAA Tournament run.

ALLISON ENGKVIST/Daily
With a game saving fourth quarter touchdown, Erick All and Cade McNamara proved that Michigan does have playmakers.

TESS CROWLEY/Daily 
Michigan’s offense hinges on the ability for its 
‘hero line’ to create goals.

ALLISON ENGKVIST/Daily 
After preventing a comeback win at 
Penn State, the Wolverines believe they 
have what it takes to compete for a 
championship


