New COVID-19 research from the Uni-
versity of Michigan reveals little spread of the 
virus between the campus and the surround-
ing community last fall. 
Lead researcher Dr. Adam Lauring, a 
virologist and infectious disease physician at 
Michigan Medicine, told The Michigan Daily 
the results of the study are important because 
previous work related to COVID-19 transmis-
sion in college environments has been quite 
ambiguous in the past. This is mostly because 
colleges around the country had different 
COVID-19 prevention measures in place last 
year, Lauring said.
“Our goal of the study was to try to under-
stand how viruses spread both within the 
campus community of students and the sur-
rounding community,” Lauring said. “There 
has been a lot of discussion on how those two 
groups of people relate. I think the results of the 
study would be of interest to anyone wondering 
how COVID spreads in these (environments).”
Lauring said that though the research can-

not say how most COVID-19 cases are linked 
to each other, he believes that the main reason 
for the disconnect between cases in these two 
populations is the communities the two demo-
graphics occupy. While interactions between 
local residents and students in Ann Arbor were 
common last fall in areas like bars and restau-
rants, Lauring said he presumes that students 
mostly congregated with students and locals 
with locals. 
“I think that, whatever it is, students are 
congregating with each other more than they 
are congregating with non-students in the 
community,” Lauring said. “That is probably 
what we are seeing here in terms of the lim-
ited amount of transmission we were able to 
observe between (these two groups).”
The data from the study suggest that some 
COVID-19 cases were introduced from the 
broader community into the student commu-
nity, and a few of these introductions caused a 
subsequent cluster of COVID-19 cases within 
the student population. 
In an email to The Daily, Dr. Joseph Eisen-
berg, epidemiology professor in the School of 
Public Heath, wrote he was surprised by the 
fact that case clusters within the student popu-

lation did not spread into the surrounding com-
munity.
“What is a bit surprising is that (the 
study’s) data suggests that these case clusters 
were contained and didn’t spread back into 
the broader community,” Eisenberg wrote. 
“This could be because students are more 
likely to socialize with other students. It 
could be that they bought more take out food 
using DoorDash or other delivery services. 
And maybe when they did visit a restaurant 
they were still mostly socializing with other 
students.” 
Public Health junior Janna Girotto said she 
used contactless delivery services when order-
ing food from restaurants and diligently wore 
her mask in public settings to limit her contact 
with anyone outside her circle of friends. 
“My friends and I didn’t really feel com-
fortable with (even outdoor dining options) 
just because of how high the rates of COVID 
were in Washtenaw,” Girotto said. “My 
interactions were very limited. If I went 
anywhere I had my mask on, even out-
doors.” 

michigandaily.com
Ann Arbor, Michigan
Wednesday, November 3, 2021

ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY ONE YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail 
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

INDEX
Vol. CXXX, No. 57
©2021 The Michigan Daily

NEWS............................ 2

ARTS.............................4

M I C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

OPINION ...................... 8 

SPORTS........................10

STATEMENT......... INSERT
michigandaily.com

For more stories and coverage, visit
Follow The Daily 
on Instagram, 
@michigandaily

LSA Dean Anne Curzan gave the 
annual State of the College address to 
approximately 40 faculty and staff at 
Rackham Auditorium on Oct. 27. This is the 
second in-person address given by Curzan 
in her time as Dean, and third overall.
As in 2019, Curzan opened by 
acknowledging that the University of 
Michigan is located on the land donated by 
the Ojibwe, Odawa and Potawatomi Native 
American tribes and acknowledged “their 
profound contributions to this institution.” 
Curzan then addressed the difficulty 
of the past twenty months, mentioning 
both the stress of returning to campus 
during the COVID-19 pandemic and “the 
reckoning with race, justice and anti-Black 
racism” within the United States. 
Kierra 
Trotter, 
director 
of 
the 
Comprehensive Studies Program, said in 
an interview with The Michigan Daily 
that she appreciated Curzan’s use of direct 
and precise language when dealing with 
sensitive topics.
“Last summer, when she was talking 
about anti-Black racism, she called it anti-
Blackness,” Trotter said. “She called it 
racism. She called different events that are 
happening murders instead of deaths. And 
I appreciate that.” 
A key part of Curzan’s plan to improve 
the college is to focus on LSA faculty and 
staff. Her emphasis on the people in LSA 
being the backbone of the college was a 
theme throughout the address. 
Angelo Pitillo, director of the English 
Language Institute, said in an interview 
with The Daily that he is always impressed 
by the way that Curzan puts people at the 
forefront of her work.
In her discussion of the University’s 
commitment to research, Curzan said the 
expenditures last year for research reached 

close to $200 million despite the pandemic. 
She also mentioned that during 2020 
and thus far in 2021, faculty and graduate 
students published over 3800 journal 
articles and over 90 books.
In reference to this year’s budget, 
Curzan 
acknowledged 
the 
many 
sacrifices that had to be made over the 
last year but said LSA will be expanding 
its non-essential spending going forward. 
She specifically cited a hiring search for 
two Disability Access Coordinators to 
support staff with issues of accessibility 
and renovations to the Willard H. 
Dow Chemistry Building with an 
environmentally conscious focus. 
Curzan also announced the new LSA 
Meet the Moment Initiative. This initiative 
will support the $2 million LSA Change the 
World Award and the $250,000 LSA Vital 
Impact Award.
Curzan said she hopes this award will 
reward faculty and their teams to address 
pressing societal issues.
“This new opportunity will support 
interdisciplinary research with the 
goal of leveraging our strengths here 
in the college across fields to amplify 
the impact of pathbreaking research 
collaborations to contribute to positive, 
purposeful change in the world,” 
Curzan said.
To conclude the address, Curzan 
acknowledged many people’s hope that 
things return to their pre-pandemic state 
but said she hopes to embrace many of last 
year’s changes. 
“I would like us in the college to 
aim for different positive narratives,” 
Curzan said. “That we take this moment 
as a chance to recreate how we work 
and learn and live and that we come 
back doing things differently, to align 
ourselves even more closely with our 
mission.”

In annual address, LSA 
dean shares her vision for 
the future of the college

Anne Curzan talks plans to ‘create 
classrooms where everyone can thrive’

ISABELLA KASSA 
Daily News Contributor

UMich study finds little COVID-19 spread 
between campus and Ann Arbor community 

Researchers discover different coronavirus strains existed at University, in community

NADIR AL-SAIDI

Daily Staff Reporter

BECCA MAHON/Daily
Michigan Medicine announced a virtual way for patients to display their vaccination record through their patient portal or a mobile application. 

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

The Ann Arbor Coffee Roasting Co. 
began its soft opening on Tuesday, Oct. 19 
at 324 State St. The new coffee shop fills 
the space formerly occupied by Espresso 
Royale, a longtime coffee favorite that 
closed during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The shop, co-founded by Manthri 
Srinath, Amy McEwen Goller and her son 
Spencer Goller were all former employees 
of Espresso Royale. Ann Arbor Coffee 
Roasting Co. is the second to take over 
a former Espresso Royale location with 
former employees of the coffeeshop — 
M-36 Coffee Roasters opened in the 
former South University Ave. location in 
August. 
McEwen Goller and her husband, 
Marcus Goller, were the original founders 
of Espresso Royale, which opened on State 
St. in 1989.
“I think the most interesting thing 
about (the shop) is the fact that Manthri 
and Spencer and I are doing it together,” 
McEwen Goller said. “It’s just really sweet 
to have a project with Manthri again, and 
it’s incredibly nostalgic for me to have 
the store open again and to make it what 
we always wanted it to be, just a clean, 
beautiful, friendly, high quality place.”
According to Goller, Ann Arbor Coffee 
Roasting Co. has another location in 
Brighton, Mich., where they are currently 
roasting their coffee until the roaster 
for the Ann Arbor location is built. They 
expect the roaster to be completed by the 
first quarter of next year. They also make 
their chai at the Brighton location, while 
all of the food and pastries are baked 
in-house at the Ann Arbor location.
Goller explained that the Loring Smart 
Roast roaster the cafe will use is very 
sustainable and will be showcased to 
customers once it is assembled. 
“The roaster) uses a lot of the newer 
technology in coffee roasting and recycles 

hot air so it’s also very eco friendly. It 
uses less energy,” Goller said. “So we’re 
planning on having the roaster be really a 
showpiece and something that’s upfront 
for everyone to get to see.”
Srinath described the coffee shop as 
“retro” in its sourcing and supply chain 
and said they cater to a wide array of 
dietary restrictions. 
“That’s a fairly basic menu, with focus 
on a lot of plant milk,” Srinath said. “We 
do have really good baked goods, a lot 
of vegan and gluten-free options. Other 
than that, the actual core concept is pretty 
simple. We don’t do a lot of super sweet 
stuff but the things that we do, when I say 
retro, they kind of go back to a time in the 
coffee industry when the whole product 
line was much simpler.”
The building the shop is located in is 
considered a historic landmark by Ann 
Arbor’s Historic District Commission. 
The commission approved the roasting 
company’s renovation plans in July 2021, 
which, according to McEwen Goller, 
include some structural changes but 
“maintains the integrity of the historic 
building.”
“One of the other structural differences 
is some of the seating has been sacrificed to 
make way for the roaster,” Goller said. 
While the Ann Arbor Coffee Roasting 
Co. initially planned to open their cafe 
in September, Goller said the October 
opening was caused by construction 
delays. Srinath said they are taking a 
flexible approach to opening during the 
pandemic.
“The business model is going to be 
flexible,” Srinath said. “If we cannot use 
the space or decide we don’t want to, 
we will have take out options or provide 
curbside service, or anything along those 
lines that the current climate demands at 
any given time. It’s very as you go at this 
point, it’s really pretty much impossible to 
prognosticate.”

Ann Arbor Coffee Roasting 
Co. opens in place of old 
State St. Espresso Royale
New coffee shop co-founded by former 
employees of Espresso Royale

JARED DOUGALL
Daily Staff Reporter

Nearly 700 University of Michigan faculty 
members signed an open letter dated Oct. 21 
asking for School of Music, Theatre & Dance 
Professor Bright Sheng to be reinstated as 
professor of his undergraduate composition 
seminar less than a month after he stepped 
back from the course. The letter also calls for 
the University to issue a public apology on his 
behalf. 
The letter, sent to SMTD Dean David Gier, 
University President Mark Schlissel and 
Provost Susan Collins, comes after Sheng 
showed a 1965 version of the film “Othello” 
in which the lead actor appears in blackface. 
Some students said Sheng did not properly 
contextualize the racism in the film before he 
showed it. 
The faculty open letter says the response to 
this incident hurt the University’s reputation 
and Sheng’s career, leading to extensive media 
coverage that portrayed the University in a 
negative light.
“The 
very 
public 
campaign 
against 
Professor Sheng has harmed him and the 
students in his seminar who wish to study with 
him,” the letter reads. “Furthermore, it has 
damaged the reputation of the University of 
Michigan as a place for thoughtful discourse on 
difficult matters.” 
Sheng wrote in an email to The Daily that he 
was aware of the letter and had no comment as 
of publication. 
In an email to The Michigan Daily, the 
authors of the letter — including Mathematics 
Professors Alexander Barvinok and Mark 
Rudelson, Business Professor Fred Feinberg, 
Associate 
Chair 
of 
the 
Mathematics 
Department Kristen Moore, and Engineering 
Professors Fred Terry and Herbert Winful — 
wrote they were worried the incident would 
discourage thoughtful discourse and free 
debate among faculty due to fear of retaliation. 

“The university needs to be a place where 
vigorous debate can occur on topics that are 
unsettled by conventional wisdom, and where 
various voices can be heard without fear of 
reprisal,” the statement reads. 
The statement from the letter’s authors also 
said the University should institute a formal 
policy for dealing with situations like Sheng’s 
when they occur.
“At the very least, we believe a facilitated 
discussion should have occurred between the 
students, Prof. Sheng, the department chair, 
and the DEI representative in SMTD,” the 
statement reads. “It’s critical that universities 
have stated procedures for dealing with 
situations of this nature.”
The statement also said students should have 
been given the option to continue the course 
with Sheng or an alternate faculty member 
depending on their comfort level and whether 
they deemed Sheng’s apology sufficient. 
Sheng issued a formal apology to the 
department on Sept. 16, writing that he lost the 
trust of his students and failed to recognize the 
historical connotations of blackface. Sheng also 
included a section of the letter noting where he 
had worked with people of color in the past. 
This section of the letter in particular drew 
controversy, leading to an open letter to Gier 
from SMTD students and faculty calling for 
Shreng to be removed from the undergraduate 
composition course. 
In the Oct. 21 open letter in support of Sheng, 
faculty allege Sheng was removed from his 
teaching position without due process. The 
faculty claim that the University and Gier’s 
response to the incident have worked to portray 
Sheng’s actions as “an inherently racist act” 
and have been used to justify administrative 
sanctions. 
While the letter acknowledges that 
Sheng’s actions made some students feel 
unsafe and uncomfortable, it claims his 
apology should have been sufficient and 
that his removal from his class threatened 
future faculty’s ability to teach controversial 

subjects 
without 
fear 
of 
academic 
repercussions. 
“While claiming safe space for themselves, 
Professor Sheng’s detractors deprive him of 
it and are willing to go as far as to disrupt his 
livelihood and teaching process,” the letter 
reads.
In an email to The Daily, University 
spokesperson Kim Broekhuizen wrote Sheng 
decided to step down in consultation with Gier. 
Broekhuizen wrote SMTD is committed to 
fostering conversations on diverse viewpoints 
and pressing issues.
“SMTD 
plans 
to 
host 
facilitated 
conversations in its community to foster an 
open exchange of varied ideas and viewpoints 
surrounding this and other emergent issues,” 
Broekhuizen wrote. 
As of Sunday, the University has not issued a 
public statement in response to the letter. 

Student petition
In addition to the faculty letter, some SMTD 
students have written a second open letter 
addressed to Gier and has 59 signatures as of 
Sunday. The letter says the University failed to 
act in an appropriate manner in response to the 
blackface complaints and caused reputational 
damage. SMTD seniors Olivia Cho and Helen 
LaGrand drafted the letter.
The students wrote that Erik Santos, chair 
of the composition department, should have 
taken responsibility to initiate a dialogue 
between Sheng and the students and was 
responsible for the backlash Sheng received. 
“The university’s response to the incident 
involving Professor Sheng has fostered an 
atmosphere of fear and animosity that is 
hostile to positive change,” the students wrote. 
“When students addressed the Chair (of the 
composition department) because they felt 
unable to directly approach Professor Sheng, 
the Chair should have taken responsibility to 
initiate a conversation.”

Nearly 700 UMich faculty, 60 
students petition for SMTD Professor 
Bright Sheng to be reinstated

ACADEMICS

SMTD professor stepped back from teaching course after showing a film featuring blackface

GEORGE WEYKAMP 
Daily Staff Reporter

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

BUSINESS

See BRIGHT SHENG, page 3

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


The University of Michigan’s chap-
ter of the Spill the Honey Foundation, 
an organization committed to telling 
the history of Black and Jewish civil 
rights alliances, screened the new film 
“Shared Legacies” Thursday evening. 
The documentary discusses the part-
nership between the Black and Jewish 
communities during the Civil Rights 
Movement. About 70 students and 
professors attended the screening.
The film highlighted how Jewish 
leaders supported Martin Luther King 
and the Black community’s efforts to 
combat segregation and racism in the 
1960s. The film included prominent 
leaders such as members of the King 
family, Rabbi Alvin Sugarman and the 
late U.S. Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.).
After the screening, a panel dis-
cussed takeaways from the film.
Shari Rogers, director and produc-
er of “Shared Legacies” and founder of 
Spill the Honey, said she was inspired 

to create the film to show how the 
Jewish community supported the 
Black community during the Civil 
Rights Movement. 
Rogers said she understands how 
history can be difficult to talk about, 
but she thinks people should still 
share their experiences in order to 
promote further conversations in the 
future.
“When souls have been destroyed, 
no one wants to talk about it. It’s so 
painful,” Rogers said. “We have a 
shared responsibility to slowly come 
to terms with the importance of mem-
ory and talking about what we went 
through.”
Panelist and Rackham student 
Andre Ray said the film calls attention 
to the shared histories of the Black and 
Jewish communities while also pro-
viding an opportunity for connection 
in the present.
“(It’s) an opportunity to build a 
bridge with another community,” Ray 
said. “These communities have such a 
rich history and to witness it together, 
in the same room, is such a powerful 

point to move forward from on a cam-
pus like this.”
The third panelist, Business 
senior Blake Weissman, is the 
national youth president for the Spill 
the Honey Foundation. Weissman 
said Spill the Honey’s main motiva-
tion for screening the film was edu-
cating people about the connection 
between the Black and Jewish com-
munities. 
Weissman said they chose to screen 
the documentary at college campuses 
and schools because they believe it is 
especially important for youth popula-
tions to know this history.
“We’re bringing this to college cam-
puses, we’re bringing it to high schools, 
we’re bringing it to middle schools,” 
Weissman said. “It’s not like it should 
be (taught). It needs to be taught. And 
that’s what we’re doing.”
In a group discussion after the 
panel, students shared their reactions 
to the film.
LSA sophomore Samuel Hausman-
Weiss said the film screening was a 
great way to spark discussion about 

topics generally not spoken about. He 
said college students need to learn 
about new perspectives and the film 
screening promoted learning about 
the intersection between Black and 
Jewish histories.
“This is where it starts. It starts 
with a conversation,” Hausman-Weiss 
said. “I think that this is the best first 
step there has been in a while.”
Business junior Henrik Angelstig 
attended the event and said he found 
the film eye-opening. Despite being 
familiar with Black and Jewish history 
prior to the viewing, Angelstig said he 
had never actually learned about how 
the two groups worked together dur-
ing the Civil Rights Movement.
“This has definitely been one of 
the most profound things I’ve ever 
watched,” Angelstig said. “Of course 
we have read about Black history and 
Jewish history in school, but I’ve never 
actually made a connection between 
the two. I’m just amazed at how blind 
I have been to that fact.”
Daily Staff Reporter Navya Gupta can 
be reached at itznavya@umich.edu.

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
News
2 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021 

The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is publishing weekly on Wednesdays for the 
Winter 2021 semester by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available 
free of charge to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily’s office 
for $2. If you would like a current copy of the paper mailed to you, please visit store.
pub.umich.edu/michigan-daily-buy-this-edition to place your order.

BRITTANY BOWMAN
Managing Editor babowm@umich.edu

BARBARA COLLINS and LIAT WEINSTEIN 
Managing News Editors news@michigandaily.com

Senior News Editors: Emma Ruberg, Hannah Mackay, Calder Lewis, Jasmin 
Lee, Kristina Zheng, Lily Gooding
Investigative Editor: Sammy Sussman
FOIA Manager: Ayse Eldes

ELIZABETH COOK and JOEL WEINER
Editorial Page Editors tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Senior Opinion Editors: Julian Barnard, Brandon Cowit, Shubhum Giroti, Jessie 
Mitchell, Evan Stern

ELISE GODFRYD and ELIZABETH YOON
Managing Arts Editors 
 arts@michigandaily.com

ALLISON ENGKVIST and MADDIE HINKLEY
Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com

ANDIE HOROWITZ
Managing Statement Editor statement@michigandaily.com
Deputy Editors: Samantha Cole, Leo Krinsky

MADISON GAGNE and OLIVIA BRADISH
Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com

Senior Copy Editors: Caroline Atkinson, Anjali Chiravuri, Ethan Patrick, 
Kelsey Burke, Emily Wilson, Vanita Seed, Ellen Howell, Kathryn Kulie, Rena 
McRoy, Alison Chesnick

PARTH DHYANI and NAITIAN ZHOU
Managing Online Editors 
 webteam@michigandaily.com

IULIA DOBRIN and ANNIKA WANG
Managing Video Editors video@michigandaily.com

Senior Michigan in Color Editors: Noor Moughni, Maya Kadouh, Eliya Imtiaz, 
Jessica Kwon, Lola Yang

Senior Sports Editors: Drew Cox, Lily Friedman, Jack Kingsley, Brendan Roose, 
Daniel Dash, Jared Greenspan, Jacob Cohen

Senior Video Editors: Margaret Rudnick, Jordan Shefman

Senior Social Media Editors: Kirti Aplash, Natalie Knight, Cristina Costin, 
Ryan Postman, Evan DeLorenzo, Sarah Kent, Bella Morreale

Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com

ARTS SECTION
arts@michigandaily.com

SPORTS SECTION
sports@michigandaily.com

NEWS TIPS
tipline@michigandaily.com

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL PAGE
opinion@michigandaily.com

TARA MOORE
Business Manager
business@michigandaily.com

CLAIRE HAO
Editor-in-Chief
eic@michigandaily.com

PHOTOGRAPHY SECTION
photo@michigandaily.com

NEWSROOM
news@michigandaily.com

CORRECTIONS
corrections@michigandaily.com

LANE KIZZIAH and KENT SCHWARTZ 
Managing Sports Editors sports@michigandaily.com

Senior Arts Editors: Kari Anderson, Drew Gadbois, Andrew Pluta, Grace 
Tucker, Sophia Yoon
Arts Beat Editors: Lilly Pearce, Peter Hummer, Mik Deitz, Sabriya Imami, 
Kaitlyn Fox, Anya Soller

SHANNON STOCKING and ALLISON YIH
Managing Design Editors 
 design@michigandaily.com

ANAMIKA KANNAN and GABRIJELA SKOKO
Michigan in Color Editors michiganincolor@michigandaily.com

HALEY JOHNSON and ASHA LEWIS 
Managing Social Media Editors socialmedia@michigandaily.com

Editorial Staff

Business Staff

Senior Photo Editors: Emma Mati, Miles Macklin, Becca Mahon, Julia 
Schachinger
Assistant Photo Editors: Grace Beal, Tess Crowley, Kate Hua, Jarett Orr, 
Dominick Sokotoff

RORI MILLER
Creative Director

EMILY OHL and GERALD SILL
Managing Podcast Editors podeditors@michigandaily.com

SCHUYLER JANZEN
Sales Manager

ADVERTISING
WMG-contact@umich.edu 

JACK GRIEVE
Digital Managing Editor jgrieve@umich.edu

ALEX HARRING and SARAH SZALAI 
Co-Chairs of Access & Inclusion accessandinclusion@michigandaily.com

Senior Podcast Editors: Doug McClure, Max Rosenzweig, Avin Katyal

CAMPUS LIFE

‘Shared Legacies’ documentary screening 
reveals Black, Jewish community 
partnerships during Civil Rights Movement

 Students screen new film “Shared Legaacies” together, talk about shared histories

Associate Editor: Julia Maloney

CHARLIE WEBB/Daily
Members of the fraternity Theta Xi participate in their tradition to “Depend The Diag” last week ahead of the Michigan State foodball game.

PHOTO

Senior Layout Editor: Sophie Grand

NAVYA GUPTA
Daily Staff Reporter

A recent University of Michigan 
study on concussions among college 
athletes found the timeline for concus-
sion recovery can take up to 28 days, as 
opposed to the previously suggested 14 
days. With a $42.65 million grant, the 
concussion study is believed to be the 
largest of its kind in history. 
The grant was split between $25 
million from the U.S. Army Medical 
Research and Development Command, 
$10 million from the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association and $7.65 from the 
U.S. Defense Health Agency. 
The study was conducted by Steve 
Broglio, head director of the U-M 
concussion center and member of the 
CARE Consortium — the NCAA-U.S. 
Department of Defense’s Concussion 
Assessment, Research and Educa-
tion leadership team. Broglio and his 
colleagues began the study in 2014 
at 30 sites across the country, includ-
ing four military academies. They 
enrolled all eligible varsity athletes 
and service academy cadets.
A total of 1,751 concussion cases 
were included in the study, with 
results showing 85% of people took 
over one month to be cleared for 
unrestricted participation in sports 
after a concussion. 
“We need to reframe the normal 
recovery time because there’s vari-
ability in how people recover from all 
injuries,” Broglio said. 
LSA freshman Tyler McLaurin, a 
linebacker on the U-M football team, 

said many coaches and athletic train-
ers have talked to the team about the 
findings of the study given the high 
number of concussions in football. 
McLaurin said he believes extending 
recovery time is beneficial in the long 
run even if it keeps players off of the 
field temporarily.
“I think that it hurts a person at the 
moment, but it is about more than just 
football,” McLaurin said. “Concus-
sions are long term and can affect a 
person in more ways than just the 
physical symptoms.”
A main goal of the study was to nor-
malize longer recovery rates, according 
to Broglio. Broglio said if sports teams 
follow the current medical literature, 
anyone who has 14 or more days of 
recovery time is “bucketed into the 
abnormal recovery group, even though 
they’re a 51st-percentile person.”
The “abnormal” label given to ath-
letes can be mentally demanding, Bro-
glio said, and can often cause them to 
put their athletic career before their 
physical health. Broglio said he has 
heard of many injuries ignored or not 
reported until after an event. 
“A concussion is unique in that if 
an athlete wants to hide it, it can be 
hidden,” Broglio said. “From a psy-
chological standpoint, we’re trying to 
reduce inadvertent pressure on team-
mates, coaches and parents to get 
somebody back to play, by reframing 
this from a more holistic manner.” 
McLaurin also said he believes 
concussed student-athletes should 
have post-concussion recovery time 
in order to catch up on academic work. 
“I feel as though it is much hard-

er to catch up after a concussion,” 
McLaurin said. “I have seen people 
force themselves to grind for days at a 
time in order to try to learn the infor-
mation during their concussion while 
everything that is going on around 
them in class.”
The paper also found minimal 
differences between how men and 
women recover. In addition, the study 
analyzed recovery time between 
concussions from contact versus 
non-contact sports. Overall, the study 
found there were not significant dif-
ferences in recovery time in different 
sports, according to Broglio.
“Those differences are really a 
day or two away, which in the grand 
scheme of things doesn’t really mean 
much,” Broglio said. “This allows cli-
nicians to have a unified approach to 
concussion management. They don’t 
need to make special circumstances 
for the football athlete versus the 
cross country runner, etc.”
In addition, individuals with their 
first, second and third injuries all 
recovered at approximately the same 
rate. It wasn’t until the fourth injury 
that researchers started seeing longer 
recovery periods. Broglio emphasized 
that the “longer” recovery period is 
only a day or two different than the 
normal one found in the study.
“There’s certainly not this idea of 
‘three concussions and you’re done 
with your career,’” Broglio said. 
“Those decisions are made on an 
individual basis, based on severity, the 
goals of the athletes and other per-
sonal factors.”
LSA freshman Hunter Thomson, a 

U-M varsity golfer, believes non-con-
tact-sport athletes should also take con-
cussions seriously. Though Thompson 
has never gotten a concussion himself, 
he hopes to pass the findings of the 
study along to friends and teammates. 
“This information is very impor-
tant, and by the sounds of it, it could 
help possibly elongate the careers of 
athletes,” Thompson said.
Broglio plans to use his grant for a 
future study that will consist of two 
phases. The first five years of the 
study will involve online evaluations, 
imaging studies, bloodwork, full neu-
ropsychology evaluations, clinical 
exams and DNA capture of current 
subjects. The second phase will fur-
ther explore how concussions affect 
aspects of the subjects’ future lives. 
“The main goal is to continue track-
ing the individuals through middle age 
and older adulthood to understand 
who ends up with poor outcomes and 
who doesn’t, and why,” Broglio said. 
“This will all help us get a handle on 
the long-term effects of injury.”
McLaurin said many athletes are 
 
passionate about following the find-
ings of the study in order to put their 
health first. 
“This is more than a game,” 
McLaurin said. “Football and all 
sports are just for a small amount of 
time. Sports end for various reasons, 
such as injuries or old age, so it is nec-
essary to be ready for backup plans. 
Concussions ruin the idea of backup 
plans because it dents the mental 
health and capability of a person.”
Daily Staff Reporter Ashna Mehra 
can be reached at ashmehra@umich.edu.

U-M study shows timeline for concussion 
recovery is nearly a month long, double the 
currently suggested length

Recovery rates for concussions are lengthened, athletes talk putting health first

ASHNA MEHRA
Daily Staff Reporter

RESEARCH


Similarly to the faculty open letter, 
the student open letter calls on the 
University to issue a public apology 
on Sheng’s behalf and reinstate him 
as instructor of the undergraduate 
composition course. 
Sheng also had no comment on the 
student letter.
Cho and LaGrand told The 
Michigan Daily they decided to write 
the letter after noticing the impact the 
incident was having on the culture at 
SMTD and Sheng’s career. 
Cho said while Sheng should have 
provided proper contextualization 
and warning for students prior to the 
showing of “Othello,” the University 
could have allowed students to openly 
discuss the incident rather than 
simply having Sheng step down.
“(His stepping down) just cuts 
off any opportunity for healing, 
understanding, and (the ability) 
for people … to move on,” Cho said. 
“That’s why in the letter we asked for 
his reinstatement.”
LaGrand said it is important that 
faculty members have the autonomy 
to talk about and address issues of 
racism without fear of administrative 
repercussions. 
“In order for there to be progress 
in society — for us to be a progressive 
institution — you actually have to 
talk about the things that we think 
are unjust or wrong about history,” 
LaGrand said. “And if you feel like 
even bringing them up might cause 
you harm to your career or to your 
reputation, then we’re not going to 
progress as a student body or as a 
faculty body.” 
In a statement in an October 
2021 Central Faculty Governance 

Newsletter, the Senate Advisory 
Committee 
on 
University 
Affairs expressed their support 
for 
implementing 
a 
restorative 
justice approach to Sheng’s case. 
This approach would include a 
professionally mediated discussion 
between Sheng, the composition 
students in the class where “Othello” 
was shown and administration 
representatives. 
“The discussion would seek to 
arrive at an understanding of each 
party’s perspective, an agreement 
about what happened, and a course 
of corrective action,” SACUA wrote. 
“Such an approach would help 
Prof. Sheng and the university have 
an opportunity to learn and make 
amends. It would also provide the 
affected students a measure of justice 
and give them a critical say in how 
justice is enacted.” 
Cho said she noticed the effect 
the incident had on SMTD culture 
and community, including faculty 
members who are concerned with 
whether this incident is reflective of 
how sensitive issues will be addressed 
in the future. 
“T 
 
he students involved were 
understandably talking about a 
safe environment in the classroom, 
but we also need to consider a 
safe environment for everyone, 
including the faculty,” Cho said. 
“We’re a community here. It’s 
not teachers against students — 
we all want a holistic collective 
environment.” 
Correction: A previous version 
of this article incorrectly introduced 
Evan Chambers as the chair of the 
composition department. He is a 
professor — Erik Santos is the chair.
Daily 
Staff 
Reporter 
George 
Weykamp 
can 
be 
reached 
at 
gweykamp@umich.edu.

Since allegations of sexual abuse 
against late University of Michigan 
athletic physician Robert Anderson 
were first publicized in February 
2020, hundreds of individual law-
suits and two class-action lawsuits 
have been filed against the Univer-
sity and the Board of Regents by 
survivors. 
The University’s Division of 
Public Safety and Security’s annual 
security and fire safety report from 
2020 said that 97.7% of the total 
2110 reports of rape and fondling 
that year stemmed from Anderson. 
The allegations against Anderson 
— from more than 950 people total 
— may comprise the largest scale of 
sexual abuse by a single person in 
U.S. history. 
The Michigan Daily broke down 
the progress of these lawsuits, as 
well as other current actions by sur-
vivors to demand accountability and 
acknowledgement from the Univer-
sity. 
Court-ordered mediation
The survivors — the plaintiffs of 
the lawsuits — and their attorneys 
have been in court-ordered media-
tion with the University since Octo-
ber 2020. Little is known of the 
status of the mediation process 
or expected resolution date, since 
the mediation process takes place 
outside the courtroom and public 
records are not available. There are 
also strict confidentiality measures 
in place that bar all parties from dis-
cussing updates with the press. 
While survivors are unable to 
discuss the mediation, they have 
been actively sharing the impacts of 
abuse and protesting the Universi-
ty’s handling of allegations of abuse.
Anderson survivors rally outside 
Schlissel’s house, demand Univer-
sity accountability
Jonathan Vaughn, a former Uni-
versity running back, is a survivor 
of Anderson currently leading a 
protest and sit-in outside University 
President Mark Schlissel’s house. 
Vaughn expressed frustration at 
the nearly 14-month long media-
tion process. In an interview with 
The Daily, Vaughn compared this 
process to sexual misconduct alle-
gations against former U-M Pro-
vost Martin Philbert, which was 
settled within a year of the Univer-
sity being made aware of the allega-
tions. 
“(The case) really hasn’t gone 
anywhere,” Vaughn said. “(It’s 
been) a lot of game-planning by 
Michigan, the office of Presi-
dent, the Board of Regents as well 
as the attorneys, which we under-
stand. That’s kind of their strategy. 
We understand it, but that doesn’t 
mean we accept it. There really 
hasn’t been any substantive nego-
tiation at all.”

While The Daily is unable to 
verify these claims due to the pri-
vate nature of the mediation, pub-
lic records and interviews prior to 
the start of mediation shed some 
light on how the litigation is pro-
gressing.
Individual lawsuits against the 
University
Thousands of accusations of 
abuse by Anderson have been 
lodged since attorney Michael Cox 
filed the first claim against the Uni-
versity and the Board of Regents on 
March 4, 2020, on behalf of plaintiff 
“John Doe MC-1.” 

Division of Public Safety and 
Security releases annual Security 
and Fire Safety report, finds most 
crimes stem from Anderson reports
In the last year and a half, more 
than 
850 
individual 
lawsuits 
against the University — collec-
tively referred to as a mass tort case 
— were filed by 60 attorneys. The 
individual cases were filed in the 
U.S. District Court for the Eastern 
District of Michigan and assigned to 
Judge Victoria A. Roberts.
The court named attorneys 
Michael Cox, Mick Grewal, Rich-
ard Schulte and Steve Drew to lead 
the mass tort case. The court also 
designated a 12-attorney steering 
committee — attorney Parker Sti-
nar confirmed his membership on 
the committee to The Daily. Stinar 
is representing approximately 200 
plaintiffs.
Cox wrote in an email to The 
Daily that the group of 60 attorneys 
are “working together as a group or 
coalition in negotiating a settlement 
through mediation with the Univer-
sity.” 
Cox is representing over 100 
plaintiffs suing the University, 
including Vaughn. In an interview 
with The Daily, Vaughn said he con-
nected with Cox through a referral 
from a former teammate three to 
four days after the first public story 
on the Anderson case. Vaughn said 
he decided to use his name in the 
lawsuit in order to humanize the 
experiences presented.

“I didn’t look at it as bravery,” 
Vaughn said. “My name’s not John 
Doe and you’re not going to refer 
to me as John Doe. I think that is 
the number one tactic that massive 
brands and powerful people use to 
keep their brands out in front. When 
you’re faceless, nameless and voice-
less, the general public can’t really 
identify with someone that’s anony-
mous.”
In April 2020, Cox and attorney 
David Shea submitted an emer-
gency motion to depose Thomas 
Easthope, the former associate vice 
president for the Division of Student 

Life who worked with Anderson at 
the University in the 1970s and 80s. 
The deposition, a court process held 
to collect evidence, occurred in July 
2020.
During the deposition, East-
hope said he fired Anderson in 
1979 following complaints of sexual 
abuse, but his boss, Vice President 
for Student Services Henry John-
son, rehired Anderson. Anderson 
remained at the University until 
his retirement in 2003 — he died in 
2008. 
Cox emphasized how much this 
deposition revealed about the Uni-
versity’s efforts to hide Anderson’s 
abuse. 
“The deposition of Tom East-
hope demonstrated the long-run-
ning comprehensive cover-up of Dr. 
Anderson’s predatory conduct at the 
highest levels of UM’s administra-
tion,” Cox wrote.
A lawsuit from March 2020 
also alleged that Assistant Athletic 
Director Paul Schmidt knew of 
Anderson’s abuse while Anderson 
was employed by the University but 
did not speak out against him.
In May and September 2020, 
the University’s defense counsel, 
Jones Day, submitted a motion to 
dismiss the mass tort case entirely, 
citing Anderson’s death in 2008. 
Day also sought to dismiss the 
case due to the fact that more 
than three decades had passed 
since some of the abuse allegedly 
occurred. 

In October 2020, Judge Roberts 
ordered the University to withdraw 
its motion and prohibited further 
motions to dismiss from being sub-
mitted. 
In March 2020, the University 
hired the law firm WilmerHale to 
conduct an independent investiga-
tion into the Anderson allegations. 
WilmerHale is the same firm used 
to conduct an investigation into alle-
gations against Philbert.
Independent report finds 37 
years of sexual abuse by former 
U-M doctor Robert Anderson
As part of the investigation, 
letters were sent out to around 
300,000 alumni, asking them to 
provide information to Wilmer-
Hale. During the investigation, 
Judge Roberts ordered the Univer-
sity to clarify to the alumni notified 
about the Anderson abuse that there 
was ongoing litigation regarding 
the allegations. In May 2021, Wilm-
erHale released its report, which 
detailed decades of abuse by Ander-
son and attempts by the University 
administration and athletic depart-
ment to suppress these allegations. 
In 
the 
WilmerHale 
report, 
Schmidt told the firm that he held 
Anderson “in high regard” and 
“would have given Dr. Anderson 
the benefit of the doubt” if a stu-
dent raised concerns of Anderson’s 
examinations.
Judge Roberts ordered the par-
ties to enter mediation, a method of 
reaching a resolution between par-
ties without going to trial, last Octo-
ber. The court-appointed mediator 
is attorney Robert F. Riley. 
Class action lawsuits against the 
University
The first class-action lawsuit was 
filed March 9, 2020, by lead attorney 
Annika Martin of Lieff Cabraser 
Heimann & Bernstein, along with 
law firms Sauder Schelkopf and the 
Miller Law Firm. 
The class-action lawsuit was 
filed on behalf of all survivors of 
Anderson’s abuse under the repre-
sentative plaintiff and anonymous 
Anderson survivor, John Doe. It 
was amended on Sept. 10, 2020, 
to include another representative 
plaintiff and anonymous survivor, 
Richard Roe, in addition to the 
information gathered during the 
deposition of Easthope. 
In an interview with The Daily 
in September 2020, Martin spoke 
of the differences between class-
action cases and mass tort cases. 
Martin said individual cases are 
limited to monetary settlements 
and often provoke a first-to-
come-forward mentality among 
survivors, highlighting the com-
pensation disparities between the 
first group of survivors of Michigan 
State University Doctor Larry Nas-
sar to come forward as opposed to 
later groups. 

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
News
Wednesday, November 3, 2021 — 3

ADMINISTRATION
It may be the most sexual abuse allegations 
against a single person in U.S. history. What’s 
happening with Robert Anderson case? 

ELISSA WELLE 
Daily Staff Reporter

Survivors of former athletic doctor have filed individual, class-
action lawsuits against University and Board of Regents

BRIGHT SHENG
From Page 1

When Ann Arbor Public Schools 
announced a shift to remote learn-
ing for students in A2STEAM 
schools on Oct. 25, AAPS parent and 
LSA junior Patrick Gallagher said 
the announcement’s short notice 
was hard to work around. Gallagher 
said his first-grade son was not able 
to complete school work that day 
due to the online format.
“We were notified at 7:30(a.m.), 
which was 40 minutes before the 
start of the school,” Gallagher said. 
“I know a lot of parents who are 
coming from different parts of Ann 
Arbor and different parts of Washt-
enaw County, and they leave the 
house way before 7:30 to get out 
here. They were already on their 
way, there were people getting ready 
at the bus stop. It was a nightmare.”
The announcement cited a high 
amount of staff illness and short-
ages, leading to a move to remote, 
asynchronous learning. Gallagher, 
however, said the shift to remote 

instruction was not well-thought-
out, especially without proper 
learning equipment.
“They said, ‘Hey, you can do 
remote learning?’ but he is in first 
grade,” Gallagher said. “They didn’t 
hand out any devices. There was no 
real plan. They were not prepared 
for this. This was not a day of learn-
ing. My son didn’t do any school 
work.”
Prior to the Oct. 25 closure, the 
district announced on Oct. 21 that 
three of its schools — Skyline High 
School, Huron High School and 
Forsythe Middle School — would all 
have an emergency closing on Oct. 
22 due to staff shortages. Parents 
and students were notified at 9 p.m. 
the previous night. 
“This is an emergency measure 
made necessary due to numerous 
unfilled positions across the dis-
trict and an inability to fully staff 
our schools for tomorrow,” AAPS 
Superintendent 
Jeanice 
Swift 
wrote. “Taking this step to remote 
learning with these three schools 
that were most critically impacted 
by staffing challenges, will allow 

the AAPS to redeploy substitute 
personnel to assist with the short-
age of staff across other buildings 
and stretch the resources to staff the 
remaining schools.”
Most recently, on Oct. 27, Swift 
announced that all schools in the 
district will be closed on Nov. 1 to 
“safely staff” the buildings. Swift 
said this time of year also typically 
experiences low attendance rates 
due to Halloween and the Special 
Election school holiday on Nov. 2. 
Ann Arbor resident Lena Kauff-
man is the parent of a 10th-grader at 
Skyline High School and a seventh-
grader at Forsythe Middle School. 
She said her youngest had a hard 
time with the shift to remote learn-
ing, especially after experiencing a 
full year of remote instruction. 
“It was a huge surprise, espe-
cially to my middle schooler who 
reacted very strangely, which I later 
heard from friends that their middle 
schoolers also had a hard time with 
it,” Kauffman said. “She didn’t trust 
the school was going to be back the 
next day because she had this expe-
rience from the previous year … It 

made me really sad that she didn’t 
trust her school district and the 
grown-ups anymore.”
Ypsilanti resident Robyn Kaiser 
is the parent of a 10th-grader at 
Skyline High School. Kaiser said 
her son was frustrated with the 
move online and anxious about the 
possibility of more frequent clos-
ings in the future.
“(My son) was frustrated,” Kaiser 
said. “The concern was that (Swift) 
was just going to keep doing this and 
they are not going to be able to go to 
school and they will go backwards 
to where they were last year. It does 
definitely provide a level of anxiety 
for him.”
Swift sent an Oct. 22 update to 
the AAPS community, in which 
she said 112 teacher positions were 
unfilled, leading to a shift in remote 
learning.
“We take any decisions to tem-
porarily transition to remote learn-
ing very seriously as we continue to 
prioritize daily in-school learning in 
the AAPS,” Swift wrote. 

Some AAPS parents, frustrated over recent school 
closures, criticize administration’s planning

CAROLINE WANG 

Daily Staff Reporter

Superintendent cites staffing shortages as reason for school closures

Investigators at the University 
of Michigan’s Institute for Social 
Research and Graham Sustainability 
Institute 
launched 
the 
sixth 
Sustainability 
Cultural 
Indicators 
Program survey on Oct. 12. The 
survey tracks the degree to which 
members of the campus community 
are 
aware 
of 
the 
University’s 
sustainability measures and also asks 
about respondents’ personal actions to 
reduce their carbon footprint. 
The University began sending 
these annual surveys to students and 
faculty in 2012. The last version of 
the survey was in 2018, before the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The 2021 survey 
was sent to more than 20,000 students 
and 7,000 faculty and staff.
This year’s SCIP survey included a 
new section about carbon neutrality 
and was the first survey of its kind 
to be sent to students, faculty and 
staff on the U-M Flint and Dearborn 
campuses. 
John Callewaert, director of 
strategic projects in the Office of the 
Associate Dean for Undergraduate 
Education 
in 
the 
College 
of 
Engineering and an investigator at 
the Institute for Social Research, said 
the SCIP survey is unique because 
it is a longitudinal study, meaning it 
measures attitudes over time. 
“What we really wanted to do 
is measure any changes over time, 
particularly if there are ways to test 
new initiatives in part of campus and 
see if there’s a change there as a way 
to inform action in other places,” 
Callewaert said.
Alexandra 
Haddad, 
strategic 
communications manager for the 
Graham Sustainability Institute, 
said the survey aims to find out 
how the campus community feels 
about the University’s sustainability 
practices.
“What we’re measuring is not 
sustainability, like reduction in carbon 
footprint (or) … quantifiable outcomes 
and lower greenhouse gas emissions,” 
Haddad said. “We’re measuring 
how the culture of sustainability has 
changed over time at the University of 
Michigan.”
Since the survey was last sent in 
2018, U-M President Mark Schlissel 
and the Board of Regents committed 
to achieving total carbon neutrality 
for the University by 2040, achieving 
net-zero 
carbon 
emissions 
from 
purchased electricity and creating a 
plan to fully divest from fossil fuels by 
2050.

In the 2021 winter term, the Board 
of Regents voted to disinvest from 
fossil fuels following years of sustained 
student activism on campus. As a 
result, the University will no longer 
invest in the top 100 coal and top 100 
oil and gas publicly traded companies. 
Some student organizations, such 
as the Climate Action Movement, 
said the move does not go far enough 
because it still allows the University 
to invest in natural gas projects. CAM 
also criticized the slow timeline for 
divestment, because the University 
does not have to sell their existing 
fossil fuel holdings until 2050.
Callewaert said though many parts 
of the SCIP survey remained the same 
from the previous iteration, including 
questions about waste prevention, 
conservation and transportation, the 
addition of questions about carbon 
neutrality are especially relevant:
“The major change this year is 
the whole set of questions on carbon 
neutrality, given the objectives and 
priorities that the University set 
recently for getting moving towards 
carbon neutrality and setting some 
goals around really increasing efforts 
around climate action,” Callewaert 
said.
The surveys differed slightly 
between 
the 
three 
campuses, 
Callewaert said, in order to reflect the 
campuses’ unique sustainability plans.
“Particularly with the carbon 
neutrality initiative, there’s been a big 
push for the three campuses to work 
more collaboratively around some 
sustainability issues,” Callewaert said. 
“We created very similar surveys, 
but we adapted them in ways to best 
address the activities and the interests 
of the Dearborn and Flint campuses … 
We tried to make sure we were only 
asking questions that made sense at 
each campus.”
Engineering sophomore Sophie 
Cronk, a collective impact coordinator 
for 
the 
Student 
Sustainability 
Coalition, said the addition of a section 
on carbon neutrality will help people 
learn about the University’s carbon 
neutrality efforts and the President’s 
Commission on Carbon Neutrality, 
which released its final report this past 
March after two years of research. 
“It’s a really helpful addition 
because it spreads awareness about 
the PCCN to people that might not 
already know about it,” Cronk said. 
“One of the great things about the 
SCIP survey is that it goes out to … a 
broad group of students and not people 
who just engage with sustainability on 
campus.”
Daily Staff Reporter Justin O’Beirne 
can be reached at justinob@umich.edu.

Climate change survey 
tracks attitudes toward 
campus sustainability

JUSTIN O’BEIRNE 
Daily Staff Reporter

Sixth annual questionnaire sent to more than 
20,000 students, 7,000 faculty and staff

ADMINISTRATION

ANN ARBOR

KEITH MELONG/Daily
A group of survivors and students gather on the Diag calling on the University to take 
action for a safer campus Tuesday afternoon.

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


“The Fortune Men” by Nadifa Mohamed is 
a story that exists off the page. Nominated for 
the 2021 Booker Prize, “The Fortune Men” is 
based on true events, as Mohamed brings to light 
the wrongful conviction of Somali 29-year-old 
Mahmoud Hussein Mattan for the murder of 
Jewish shopkeeper, Lily Volpert. In the book, 
Mattan is referred to as ‘Mahmood,’ while Lily 
is renamed ‘Violet.’ Mattan was the last man to 
be hanged in Cardiff prison. “I wanted to make 
the line between fact and fiction imperceptible 
so [I] immersed myself in the minute details of 
Mahmood’s life so that I could almost think his 
thoughts,” said Mohamed in her Booker Prize 
Q&A. 
And that is exactly what she does. Leading up to 
the crime, we follow Mahmood as he goes through 
the motions of his everyday life. He begins at the 
Employment Exchange office, where Mohamed 
initially makes clear the racist and classist 
commentary that inform this story — “There is 
nothing worth trying for; none of the usual firms 
that can be relied upon to take coloured fellas are 
advertising” — before making his way to place bets 
at the racetrack. 
During these initial chapters, Mohamed 
intertwines the perspective of Violet Volacki, 
the shopkeeper who is later murdered; her sister, 
Diana; and Diana’s daughter, Grace. Mohamed 
includes only enough backstory for the reader to 
understand the history of the Volacki shop, opened 
by Violet’s father when he immigrated to Cardiff, 
and its prominence to the community. Everyone 
knew Violet, and she knew them; at her funeral, 
“there must have been more than two hundred 
mourners from all districts of Cardiff.” 
She was murdered in the shop after closing, 
having gone to answer the doorbell before settling 
down to eat with Diana and Grace. The latter 
remained in the adjoining dining room when 
Violet left to help the customer, each catching a 
brief glimpse of the man waiting outside the shop 
door: “A black shadow with a mouth of gold.” 
It was following Violet’s death, under the 
perspective of Diana, that I was first struck with 

the magnitude of Mohamed’s writing. “The tide 
of it all just pulling her in and pushing her out, the 
shipwreck slow and ongoing until maybe, one day, 
she will wash up on some distant, unknowable 
beach, hopefully with Grace still beside her.” 
Mohamed’s 
talent 
shines 
in 
profound, 
emotional moments of grief. Though I had wanted 
more of these heart-wrenching lines, I think 
their infrequent use was purposeful to the novel’s 
intention. While some aspects are more fictitious, 
the book is still conveying a true story, after all. 
In real life, we fail to speak in constant imagery 
and metaphor; in that sense, Mohamed strikes a 
delicate balance between these descriptive, almost 

lyrical moments and the more realistic accounts of 
trauma and injustice. 
After Violet’s death, the narration sticks to 
Mahmood’s perspective. Though there is little 
evidence beyond the general description of a 
“tall, coloured man,” Mahmood is arrested the 
day after the murder. The police try to pressure 
Mahmood into a confession, taking advantage 
of his limited English to create an intensely 
stressful environment: “Mahmood stumbles, his 
English is fracturing, words of Somali, Arabic, 
Hindi, Swahili and English clotting at once on his 
tongue.” 

The police also fail to read Mahmood his rights, 
specifically the fact that he can leave the station. 
The abuse of the police is portrayed repeatedly 
throughout the novel as they try to pin Mahmood 
for the crime. During the interrogation, Mohamed 
reveals the Chief Detective’s racist train of thought, 
demonstrating that catching the right man was 
less crucial than their desire to protect their own 
influence and power. 
Though “The Fortune of Men” is largely 
responsible for sharing Mahmoud Hussein 
Mattan’s story with a modern audience, much 
of this story is not unfamiliar. In an interview 
with The New York Times, Mohamed shares the 

following: “I’ve always seen the side of the state, 
and that’s probably why I was able to keep the 
interest in Mahmood Mattan’s story for all those 
years, because I knew this wasn’t anything that 
was changing quickly. Even now when I speak to 
the children in my family, and they talk about their 
experiences of racism, the way that the teachers 
talk to them or about them, you can see that they’re 
another generation that will have to carry on the 
struggle.”

4 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021 
Arts

Faith and injustice bloom in Nadifa Mohamed’s 
Booker-nominated ‘The Fortune Men’

LILLY PEARCE
Books Beat Editor

It’s the most wonderful time of the 
year. Fears come back from the dead and 
walk in the day. Goths thrive at midnight 
showings of “Rocky Horror” and vandals 
throw eggs at houses. And the Film Beat? 
We’re popping popcorn and crawling 
under blankets to watch some of our 
favorite scary (or just vaguely spooky) 
films. ’Tis the season for tricks and treats 
— whether we’re jumping in our skins or 
howling at the moon. Join us as we walk 
through films that remind us of the dark 
night of Halloween.
I think I was 11 the first time I 
watched “Jennifer’s Body.” I can’t be 
sure because I remember it through 
the kind of exhausted haze that only 
a middle or high school sleepover can 
induce. Through the struggle to keep 
my eyes open at one o’clock in the 
morning, trying to hide the fact that I 
usually went to bed at ten every night, I 
remember watching Megan Fox (“Night 
Teeth”) hover above a pool in a soaked, 
blood-stained white dress and elbow-
length gloves. I definitely remember 
a close-up shot of her and Amanda 
Seyfried’s 
(“Mank”) 
locked 
lips, 
lingering indulgently as they kissed, and 
I remember myself thinking, fleetingly, 
“This is making me feel a weird new 
feeling; I wonder what it could mean.”

Pretty much everything other than 
that was lost on me. I fell asleep right 
after the movie, and by the next morning, 
I’d basically forgotten I watched it at all. 
Aside from occasionally scrolling past 
that one screenshot of Fox holding a 
lighter’s flame to the end of her tongue 
when I ventured onto the emo side of 
Tumblr, I didn’t really interact with 
it again until April of this year when 
a couple of friends and I sat down to 
watch it with some cheap wine.
There are a handful of movies that fall 
into an incredibly niche genre for me 
that’s kind of hard to describe. They’re 
movies that I just know would have been 
incredibly formative had I seen them in 
my early teens. Maybe even more than 
the potential to have been formative, 
though, is that they somehow felt 
nostalgic to me upon first viewing as if I 
didn’t only get around to watching them 
in my early 20s. I connected to them 
immediately because they scratched 
an itch in a very particular part of my 
brain, so much so that it feels like I’ve 
always known them intimately. So far, 
I’ve only found three movies that fall 
into this category: “Frances Ha,” “But 
I’m a Cheerleader” and “Jennifer’s 
Body.”
It’s possible that I don’t watch enough 
horror movies to make this call, but 
as far as I know, there’s nothing like 
“Jennifer’s Body.” I’m sure there are a 
lot of movies that mix scares, gore and 

humor well, but Fox’s performance as 
Jennifer simply elevates everything. 
Jennifer is a Midwestern, late-aughts 
wannabe Kardashian, complete with 
the vocal fry, who delivers every single 
one-liner with a complete lack of self-
awareness and all of the confidence 
in the world. It makes all of the jokes 
feel like surprises. Every laugh it got 
out of me during that first rewatch 
was halfway between a laugh and an 
incredulous bark.
Take, 
for 
example, 
the 
climax 
of the movie: Jennifer and Needy 
fight in Jennifer’s bedroom. Needy’s 
brandishing a knife because she’s 
there to avenge her boyfriend, who the 
demon-possessed Jennifer killed to 
satiate her appetite for male flesh. The 
two fight, fall onto Jennifer’s bed in 
slow motion, and Needy stabs Jennifer 
in the chest. As she gasps and bleeds 
out, Jennifer croaks out quietly, “My tit 
…” These are her last words.
When the movie premiered back in 
2009, it was critically and commercially 
panned, but it’s since been revisited, 
reevaluated and redeemed as a “feminist 
cult classic.” I think of it as something of 
a rape-revenge film as well, the kind of 
movie that “Promising Young Woman” 
could only ever dream of being. Jennifer 
is killed as a virgin sacrifice by an indie 
band (yes, really) in search of fame and 
fortune, but because she’s not actually 
a virgin, she comes back as a possessed 

succubus with the insatiable urge to 
eat men. It’s easy to see why a movie 
like this would’ve been met with such 
resistance a decade ago, and why it’s so 
loved now. Women have always been 
angry, but now we’re louder about it.
The world wasn’t ready for “Jennifer’s 
Body” in its time, and, as much as I like 
to think otherwise, I can’t be sure that I 
would’ve been ready either. I suppose I 
can’t be too hard on myself about that, 
though. I was young, and I had a lot of 
internalized misogyny that would’ve 
made it hard, if not impossible, to like 
this movie. I probably would’ve found 
Jennifer grating, probably would’ve 

lied through my teeth and gushed with 
my friends about how hot Adam Brody 
(“Promising 
Young 
Woman”) 
was, 
probably would’ve walked away from it 
and then dismissed it outright as a bad 
movie.
So maybe I have to amend my earlier 
criteria 
for 
could’ve-been-formative 
movies because the reality is that I 
just wasn’t smart enough to enjoy 
“Jennifer’s Body” for the vast majority 
of my tween/teen years. Instead, I 
should say that, if I’d been able to fully 
appreciate them, movies like “Jennifer’s 
Body” would’ve helped me become a 
better person sooner.

Frights, Camera, Action: ‘Jennifer’s Body’

KATRINA STEBBINS
Daily Arts Writer

Design by Madison Grosvenor

Cover art for “The Fortune Men” owned by Viking.

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com

David M. Dennison 
Collegiate Professor 
of Physics

QUESTS AND 
DISCOVERIES 
AT THE ENERGY 
FRONTIER

Thursday, November 4, 2021 | 4:00 p.m. | Weiser Hall, 10th Floor

LSA COLLEGIATE LECTURE

A public lecture and reception; you may attend in person or virtually. 
For more information, including the Zoom link, visit events.umich.
edu/event/84263 or call 734.615.6667.

JIANMING 
QIAN

A public lecture and reception; you may attend in person or 
virtually. For more information, including the Zoom link, visit 
events.umich.edu/event/84264 or call 734.615.6667.

Rhys Isaac Collegiate 
Professor of History
Susan 
Juster 

 Mumbling 
Masses and 
Jumbling 
Beads”

Wednesday, November 10 2021 | 4:00 p.m. | Weiser Hall, 10th Floor

LSA COLLEGIATE LECTURE

Finding Catholics 
in Early America

“

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Yellow is not always the warm 
color everyone thinks it is. 
People always seem to assume 
that things that carry the color 
yellow automatically convey the 
spirit of the color: the warmth of 
the sun, the prosperity of coins, 
the sweetness of a ripe banana. 
Besides the fact that the sun is 
a blinding ball of heat, music 
made with this color possesses 
so much more than warmth. 
Like 
afternoon 
shadows, 
yellow covers a ground that is 
constantly shifting.
In “yellow is the color of 
her eyes” by Soccer Mommy, 
all of this yellow holds intense 
grief. It is the warmth of the 
sun, yes, but also her mother’s 
illness. When I think of yellow, 
I often picture it as a solid 
color block. My mind becomes 
a length of yellow, stretching 
out and wrapping over the 
insides of my eyes. But, as any 
painter will tell you, colors 
never 
exist 
as 
something 
defined by a singular word. 
Yellow is not one bright shade, 
providing a beach backdrop 
to everything. In this song, 
yellow ribbons are wrapped 
around her melancholy, tying 
everything together, gathering 
many emotions into one song as 
her mother’s illness fades into 
yellow.
Yellow is unexpectedly the 
color of loss. This is again the 
case with “Big Yellow Taxi” 
by Joni Mitchell (a woman 
determined to give her listeners 
a color palette). The song is 
upbeat, the color is specified, 
but the content is sad. It 
details someone, possibly a 
lover or father, leaving her 
unexpectedly in the middle of 
the night. Yellow and love have 
their fingers linked and their 
hair braided together, a mix at 
times goofy and at other times 
melancholic. 
Somehow, 
this 
song is both.
“Yellow Eyes” by Rayland 
Baxter 
carries 
mostly 
melancholy. It has the syrup 
of heartbreak in it, the kind 
so sad that it’s also kind of 
lovely. There is a kind of 
light 
engulfing 
the 
song, 
unclear 
whether 
from 
the 

sun or elsewhere. The song 
carries its subject tenderly, 
acknowledging that yellow is 
more breakable than we think.
It’s funny to think of a color as 
an object. How many different 
emotions can yellow objects 
convey? There is the slow drip 
of yellow-honeyed love in “Just 
Like Honey” by The Jesus and 
Mary Chain. It does not rush 
itself to you; it acknowledges 
that it is worth the wait.
Meanwhile, in “Yellow” by 
Myles Cameron, the romantic 
pair is suspended in a yellow 
hour, mangos hanging around 
them and daisies at their feet. 
And, of course, the classic 
“Yellow Submarine” by The 
Beatles 
submerges 
you 
in 
an ocean of pure weirdness. 
However, 
even 
this 
is 
not 
straightforward in its drug-
induced state. “Lucy In The 
Sky With Diamonds,” also by 
The Beatles, features yellow as 
well in its color-heavy lyrics. 
There is a swirling confusion 
added to the color. Unlike most 
confusions, 
there’s 
nothing 
ominous or worrying about 
them, but it does introduce 
an added layer to an already 
complex color.
“Yellow” 
by 
Coldplay 
is 
viewed as a top-tier love song, 
as evidenced by its recent 
incorporation 
into 
TikTok 
culture. People will post about 
their significant others to the 
tune of the song, answering the 
question, “Who’s your yellow?” 
To give someone a whole color, 
to allow them to fully take 
up its meaning, is a powerful 
thing. But in the song itself, the 
love is parasitic. When you give 
absolutely 
everything 
inside 
yourself to love, what is the 
point of separation between 
romance and breaking? When 
everything turns one color, does 
everything become the same?
There is an excitement to 
yellow — there is an excitement 
to any color — but does one want 
to experience love as the same 
shade?
The 
loophole 
of 
this, 
perhaps, is that yellow holds 
infinite things in its pockets. 
Surprisingly, yellow is rarely 
used to be the sun; yellow is 
specified as its own thing. It has 
a deep identity overwhelmingly 
its own.

Music in yellow: 
A shifting

ROSA SOFIA KAMINSKI
Daily Arts Writer

Design by Erin Shi


Wolverine claws, orgasms and Goop. 
This seemingly-odd combination takes 
the screen in Netflix’s new show: “Sex, 
Love & Goop.”
Gwyneth Paltrow, along with a cast of 
sexological experts, tackle couples’ sex 
problems in hopes of enhancing their 
intimacy; they explore some interesting 
techniques to make sex lives more 
pleasurable. This even includes the 
incorporation of a wok cleaner (which 
is typically meant for the kitchen) into 
foreplay. And so, while it may be hard to 
admit, the show is so out of the ordinary 
that it’s not only engaging, it’s addictive.
In 2008, Gwyneth created Goop as 
a “homespun weekly newsletter” that 
covered things like food, style, wellness 

and travel. However, the website gained 
a lot of popularity as a result of its self-
care advice and taboo items for sale 
— including a $75 candle called “This 
Smells Like My Vagina.”
So, when Gwyneth turned Goop into 
a six-part therapy docuseries, it came 
as no surprise that sex would be its 
main premise. Still, it’ll always be a bit 
shocking to turn on the first episode 
of a new show and hear the phrase, 
“You have total permission to have an 
erection.” 
The couples are warned off the 
bat: “(The show is) probably going to 
be a little embarrassing and weird.” 
This warning goes for the viewer, too. 
Naturally, one can only feel second-
hand embarrassment from watching 
half-naked people sensually touching 
each other in front of a sex expert and 
a camera crew. Presumably, intimacy is 

not so intimate when it’s being filmed for 
a TV show. 
“Sex, Love & Goop” takes sex 
education to another level. Each couple 
is paired with an expert who helps them 
discover what they find pleasurable. 
First, they take a quiz that teaches 
them what kind of sex they enjoy most: 
erotic, sensual, kinky, etc. Then, with 
this newfound information, the couples 
explore this type of sex to see what each 
person enjoys most. 
Depending upon this, the couple 
is then given a variety of sex toys or 
introduced to intimate “games.” This is 
where the Wolverine claws come into 
play. While some may argue that this is 
a prop that should remain on the set of 
“X-Men,” others enjoy incorporating it 
into their sex routine to spice things up 
with some added sensual touch.
The series does a good job of 

incorporating 
people 
and 
couples 
of different ages, races and sexual 
orientations. In doing so, the viewer is 
able to better connect with those they 
see on the screen and, therefore, will 
be able to get more out of the show and 
effectively incorporate the advice given 
in to their own sex lives. 
After watching the pilot of “Sex, Love 
& Goop,” you may be asking, “What did 
I just experience?” But it’s hard to resist 
the urge to keep watching. The show is 
made for anyone, whether it be someone 
with plenty of sexual experiences or 
someone with no experience at all. This 
is even reflected among the couples on 
the show whose experience levels vary or 
sexual preferences seem incompatible. 
For instance, one partner may rate kinky 
sex as the most pleasurable for them 
while the other partner might rank it as 
the least pleasurable. The show’s main 

goal is to bridge that gap by finding each 
couple’s happy medium when it comes to 
sexual pleasure and intimacy.
While the show is occasionally cringe-
worthy and very blunt when it comes 
to the birds and the bees, the audience 
can’t help but relate to the people they 
see on the screen. Regardless of sexual 
orientation, age, race or relationship 
status, intimacy is a topic that is 
often difficult to discuss. It requires 
conversation, and that is exactly what 
Gwyneth’s show attempts to facilitate.
The series is most definitely out of 
the ordinary. Understandably so, most 
people can’t imagine repairing the 
intimacy of their relationship on a TV 
show. It’s watching other people do it, 
though, that makes it that much more 
entertaining. And who knows — maybe 
you, too, will become a sex expert after 
binging “Sex, Love & Goop.”

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
Arts
Wednesday, November 3, 2021 — 5

The University of Michigan has long been 
characterized by its robust offering of dining 
options, treating those lucky, dining-plan-
endowed students to a wide range of meals 
and eating experiences. Campus Culture 
writers took to exploring the various corners 
of the campus’s dining options to discover 
what draws students to these particular 
spaces, three times a day, seven days a week.
During our last installment of Campus 
Culture reviews: Dining Hall edition, Arts 
writers explored the copious displays at South 
Quad Residence Hall dining, the endearing 
nostalgia of Mosher-Jordan Residence Hall 
and frat row’s safe haven: Twigs at Oxford 
Residence Hall.
For our second installment, Arts writers 
dive into reviewing three more dining spaces: 
North Campus’s infamous Bursley Residence 
Hall, State Street’s North Quad Residence Hall 
and Central Campus’s charming, sustainably 
friendly oasis: East Quad Residence Hall.
In-person dining is back, and we could not 
be more excited to write about it.
— Grace Tucker, Campus Culture Senior Arts 
Editor

Bursley Residence Hall: The place you 
love to hate
Oh, Bursley, you hold such a special place 
in my heart. Where else would I go to eat a 
spicy black bean burger on a Sunday? Where 
else would I go to consume as many carbs as 
humanly possible? Yet … this year, your dining 
hall is far from perfection.
The Bursley Dining Hall, nestled in the 
heart of North Campus, feels busy at best 
and overwhelming at worst. The cafeteria 
is hosting its usual pre-pandemic swarm, 
making the ambiance even more abysmal than 
the foods’ tastefulness. Not to say the food is 
chef’s kiss, rather, Chef Boyardee. 
Finding my meal was a journey in and of 
itself. Wading through intermingled lines 
that lead into different food stations while 
trying to get to the salad bar felt like merging 
into oncoming traffic. I have to ask: Why 
were there only four measly areas to get food, 
as compared to the up-to-10 that usually 
populates other dining halls? Why has it 
become so difficult to get a full meal on one 
plate? 
Don’t even get me started on the plates. 
THE PLATES. There are no plastic trays, no 
compostable food containers — just paper 
plates that you would get at your aunt’s 
barbeque in the park. Appetizer-sized — not 
even enough space for an entrée. And because 
you can’t get enough food the first time, people 
have to go back into the lines to get more, 
making the already-tedious lines worse. 
A plus in the sea of minuses: I did enjoy 

the food preparation. Seeing the salad bar 
felt great. Everything was well-stocked and 
well-manicured. The dressings didn’t seem 
too askew, and the feta was crumbled with 
gourmet perfection. So, kudos to the food prep 
people — you did what needed to be done! 
Still, from the corner of my eye, I saw 
something so devastating that it deserves its 
own review: The trash.

A row of trash cans lined the window, filled 
with the miscellaneous heapings of food and 
utensils. Having to see the number of plates 
consumed at Bursley shook me, even knowing 
they were compostable. I never noticed how 
much waste goes into a fully-opened dining 
hall until it was consolidated into a row of 
garbage before me. 
Bursley, I love you to the moon and back. 
My time spent within your walls was well-
enjoyed, along with the food. Nevertheless, if I 
were a resident now, I would not feel the same 
way.
— Matthew Eggers, Daily Arts Writer

North Quad: Take-out 2.0
One of the greatest features of North Quad 
dining is that after the routine Mcard swipe, 
you only need a five-second tour of the place to 
get familiar with what’s on the menu. 
That statement may have been too kind. 
Compared to the other dining halls, North 
Quad can feel small and limited in variety. 
For those with dietary restrictions, there’s 
nothing worse than swiping in to discover the 
bane of your existence: the inevitable salad 
bar. However, if you find yourself in a tight 
spot on a weekday, with just five seconds to 
grab-and-go, there are enough options there 
for its coziness to turn into comfort, especially 
in knowing that you’ll make it to class on time.
But, I already knew all of this from 
my freshman year visits. Seeking a new 
experience, I went for a late Saturday brunch. 
It was 1:20 in the afternoon, yet most students 
were still opting for the breakfast options — 

and, as I quickly found out, for good reason. I 
followed suit by helping myself to the breakfast 
classics.
While the scrambled eggs, sausages and 
French toast sticks were satisfying in that 
reliable, dining hall sort-of-way, the lunch 
entrees missed the mark. Pizziti offered a 
strange combination of picadillo, beans and 
baby carrots that I never quite figured out 

(especially the carrots — mine were raw, 
which was fine, except they were hilariously 
disguised as cooked with sprinkles of pepper), 
and the pizza just barely satisfied my Joe’s 
Pizza craving. With the scarcity of good lunch 
options this day, the next time I find myself 
there, I might play it safe with the sandwich 
bar or stick to the “breakfast” part of brunch.
As I cleared my table, I noticed an exciting 
upgrade to the hall: the waste area. Praising 
the corner that deals with post-meal messes 
may sound like an insult, but it’s the opposite. 
The waste area boasted a refreshing change; 
every item I’d grabbed since walking in, from 
trays to utensils, was compostable. 
Two years ago, North Quad was the place 
frequented for its convenience. During my 
year online, I’d wondered what had changed; 
while many aspects had remained, the one 
change I noticed made the convenience I’d 
regarded North Quad with better. Since 
COVID-19, take-out meals have exposed us 
to another pandemic: single-use plastics. At 
North Quad, however, I know that my meal 
won’t have negative effects, and this, more 
than anything, may be my newest “greatest 
feature” of North Quad.
— Priscilla Kim, Daily Arts Writer

East Quad: the Residential College’s 
intimate oasis
Truthfully, my freshman year was a blur, 
from start to finish, but one thing I know for 
certain is that the only dining hall I ever went 
to, besides South Quad, was North Quad — I 
recall that day’s menu looking more appealing, 

but I think I also might have had back-to-back 
midterms in the Modern Languages Building 
and Burton Tower. 
Two years later, a whole different person 
walked into the East Quad dining hall just in 
time for “linner.” Lunch/dinner, that is. It was 
4:56 p.m. to be more precise, and my stomach 
had been making noises for a while. College 
will do that to you — neglect meals, pile them 
up, eat twice as much in one sitting so you’re 
filled for longer, adopt odd schedules or abolish 
them altogether. 
As I walked in, two things caught my 
attention: an Afrobeat song that was playing 
oddly loud and a smell of bleach that brought 
me back to middle school lunches — when all 
the kids had left for the playground and the 
floor was already being mopped, but I had to 
stay behind until I ate the collard greens. 
This dining hall was ¼ the size of South 
Quad, and not knowing what station had what 
food was both fun and annoying. I hadn’t 
missed having to do five trips from the food 
stations to the table and back again, sitting 
on uncomfortable chairs and overhearing 
conversations that I didn’t care for from people 
who forgot they weren’t alone. 
Off I went, discovering what was being 
offered for us vegetarians. I was glad to see 
the vegan stand “24 Carrots,” where they 
were serving seitan bites with squash and a 
rice bowl with guac and pico de gallo. Before 
I actually review the food, I will say that I 
forgot how painfully cringeworthy some of 
the names of these stands were. 
Of course, a meal in a dining hall is nothing 
without an excess of plates — I went back 
and got cucumbers in tzatziki sauce, a farro 
and tomato bowl and a mix of edamame, one 
broccoli floret and some crumbled feta from 
the salad stand. I can’t tell you what dressing 
I went for. Trying to figure out what they are 
is like a silly game of who’s-who. Based on the 
10 different dressings and their complicated 
names, which seemed most like sesame 

vinaigrette? Because to me, not one looked like 
a vinaigrette but more like vicious and dense 
meta-sauce. Also, to my demise, the olive oil 
was nowhere to be found. 

I sat down at a table on the far back, past all 
the stands and next to nobody — just how I like 
it. I assembled my plates, picked the pepper 
up and sprinkled a ridiculous amount on top 
of basically everything. Now, I know they say 
that you should never season your food before 
trying it, as it’s an offense to the chef but … let’s 
call it a need. 
Overall, I can’t say I didn’t enjoy myself. 
I was underwhelmed with the seitan bites, 
a plant-based protein made from gluten, 
which felt like biting down into a shoe sole — 
a sensation I hadn’t felt since before I turned 
vegetarian and I ate school steaks. It became 
alright when I started mixing it with the 
tzatziki and the farro. It was like being in 
Greece, Italy and France altogether. And 
Spain of course; nothing screams Spain louder 
than the tapas-sized bowls and plates in the 
University’s dining halls. 
Although the options were more limited 
than in South Quad, there was an intimacy 
that came with being at a smaller dining hall 
— I noticed the extra care put into everything, 
the quiet murmur of students unlike the 
unnecessarily high decibels of South Quad 
and not having to put up with the frustrating 
and sad chaos of lining up to get a bagel. 

Campus Culture reviews: Dining hall edition, Part 2

‘Sex, Love & Goop’ takes sex education to a new level

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

File Photo/DAILY

GRACE TUCKER, MATTHEW EGGERS, 
PRISCILLA KIM AND CECILIA DURAN
Senior Arts Editor and Daily Arts Writers

MOLLY HIRSCH
Daily Arts Writer

File Photo/DAILY

File Photo/DAILY

The pains of sharing a photo 
on Instagram are almost never 
ending. A pimple too big, a filter 
too “cheugy” and a smile too large 
can all be deemed a final flaw. Even 
after finding the right photo, there 
is still the aesthetic to consider — 
pulling and twisting a photo you 
love to fit into the dollhouse that 
is your profile page. This pre-post 
step is mandatory: You have to clean 
up the clutter in an image, so it can 
perfectly occupy an ornate frame 
like an open house nightmare.
To be honest, this elaborate 
process is all too much for me. I 
haven’t posted on Instagram in, like, 
a year. Or, well, I haven’t posted on 
my “main” account that is. During 
the summer, I cultivated my “fake 
Instagram,” a.k.a finsta, as a chaotic 
conglomeration of bad poetry and 
midnight escapades to all 10 of my 
followers. This smaller, private 

account allowed me to vent about 
my feelings and post about private 
life in a way that my main account 
could never allow. Why in the world 
would I want my aunt — one of my 
many main-Instagram followers — 
to know when I’m clubbing, cruising 
and crashing?
Unlike Facebook, there is a 
level of anonymity that is fostered 
on Instagram. You’re allowed to 
have multiple accounts under the 
same contact information. In fact, 
these accounts aren’t considered 
connected to each other, giving the 
Gen Z user the freedom to make 
as many niche, obscure accounts 
as their heart desires. And the 
birth of finsta was inevitable after 
Instagram became mainstream. 
When you have hundreds of 
followers, finding a post that makes 
everyone happy is overwhelming. 
What might be funny to your college 
friends is “blasphemy” in the eyes of 
your uncle.
As opposed to these anonymous, 
niche accounts, the level of reality 
depicted 
on 
main 
Instagram 

accounts is abysmal. There is a 
saturated market for face editing 
apps. There are websites that will 
create special instagram caption 
fonts for your next post. On some 
apps, you even have the ability to 
track how and when your followers 
frequent your account.
But running a personal Instagram 
shouldn’t feel like being a marketing 
manager. 
Consolidating 
photos 
that are cohesive to your account’s 
“aesthetic” can look super cute, but 
is it true to oneself? To get those 
photos means leaving parts yourself 
out of the picture. Setting up photos 
at brunch feels a little artificial if you 
wouldn’t be caught awake before 1 
p.m. on a weekend.
Social 
media 
shouldn’t 
feel 
limiting. Posting on your main page 
shouldn’t feel like adding set pieces 
to a retail display. It should feel like 
sharing what you love with people 
who care.
Sure, I have that sense of 
authentic closeness among my 10 
finsta followers, but at what cost? 
Why lead this Hannah Montana 

fantasy — with girl-next-door Miley 
on a finsta and popstar Hannah 
on the main — when it is easier to 
just cultivate an authentic digital 
persona on one main account? 
Crusty dog photos, crying selfies 
and all? 
Gen Z has taken note of these 
questions, and Instagram culture 
has shifted. People don’t use their 
finstas as much, maybe because the 
pandemic showed just how tiring 
performing on social media can be 
in the end. Now, mains are messier 
— in a good way.
It starts out small. A post of a 
sunset is met with a Vine (a.k.a. an 
extinct TikTok predecessor) quote. 
Suddenly, 
Twitter 
screenshots 
are used to punctuate the ends of 
slideshow posts. You repost content 
from @umichaffirmations more 
often. Insta stories are now home 
to Spotify recommendations and 
blurry candid photos. 
I appreciate the candidness of 
the people I follow. Their mains are 
messy in a way that a room is lived 
in. Sometimes you don’t make your 

bed, and that is okay. Sometimes 
you have pit stains when taking a 
selfie, and that is also okay. Your pit 
sweat shouldn’t kill your happiness 
just like the assortment of cups 
that adorn your room isn’t clutter, 
but chic. I mean, my room right 
now is college-core, raccoon-eye 
chic; interior design is not my main 
concern.
The spaces we exist in shouldn’t 
be 
ready-made 
store 
displays. 

Instagram shouldn’t feel like the 
dorm room shown to you during a 
campus tour. Social media is not the 
room where all your dirty clothes, 
mismatched socks and retainers are 
thrown in the closet. That is so 2015. 
Let the chachkas you love and 
collect bathe in the sun. For so long, 
I thought social media was a thing to 
be graded or gawked at. But it can be 
something to explore and grow into 
when you get messy on main.

More than (Facebook) friends

HANNAH CARAPELLOTTI
Daily Arts Contributor

Design by Sonali Narayan


Every time I pass a Walgreens or CVS, I 
remember how I used to pace down the candy 
aisle while my dad chose photos to print out of all 
our family pictures saved on a chunky, silver 2010 
digital camera.
It was a monthly occurrence because of the 
hundreds of photos that would pile up on his SD 
card. My dad always carried the camera with him, 
only letting go of it when he’d set it on the nightstand 
to sleep. In addition to birthdays, weddings and 
all the other holidays scattered throughout the 
year, he would pull out 
the camera without 
reason on any given 
day — whether to snap 
a picture of my sister 
and me on a random 
Tuesday before leaving 
for school or to take 
a picture of my mom 
eating at the dinner table. 
My fondest memory is 
of a photoshoot of my 
siblings and me in our 
unkempt living room, 
getting ready to run an errand at Costco. I was the 
most enthusiastic, cheesing in all the pictures and 
asking to hold my then three-month-old brother 
as if he were a prop, while my sister groaned to 
get out of the house sooner. We were not dressed 
up whatsoever, but I love those photos because 
they capture the personalities of my siblings and 
me. On weekends when my mom was working, 
my dad would take us to the supermarket during 
her shift to get pictures with her. He found art in 
what anyone else would call an ordinary moment, 
so you can only imagine how crazy my dad went 
about taking pictures during a vacation. All these 
photos still live on numerous SD cards, but he was 
very selective of which ones made it to the glossy 
black albums. The printed photos needed to be 
both crisp and flattering, and he wanted to see big, 
toothy smiles. But occasionally, he liked to print 
out the candids and raw moments of our lives. 
So accompanying birthday pictures in which my 
sister and I awkwardly stare at the camera while 
feeding each other cake, there’s also the picture of 
us arguing over how much cake she’d gobbed onto 
the spoon. My dad wanted the albums to be real 
windows into our lives, not just the picturesque 
moments. The end product of his artistry was a 
dozen or so photo albums filled with snapshots 
across the years. It became my favorite pastime to 
flip through the albums on rainy summer days and 
talk through the memory behind each photo with 
my little brother. He is eight years younger than me 
and knows nothing of the blaring camera flash and 
my dad directing us to smile. 
The camera is now tucked away at the bottom 
of the nightstand drawer where it has remained 
since 2012. There haven’t been any more trips 
to Walgreens or CVS either. After all, it is more 
efficient and cost-effective to leave everything up to 
the Cloud. 
Printing photos is a lost art — one that I had 
adored. The beauty of holding a physical photo is 
unmatched. I know I am not going to pull up my 
Instagram account when I eventually show my 
future kids old photos. So over the quiet Fall Break 
amid feelings of homesickness, I sifted through my 
camera roll with my own criteria. 
Unlike my dad, I printed the photos that 
brought up lengthy, funny stories without needing 
the marker of a perfect smile — ones that simply 
emanate pure bliss and happiness. Our eyes speak 
before our mouth does: It was an art lesson I didn’t 

take too seriously besides noting that I had to sketch 
eyes before anything else in a portrait. Yet, the 
saying stuck as I flipped back and forth through 
photos trying to find the best ones to print. 
I chose pictures of my friends and me posing 
against a glimmering New York City skyline on the 
40th floor of my friend’s building. Other pictures 
were shaky from my friend laughing too hard 
behind the camera at our sleepovers and snapshots 
of my friends and me smiling at one another, deep 
in our conversations and often unaware of the 
camera’s presence. I picked photos that my sister 
would never allow me to post anywhere but are 
easily some of our funniest moments. I printed 
photos of my friend curled up, sleeping, during our 
two-day drive down 
to Florida this July. My 
favorite picture — and 
one that my dad would 
probably 
dislike 
the 
most — is one of me in 
a mask. All you can see 
are my eyes, but that’s all 
you need to see to know 
how insanely happy I 
was in that moment. 
I didn’t even wait 30 
seconds before tearing 
open the Walgreens 
envelope of photos in the middle of Halloween 
candy specials and various shaving gels. My dad 
always gave me the honor of opening the pictures 
on the car ride home, but I had long forgotten 
what that childhood excitement felt like until now. 
From the smell of freshly printed photos (almost 
woodlike) to the saturated vibrance of each color, I 
welcomed this love for printed photos once again. 
Every picture was already special to me, but now 
they seemed alive as I felt the warm, satiny paper 
against my cold fingers. 
On the walk home, I questioned why my dad 
ever stopped printing photos. For just about $10, the 
feeling was beyond magical. Such special moments 
were now eternalized onto a glossy four-by-six 
card. No massive digital folder of JPEGs could 
replace that. But now, instead of wondering why 
we ever stopped, I’m glad to adopt his dedication to 
both capturing the beautiful moments and making 
many trips to Walgreens. I already put in another 
order to print copies of my favorite photos, adding 
envelopes and post stamps to my cart as well. 
On the back of each photo, I wrote a little 
inscription of the dates and places that they were 
taken, inside jokes and a signature. I am sending 
them to friends as a tangible piece of our summer, 
hoping the physical photo brings them some 
warmth as the months get colder. Even though we 
are miles apart in different states and cities right 
now, these photos remind me of a movie scene. 
We would not have known it then, but every detail 
seemed to be placed perfectly from the glint of 
light in our eyes to the loose flyaways in our hair. 
The pictures show us naively enjoying each other’s 
presence without knowing the next time we’ll be 
together, young and free like this. And we remain 
like that, inked on paper.
This 
temporary 
cure 
for 
homesickness 
resurfaced an old love because now I stop in the 
middle of the Diag to capture the fall foliage even 
when I am late for class, slow down to snap a picture 
of friends walking ahead of me on a cold October 
night and take loads of close-up selfies with only 
our eyes in the frame. I capture a shot of my brother 
being hand-fed by mom, realizing I have become 
the classic, South-Asian wedding photographer who 
takes shots of guests eating, way too close, even mid-
bite. And the next shot consists of his hand stretched 
out, seconds before smacking the camera. 

Family drives were an integral part of 
my childhood. On the weekends after my 
dad came home from work, my siblings 
would all pack into his old Toyota 1996 Land 
Cruiser and he would drive us down the 
highway, always insistent 
on 
taking 
the 
scenic 
route. 
The 
seemingly 
endless Lake Michigan 
would 
glisten 
under 
the sunset sky. Golden 
rays from the sun would 
peek through the cluster 
of 
towering 
buildings, 
casting a majestic glow 
on the Chicago skyline. 
As my family’s car flew 
down Lake Shore Drive, I 
would stick my hand out 
of the backseat window 
to cut through the brisk 
gusts of the Windy City. I remember my 
dad inserting his old reggae cassettes into 
the car’s console, playing songs from the 
likes of Bob Marley and Jimmy Cliff. From 
a young age, I fell in love with the groovy 
rhythms and deep basslines that I could 
feel in my chest through the car speakers. 
My older siblings and I would jubilantly 
accompany our dad in singing the songs 
that he grew up listening to back in Nigeria. 
By a certain point, I had most of Jimmy 
Cliff’s discography stored in my permanent 
memory. I never knew where we were 
heading on these drives but I always enjoyed 
the ride.

I held these rides close to my heart 
because it was precious quality time with 
my family. It was also a time for passing 
down culture. My dad often used these 
lengthy drives as a time to tell stories 
from his youth. Whether it be the thrilling 
adventures he had with his schoolmates 
in boarding school or grim tales of living 
through the Biafra War, I knew I could 

always count on a captivating recounting 
of his childhood whenever we were in the 
car. In his boisterous tone, he intertwined 
the beauty of his home country and the 
struggles he had to endure with vivid 
imagery, suspense and the occasional 
humorous hyperbolic statement. Hearing 
these stories always made me feel closer to 
my culture that I sometimes felt estranged 
from as a first-generation American. They 
were narratives that I listened to eagerly, in 
hopes to pass them down myself someday. 
Now, my siblings are sprawled across the 
country, building their careers and pursuing 
their passions. We don’t get to be together 

anymore as often as I would like. We really 
only have the opportunity to spend time 
together over the holidays which always 
feel far too short. Over this past summer, the 
four of us got the chance to drive to the city 
together for a night out. I plugged my phone 
into the aux cord of the car and hit play on 
one of my Spotify playlists, comprised of 
the reggae music that was now part of our 
childhood as well. Still 
not grown out of my past 
ways, my arm was stuck 
out of the window, slicing 
through the breeze. While 
on the ride, we reminisced 
about these drives that we 
had, cracking jokes about 
our dad’s wild stories. I was 
pleased to discover that 
they had cherished those 
moments just as much as 
I had. We were reminded 
of the importance of those 
drives, and furthermore, 
the necessity of holding on 
to any time that we have together because 
such moments are becoming far and few 
between as we all get older.
Whenever I play songs like “Vietnam” 
by Jimmy Cliff, I’m taken back to these 
drives through the city. Suddenly, I’m 10 
years old again and life is much more simple. 
I took these moments for granted, never 
thinking that they could possibly end. Still, 
I’m grateful that I can look back on these 
car rides with a great sense of fondness. 
While these times may be far behind in my 
rearview mirror, the stories, the music and 
the memories of my family’s car drives are 
forever with me. 

6 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021
Michigan in Color

Looking back on the ride
Smiling with my eyes

UDOKA NWANSI
MiC Columnist

ZAFIRAH RAHMAN
MiC Columnist

To experience culture is a beautiful thing. 
For me, it has been a way to connect with my 
roots and engage in a number of different 
traditions made by and for people who look 
like me. If someone were to have asked me a 
couple of years ago what my favorite aspect of 
my culture was, I would have said music. I have 
always had a deep admiration for the way my 
people can use rhythms, harmonies and lyrics 
to evoke emotion in an audience. However, as 
I am approaching post-grad adulthood, my 
outlook has started to shift. Since I will soon 
have the responsibility of preparing all of my 
meals, the idea of cooking has been weighing 
more heavily on my mind. Because of this, 
when I reflect on my experiences with my 
culture, I am more likely to do it through the 
lens of food and cooking. This has caused me 
to realize the role that food has played in my 
interactions with my culture.
I come from a family that likes to eat, so by 
extension, we have always valued the ability 
to cook. Some of my favorite family memories 
involve helping to prepare food: whether 
it be baking the sweet potato pie, helping 
to season the chicken before it gets fried or 
slow cooking the collard greens. And, as one 
can imagine, eating was just as enjoyable. In 
these cases, eating this food is an embrace of 
the time I spent, and my family spent, to craft 
it, and it is a means through which I bond 
with my community. From random Sunday 
dinners with my parents and siblings to a 
Thanksgiving celebration with my extended 
family, I have gained a greater sense of 
appreciation for the ways in which food has 
served as a pinnacle of culture and connection 
in the Black community.
My upbringing cultivated a love in me for my 
culture, as well as a curiosity for other cultures, 
which I brought with me to college. Being at the 

University of Michigan, I have been exposed 
to more cultures and more opportunities to 
learn about them than ever. The University 
of Michigan provides different ways for me to 
develop this knowledge, whether it be through 
classes or student organizations. However, 
given the self-proclaimed “foodie” status I 
earned throughout my upbringing, with a 
photo album in my camera dedicated to food 
pictures as proof, my first instinct was to get 
a taste of these different cultures. I decided to 
explore the restaurants on and near campus 
that are inspired by different places around 
the world. I have since made a tradition out of 
going out to experience food from these places 
when I am looking for exposure to different 
cultures. In honor of this tradition of mine, and 
the joy it brings me, I want to share some of my 
favorite places so far. 
Frita Batidos: This campus favorite is 
located near Ann Arbor’s Kerrytown district. 
Michigan native Eve Aronoff Fernandez 
opened this Cuban street food eatery as a 
love letter to the Cuban culture that she 
was immersed in when she would visit her 
grandmother in Miami as a child. She became 
a chef for dinners with family and friends first, 
which led to restaurant jobs before opening a 
place of her own. As someone who has been to 
Frita’s countless times, I can say that the decor 
greatly reflects the family-style atmospheres 
that inspired the creation of this restaurant. 
The fairy lights and white picnic tables create 
the perfect ambiance for a “family dinner” 
amongst friends. Nonetheless, the restaurant 
still possesses an air of sophistication. The 
same things can be said about the food. As 
the name, “Fritas” (burgers) and “Batidos” 
(tropical milkshakes) are the main attraction 
here. The casual nature of this food makes it 
clear why it is called street food. Yet, one bite 
of the warm and savory Frita and one sip of the 
rich and sweet Batido makes it obvious why 
this place is not only my favorite restaurant 
near campus but the favorite of so many others. 

If you’re checking out this eatery for the first 
time or looking for something new, I suggest 
the chicken or fish Frita with a passionfruit 
Batido — my classic order.
Jamaican Jerk Pit: Jamaican native Robert 
Campbell runs Jamaican Jerk Pit, which is 
conveniently located on South Thayer Street. 
If the name doesn’t give you enough clues, the 
decor makes it undeniable what Campbell and 
his eatery are serving up: authentic Jamaican 
plates. When I walked inside for the first time, 
a sea of bright colors caught my eye: greens, 
yellows and reds to be exact, and a multitude 
of different countries’ flags — most notably 
Jamaica’s. However, Jamaican Jerk Pit serves 
more than just Jamaican food. They prepare 
dishes from all the Caribbean islands. Despite 
having a menu with several quality options, 
including oxtails, I am guilty of getting the same 
thing every time I come: the Jerk Chicken Pasta. 
With that being said, I have been to events that 
served Jamaican Jerk Pit’s plantains, and it’s 
safe to say that my love for the dish grew from 
there. The restaurant as a whole honestly never 
disappoints. 
Jerusalem Garden: This restaurant has a 
heartwarming story to complement its delicious 
food. Ribhi Ramlawi was born in a village near 
Jerusalem in 1934 and founded Ann Arbor’s 
Jerusalem Garden in 1987 using severance pay 
from his former job. Fast forward 44 years and 
his family-run restaurant is beloved by many 
in the Ann Arbor area, making it clear that his 
investment was worth it. This place sticks out 
in my mind — and my taste buds — because it 
is where I tried falafel for the first time. Up until 
being introduced to Jerusalem Garden, falafel 
was a dish that I had constantly heard about 
but never had the opportunity to try for myself. 
This restaurant is also one that I will never 
forget because Middle Eastern food was not a 
type of food that I would have ever thought to 
put on my list to try, just due to the fact that I 
had never been properly introduced to it, but I 
am extremely glad that I did.

Cuppy’s Best Soul Food: This restaurant 
has a special place in my heart. The only time 
I have traditional Black American cuisine on 
campus is when an event is catered by Cuppy’s. 
Eating their food always makes me feel like I am 
at home, and when I looked into the restaurant’s 
origins, it made sense why I feel that way. The 
founders of the establishment, Andrea “Cuppy” 
White and Joseph Jones, started this restaurant 
from their homes, where they would offer 
catering services to small events in the area. 
They would also cook meals for people 
on the weekends. When their homemade 
cuisine gained traction, they were able to buy 
a building and turn their passion into a full-
scale business. Unlike the other spots that I 
recommend, which are located in Ann Arbor, 
this restaurant is located in Ypsilanti, but 
the opportunity to have a plate full of fried 
chicken, candied yams and collard greens 
makes the drive worth it.
Tea Ninja: I think one of the biggest (life-
changing!) discoveries that I have made since 
coming to college is how good bubble tea, the 
traditionally Taiwanese drink, is. I may have 
tried it once before when I was younger, but 
having access to multiple places on campus 
expanded my love for the drink tremendously. 
When Bubble Island was still around, I would 
make it a point to get a Mooberry Tea with 
tapioca pearls and a Mango Mochi ice cream 
whenever it was warm outside (and sometimes 
even when it was cold). With Bubble Island 
unfortunately closing during the pandemic, I 
have used this year to experiment with new 
campus boba spots and new bubble tea orders. 
I have been consistently going to Tea Ninja 
because it was recommended by many boba 
tea lovers like myself. Like most boba places, 
it is a reliable place to go for a Classic Milk 
Tea or a Mooberry Tea (strawberry milk tea). 
As far as experimenting, Tea Ninja offers a 
load of creative flavors, including the “Brown 
Sugar Creme Brûlée with Milk” tea which 
is absolutely phenomenal. When it comes to 

sweetness levels, many bubble tea places give 
customers the option to adjust how sweet the 
drink is to fit their personal preferences. Given 
my insatiable sweet tooth, I usually get one of 
the highest sweetness levels they offer, but it 
all depends on the drink. I am on a mission to 
find the perfect sweetness level for each drink 
I get.
As I take on my last year of college, I have 
embraced my affinity for trying different 
cultural foods. I have let my adventurous 
eating inspire parts of my senior year bucket 
list. At the top of my list is trying Blue Nile, 
an Ethiopian restaurant on East Liberty St. 
With its plethora of vegetarian options, and 
the experience of eating with your hands that 
is not found often in Ann Arbor, it is a place I 
have been yearning to try, as I’ve heard endless 
positive reviews from family. Another place on 
my list is Slurping Turtle, which is brought up, 
without fail, anytime I tell someone that I like 
to eat Japanese food. 
My food-tasting tradition stems from 
more than just my foodie nature and my 
desire to get a break from the dining hall. For 
me, trying foods from different parts of the 
world has served as one way to appreciate 
various cultures in a way that is respectful and 
engaging. It has also inspired me to learn more 
about these cultures outside of their culinary 
traditions. For example, while working toward 
my fluency in Spanish, learning about the 
Cuban origins of Frita Batidos has inspired 
me to take Spanish classes that not only teach 
the language, but also focus on the culture of 
Spanish-speaking countries. Also, given that 
Jamaica is a prominent part of the African 
diaspora, I have recently developed an interest 
in understanding the similarities between 
Jamaican cultural history and African 
American cultural history. All in all, using 
food as a form of cultural exploration has been 
satisfying to my stomach as well as my soul, 
and I plan to keep the tradition alive wherever 
I find myself after graduation. 

A list for the cultural foodie

KAYLA THOMAS
MiC Columnist 

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com

Courtesy of Zafirah Rahman

Design by Janice Lin

 Read more at MichiganDaily.com

My favorite part about the cold is seeking 
out warmth. I love being able to put on a 
sweater in the morning and bundle up in my 
blankets, letting the cloth form a protective 
cocoon around me. The warmth derived 
from the cold is different from the heat of 
summer — it comforts me without being 
restrictive, and its elusiveness in the chill of 
the fall makes me appreciate it more. 
It isn’t enough to just warm the outside 
of my body with a jacket, though. The cold 
also makes me crave the comfort of the 
simplest food on Earth: soup. Drinking a 
hot bowl of soup while it’s raining outside 
feels like the greatest luxury in the world. 
My anxiety melts away as the soup goes 
down my throat, warming me from within 
and convincing me that this bowl of soup is 
really all that I need to survive. 
I’ve done ridiculous things for soup. I 
once waited outside in near-freezing rain 
for a cup of lamb and vegetable soup, and the 
satisfaction of drinking it in my apartment 
made me forget about the half-hour wait 
and my thawing fingertips. The soup was 
worth it, as all soup usually is, because it is 
hard to boil vegetables and meat in water 
incorrectly.
That soup felt like a gift. The chili in 
it made my nose run. Eating it made me 

feel like my world was 
composed solely of my 
mouth, my hand and the 
spoonful of soup that it 
was holding. It reminded 
me of the soup I ate as a 
kid when the weather got cold, the potful of 
soup that was lovingly and carefully tended 
to by my whole family. 
I love all kinds of soup, but my favorite is 
my mother’s Nahari. It’s a meat-based soup 
that she usually makes with lamb trotters 
or chicken, mixed with onions, garlic and 
spices. The recipe is in a little notebook that 
is brown from age and falling apart, written 
in my mother’s unintelligible handwriting. 
I’ve never been able to figure out exactly 
how she makes it, but I watch carefully as 
she fries the onions and then adds the meat 
and the masala. The aroma is amazing 
and the hours that it takes to cook seem to 
pass excruciatingly slowly. Once every 20 
minutes, I would stir the mixture around, 
happy to contribute anything to the meal. 
The meat of the Nahari is so tender that 
some of it has pulled away from the bone 
and floats around in the pot full of the 
light brown broth. Some of the bones have 
marrow in them, which we’ll blow out to 
enjoy with the rest of the soup. 
My parents used to eat Nahari year-
round when they lived in Hyderabad, India. 
The restaurants there would usually serve 
a spicier version, but my mom has always 

cut down on some of the spice to suit our 
American palettes. It still tastes good in its 
mild form, though — the flavors are actually 
more enjoyable when your eyes aren’t 
tearing up from the heat. 
I’ve never eaten the Hyderabadi Nahari 
that my parents grew up on, but I feel like 
I’m experiencing it every time my mother 
makes it. They reminisce about their 
childhood over their steaming bowls of 
soup and I’ve always felt grateful for her 
taking the time to recreate it for us. 
We eat Nahari with chewy bread that 
soaks up the soup until it’s soft. The bread 
is torn up into little pieces and added to the 
bowl, forming a perfect mouthful of broth, 
meat and carbs. I always end up eating a 
little too much when the Nahari is freshly 
made, and the combination of the hot soup 
and bread always makes my eyes heavy, 
convincing me to push the tasks of today to 
tomorrow even though it is supposed to be a 
breakfast food. 
As the weather gets colder and the days 
get shorter, I look forward to the satisfaction 
of drinking soup for warmth again — 
wrapped in a warm blanket, enjoying the 
simplest but most healing food on earth. 

Nahari

SAFURA SYED
MiC Columnist

Design by Madison Grosvenor


The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
Michigan in Color
Wednesday, November 3, 2021 — 7

Content warning: This article contains mention of 
sexual assault
October clambers in without warning, its 
ostentatious display sweetened by crisp autumn air, 
boisterous jack-o-lanterns flashing toothy grins and 
ghost stories. 
I’ve never experienced the supernatural: I have 
no sinister encounters to furtively whisper around 
a bonfire, no tales of messages from beyond or Ouija 
boards gone awry. I’ve never touched the other side, 
but I think I believe in ghosts. Not the kind you’re 
thinking of, I’m sure, but ghosts all the same.
The ghosts I’m acquainted with don’t look like the 
ones written in folklore. They are not disembodied 
figures with lifeless skin, pinned up curls and 
shadowy nightdresses clinging to their skeletal, 
evanescent frames. They lack the eeriness of empty 
eye sockets and mouths frozen in a permanent 
scream of agony, moaning in torment as they float 
down ornate spiral staircases. Mine take the form of 
moments frozen in time, so vivid I think they’re still 
here, but long-since dead. 
They are people, places, memories, relentless in 
their haunting and antagonizing in their absence. 
They lurk patiently in every corner, begging to 
be remembered: in old photo albums and my 
childhood bedroom, in text messages and vacant 
corner stores, in the pages of my high school diary 
and the dusty frames on my nightstand. Ghosts 
may connote death, but it’s the living who create 
them. We conjure them in empty corridors and 
horror films. We lure them to speak to us in the 
sanctity of flickering candlesticks, with our hushed 
whispers and electronic spirit boxes. We want them 
to make themselves known to us, enamored by the 
untouchable specters we force back into existence.
I am no stranger to necromancy, to the cruel and 
fruitless pursuit of trying to bring things back from 
the dead. I long for lemures: I crack the door open 
for them, I leave the lights on. I am encompassed by 
eulogies, akin to apparitions. 
I am a mosaic of ghost stories. To tell them is to keep 
them alive.
T
he Graveyard
I drive back to the town I’m from and think 
I’ve never seen a graveyard look so much like home. 
The roads are familiar but uncanny, reeking with 
the putridness of a past life. I was born and raised 
here: I’ve kissed every corner, caressed every crack 
in the concrete, so why do I feel like a tourist? I don’t 
recognize the new shop by my high school. The city 
has cut down the towering oak tree in front of my 

house and nobody cared to invite me to the wake. 
I am sick with unrest, like an anguished Victorian 
spirit discovering that the sanctuary wherein he 
lived and loved had been bulldozed and replaced, 
that nobody remembered him at all. I drive the same 
car but it feels like a casket now, a cold metal vessel 
transporting me through a world that’s since moved 
on without me. I’m pale with the bone-chilling 
premonition that things have died here. 
I realize I’ve died here too, a hundred times over. 
So many little versions of me have faded away, leaving 
sepia-toned remnants in their wake. Old flames, 
friends, feelings and fleeting memories, all faceless 
ghosts now marking this place as a land of no return. 
I wonder if my presence sends a chill down the locals’ 
spines, if they know someone that no longer belongs 
here has tried to communicate from the other side. 
I try to rouse these things back to life. I perform 
seances in the parking structure I used to frequent 
with people who dare not speak of my existence. 
I watch in solitude as the sunset, red as inferno, 
sets the town ablaze. I think about how so much 

has changed here, that I’ve changed too. But I find 
solace in knowing that one November evening, we 
drove up to the top of the parking structure and 
used our car keys to carve our names into the wall. 
I’m grateful for the etchings that outlived us, the 
irrevocable proof that once, I was here.
Kyra tells me to hold my breath when we drive past 
a cemetery. Superstition warns that the restless spirits 
will enter your soul and nestle into your bones. With 
no home to return to, they anxiously await a gust of air 
from unassuming lungs that they can get swept up in, 
longing to take the life that courses through your veins 
and make it their own. I don’t blame them, but we 
selfishly puff up our cheeks and sit in silence anyways. 
Kyra steps on the gas so we don’t suffocate. We turn 

the corner and breathe out a sigh of relief in unison. 
I pull out of the driveway of my home and make the 
trip back to school. I hold my breath. I’m blue in the 
face the entire way there. 
P
retty Dead Things
My body feels like a graveyard, too. 
Because my body, it’s a mess of limbs and 
appendages, of flesh and regret. Sometimes it feels 
like a thing I haunt, a land that is no longer mine. To 
be so disjointed in the skin that was painstakingly 
designed for you feels blasphemous, but each 
movement is exorcised out of me, like I’m rattling 
my putrefying bones from the inside trying to coax 
out some evil sickness. 
I remember the graverobbers that visited my 
body, their greedy hands digging and clutching 
and taking, always taking. They were insatiable 
in their taking, and their hunger raised a mind-
splitting ring in their ears that stopped them from 
hearing me protest and plead and persist that this 
body is mine, not theirs. Not that it matters: dead 
girls can’t say no. 

It feels like watching from the other side, 
suspended in the leaden grey of compulsory silence. 
Like a spirit that doesn’t know it’s passed on, 
screaming until her throat is raw, wondering why 
nobody can hear her. But I watched as they made a 
grave of me, something so alive, with teeth and hair 
and blood and fight left in me, still. 
I mourn the girl that I was before you touched 
me. I bring her flowers on Sundays. I make her 
headstone beautiful, wondering if dead things can 
be pretty, too. 
I scrub and shine until my knuckles bleed. 
Can dead things be pretty, too? 

The Ford School of Public Policy 
and School of Public Health hosted 
Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, 
Director-General of the World 
Health Organization, to reflect 
on the lessons learned during the 
COVID-19 pandemic and discuss 
preventative steps to make sure the 
same mistakes are not repeated. The 
event began with an introduction 
of Ghebreyesus from Public Policy 
Dean Michael Barr. 
Ghebreyesus 
began 
his 
presentation by stating, “I have often 
said that health is a political choice.” 
He 
reminded 
viewers 
that 
regulations 
involving 
pandemic 
response such as, isolation and 
quarantine guidelines were already 
put in place before the pandemic 
started. In addition, he recognized 
that low-income countries and 
minority groups have suffered from 
the pandemic at disproportionately 
higher rates in comparison to affluent 
countries and citizens. He attributed 
the failure of handling the pandemic 
to medical systems only focusing on 
whether they were advanced through 
research and practice, not whether 
the systems were stable enough to 
handle catastrophe. According to 
Ghebreyesus, this factor is what 
contributed to many advanced 
medical systems, like the United 
States, feeling overwhelmed when 
the virus was rapidly spreading. In 
light of these issues, Ghebreyesus laid 
out three lessons the pandemic has 
taught health care policymakers and 
how countries can move forward:
 1. A strong healthcare system 

is not the same as an advanced 
healthcare system. 
The underinvestment in public 
health and primary healthcare 
is one of the main factors why 
healthcare systems were swamped 
when 
the 
pandemic 
started. 
Ghebreyesus said that “primary 
health is good for providing mental 
health and mitigating the effects of 
social, economic and environmental 
health.” Investing in primary care 
has shown lower rates of emergency 
department visits, lower mortality 
rates and higher rates of patient 
satisfaction. In addition, investing 
in primary care allows health 
problems to be discovered early, so 
patients can avoid drastic outcomes 
later down the line. 
2. Increased funding for resources 
to help countries recover and be 
prepared for another pandemic.
Money needs to be put towards 
helping low and middle-income 
countries get out of the pandemic. 
According to Ghebreyesus, the money 
should be allocated for surveillance, 
laboratory, communication, contact 
tracing and preparedness using the 
one health approach. The one health 
approach analyzes how people’s 
health is related to their environment. 
For example, the one health approach 
would study how climate change 
impacts access to water and food 
within a community. Using the one 
health approach to understanding 
health allows health care officials 
to see how environments influence 
one’s health and allows citizens to see 
how what they consume or how they 
live is either benefitting their health 
or causing harm. 

I never knew that, for a period 
of my childhood, food stamps kept 
me fed. It wasn’t until I took an 
Intro to Public Policy course during 
my second-year fall that I learned 
about food stamps, their “benefits” 
and who they help. I knew my 
parents struggled financially after 
they separated, but they made sure 
their kids never worried about 
money. The class had a module on 
social welfare policy which taught 
us about different government 
programs aimed at assisting the 
poor, unemployed and marginalized 
in society. We discussed different 
programs such as the Supplemental 
Nutrition 
Assistance 
Program 
(SNAP, 
aka 
food 
stamps), 
Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families (TANF, a cash welfare 
system for the very poor), minimum 
wage and others. Throughout the 
module, however, I noticed that 
programs providing benefits to 
the most vulnerable populations 
were 
commonly 
political 
and 
rarely seemed to pursue their noted 
mission of lifting people out of 
poverty. 
Though the module offered 
dozens of graphs, charts and 
statistics with insightful numbers, 
data can do little to show the 
individual 
impact 
of 
policy. 
Throughout my public policy classes, 
I always have long and complicated 
academic papers assigned which 
describe how to help poor people, 
even though most of the time these 
articles are written by old, wealthy 
and institutionally educated white 
academics. To better understand 
how social welfare helps (or hurts) 
a community, legislators should look 
to their constituents who participate 
in such programs. 
After reading the papers, graphs 
and data, I wanted to learn from 
the perspective of the true working 
class, so I could better grasp what 
eligible participants thought about 
the efficacy of social welfare policies. 
After first learning about SNAP in the 
introductory course, I called my mom 
and asked her if she knew what SNAP 

was and if she used SNAP benefits to 
feed my two siblings and myself. Her 
response: “YUP, we were broke,” in a 
comical manner. 
Since that initial call last fall, I 
was trying to remember more of the 
conversation surrounding SNAP 
and her experience with it. This 
semester, however, I am taking a 
social policy seminar, a course that 
dives into many different welfare 
policy areas such as tax benefits, 
aging policy, education, housing 
and universal basic income. Again 
being reminded of the worsening 
state of America’s poor through this 
class, I wanted to leave the boring 
(but informative!) white papers and 
research studies and engage with 
the working class directly. So, I 
conducted a formal interview with 
my mom to gauge her thoughts on 
the SNAP program. 
We discussed the application 
process first. From 2007 to 2010 
my mom was on SNAP benefits. 
She began to describe the rather 
long process it takes to determine 
whether one is eligible for benefits. 
First, she had to go to the Illinois 
Department of Human Services. 
SNAP is a federally funded program 
that grants states flexibility when 
determining the program’s design 
and implementation. After arriving 
at the Department of Human 
Services and filling out the paper 
application, one waits at home to 
receive an interview invitation in the 
mail. Though I knew states varied 
in SNAP eligibility, I never would 
have thought an interview would be 
a necessary component when trying 
to feed your family. 
This interview process is a perfect 
example 
of 
an 
administrative 
burden that plagues social policy. 
Administrative burdens refer to 
different costs associated with 
joining an assistance program. 
Learning about how to apply for a 
program, filling out complicated 
documents and dealing with the 
stress and stigma that come with 
government aid are all examples of 
administrative burdens that deter 
many people from receiving benefits 
such as SNAP. 

Ghost stories

Dr. Tedros Adhanom 
Ghebreyesus presents global 
perspectives on public health

Welfare from a 
mother’s perspective

YASMINE SLIMANI
Daily Arts Writer

ANCHAL MALH
MiC Columnist

Design by Janice Lin

Design by Maggie Weibe

puzzle by sudokusnydictation.com

By August Miller
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC
11/03/21

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle

Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

11/03/21

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

Release Date: Wednesday, November 3, 2021

ACROSS
1 Site-hop, 
Webwise
5 Watched closely
9 Beetle relative
14 “Small world”
15 Fish that ought 
to go well with a 
cobbler?
16 Paddled
17 Not at all biased
18 Yeast-free loaf
20 Au courant, with 
“in”
22 Common lunch 
hour
23 Instrument for 
Este Haim of 
the pop rock trio 
Haim
24 Opposite of a 
roast
27 “When They 
See Us” creator 
DuVernay
28 Become less 
brilliant, as colors
29 Fictional legal 
secretary
35 Org. impacted by 
the Real ID Act
38 “CHiPs” actor 
Estrada
39 Kitten’s cry
40 Place in an 
overhead bin, 
say
41 Not looking good
42 Three-horned 
dinosaur
46 Self-__
48 Hoppy brew 
letters
49 Job for the 
police
56 DEA agent
57 Valley
58 Application of 
small drops
59 Overpowered ... 
or how the 
Across answers 
with circles might 
be described?
62 Bends
63 Surg. holding 
area
64 Save for later, as 
a TV show
65 Pacific salmon
66 Puts in the work 
for
67 Appear
68 Suffix with 
Jumbo

DOWN
1 What Germany 
has that Greece 
doesn’t?
2 DIY mover
3 Mighty mammal 
with keratin horns
4 Rite of passage 
involving hot 
embers
5 Law firm abbr.
6 Kits and cubs
7 “Silas Marner” 
author
8 Interior design
9 Role
10 iPod accessory
11 Showed, as a 
good time
12 Rag on
13 Puts into the mix
19 Carver’s tool
21 Soprano 
superstar
25 Rapper Lil __ X
26 Upside-down 
sleeper
29 Dawn 
phenomenon
30 Slice of history
31 Author who 
wrote the 
Thongor fantasy 
series
32 “That’s enough!”

33 Word with hall or 
room
34 Woolly mama
36 Unruly head of 
hair
37 9-Across et al.
40 Short-lived 1765 
legislation
42 Amount past due?
43 Tears to shreds
44 Rocker Ocasek
45 Goodall subjects
47 “You gotta be 
kidding!”

49 Linney of “Ozark”
50 Indisputable 
evidence
51 Skateboard leap
52 Christopher who 
played Superman
53 Boot on a 
diamond
54 Cheesy chip
55 Cicely of “Roots”
56 “Ain’t gonna 
happen”
60 Market advances
61 Bubbly title

SUDOKU

WHISPER

“Why did 
Sally fall off 
the swing?”

“She had no 
arms. Happy 
Halloween.”

WHISPER

By Craig Stowe
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC
10/27/21

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle

Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

10/27/21

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

Release Date: Wednesday, October 27, 2021

ACROSS
1 Like many a 
basement
5 Hold dear
10 Breakfast 
companion?
13 __ vaccine
14 As a companion
15 Soup du __
16 Big name in plant 
food
18 Reverse
19 Also
20 G.I. entertainment 
often featuring 
Bob Hope
22 Through street
26 Hollywood Walk 
of Fame symbols
27 Get duded up
28 “Despite my best 
attempts ... ”
30 Bladed tool
31 Enjoyed the buffet
32 [as per the 
original]
33 First section 
of the “Divine 
Comedy”
36 “That makes 
more sense”
40 Witticism
41 Big bang letters?
42 Keep __ distance
43 Kitchen gadget
47 Greek wraps
49 Take the floor
50 Unlike bikinis
52 Handicraft worker
54 Something up 
one’s sleeve
55 Jackson family 
musician born 
Toriano
56 Home with a 
between-floors 
entrance ... and 
what can be 
found on puzzle 
rows 3, 6, 8 and 
10?
62 Smooth (out)
63 Events with kings 
and queens
64 Shade of blue
65 “__ 
Rosenkavalier”
66 Lathered up
67 Slush Puppie 
parent company

DOWN
1 __ Pérignon
2 “Hereditary” 
director Aster

3 Deface
4 Missouri River 
feeder
5 Heroism
6 Blonde 
beverage
7 Part of a cord
8 Like a mob 
scene
9 They might clash 
on stage
10 Actress Helena 
__ Carter
11 Email program 
named after 
writer Welty
12 Half-asleep
15 Supreme Court 
figure
17 Filmmaker Ethan 
or Joel
21 Davis of “Do the 
Right Thing”
22 “East of Eden” 
brother
23 Sailing hazard
24 “Leave __ me”
25 Exist
27 Letter after 
upsilon
29 Helper: Abbr.
31 Payment before 
a deal
34 Sentiment
35 Lures (in)

36 Concerning
37 Snitch (on)
38 Chiwere speaker
39 Used to be
41 Royal flush card
43 Like many 
candies
44 Get in
45 Ramble on and 
on
46 Amateur
47 Birth 
announcement 
word

48 Sana’a native
51 One taking a 
fall
53 Egyptian 
slitherers
57 Mauna __
58 Little devil
59 Device that 
may be wet 
or dry, briefly
60 End of the 
day
61 Cleaning 
ingredient

HUGO QUINTANA
MiC Columnist

 Read more at MichiganDaily.com

 Read more at MichiganDaily.com

 Read more at MichiganDaily.com


Content warning: This article contains 
descriptions of sexual assault.
Editor’s note: The name Morgan is a 
pseudonym. 
F
or two years now, I have watched 
with pride as women and men 
victimized by systems of abuse 
brought their stories to the forefront 
and forced the western world to 
confront some of the incommodious 
yet defining underpinnings of our 
institutions. 
As a Black man, I’ve written about 
the visceral emotions surrounding 
my 
community’s 
inequities. 
As 
an activist, I’ve spoken at protests 
and worked on campaigns. As an 
American, I’ve written about the 
duality of loving this country while 
hating much of our broken political 
infrastructure 
and 
entrenched 
classism. However, as a survivor, I 
have stayed silent.
See, my story is not one of 
institutional abuse. It is not the 
culmination of a steady stream of 
harassment. It was not kept secret by 
some cadre of powerful individuals 
who conspired to silence me.
My story is mine, but it isn’t 
unfamiliar on this campus. In fact, 
it’s all too common.
W
inter semester, 2020.
I was at a party hosted 
by one of my housemates. I didn’t 
even think she’d show up; I wasn’t 
sure that I wanted her to. I was still 
reeling from a breakup but on Tinder 
to pass the time. We had been talking 
on-and-off for a couple of weeks, 
mostly just vapid texts to pass the 
time, really nothing but flirtation, so 
I asked her to come to the party.
I was no saint. I was just bored and 
wanted to get to know someone new.
An hour into the party, I was 
casually sipping on a mixed drink, 
helping my housemates set up a game 
of stack cup when I heard the front 
door burst open. I looked over to see 
her visibly drunk, stumbling into my 
house. 
Her friend held her hand as 
Morgan walked over to me and 
immediately grabbed my arm for 
support. She asked me to make her 
a drink and, when I told her that 
I thought she should take a break, 
began drinking from my cup. She 
kept taking the drink from my hand, 
despite my insistence that she stop. 
Her friend went into the kitchen to 
grab Morgan a beer.
I followed them into the kitchen, 
worried about Morgan’s safety, 
something for which her friend 
clearly had little concern. While I 
was turned away, talking to a friend, 
she poured three shots behind my 
back. Morgan handed me one, and 
the three of us downed the vodka. 
Then, as she began pouring another 
round, I protested, saying things 
like, “I don’t really want to get 
drunk. I just want to talk. I’m really 
uncomfortable with this.” However, 
taunting me, calling me a “pussy,” 
Morgan kept the drinks flowing 
until I was so drunk I could barely 
navigate my own house.
Then, she and her friend began 
whispering. As my vision was 
blurred, I couldn’t make out what 
they were saying, but it seemed as 
though the two were agreeing on 
some sort of plan. Morgan came over 
and, clearly attempting to flirt with 
me, started stroking my arm. I leaned 
away, not wanting to be touched 
so publicly by a near stranger. Not 
taking the hint, she leaned against 
me more aggressively, asking if I had 
weed.

Even in my drunken state, I knew 
that I shouldn’t give her any, but she 
badgered me, saying that it was the 
only way to keep her from throwing 
up, so I relented and took the two 
into my bedroom. As I rummaged 
around trying to find the brownie, I 
vaguely heard the two whispering 
again. Moments later, after I found 
it, her friend said, “I’ll leave you two 
alone,” leaving the room to play beer 
pong mere feet from my first-floor 
bedroom.
Immediately, 
Morgan 
began 
forcefully kissing me as I backed 
away, trying to ground myself and 
avoid doing something I’d regret. I 
asked her to stop, but she took that 
to mean that she should be more 
aggressive, grabbing my shirt and 
exploring my body with her hands.
I recoiled, which distracted her 
enough to remember the brownie. 
When she went for the brownie, I 
thought that the situation was over.
Just one bad kiss, I thought to 
myself. That was all. It’s going to be 
alright.
However, I was wrong. She broke 
the brownie in half, consuming 
more weed at once than I had eaten 
in the last two months. Then, she 
stuck the other half in my mouth, 
watching me intensely until I ate it. 
I didn’t want to, but at some level, 
I think I knew what was going 
to happen would happen either 
way, and, honestly, I didn’t want to 
remember it.
After swallowing the brownie, 
I made one last attempt, saying, “I 
think we should go back to the party.”
She turned away from me to 
lock my bedroom door, “I think we 
shouldn’t.”
She grabbed a condom from my 
desk drawer, pulling my pants down. 
My brain desperately tried to say 
no, to refuse, but it was no longer in 
control of my body. The intense fear 
combined with the harsh effects 
of intoxication immobilized me. In 
other words, I had no control. I was 
too scared, too alone.
I don’t remember much after that 
except neon pink jungle juice spilled 
on my sheets, the almost cruel smile 
on her face and the blaring music 
outside.
I
n the weeks after, I tried to get back 
together with my ex-girlfriend 
— in a feeble attempt to cope with 
something about which I still have 
tremendous guilt. Then, when the 
pandemic took over my life and the 
frankly 
embarrassing 
rekindling 
with my ex went up in flames, I 
moved back in with my parents. 
There, it was easy to retreat from the 
world, so I did.
My family heard from me about 
once a day when I needed to walk 
upstairs for meals. My friends heard 
less, if anything. Most days, I just sat 
in my bedroom, sleeping 15 hours a 
day and wishing I was dead for the 
other nine. Things got better in May 
when I tried to stop thinking about it, 
choosing to delve into my three jobs. 
However, as my 60-hour work weeks 
wore on into June, I could not stop 
thinking about that night.
For months, I had vivid dreams, 
replaying it, and sometimes, I still 
do wake up in a cold sweat with only 
Morgan on my mind. It especially 
didn’t help when I returned to Ann 
Arbor and had to sleep in the room 
where it happened, inches away 
from the pink stain that is ingrained 
in my mattress topper. The room felt 
haunted, but honestly, so did I.
As an ally, it felt impossible that 
amid the #MeToo movement, I had 
been sexually assaulted by a woman. 
Further, as a 6-foot-2 Black man, I 
have been perceived as a danger for 

my entire life. It sounded asinine 
that a pretty, 5-foot-nothing white 
girl had done anything to me. When 
I told friends that I felt scared, I 
saw that look of incredulity that 
implicitly invalidates every aspect of 
the story.
I mean, they’d met Morgan, 
they saw me that night. Maybe I 
had made the entire thing up in 
my mind. I already felt crazy, but 
my friends not believing me — 
even without using the four-letter 
r-word — sent me over the edge. I 
stopped telling people, preferring to 
spend my nights swiping on Tinder 
and going on meaningless dates. 
However, every time a date turned 
sexual, I went physically numb, 
frozen, verging on a panic attack, 
haunted by Morgan.
In most cases, though, dating 
proved to be a good distraction, 
even if it was just that. A distraction. 
Nothing was solved. I just smiled 
outwardly for a couple more hours 
a day while fortifying my inner 
walls.
T
hen, 
my 
current 
girlfriend 
broke down my walls, and, last 
November, told me candidly that 
I had been sexually assaulted and 
was in denial. Thrown back, I cried 
for an hour, realizing how right she 
was. Since that day, I have struggled 
with finding a way to tell this story. 
I realize that there is no perfect way 
to do it, but I hope that this has been 
sufficient.
Now, I want to be very clear. I 
have no animus toward the brave 
women who have brought down 
abusers during the ongoing #MeToo 
movement. In fact, I feel allied 
with these women. I currently am 
walking on the road they paved, so I 
appreciate them immensely.
However, the sexual assault 
of 
men 
is 
downplayed 
and 
undercovered. In the rare event that 
it is discussed, it is too often either a 
whataboutism deployed by abuser-
sympathizers or the punchline to a 
crass prison joke.
That is unacceptable.
This issue is real and prevalent. 
According to the National Crime 
Victimization Survey, 38% of sexual 
violence victims are men. And, while 
much of this does occur in the prison 
system, men in college are five times 
more likely to experience sexual 
violence than men their age who are 
not in college.
See, the magic of movements like 
#MeToo and Black Lives Matter 
is that they sparked nationwide 
conversations 
about 
horrifically 
underrecognized 
issues. 
These 
movements have afforded us the 
opportunity to learn about systemic 
injustices so we can understand one 
another better. Yet, there are still 
dialogues left to be had, and I hope 
this article provokes one.
I hope we grow to be more 
conscious of our behavior. I hope 
we become more respectful of one 
another. But, most importantly, I 
hope we learn to listen to others and 
expand our own worldviews. The 
simple fact is that not all men are 
allies much like how not all women 
are assaulters, but we all have the 
capacity to learn.
We learn through statistics and 
data just like we learn from our 
consumed media, but the most 
impactful learning is from one 
another. I hope that this story is a 
powerful step in the right direction 
that provokes a broader conversation 
on this campus and in our world. I am 
grateful to the women who walked 
before me, and I am hopeful for the 
people of all genders who walk beside 
me.

Opinion

BRITTANY BOWMAN
Managing Editor

Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building
420 Maynard St. 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
 tothedaily@michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at the University of Michigan since 1890.

CLAIRE HAO
Editor in Chief
ELIZABETH COOK 
AND JOEL WEINER
Editorial Page Editors

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of The Daily’s Editorial Board. 
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS

Julian Barnard
Zack Blumberg
Brittany Bowman
Elizabeth Cook
Brandon Cowit

Jess D’Agostino
Andrew Gerace
Shubhum Giroti
Krystal Hur
Jessie Mitchell

Gabrijela Skoko
Evan Stern
Elayna Swift
Jack Tumpowsky
Joel Weiner

While delineating the variety 
of stressors students are facing 
is important, it is also critical to 
analyze resources the University 
of Michigan provides and pressure 
the University to adequately support 
students who are struggling with 
stress and mental illness.
The University offers Counseling 
and Psychological Services (CAPS) 
for students dealing with mental 
health crises, but the program is 
limited. There is not a solidified 
framework for long-term help, as 
CAPS has a goal of ‘graduating’ 
students in 4 to 8 weeks. What’s 
more, the CAPS waiting list usually 
grows during high-stress times, 
meaning students can’t access help 
when they need it most. Since so 
many of students’ stressors stem from 
issues related to the University, the 
University has both the responsibility 
and the capability — with a $17 
billion endowment — to establish an 
adequate support system.
Some 
students 
don’t 
have 
healthcare 
access 
outside 
of 
University Health Services, so they 
cannot receive therapy outside of 
the University. Other students have 
to consider leaving their regular 
therapists if they can no longer afford 
a copay for each session, but currently 
CAPS cannot substitute the depth 
and breadth involved in longer-
term therapy programs offered by 
professionals. 
While 
short-term 
care is beneficial for some students, 
many students have chronic stress 
that cannot be resolved in 4 to 8 
weeks. The University has not 
responded to this specific reality in 
a comprehensive and effective way. 
As of now, CAPS best serves as an 
intermediary step toward longer-
term help. 
However, for some students, 
having a longer-term relationship 
with CAPS could be beneficial; 
specifically, CAPS counselors have 
extensive experience with student 
issues and are accessible due to their 
on-campus location. Therefore, the 
University should explore programs 
that would allow students with the 
most need to continue to see CAPS 
counselors for a longer period of 
time. 
University 
spokesperson 
Kim 
Broekhuizen discussed the status 
of CAPS and other mental health 

resources in an email to The 
Michigan Daily.
“CAPS 
has 
been 
adding 
counselors and other resources to 
their service offerings for several 
years now,” Broekhuizen wrote. 
“All of CAPS services are free to any 
student enrolled at U-M. The same is 
true for Wellness Coaching.” 
She also shared data on the rates 
of individual counseling sessions. Of 
students who came to CAPS seeking 
counseling, 81.1% of students only 
received one to five sessions. Only 
18.9% of cases received additional 
counseling, with only 0.7% of cases 
receiving over 21 sessions. 
According to Broekhuizen, these 
0.7% of cases often include students 
who “do not have any insurance or 
are underinsured or insurance is not 
provided in the state of Michigan 
… do not have transportation or 
schedules that allow for off campus 
referrals.” This small fraction of cases 
represents that, while some students 
are receiving long-term support, 
there should likely be an expansion of 
access for these types of cases.
Giving 31,000 students access 
to 
counselors 
certainly 
poses 
a challenge, but the University 
need 
not 
provide 
all 
31,000 
students 
comprehensive 
access. 
The 
University 
could 
provide 
special 
programs 
for 
students 
with demonstrated needs, such as 
financial or transportation-based 
needs. Additionally, funding longer-
term mental health care for students 
could reduce the current strain on 
CAPS for acute mental health crises. 
There 
are 
many 
ways 
the 
University could address these issues 
and make services more accessible 
to students. For instance, accessing 
health insurance is very difficult 
for many low-income students. 
An annual health insurance plan 
for domestic students through the 
University is $1,929, which is cost-
prohibitive for many. Based on the 
University’s 
financial 
resources, 
there should be a strong system in 
place to ensure students who cannot 
afford health insurance are given 
the same access to care, whether 
that care includes three counseling 
sessions or thirty. 
On Aug. 30, 2021, the University 
announced 
it 
is 
“launching 
comprehensive action to transform 

how 
the 
health 
and 
well-
being needs of students can be 
holistically addressed.” The efforts 
recommended by the Student Mental 
Health 
Innovative 
Approaches 
Review committee includes creating 
a 
“comprehensive 
infrastructure 
of faculty, staff and students” to 
address the needs of all students, 
“strengthening the continuum of 
care” and ensuring resources are 
accessible and visible. While it is 
unclear when the recommendations 
suggested in the announcement 
will be implemented, it is a step in 
a positive direction. In addition to 
implementing these suggestions, the 
University could begin emphasizing 
physical health and wellbeing more. 
Upon arriving at college for the 
first time, many are met with brand 
new levels of independence. For 
some, important day-to-day tasks 
such as cooking, cleaning or taking 
care of oneself in other ways may be 
unfamiliar. Additionally, some may 
come to campus already dealing with 
body image issues and unhealthy 
relationships with food. 
That said, one step toward 
improving mental and physical 
health of students could include the 
University 
expanding 
programs 
aimed at helping students afford 
food. Increasing awareness of the 
Maize and Blue Cupboard would 
help students experiencing food 
insecurity. 
Financial 
instability, 
as well as many other factors, can 
exacerbate mental health issues, 
so the University’s approach must 
consider them in mental health 
services and policy. Taking these 
proactive steps toward increasing 
access and awareness to services, 
whether it be programs to aid basic 
needs or support mental health 
issues, will improve and benefit 
students and the campus as a whole.
Ultimately, 
students 
at 
the 
University 
of 
Michigan 
are 
struggling with a variety of issues 
related to the institution itself, 
COVID-19, worsening mental health 
and financial burdens. To better 
support students, the University’s 
administration must form a longer-
term care infrastructure within 
CAPS, as well as additional support 
for students regarding nutrition 
education, food insecurity, financial 
instability and general wellness.

As a man, ally and survivor: #MeToo

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
8 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021 

KEITH JOHNSTONE
Opinion Columnist

Music and memory

RUSHABH SHAH
Opinion Columnist

It happened when I was sitting in a 
café on South University Avenue. Four 
days before my EECS 281 midterm, 
three friends at the table, two slices of 
grilled cheese and one turmeric latte 
that painfully reminded me of home 
and my mother. That’s when, as I 
began working on this piece, the music 
system at the café played a familiar 
tune. The sound of the xylophone, 
followed by the subtle strumming of 
the guitar and finally a flourish of the 
drums took over my senses and filled 
the air around me. I braced myself as 
the first words of the song approached 
and I pulled out the memory of Zach 
Sobiech from the depths of my brain. 
Stories are what fuel me. Real 
stories about real people. I don’t just 
enjoy them; I actively seek them out 
because they are what make most 
experiences worthwhile for me. 
“Clouds” by Zach Sobiech is one 
such song, a song incomplete without 

its story. Don’t get me wrong, it’s a 
perfectly fine song on its own, but my 
connection to it goes all the way back 
to my seventh grade English teacher, 
Ms. Radha — the person who told me 
about Zach Sobiech’s story. I often find 
myself relating songs to people I’ve 
known. Sometimes it’s expected and 
sometimes it comes out of nowhere, 
like today. I hadn’t thought about Ms. 
Radha for years, and as I approached 
two months in Ann Arbor, it felt good 
reminiscing about home. And when I 
reminisce, I usually do it to music.
The impact music has on our 
emotions and actions is very well 
documented and many researchers 
cite its positive effects. Music therapy 
is a common practice, not only to deal 
with excess stress, depression and 
other mental health issues, but even 
disorders relating to memory loss. Few 
would argue against music’s ability to 
influence our thoughts and actions. I, 
for one, have never underestimated its 
ability to perfectly match my mental 
energy in any situation. Sometimes 
it’s before a soccer game to pump me 

up, and sometimes it’s after a long 
day of work and being around people 
when I just want a moment to myself. 
I always considered these personal 
moments as crucial, but only recently, 
as I moved away from the place I grew 
up and the people I grew up with, did 
I realize that they weren’t personal 
moments at all. What I remember 
most about them is the people that 
were around me at the time. It’s not 
rocket science, I know. You listen to 
a song with a cousin all night during 
your family trip and it becomes your 
ringtone, or a classmate introduces 
you to a song and it becomes both of 
your newest obsession, or you go to 
a concert with a friend and that one 
moment when everyone’s got their 
flashlights on remains etched in your 
memory forever. It happens all the 
time and it is a very special feeling. 
But at this point, if you’re wondering, 
“What’s the big deal?” I wouldn’t 
blame you. I’m not claiming that I’ve 
made an extraordinary discovery — 
strong memories associated with a 
song and the people you heard it with 

is a common phenomenon, but when 
“Clouds” played on the speaker in that 
café, it felt different. It wasn’t just me 
recalling an old memory, it felt more 
significant than that. So let’s get into it. 
Songs and people can each make 
us feel something and, sometimes, 
those two lines can intersect. Songs 
are relatable and sentimental, and 
sometimes they’re pretty good at 
being memorable — not unlike people. 
I’ve always been a big advocate of 
the idea that I am a product of the 
experiences I have shared with 
countless people across the world, 
and, regardless of whether I see them 
every day or have only met them 
once, my story is made up of the tiny 
bits that each and every one of them 
left behind. How amazing would it 
be if those tiny bits, the things people 
made us feel, aren’t moments that 
only exist in the past, but are moments 
that can be relived? I am here to tell 
you that it’s possible. All you need is 
the right song. “Clouds’” is one such 
song. I always thought I connected 
it to Ms. Radha simply because she 

told me about it, but maybe it’s more 
than that. “Clouds” is a song about 
finding light in dark times. It’s a song 
about hope. Tomorrow might not go 
as we planned or expected, but what 
everybody needs is hope and there 
will always be somebody who can give 
us that. Ms. Radha gave me the hope 
that I could be a better person at a time 
when I needed it. There is not a sliver 
of doubt in my head that I would not 
be who I am today without her and 
although she only taught me for one 
year, she made me a stronger person. 
It made me feel more powerful and 
more confident. It’s not just the lyrics 
that make me feel empowered. It’s 
Zach Sobiech’s story, Ms. Radha and 
the memory of this song that lives on, 
reinforced twofold every time I hear 
it, especially when it plays out of the 
blue in the basement of a café.
What I realized while sitting in 
that café is that music isn’t about 
glorifying the past, it’s about recreating 
an emotion you once felt and bringing 
it back to the present so that you can 
feel it again. As much as science might 

have you believe otherwise, the past 
can be revisited, and music is as good a 
time machine as any. Yes, very often we 
relate songs to people because we share 
a memory with them, but reliving 
the emotions that memory evokes is 
what enables us to keep that memory 
alive. So, when a song reminds me of 
the time we kayaked in the freezing 
waters of North India or the time we 
stayed up all night in that one hotel in 
Beijing or the time we sang that very 
song while doing karaoke for the first 
time, I’ll savor those moments. We 
might never have heard it before or we 
might’ve played it on loop every day. 
The song might have no connection 
to us or it might be the song we sang 
together every day — it doesn’t matter. 
All I know is that it makes me feel like 
you’re around, and sometimes, in that 
very moment, that’s all I need. 
You know when people sometimes 
say, “I wish I could experience 
something for the first time again?” 
You can. I’ve been doing it all my life. 
I just needed some grilled cheese and 
an old song to realize it.

From The Daily: UMich should expand 
long-term counseling through CAPS
A

s we collectively face midterms, it has become increasingly clear that 
many students are experiencing burnout, pandemic fatigue and an 
increase in mental health issues. These issues can easily be compounded 
by the growing exposure of sexual misconduct spanning decades on campus, 
tension over COVID-19 policies and recurrent issues with landlords.


I pity those who did not attend the football game 
against Washington last month. Not because we 
pummeled the Huskies — although that was a treat 
— but rather because you missed the Michigan 
Marching Band’s halftime show. Dedicated to the 
victims of Sept. 11, 2001, the band performed an 
arrangement celebrating New York City and the rich 
American musical tradition, all the while decked out 
in colored LED lights. For their last song, J.P. Sousa’s 
“Stars and Stripes Forever,” the marching band 
formed a magnificent 70-yard long American flag.
At sight of the flag, the Big House erupted into 
cheers. That surprised me. I have always celebrated 
the flag; to me, it is a source of pride and a reminder of 
how lucky I am to live in this country. At the same time, 
I recognize that my association to the flag is not shared 
by all, especially given its currently polarizing character.
On Jan. 6, a sea of American flags, traditional and 
unorthodox, descended upon the Capitol building, 
carried by a mob bent on obstructing the democratic 
process. In Brazil, citizens advocating for anti-
democratic reforms adopted the flag as a symbol of 
their struggle, and this past July, a New York farmer 
was labeled a Trump supporter for the sin of displaying 
an American flag on the side of his potato truck.
It is shameful that our nation’s most iconic symbol 
could be co-opted by a single political faction. 
According to journalist Marc Leepson in his book, 
“Flag: An American Biography,” the Founding 
Fathers did not attach much significance to the flag. 
The first documented reference to the flag, the Flag 
Resolution of 1777, simply reads, 
“Resolved, That the flag of the thirteen United States 
be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the 
union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field, representing 
a new constellation.” There might have been fierce debate 
between the Founders about the flag’s meaning behind 
closed doors, but according to most historians, the flag 
was likely born out of the simple necessity to distinguish 
the Continental Army in the field of battle. 
In the decades after the American Revolution, 
mythology began to crop up around the flag that 
masks the actual evolution of the flag within the 
national conscience. Did you know that Betsy Ross 

did not sew the first flag, or that Washington did not 
bring it with him when he crossed the Delaware, 
even if this famous painting gives that impression? It 
was not until the outbreak of the Civil War that the 
Stars and Stripes became a national symbol. Another 
seemingly primordial institution, the Pledge of 
Allegiance, was conceived at the end of the 19th 
century (relatively recently) to celebrate Columbus 
Day. The phrase “under God” was added in 1954 as 
a signal of anti-communism during the Cold War. 
Controversy over respect for the flag sparked during 
the Vietnam War, when anti-war advocates burned 
the flag as a sign of protest and reignited in 2016 
when former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick 
began kneeling during the national anthem.
History teaches us that the flag’s meaning has 
been altered over time to serve a variety of political 
purposes, even though the Founders did not view it as 
a political symbol. Why, then, does the flag continue 
to feature so prominently in national politics? 
Perhaps reverberations from the turbulent 
flag-burning Vietnam era have yet to settle in the 
national memory. Maybe the rapid expansion of 
post-9/11 patriotism was immediately soured by the 
revelation of the U.S. military’s conduct abroad, like 
mass torture, and the surge in Islamophobia at home. 
Whatever the reason, our preoccupation with the 
flag as a signal of political inclination is unnecessary, 
harmful and deserves to be retired. 
Our generation should usher in a period of New 
Nationalism. Take pride in the flag, not as a symbol of 
government, but of people. Claim it as your property. 
Pour into it all the hopes you have for the future of the 
country, and let that be your American flag. Do not 
let any one faction force their version of the flag upon 
you. If Biden loses the presidency in 2024, do not retire 
your flag. Keep it flying right next to your preferred 
candidate’s sign as a signal of your dual commitment to 
both your politics and your country as a whole. Direct 
your political energy towards organizing, protesting 
and campaigning as you see fit, but preserve the 
flag as an institution set apart from the politics and 
polarization of the day. The nation desperately needs 
to remember that we are bound by the same red, white 
and blue fabric, and we all have a stake in the future 
success of the country. By consigning the old flag to the 
annals of history and hoisting a new one in its stead, we 
take the first necessary steps towards remembrance. 

Over the past decade, the Ultimate 
Fighting Championship has enjoyed a 
meteoric rise from relative obscurity 
to one of the most popular sports and 
entertainment products in the United 
States. The 2010s saw the UFC’s greatest 
stars transcend not just their own sports, 
but all sports. Former two-division 
champion Conor McGregor is arguably 
the most famous athlete on the entire 
planet. Former lightweight champion 
Khabib Nurmagomedov is the single most 
popular athlete in all of Russia, according 
to Forbes. UFC President Dana Frederick 
White Jr. has led the organization for over 
20 years, shepherding it to its status as 
the worldwide leader in combat sports. 
So why would White, the man largely 
responsible for the UFC’s prominence, 
have a 55.1% disapproval rating from 
MMA fans?
The Athletic’s polling of fight fans 
in April 2020 laid out a pretty stark 
contrast: Fans love the UFC, but not the 
man at its helm. Given the time at which 
the poll was administered, it stands to 
reason that the pandemic would be a 
factor. The responses bore that out: Many 
respondents noted the UFC’s attempts 
to push forward with holding a pay-per-
view event, UFC 249, at the height of the 
pandemic, as a reason for their displeasure 
with White. That’s obviously a valid 
grievance, but it is itself part-and-parcel 
of the overarching problem many MMA 
fans and fighters alike have with White: 
The man treats his fighters horribly. 
While attempting to hold a combat sports 
event as an uncontrolled, aerosolized 
virus ran rampant across the world would 
be enough to convince most people that 
White doesn’t value the athletes upon 
whom his success is based, there’s actually 
more than that. The UFC pays its fighters 

an embarrassingly small percentage of its 
overall revenues, while White himself has 
a net worth of $500 million and an annual 
salary of $20 million. 
The four major sports leagues in North 
America (MLB, NFL, NBA, NHL) each 
have revenue-sharing deals collectively 
bargained between the leagues and 
the players’ unions, and each of those 
agreements provides for the athletes to 
receive at least 48.5% of total revenues 
generated by the league. Such equitable 
compensation has been par for the course 
in North American sports for decades — it 
would be unimaginable to the common 
sports fan for their favorite athletes to not 
receive their fair share of the revenues 
they themselves drive. The UFC, though, 
has no revenue-sharing deal. In fact, there 
is no MMA fighters’ union at all, though 
roughly 80% of MMA fighters support 
unionization. As a result, White is the sole 
arbiter of how the UFC pays its fighters, 
and many of the UFC’s 
signature stars 
have sacrificed some of their prime years 
as athletes over White’s refusal to pay 
them their worth. 
Henry Carlos Cejudo, former two-
division UFC champion and Olympic 
gold medal wrestler, retired after his 
last bantamweight title defense at (the 
later-rescheduled) UFC 249, partly due 
to pay concerns. Jon Jones, former light 
heavyweight champion and widely 
considered the greatest mixed martial 
artist to ever live, has not fought in nearly 
two years due to continued breakdowns 
in contractual negotiations with White. 
McGregor has fought three times since 
2020, including two blockbuster pay-per-
view main events against Dustin Poirier, 
former interim lightweight champion, 
this year. However, McGregor’s status as 
the highest-paid athlete in the world is 
misleading to say the least. According to 
Forbes, just $22 million of the $180 million 
McGregor had made in the first five 
months of this year (after the first Poirier 

fight and before the second) came from 
his UFC contract. The remaining $158 
million came from endorsements and 
other outside revenue streams. 
While no one should shed a tear for 
the wallet of a man worth hundreds of 
millions of dollars, McGregor’s income 
breakdown is indicative of a systemic 
problem that White is clearly responsible 
for. The UFC so grossly underpaid 
the brightest star in its history to such 
a degree that McGregor did not step 
into the octagon for nearly two years. 
Instead, McGregor turned his attention 
to boxing, where the athlete’s earnings 
potential is far more lucrative, and put 
on a “superfight” against legendary 
boxer Floyd Mayweather, Jr. Rather 
than suspecting that McGregor’s move 
was demonstrative of a problem that 
required an actual solution, White simply 
punished McGregor, stripping him of his 
lightweight belt for inactivity. 
The Score reports that the UFC has 
never paid its fighters more than 20% 
of its total revenue, multiple pathetic 
steps below the aforementioned revenue 
sharing norms in place for major North 
American sports. Some of Dana White’s 
top stars have publicly lambasted him for 
his mistreatment of fighters. 
And yet, nothing has changed, and 
there is no evidence, in spite of fighters’ 
overwhelming support for unionizing, 
that anything will change. It is clear 
that these changes will not come from 
within. The only way White will change 
his ways is if his current arrangement 
becomes untenable, but as the UFC’s 
popularity continues to skyrocket, it 
seems less and less likely that such a day 
will ever come. It is incumbent upon the 
leaders of organized labor nationwide, 
not to mention the U.S. government, to 
impress upon White that there will be 
consequences if he continues to hamper 
unionization and deprive his athletes of 
their rightful paychecks.

Opinion
The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
Wednesday, November 3, 2021 — 9 

L
esley Benedikt was driving home from 
the funeral of her husband, Josh Mitnick, 
when her phone rang. Josh, a former managing 
editor for The Michigan Daily, had gone on 
to report in Israel for Bloomberg News, the 
Wall Street Journal and other newspapers 
before he succumbed to cancer at the age of 
50. The call came from a consultant to the 
Palestine Authority, who told her that Josh 
had always listened to him and, unlike many 
other outsiders, understood the Palestinian 
perspective.
That message would have come as no 
surprise to anybody who knew Josh — either 
as a student journalist in Ann Arbor, or as a 
professional. That is how Josh lived his life 
and worked his craft: He was earnest and 
diligent, and always able to see the humanity 
in everybody. He was soft-spoken, serious, 
gentle and cerebral — unless he was watching 
Michigan sports, in which case he was neurotic, 
irrational, emotive and sometimes very, very 
loud.
I 
knew Josh most of my life. Our parents were 
friends from their college days in Ann Arbor. 
The Mitnicks lived in New Jersey, and my 
family lived in Detroit, but the Mitnicks would 
often visit us when they made their pilgrimage 
to Ann Arbor.
Josh was two years older than me, and I 
looked up to him. He enrolled at the University 
of Michigan and joined The Daily, and we’d 
sometimes visit him in Ann Arbor. He’d enthrall 
me with his stories about the paper, and I knew 
I wanted to follow his path.
Two of Josh’s Daily contemporaries, Mona 
Qureshi-Hart (Class of 1995) and Yael Citro 
(Class of 1994), spoke with several of Josh’s 
Daily colleagues, who shared a wide array of 
memories with them.
1991 graduate Miguel Cruz, a news editor, 
remembers Josh as a calming presence at a 
time when The Daily was riven with factional 
infighting. “The thing about him that made 
the strongest impression on me was how 
frustrating he found it when people from 
opposite sides of an argument couldn’t find 
a reasonable common ground,” Miguel said 
now. “In his view, if we would just calm down 
and listen to each other, there was always a way 
that we could move forward and get back to 
solving the problems that were affecting all of 
us. He knew when to call me out for being more 
concerned about scoring points than about 
being constructive, and that part of Josh that 
lives inside my head is still making me a better 
person today.”

Andy Gottesman, 1992 graduate, was editor-
in-chief at the time. Andy and Josh started 
together as first-year students on The Daily. 
“I remember him as an extremely serious 
journalist. He had no interest in goofball 
politics at The Daily,” Andy said. Whenever 

there was a question or debate of how to move 
things forward, Andy recalled, Josh would say, 
“The New York Times wouldn’t do it this way.” 
And then, Andy says, Josh would promptly 
focus on the task at hand. “He loved putting 
out news every day. He was a newsman.” 
Daily contemporary Mark Katz (Class of 1992) 
started alongside both Josh and Andy and 
proceeded to study in Israel after his second 
year. In his eulogy to Josh at his funeral, Mark 
shared that Josh viewed the opportunity as one 
to elevate the news at The Daily. Josh had Mark 
string for The Daily from Israel. Mark would 
call in with his news pieces and dictate them 
into the phone.
1994 graduate Andrew Levy started on the 
opinion page but switched to news reporting, 
where Josh helped him make the transition. 
“Josh was super welcoming and wonderful,” he 
recalled. “He was a really good mentor. A lot of 
people didn’t have the time (between The Daily 
and school) but he made time for me.” 1993 
grad Matt Rennie, 
a 
Daily 
editor, 
said, 
“He 
was 
someone who had 
a lot of personal 
and 
professional 
integrity.”
Josh 
shared 
his love of jazz 
with friends and 
colleagues — with 
an 
infectious 
enthusiasm. 
1994 
graduate Bethany Robertson, one of Josh’s 
reporters, recalled tagging along with him to 
a free concert at the Michigan Theater. Karen 
Scholl, a 1995 graduate, news editor and friend 
of Josh’s sister, Carrie, remembers shopping 
for jazz albums with him. They both say the 
same thing now: “When I hear jazz, I still think 
of him.” Andy shares that as he worked, Josh 
would tap his fingers on the table. “He had a 
jazz beat in his head,” he said.
My favorite memory of Josh came when we 
played together in the annual football game 
against the State News. In those days, the game 
was pure brutality: eleven on eleven, full tackle. 
Until that point, the game had been played six 
times, and the State News had won every time. 
In 1992 — my sophomore year, his senior year 
— The Daily finally got serious and spent some 
time practicing and installing plans.
Josh and I handled the two safety positions 
in our two-deep zone. At first Josh, having never 
played organized football, was utterly terrified of 
the responsibility of having multiple opponents 
running through his area, knowing one false 
step could allow a touchdown. But he picked it 
up quickly, and even made an interception, in a 
shutout win — The Daily’s first ever.
Josh told me that day that he felt terribly 
guilty that he had spent years watching 
Michigan games and shouting angrily at the 
defensive backs when they let the opposing 
receivers catch the ball in front of them. Having 
stood in their shoes, and having lived the fear 
of giving up a long touchdown pass (but not 
having allowed any), he swore he would never 
question them again.
Josh’s legacy at The Daily and elsewhere is 
how he exemplified the journalist, the human 
that worked to understand and appreciate 
other humans. The immediate Daily Managing 
Editor prior to Josh, Kristine Lalonde, said, “We 
lost a mensch (this week) — we all can honor 
his memory by bringing more empathy and 

compassion to the world.”
Shortly after Josh died, Yair Lapid, Israel’s 
foreign minister and prime minister-in-
waiting, eulogized him on the Knesset floor. 
There are few journalists — if any at all — who 
managed to win the respect and affection of 
Israelis and Palestinians alike. His legacy as 
a journalist is the exact same as his legacy as a 
human being: to understand his fellow humans 
and bring enlightenment into the world.
***
R
eflections from Daily alumni on Josh 
Mitnick: Sept. 2, 2021
Bethany Robertson, Class of 1994
Josh was Bethany’s first editor and she 
remembers him as very serious. He was not 
looking for the fluff story, ever, and was always 
looking for what was underneath. In the 
middle of a nightside shift, he mentioned he 
was leaving the building.
Bethany asked where he was headed. Josh 
replied that he was going to the Michigan 
Theatre for some 
free music. 501 
Jazz used to put on 
an hour of free jazz 
one night a month. 
Being a relatively 
new person as a 
first-year at The 
Daily, 
Bethany 
was surprised to 
see this extra layer 
in her very serious 
editor. And she was 
even more excited as a first-year to be asked to 
join him.
Bethany walked into the grand venue with 
Josh: “It was the most magical thing I’d ever 
seen, staring down the staircase at this free 
concert. I remember looking at Josh and he 
was so transfixed, so present. I still think of him 
every time I hear jazz.”
Erin Einhorn, Class of 1995
Erin didn’t know Josh well. She was in her 
first year when Josh took the reins as Managing 
Editor. But she remembers extremely clearly 
an incident shortly after she started with The 
Daily. Erin explained that ahead of the Fall 1991 
term, that there had been some rioting after 
the conclusion of a football game. As Michigan 
football prepared to play Michigan State, there 
was reason to believe that some additional 
rioting on campus might occur.
Erin expressed elation and excitement at 
the idea of jumping into a big story because she 
was new and well on her way to her journalism 
career.
“Josh was appalled,” she said. “He asked, 
‘How are you excited about a riot?’” He was 
the grown-up in the room and understood that 
news isn’t a game. He understood the people 
behind it.” Erin indicated that is when she first 
learned that lesson.
Andrew Levy, Class of 1994
Andrew mentioned he had a chance to spend 
time with Josh for about a year and a half. The 
way that Andrew remembers him is the one 
who was focused, who made efforts to mentor 
and loop in junior reporters, and someone who 
avoided politics among his staff.
Andrew also remembers he was a 
challenging person when he first joined The 
Daily as a first year as a member of its editorial 
staff. “It was an intimidating experience so I 
tried news. Josh was super welcoming and 
wonderful. He was a really good mentor. A lot of 
people didn’t have the time (between The Daily 

and school) but he made time for me.”
Andrew also recalls Josh’s commitment 
to Hillel and Jewish causes and how he 
seamlessly meshed this passion with his work 
and welcomed junior reporters along. Andrew 
recalled a story about Josh recruiting him 
to attend an American Israel Public Affairs 
Committee event for student journalists in 
Baltimore. They attended together. And on 
their return, at a time when flights were often 
overbooked, and people could get bumped and 
get a free plane ticket, Andrew and Josh were 
ready to garner some free travel by showing 
up early to the airport. Andrew fell asleep after 
they indicated they wanted to be on the bump 
and free ticket list and then woke to find the 
plane boarding and Josh gone. Apparently, 
Andrew had missed an additional call to the 
desk to confirm a bump, but Josh was able to 
take it.
Karen Scholl (Sabgir), Class of 1995
Karen started at The Daily as a first-year on 
the news staff while Josh was managing editor. 
That fall of 1991, many presidential candidates 
came to visit campus and Karen was assigned 
to cover Democratic candidate Tom Harkin. 
Karen recalls how excited and passionate 
Josh was about covering the candidates. 
She marveled in it because she didn’t know 
anything about Harkin at that point. She recalls 
his immense passion for Israel early on.
Karen, like Bethany, shares how Josh 
introduced her to jazz: “Whenever I hear jazz, I 
think of him.” She reflected on one of their visits 
to Tower Records and how she remarked on 
how pricey some of the CDs Josh was looking at 
were for how few tracks they offered: “He just 
looked at me and said, ‘It’s about the quality of 
the tracks, not the quantity.’”
Carrie Mitnick, Josh’s sister, lived down the 
hall from Karen and came to know his family 
well for many reasons, including being big 
Michigan fans: “He shaped my whole Michigan 
experience, his whole family. He introduced me 
to so much.”
Josh also introduced Karen to the joys of 
reading non-fiction — even at the beach: “We 
were on vacation at the beach and I looked over 
and there he was, reading Deborah, Golda, 
and Me. I thought you only read non-fiction if 
under duress. He was always learning things 
and wanted to know the world better. He was 
always a student.”
Andy Gottesman, Class of 1992
Andy was editor-in-chief while Josh was on 
The Daily. Andy mentioned he took his family 
to Israel four years ago and reached out but 
wasn’t able to connect.
Andy and Josh started together as first-year 
students on The Daily. “I remember him as an 
extremely serious journalist. He had no interest 

in goofball politics at The Daily.” Whenever 
there was a question or debate of how to move 
things forward, Andy recalled, Josh would say, 
“The New York Times wouldn’t do it this way.” 
As he would say something like this, Andy 
added that Josh would remove his spectacles 
and rub his forehead; “He loved putting out 
news every day. He was a newsman.”
Andy remembers Josh’s affections for 
music. He would recall that as Josh was 
editing, Josh sometimes would tap his fingers 
on the table rhythmically: “He had a jazz beat 
in his head.” He also remembers the Mitnicks’ 
affections for Michigan football. He once 
invited Josh over to watch an Ohio State game 
and his dad joined in: “His Dad was a bigger fan 
than anyone!”

Matt Rennie, Class of 1993
Matt was editor-in-chief following Andy 
and came from the sports desk during a 
streak of years when editors-in-chief came 
from sports. Matt recalls that when Josh was 
managing editor, he was sitting among a lot 
of big personalities: “The other leaders at The 
Daily were loud, big personalities. Josh was 
more reserved. He was someone who had a lot 
of personal and professional integrity.”
That reservation was still powerful, 
however. Matt shared that you could usually 
see pretty well ahead how things were going 
to go with a group during an argument: “Josh 
wasn’t afraid, even if it was clear his was going 
to be a minority opinion, to stick to his opinion 
even if it might be drowned out.”
Miguel Cruz, Class of 1991
Miguel was a news editor and weekend 
editor and provided more color about Josh’s 
management of conflicts in the newsroom and 
how he gravitated even at that time toward 
resolution of conflicts:
“The thing about him that made the strongest 
impression on me was how frustrating he 
found it when people from opposite sides of an 
argument couldn’t find a reasonable common 
ground. In his view, if we would just calm down 
and listen to each other, there was always a way 
that we could move forward and get back to 
solving the problems that were affecting all of us. 

Remembering Daily alumnus Josh Mitnick 

JONATHAN CHAIT, MONA QURESHI-
HART, YAEL CITRO
Op-ed Contributors

This flag was made for you and me

ALEX YEE
Opinion Columnist

Dana White: modern-day robber baron

JACK ROSHCO
Opinion Columnist

Josh Mitnick with his wife, Lesley Benedikt. Josh is pictured wearing a TMD crewneck. Image courtesy of Lesley Benedikt.

Together, Josh Mitnick and Mark Katz hold up a copy of The 
Daily. Image courtesy of Lesley Benedikt.

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Josh pictured with his wife and their three children. The family 
lived in Tel Aviv, Israel. Image courtesy of Lesley Benedikt.

Josh pictured with his father, Stuart Mitnick. Both graduated from 
the University of Michigan. Image courtesy of Lesley Benedikt.


Junior defenseman Keaton Pehrson 
was caught in unfamiliar territory. As 
Michigan underwent a line change, 
Pehrson 
remained 
in 
Wisconsin’s 
defensive zone. Despite being short three 
teammates, Pehrson’s relentless pursuit 
of the puck overpowered the Badgers. 
He won the battle all by himself and the 
Wolverines gained possession. That was 
around the time where Michigan would 
hit a wall — both literally and figuratively.
Wisconsin’s game plan was clear: Do 
not allow the Wolverines any room in the 
slot. Their tight-knit defense seemingly 
blocked every Michigan shot, constantly 
sacrificing their bodies and maintaining 
good positioning. They did this successfully 
enough to the tune of a 4-2 victory.
Wolverines’ 
coach 
Mel 
Pearson 
understands other teams’ tendencies, 
especially against his talented squad.
“We’re going to see that a lot, teams 
just pack it in,” Pearson said. “As the 
game wore on, we got better getting to 
the net, but we were playing a little too 
individualistic. Guys would hold onto the 
puck too much instead of give and go and 
beat guys.”
Efforts from players like senior forward 
Luke Morgan were instrumental in the 
Wolverines’ forechecking scheme tonight. 
Early in the second period, Morgan 

was grinding down in Wisconsin’s 
corners. He won a fight for the puck 
and eventually, senior forward Jimmy 
Lambert possessed it. He was unable to 
find sophomore forward Brendan Brisson 
— who was wide open in the slot for his 
signature one-timer opportunity. That 
play didn’t define the game, but it was a 
microcosm of Michigan’s struggles.

The forecheck was excellent. All four 
lines of forwards and even the defensemen 
were active, bullying their way to the puck 
and setting up in the offensive zone. But, 
mostly due to the Badgers’ shutdown 
defense, they weren’t able to generate 
many scoring looks. 
“I didn’t think we were getting it to 
the net enough in the first 40 minutes 
of the game,” senior forward Jimmy 
Lambert said. “If we did get it to the net, we 

didn’t really have anyone there to collect 
rebounds or puck retrievals in the corners.”
Even on the typically outstanding 
power play, the Wolverines had a 
difficult time finding the net. Brisson was 
robbed of a goal by a blocked shot from 
a Wisconsin defenseman. Despite the 
opportunities, there always seemed to be 
a wall of red guarding the crease.
In the rare instances when Badger 
goaltender 
Cameron 
Rowe 
was 
challenged, he rose to the occasion. His 
plethora of sprawling and acrobatic 
saves held Michigan to only two goals, 
propelling Wisconsin to the upset victory. 
As the Wolverines maintain their national 
spotlight, expect other teams to give them 
their best game.
“Everyone knows who we are, 
everyone has high expectations for us and 
we have high expectations for ourselves,” 
Lambert said. “Man to man, I just think 
that we have to be better because it’s Big 
Ten time.”
Seniors like Lambert have been 
through the wringer a few times now, 
but for the rest of the team, lessons like 
tonight will prove invaluable during 
the postseason. If Michigan wants to 
compete for a national championship, 
they will need to perform for 60 minutes, 
not just play desperate catchup.
Pearson added: “We just have to start 
with that urgency on the drop of the puck. 
We have to continue to play with that 
urgency from the get-go.”

Down 1-0 against No. 7 Penn 
State on Friday, the No. 2 Michigan 
field hockey team (13-3 overall, 5-3 
Big Ten) shifted into a higher gear, 
scoring twice in the final ten minutes 
to take the lead. With three minutes 
left in the game, the Wolverines were 
finally in the driver’s seat.
It ended up being three minutes 

too long. With the game clock in it’s 
final ticks, the Nittany Lions (13-4, 
4-2) tied it up to send the game into 
overtime. After a back and forth start 
to the period, the Wolverines’ 2021 
regular season ended in the seventh 
minute with a disappointing 3-2 loss.
“The team worked hard to come 
back from being behind,” Michigan 
coach Marcia Pankratz said. “We 
just had one too many elements that 
weren’t up to snuff.”
While both teams started slow — 

combining for only four shots in the 
first half — the pace quickly picked 
up in the second. Just 90 seconds into 
the third quarter, Penn State forward 
Emma Spisak fired a shot past senior 
goalkeeper Anna Spieker.
The momentum stayed firmly 
in the Nittany Lions’ corner, as they 
held the Wolverines to just one 
shot on goal. In the fourth quarter, 
however, Michigan fired on all 
cylinders offensively, putting six 
shots on goal off the sticks of five 

Wolverine players.
Though Penn State goalkeeper 
Brie Barraco was able to save the 
majority of the shots, one of the saves 
bounced right to Michigan freshman 
midfielder Alana Richardson, who 
put it back on the net for the first of 
the Wolverines’ day.
Michigan found its tie-breaker 
with less than three minutes left to 
play, in a penalty corner conversion 
off the stick of senior midfielder Sofia 
Southam.

“One of our strengths this year 
has been our perseverance,” redshirt 
senior Halle O’Neill said. “Even 
though we haven’t trailed that many 
times, we’ve still been able to pull 
back even when we’ve needed to and 
then get ahead.”
The lead was short lived however 
as Penn State forward Sophia 
Gladieux snuck the ball past Spieker 
just one minute later to end regulation 
tied at two. In the overtime period, 
the Wolverines initially were in 
firm control but faltered after being 
unable to find the back of the cage in 
their three chances.
The Nittany Lions took advantage, 
and midfielder Mackenzie Allessie 
ended the game in the seventh 
minute.
“Any team can beat any team 
in the Big Ten, no matter where 
you are in the rankings,” Pankratz 
said. “If you don’t play all 60, 70, 
however many minutes it takes 
to get a result, you’re not giving 
yourself the best chance to win, 
plain and simple.”
After starting with a perfect 11-0 
record, the Wolverines suffered 
a shaky finish to their campaign, 
losing three of their final five games. 
Members of the team chalked part of 
the issue up to the schedule; of their 
final five games, four — including all 
three losses — came against top 10 
opposition.
“The scheduling was rough this 
year,” O’Neill said. “We ended up 
facing the best teams as they were 
reaching their stride.
“That being said, it’s hard to beat 
a good team twice. We’ll face at least 
one of the teams that beat us again in 
the tournaments, and we’ll be ready 
for them.”

The Michigan volleyball team was 
ready for a fight against Iowa.
The first set of play was hotly 
contested, with each team fighting 
to create any sort of separation. It 
wasn’t until the score was tied at 
13 that either team could jump out 
to a significant lead. Sophomore 
setter Scottee Johnson launched 
the ball towards sophomore outside 
hitter Jess Mruzik, who spiked it 
off the Iowa blocker’s outstretched 
hands to earn a critical side out. The 
Wolverines subsequently rattled off 
a quick seven-point run and dropped 
just four more points en route to a 
comfortable 25-16 first set win.
Patient 
but 
aggressive. 
This 
mantra repeated by coach Mark 
Rosen 
perfectly 
encapsulates 
Michigan’s win in straight sets over 
the Iowa Hawkeyes.
“We kept pushing them,” Rosen 
said. “We kept pressuring them, and 
all of sudden in the first set we broke 
it open.”
Michigan played a consistent 
match, tallying just eight errors 
over three sets of play — half of 
Iowa’s 16. The constant pressure 
of the Wolverines’ capable outside 
players eventually overwhelmed the 
Hawkeyes. Iowa lost the first two sets 
after major Michigan scoring runs 
and was unable to even put up a fight 
in the third.
Mruzik totaled 14 kills on .481 
hitting, and senior outside hitter 
Paige Jones added another 11 kills 
on .258 hitting. Both players posted 
accuracy marks well above their 
averages for the season.

“Iowa is a really good blocking 
team,” Mruzik said. “I just wanted to 
keep swinging high and (use) the top 
of their hands to get as many lucky 
bounces as possible.”
Mruzik 
aimed 
high 
and 
repeatedly bounced her booming 
spike off the outstretched hands 
of the Iowa middle blockers. This 

strategy, a product of Rosen’s game 
plan, resulted in many side outs and 
runs in the Wolverines’ favor. Time 
and time again, Michigan relied on 
its outside hitters — and time and 
time again, they rose to the occasion.
“I was really pleased with how 
steady our team played,” Rosen said. 
“Iowa played really well, especially 
in the first set early and the second 
set. They were hitting great numbers 
(and) running a really good offense.”
As a team, Michigan was able 
to 
outpace 
Iowa’s 
formidable 
offensive attack due to its patient but 

aggressive scheme. The Wolverines 
were never fazed, even when the 
Hawkeyes held a three-point lead 
midway through the second set. 
Inevitably, Iowa would make an 
error. Two missed attack chances by 
the Hawkeyes led to a one-point lead 
in Michigan’s favor. The Wolverines 
never relinquished the lead again.

Michigan’s dazzling 51 kills on 
.391 hitting are numbers that prove a 
trust in Rosen’s ideals. The relatively 
low volume of attempts, only 10 
more than Iowa, proves that the 
Wolverines were able to put the ball 
away consistently.
Patience and aggression have 
allowed 
this 
Michigan 
team 
to approach its full potential. 
Few teams can keep up with 
Michigan’s outside hitters when 
they are able to grind their 
opponents down in the way they 
did Saturday.

Led by outside hitters, Michigan 
offense dismantles Iowa
No. 2 Michigan drops final regular 
season game against No. 7 Penn State

JOSHUA MESSE
For the Daily

LUKE HALES/Daily 
Wisconsin’s game plan was clear: Do not allow the 
Wolverines any room in the slot. Their tight-knit 
defense seemingly blocked every Michigan shot.

JEREMY WEINE/Daily 
Alana Richardson scored Michigan’s first goal in its loss to Penn State. 

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com 
Sports
10 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021

TESS CROWLEY/Daily 

Wolverines’ senior outside hitter Paige Jones notched 11 kills in the Wolverines’ win over Iowa.

DAVID WOELKERS
Daily Sports Writer

Michigan can’t complete the sweep, 
comes up short versus Wisconsin 

SAM BERNARDI
Daily Sports Writer

There are few weak spots on 
the Michigan hockey team. Its No. 
3 ranking and 6-2-0 record are 
indicative of a well-balanced roster. 
But, its two losses are enough to 
prove that, as a matter of fact, it does 
have some flaws. The Wolverines 
are most vulnerable when they 
allow odd-man rushes, the blame 
falling not only on their defensemen, 
but on their forwards too.
Michigan has a host of talented 
offensive defensemen, including 
senior 
Nick 
Blankenburg, 
sophomore 
Owen 
Power 
and 
freshman Luke Hughes. Their skill 
allows them to push in transition 
and join in on the attack. When 
successful, they offer a huge boost 
to the Wolverines. On the season, 
Power leads the Michigan blueliners 
with two goals and eight points, 
while Hughes is not far behind 
with two goals and seven points. 
Blankenburg, the team’s speedy 
captain, has already recorded three 
goals and four points this year.
There is no denying that this 

offensive-minded style of play has 
been productive for the Wolverines. 
But, it has also been detrimental in 
unsettled situations when they’ve 
had to get back on defense quickly.
“If the weak side (defenseman) 
is gonna jump we have to be more 
aware of that,” fifth-year forward 
Michael Pastujov said. “As soon as 
(opponents) see us jumping they’re 
gonna be jumping the other way. 
The forwards just gotta be aware of 
the situation. …It’s something we’re 
working on in practice, trying to 
limit those odd-man rushes.”
Friday night versus Wisconsin, 
Michigan 
sacrificed 
several 
breakaways following defensive 
breakdowns. 
Oftentimes, 
the 
Badgers would start in their own 
zone, take advantage of the overly-
aggressive Wolverine defenders 
and play a pass ahead for a cutting 
forward. Whether it was a neutral 
zone turnover or a defenseman who 
pinched too much in the offensive 
zone, Wisconsin was able to expose 
Michigan’s lack of discipline.
The team does not want to 
discourage its defensemen from 
initiating scoring chances, but 
communication 
with 
forwards 

is imperative for recoveries and 
preventing sophomore goaltender 
Erik Portillo from facing opponents 
alone.
“We have some defensemen 
that are really good activating 
and joining the rush offensively,” 
assistant coach Bill Muckalt said. 

“With that, a lot of times we’re 
asking a forward to fill into that 
position.”
Even more frustrating for the 
Wolverines is how solid they’ve 
played in their own defensive 
zone. Opponents have struggled to 
produce even-strength goals and to 

maintain possession. Considering 
how comfortable they look in their 
own zone, it’s crucial for Michigan 
to address its issues in transition. 
“Our (defensive) zone coverage 
has been fantastic,” Muckalt said. 
“Because we’ve been sustaining 
a lot of (offensive) zone time and 

pressure when there is a breakdown, 
we just have to be aware whether 
it’s a defensive man holding the line 
or (a forward) as a backtrack.”
On the other side of the ice, 
Michigan struggles to backcheck. 
The team is extremely effective 
while forechecking, so it’s a bit 
surprising that its forwards have not 
replicated this effort getting back 
on defense. This issue resonates not 
just in its forwards but throughout 
the team.
“One thing we harp on a lot is 
coming back for a purpose, not just 
coming back to come back,” junior 
defenseman Jack Summers said. 
“If you’re coming back, you have to 
get their stick. You can’t just stand 
there. … Those loose pucks can’t get 
put in.”
The Badgers may have found a 
blueprint that other Big Ten teams 
will try to replicate against the 
Wolverines: pack the defensive zone 
and take advantage of the overly-
aggressive Michigan defensemen. 
This 
upcoming 
series 
versus 
Michigan State will show fans if 
Michigan can fix its mistakes, or 
if there are more concerns for the 
future.

SAM BERNARDI
Daily Sports Writer

Forecheck thrives, but scoring opportunities are hard to come by for Michigan

KATE HUA/Daily 
While defensemen’s offensive aggression has generated many scoring chances for Michigan, it has also left it exposed to 
odd-man rushes.

Wolverines finish 4th in women’s cross 
country Big Ten Championship

As the runners passed the 2.5-mile mark of the six-
kilometer (3.73-mile) Big Ten Championship race, the 
Michigan women’s cross country team looked to be 
in a prime position to take home the title. 
In first place with 59 points and three Wolverines 
in the top 10, Michigan looked to capitalize on its 
position. As the runners approached the 3-mile 
mark, junior Ericka VanderLende, accompanied 
by Minnesota’s Megan Hasz and Michigan State’s 
Jenna Magness, held a tight lead. As they kicked 
the wet mud behind them going up the final hill, it 
was shaping up to be a photo finish. But on the final 
push, Hasz edged out VanderLende for the Big Ten 
title by 0.8 seconds. 
No. 9 Michigan finished fourth at the Big Ten 
Championships on Friday in a highly competitive 
event. The tight race around Penn State’s Blue and 
White Golf Courses was the most competitive race 
the Wolverines had all season. 
In the first mile, the runners practically blended 
together. Everyone was running stride by stride, 
foreshadowing a race that would come down to 
the final kilometer. 
“This was definitely our most competitive race 
with many people close together,” VanderLende 
said. “(It was) a little intimidating because we 
haven’t really had a great split like that.”
VanderLende stayed at the front of the pack, 
placing in the top five at every mile split. 
“Today was a good day,” VanderLende said. 
“Personally, I think it’s been a long time coming to 
have a decent race for me and when the stakes are 
higher, I feel like I race better. So I think it worked 

out well individually as well.”
VanderLende wasn’t the only Michigan 
runner to have a good day, though. Senior Kayla 
Windemuller put up a personal best herself. 
Windemuller also fought at the front for the 
entire duration of the event. The first time All-
Big Ten honoree missed out on fifth place by 0.4 
seconds.
“Mostly, I just wanted to maintain my 
position,” Windemuller said. “(Michigan coach 
Mike McGuire) would tell us before the race that 
every place that you’re in is precious, but the only 
place ahead of you is more precious than the one 
you’re in.”
The runners had a tricky course, dealing with 
strong rain and heavy winds for the duration of 
the event. Not only did they run on wet grass, but 
the runners had to weave between trees and trek 
uphill for large parts of the course. Windemuller 
and the Wolverines, though, had the benefit 
of running this course before. Experience that 
competitors lacked.
“It was kind of fun,” said Windemuller. “It’s 
kind of what cross country is all about. Just the 
mental toughness, working hard and the tough 
conditions. If anything, it was my favorite because 
we were dealing with a lot of rain even in practice.”
Added VanderLende: “The weather, definitely, 
has an impact on my mental state, but I just tried 
to push it away. Normally, I don’t enjoy running 
in the cold, but just setting that aside, focusing on 
the task at hand really helps take my mind off the 
conditions.”
Although the Wolverines failed to take home 
the Big Ten Championship, Michigan has a chance 
at redemption as it prepares for the NCAA Great 
Lakes Regional on Nov. 12 in Evansville, Ind. 

JAKE SINGER
Daily Sports Writer


As the Michigan football team 
went through its normal Monday 
walkthrough last week, Andrel 
Anthony noticed he was playing a 
bigger role than usual.
“I definitely realized I was going 
to have a big part in this game,” the 
freshman receiver said a week later. 
“I didn’t know it was going to be that 
big, but I knew I was going to have a 
shot, an opportunity, to make a play 
and capitalize on that.”
That’s exactly what he did. 
Six catches, 155 yards and two 
touchdowns later, Anthony emerged 
as a bright spot in the Wolverines’ 
37-33 loss to Michigan State on 
Saturday.
The East Lansing native wasted 
no time making noise in his 
homecoming. On Michigan’s third 
play from scrimmage, he caught a 
crossing route in stride from junior 
quarterback Cade McNamara — his 
first career reception — and turned 

the corner before the Spartans’ 
secondary could catch up. A few 
seconds later, he trotted into the end 
zone to cap off a 93-yard touchdown 
— the second-longest in program 
history.
“Being able to be put in a position 
by the coaches and stuff like that, 
players believing in me, Cade giving 
me opportunities, stuff like that, it 
meant the world to me,” Anthony 
said. “Yeah, I’m a true freshman, but 
(coaches) really believe in me. That 
meant a lot to me.”
Anthony 
hauled 
in 
another 
touchdown in the second half, this 
time from freshman quarterback 
J.J. McCarthy. Michigan coach 
Jim Harbaugh spotted Anthony 
and McCarthy voluntarily working 
out on the practice field together, 
along with freshman running back 
Donovan Edwards, following the 
Wolverines’ road trips to Wisconsin 
and Nebraska. Anthony and Edwards 
used the time to rep different routes 
with 
McCarthy, 
who 
practiced 
high and low throws to their back 
shoulders.

When Anthony saw the ball leave 
McCarthy’s right hand on Saturday 
afternoon, he had a flashback to those 
freshman sessions. 
“I was like, ‘OK, this is just like 
after the Wisconsin game when 
we got back,’ ” Anthony said. 
“The connection we have already 
is amazing, and it’s just going to 
continue to grow.”
For Michigan, the timing of 
Anthony’s emergence is critical. With 
senior receiver Ronnie Bell out for 
the season and sophomore receiver 
Roman Wilson nursing a wrist injury, 
Anthony filled the void in a big way on 
Saturday.
Bell, in particular, played a 
significant role in getting Anthony 
ready for the moment. From the time 
Anthony stepped foot on campus, the 
duo studied the playbook together 
and stayed in the gym for their own 
lifts after teamwide weight room 
activities.
“He always told me he believes in 
me, and it meant a lot to me because 
I looked up to him in high school,” 
Anthony said. “I was like, ‘Ronnie 

Bell believes in me?’ ”
Since arriving as an early enrollee 
in January, Anthony has focused on 
becoming a better playmaker. He 
was known as a deep threat in high 
school, but he’s since added nearly 
10 pounds of muscle while retaining 
his speed and explosiveness. The 
additional strength has helped him 
make plays on short and intermediate 
routes while also improving his 
ability to make contested catches 
— a major focal point of Michigan 

offensive coordinator Josh Gattis’s 
coaching.
Still, Anthony’s blocking struggles 
kept him off the field early on 
this season. Given how much the 
Wolverines run the ball, wide receiver 
blocking is at the top of the priority 
among the team’s receivers. Anthony 
said coaches got on him about 
blocking during spring practices and 
fall camp, which forced him to focus 
more on that area.
A few months later, Anthony 

feels he’s come into his own. And his 
teammates see it too.
“He’s been having a very good 
last couple weeks of practice,” 
junior 
receiver 
Mike 
Sainristil 
said. “He’s been very detailed. He’s 
just been practicing very well and 
understanding that, with guys like 
Roman not playing and Ronnie hurt, 
he has to play a higher role and step up 
in the offense.
“That’s just who he is. He finally 
had the chance to showcase it.”

JULIA SCHACHINGER//Daily 
East Lansing native Andrel Anthony had two touchdowns on Saturday against Michigan State.

We’ve said it so many times:
This week is the real test.
We said it about Washington. 
And Wisconsin. And Nebraska. And 
Michigan State.
Each week, we 
unpacked Michi-
gan’s win with a 
footnote that the 
game wasn’t the 
test we thought it 
would be. Until the 
Wolverines 
went 
to East Lansing. 
The 
game’s 
importance had been touted all week. 
It would be the in-state rivals’ first 
top 10 matchup since 1964. A win for 
either team would create a new mea-
suring stick for success and cement 
conference — and even national — 
championship potential. 
Through the first half, it looked 
like coach Jim Harbaugh would 
clinch the biggest win of his Michigan 
career. Then, the Wolverines hemor-
rhaged a 16-point third quarter lead, 
and the visions of a championship 
season got a little dimmer. 
After the game, Harbaugh sat 
dejected at the podium with little to 
say. 
“That didn’t go the way we wanted 
(it) to,” he said.
Once again, facing its tough-
est competition, Michigan failed to 
deliver. 
Now, all eyes turn towards Penn 

State, when we will learn if this team 
truly is different from the past.
Regardless of Saturday’s outcome, 
Michigan knows how to win. It’s 
come up in big moments, built up its 
passing game when its run game is 
stopped and constructed an efficient 
two-quarterback system out of a 
starter that’s largely considered to be 
just “good enough.” 

In each consecutive game this 
season, it’s looked like the Wolver-
ines have added another dimension 
to their offense, staying true to a 
rush-centered strategy anchored by 
Corum and Haskins while exploring 
the other weapons in their arsenal. 
On Saturday, that dynamic, top 10 
team made uncharacteristic mistakes. 
It wasn’t so much that it was simply 

bested but that its miscues accumulat-
ed. Michigan wasn’t playing at it’s best. 
Now it’s about how it responds. 
“This season’s not over,” sixth-year 
center Andrew Vastardis said after 
Saturday’s game. “Not even close.” 
Yes, the season isn’t over. The Wol-
verines have four more games left, 
but two — against the Nittany Lions 
and Ohio State — will be among their 

toughest of the season. Theoretically, 
Michigan could finish with a record 
of 11-1 with a shot at the College Foot-
ball Playoff. Or it could be 8-4 with an 
appearance at an insignificant bowl 
game. 
If history is any indicator, it’ll be 
closer to the latter. Last season, an 
initial 49-24 win against No. 21 Min-
nesota inflated fans expectations. But 

after a loss to the Spartans the fol-
lowing week, the Wolverines never 
recovered and ended the season 2-4. 
The year before, a string of midseason 
Big Ten wins buoyed their hopes only 
to be dashed in back-to-back blowouts 
against Ohio State and Alabama. In 
2018, Michigan beat its first eight con-
ference opponents, still to lose to the 
Buckeyes and Florida. 
Yes, this team can win, but can it 
recover from a loss? 
“It’s a learning experience,” Vas-
tardis said.
Maybe it will be. Players and 
coaches have continually repeated 
the mantra that this Michigan team 
is different. And they’ve backed 
those assertions. This Michigan 
team looked different when, facing 
mediocre preseason expectations, it 
beat Washington. It looked different 
when it beat Wisconsin on the road. 
It looked different when it came out 
ahead in a fourth quarter dogfight 
against Nebraska. 
As the Wolverines rose in the 
rankings, so did the stakes. Fans that 
originally would have been satisfied 
with an 8-4 season are looking, real-
istically, at a floor of 9-3. 
But, if this Michigan team is dif-
ferent, it won’t be because of a 7-0 
run. It’ll be because it learns how to 
recover.

Managing Sports Editor Lane 

Kizziah can be reached on Twitter 

@KizziahLane.

SportsWednesday: Is this Michigan team different?

LANE

KIZZIAH

While Michigan State celebrated 
a game-clinching interception on 
Saturday, Jim Harbaugh stalked the 
sidelines. He paced up and down, 
seemingly unsure what to do after 
Michigan relinquished a 16-point lead 
and its chance at a marquee victory. 
Two days later, the pain of the 
loss partly subsided, Harbaugh again 
resembled his passionate, fiery self. 
“Resolve is to get back to work and 
get prepared for this next opponent,” 
the Michigan coach said on Monday. 
“That’s the way I woke up today. 
Determined. Attack with the new 
resolve that it’s a new season. A new 
day, a new week, a new four-game 
season. Let’s get at it.
“My approach, very similar to a 
fighter. You get up, referee wipes your 
gloves and you come back even more 
determined, with even more resolve 
to prepare, to work harder, to find a 
way to finish and to win.” 
The players appeared to match 
Harbaugh’s 
mentality. 
Monday 
afternoon, the Wolverines gathered 
for a players-only meeting inside 
Schembechler Hall, a decision put forth 
by the appointed leadership council. 
According to junior receiver Mike 
Sainristil, it’s the third such meeting the 
team has had this season. 
The intention? 
“Just being able to re-center our 
focus as a team,” Sainristil said. 
Individually, each player spent 
the past two days decompressing 
in different ways. Junior defensive 
end Mike Morris took 48 hours to 
get the loss out of his system, but has 
since switched his focus to Indiana. 

Sainristil watched film on a select 
number of plays, which prompted a 
realization:
“We have a lot left in us as a team,” 
Sainristil said. “We’re still trending in 
the right direction. There’s a lot left on 
the table for us. There’s big things still 
to come.” 
Sainristil 
and 
the 
remaining 
contingent of Michigan’s veteran 
players have stressed the importance 
of setting an example. None of 
the freshmen have dealt with the 
aftermath of a loss. The sophomores 
haven’t been on a team that handles 
a loss well.
As a part of the leadership council, 
Sainristil has helped to curate the 
team’s new rallying cry. 
“We’re still in this,” Sainristil said. 
“There’s no need to worry. We just 
have to bounce back and take this past 
weekend for what it is, go over film 
and just correct our mistakes. Learn 
where we can get better.” 
There are, of course, several tangible 
areas in which the Wolverines can 
improve. Even before this weekend, 
Michigan had plenty of flaws; the 
Spartans merely magnified them.
Harbaugh 
specifically 
noted 
three realms that the Wolverines are 
focusing on this week.
The effort starts with Michigan 
remedying its shambolic defensive 
substitutions. 
Mike 
Macdonald’s 
defensive system is predicated on 
rotations, which is meant to keep 
players fresh. On Saturday, that plan 
collapsed in the face of Michigan 
State’s up-tempo offense, leading to 
multiple flags and rampant confusion. 
“Usually we’re off the field very 
quickly, we do it at a timely pace,” 
Morris said. “This week, it just didn’t 
happen. Their pace was too fast. It 

was just happening way too fast, it just 
didn’t match up.” 
On the offensive side of the ball, 
Harbaugh stressed the need for 
cleaner run-blocking to ensure that 
the running backs aren’t hit on the 
line of scrimmage. Michigan State 
held the Wolverines to a season-
low 146 rushing yards, eliminating 
Michigan’s true bread and butter.
The culmination of those offensive 
woes is the inability to finish inside 
the red zone. On Saturday, the 
Wolverines only mustered a field goal 
on four separate trips to the red zone, 
an issue that Harbaugh lamented as 
“a big one every week.” 
As the season reaches the home 
stretch, it’s imperative that the 
Wolverines build upon those three 
aspects. Ultimately, Harbaugh is 
confident that they will progress, 
rather than wilt, moving forward.
“I’ve seen the team for a long 
time now, the way they respond,” 
Harbaugh said. “Whether it’s a 
setback or chatter, I know how they’re 
going to respond…which is with more 
resolve, more determined to prepare 
and get ready for our next ballgame.” 

Michigan’s plan to move forward after 
crushing loss to Michigan State

True freshman Andrel Anthony 
shines in return to East Lansing

JARED GREENSPAN
Daily Sports Editor

DANIEL DASH
Daily Sports Editor

JULIA SCHACHINGER/Daily 
After its loss to Michigan State, Michigan 
coach Jim Harbaugh has a few specific 
areas he looks to improve in.

JULIA SCHACHINGER/Daily 
The Michigan football team could still salvage its season after Saturday’s loss against Michigan State if it learns from its mistakes.

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com 

Cade McNamara started off with 
a bang.
On Michigan’s first third down 
of the game, the junior quarterback 
completed a pass to freshman receiv-
er Andrel Anthony for 93 yards and 
the Wolverines’ first touchdown — 
the first of the freshman’s career. 
Although the Wolverines ulti-
mately fell to Michigan State, 33-37, 
McNamara had the best game of 
his own career by almost any 
measure. Going 28-for-44 for 
383 yards, he topped his career 
best in passing attempts, pass-
es completed and total yards. 
He completed over 125 more 
yards than his previous sea-
son high against Nebraska, 
when the passing game really 
emerged. 
McNamara’s presence has 
grown on the field throughout 
the season, evidenced not only 
by his growing stat sheet but 
also how comfortable he looks 
in the pocket. Even beyond the 
highlight-reel 
touchdowns, 
he advanced Michigan with 
throws an earlier iteration of this 
offense never would have been able 
to complete. 
Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh 
utilized freshman quarterback J.J. 
McCarthy as well, despite McNa-
mara’s strong performance for the 
majority of the game. The fresh-
man tallied three completed passes 
on four attempts for 23 yards and a 
touchdown. Collectively, the duo’s 
406 passing yards bested the Spar-
tans’ 196. 
Still, the quarterback duo exhib-

ited some uncharacteristic errors 
that ultimately gave Michigan State 
the upper hand. 
“We were confident we could 
move the ball,” McNamara said. “It 
was a combination of good pass pro 
today — we just came up short and 
that’s on me. I didn’t execute good 
enough for us to win this one.”
Perhaps the most blatant example 
came from McCarthy in the fourth 
quarter. With 7:12 minutes on the 
clock and Michigan up by three, 
McCarthy was brought back onto 
the field. At 1st-and-10, McCarthy 

and sophomore running back Blake 
Corum fumbled the exchange, and 
the ball was recovered by Spartan 
defensive end Jacob Panasiuk. The 
ensuing drive resulted in a Michi-
gan State touchdown and ultimately 
handed the Spartans the game.
Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh 
caught a lot of flak for the choice of 
McCarthy over McNamara after the 
game. When asked about the play, he 
simply remarked that “it did not go 
smoothly” and that McNamara was 
“working through some stuff” at the 

time.
Even if the misstep was the final 
nail in the Wolverines’ coffin, it was 
hardly the only one.
McCarthy 
had 
fumbled 
in 
the previous possession as well, 
although it didn’t result in a turnover. 
In Michigan’s last-ditch attempt at a 
comeback, McNamara didn’t fare 
much better. 
Down by four with 1:15 minutes 
left and the ball at the 33-yard line, 
McNamara returned to the field. 
After a roughing the passer call 
gave the Wolverines 15 free yards, 
he threw a pass that was 
intercepted by Michigan State 
corner Charles Brantley, extin-
guishing Michigan’s last hope 
of a comeback. 
Combined, McCarthy and 
McNamara went 16-for-22 for 
252 yards in the first half and 
15-for-26 for 154 yards in the 
second. Neither could execute 
in the red zone, as evidenced 
by Michigan’s four field goals. 
And, for that, McNamara 
feels responsible. 
“I think we had a couple 
plays, there was a few plays 
that stand out, there’s not 
many,” McNamara said. “I 
think I needed to do better. I just 
can’t do that at the end of the game. 
I’ve gotta check it down or some-
thing.”
Though he couldn’t finish the job 
on Saturday, what was once a glaring 
weakness of this offense — its pass-
ing game — has transitioned into a 
strength. When called upon, McNa-
mara moved the ball through the air 
to keep the Wolverines in the game 
and to the precipice of beating a top 
10 team.
He just couldn’t finish the game.

Despite career game from McNamara, 
quarterbacks still struggle

LANE KIZZIAH
Managing Sports Editor

Wednesday, November 3, 2021 — 11

JULIA SCHACHINGER/Daily 
In future weeks, the Wolverines will once again 
demand that McNamara prove himself. 


EAST LANSING — Nursing a 
three-point lead midway through the 
fourth quarter, Michigan coach Jim 
Harbaugh went with the freshman. 
J.J. McCarthy — the former 
five-star backup quarterback — 
trotted onto the field. Throughout 
the game, McCarthy came in for 
specialized packages within the 
Wolverines’ offense, including a 
number of successful read options 
and a touchdown pass to freshman 
receiver Andrel Anthony. The 
starter — junior Cade McNamara, 
who finished the game 28-of-44 
for 383 passing yards and two 
touchdowns — was “working 
through something,” according to 
Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh. 
Even so, McCarthy’s last touch 
had ended with a fumble that, 
mercifully for Michigan, went out of 
bounds. 
This one didn’t. 
McCarthy bobbled the exchange 
with 
sophomore 
running 
back 
Blake Corum. Almost as soon as the 
ball hit the ground, Michigan State 

defensive end Jacub Panasiuk fell on 
it. Six plays later, the Spartans scored 
the go-ahead touchdown. 
That turnover and score would 
prove to be decisive, as No. 6 
Michigan (7-1 overall, 4-1 Big Ten) 
fell to No. 8 Michigan State (8-0, 
5-0), 37-33. In every moment where 
the Wolverines — who led by as 
many as 16 points in the second half 
— looked as if they could seal the 
game, mishaps arose that ultimately 
doomed yet another opportunity 
for Harbaugh’s program to pick up a 
signature win over a rival. 
“Sometimes, we shot ourselves 
in the foot and couldn’t punch 
it in,” sixth-year center Andrew 
Vastardis said. “That hurt, first in 
the grand scheme of the game, but 
(it’s) something we have to grow 
from. Something to be better at.”
Crucially, many of those errors 
came in the red zone. On the 
second drive of the game, with an 
opportunity to jump to a 14-point 
lead, an end around to the Spartans’ 
five-yard line by junior receiver 
Cornelius Johnson seemed to put 
Michigan in prime position to score. 
But the run was called back due to a 
holding penalty on Anthony, and the 

Wolverines settled for a field goal. 
Senior kicker Jake Moody, for his 
part, was a perfect 4-for-4 on the 
day, but the short distances on those 
field goals — 26, 38, 35 and 36 yards 
— illustrate just how ineffective 
Michigan was in Michigan State 
territory. 
Those woes continued well into 
the second half. Tied at 30 early in 
the fourth quarter, the Wolverines 
began to assemble a promising drive 
— including a 43-yard pass from 
McNamara to junior receiver Mike 
Sainristil — that set them up with a 
1st-and-10 from the Spartans’ 20. 
But once again, the drive stalled. 
After McCarthy’s fumble out of 
bounds and a short McNamara 
scramble brought out 3rd-and-8, 
Michigan elected to take a shot at 
the endzone, which ultimately fell 
incomplete. 
In a top 10 rivalry matchup, the 
Wolverines needed touchdowns. 
Instead, they were getting field goals. 
“We just came up short, and that’s 
on me,” McNamara said. “I didn’t 
execute good enough for us to win 
this game.”
And while the defense had 
been there to pick up the slumping 

offense earlier in the season, it 
struggled to pick up key stops on 
Saturday. Michigan State running 
back Kenneth Walker III — likely 
a Heisman frontrunner — bounced 
into space and slipped through 
tackles with ease. He scored all 
five of the Spartans’ touchdowns, 
including three rushes that went 
longer than 20 yards and the game-
tying, 58-yard score. 
But 
Michigan 
State 
also 
dismantled 
Michigan’s 
defense 
schematically. Especially on the 
defensive line, the Wolverines under 
first-year 
defensive 
coordinator 
Mike Macdonald have relied heavily 
on rotations to keep players fresh 
and avoid mistakes that stem from 
fatigue. 
The Spartans countered that 
emphasis with tempo, frequently 
hurrying to the line to disrupt 
Michigan’s substitutions. On two 
different occasions, the Wolverines 
were penalized for having too many 
men on the field. Even when they 
weren’t penalized, Michigan State’s 
fast pace prevented Michigan from 
getting set and led to mistakes. Even 
the Wolverines’ best players made 
errors — including junior defensive 

back Daxton Hill, who got beat on 
a 28-yard reception that gave the 
Spartans a first down at the one-yard 
line. 
“Just 
didn’t 
execute,” 
senior 
edge rusher Aidan Hutchinson 
said. “Didn’t execute our gameplan. 
Tackling wasn’t good enough. Just 
let our offense down a little bit. Gotta 
be better.”
Entering the season, nobody 
foresaw Saturday’s game as a 
potential top 10 matchup. Neither 
Michigan nor Michigan State was 
expected to win many games, let 
alone compete for championships.
Such is the reality of college 
football. The Wolverines are a better 
team than they were a year ago, but 
the opportunity for a signature win 
was there. Moral victories about 
how much worse the team could 
have been will do little to mitigate 
the reality of yet another loss against 
a top opponent. Even if expectations 
become unrealistic throughout the 
season, the team still has to confront 
them. 
There’s still a lot of football 
left, but for Harbaugh, the burden 
of unfulfilled expectations still 
remains.

Julia Schachinger/Daily | Page Design by Sophie Grand

BRENDAN ROOSE
Daily Sports Editor

S P O R T S W E D N E S D A Y
S P O R T S W E D N E S D A Y

 TUCKED
 TUCKED
 
 IN
IN

33-37, 
Michigan Wolverines 
fall to Michigan State Spartans

12 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021 




In the spring of this year, my acquaintances 
started sharing bizarre affirmations like “I am 
ready for Baguette Lifestyle” and “My skin radi-
ates a Youthful Glow” and “I have never been 
bored” on their Instagram stories. The state-
ments, perched precariously between serious and 
sarcastic, started to show up everywhere. 
“Swollen lymphnode IS NOT CANCER”
“I have not entered self-destruct mode”
“My sneeze will NOT cause an earthquake”
“I AM CRAZY BURGER”
These visuals have a dizzying and distinct 
style: Written in a glowing font, affirmations are 
superimposed on nutty stock images of colorful 
earth scenes, Y2K era paparazzi shots, nostalgic 
cartoon characters and other bizarre photos. It’s 
like a polychromatic dreamscape, an aesthetic so 
bad it’s good, like comic sans and Crocs Jibbitz. 
The style seems to nod to memes from a decade 
ago (impact font, “deep-fried” filters), and there’s 
something about the unlikely pairings of images 
and phrases that make the posts feel like an alien’s 
recreation of internet culture. They don’t make 
any sense — and that’s the point. 
What is this trying to say? you might wonder 
while viewing glowing underwater fungi over-
laid with “I will get over my ice cube addiction.” 
Is there a punchline, or a message, or anything to 
truly “get”?
The affirmations fit into the category of 
absurdist “text memes” — a format described by 
the New York Times, characterized by, “confes-
sional, overly personal messages paired with 
seemingly unrelated images allow for an extra 
layer of humor and irony.”
And in 2021, internet users have an appetite for 
chaos. In the past 11 months, the @afffirmations 
account has exploded from zero to over 800,000 
followers in 10 months. In the U.S., these memes 
exploded as governments relaxed COVID-19 
regulations. As I re-entered society with stunted 
social skills, the images’ delusional tones and awk-
ward wordings seemed to mirror the moment. 
Throughout our second pandemic year, and as 
we wrestle with continuing unknowns of a world 
ransacked by disease, affirmation accounts make 
statements from an aspirational perspective — an 
honest, impactful version of ourselves that is “anx-
iety-free” and “ready to dive into a new week.”
But we know we’re not always “ready to dive 
into a new week.” Beneath a veneer of crazed joy-
fulness lies an undercurrent of dissatisfaction, the 
disillusionment that comes with spending your 
once wild and precious life working overtime 
so you can afford health insurance. The account 
references societal pressures of productivity, the 
futility of work and struggles to find pleasure in 
daily life. It acknowledges the feeling of mean-
inglessness, but instead of falling into nihilism, it 
blasts viewers with somewhat genuine hope that 

everything is okay. Amid moments of self-doubt, 
proclamations like “I AM COASTAL DJ” make 
me feel, if only for a moment, like a coastal DJ. I’m 
fine! Everything is fine! 
At times, the ridiculous design softens the 
blow of hard-hitting truths. “Seeking help is 
really cool,” reads one post, which is paired with 
a psychedelic image of a bright pink limo. The 
posts dress up positive mental health messages 
into weird meme formats, making the messages 
lighthearted and palatable, not preachy or seri-
ous. Without breaking character, the account may 
encourage appropriate care-seeking from people 
who have been hit by the psychological toll of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.

I WILL spread positivity online
The phenomena all started on the first day 
of 2021 when a Norwegian 20-year-old, Mats 
Anderson, started the Instagram account @
afffirmations. Formerly a black metal musician 
and university student studying Arabic, he’s an 
enigmatic figure, and online videos showing him 
emphatically reading the affirmations only add to 
his mystique. Over video chat, he explained his 
work, which he insists is not a joke. 
Anderson articulated that for a while, his posts 
were so deliriously happy that commenters sug-
gested he was part of a PSYOP, a psychological 
operations from the U.S. government to make peo-
ple happier. He chuckled when offering this infor-
mation, adding, “I don’t know what that’s all about.”
He spoke softly and with self-assuredness, like 
a tenured humanities professor or Bob Ross. As 
we talked, he walked through the streets of Oslo 
where he lives. 
“Many people consider Norway to be some 
sort of utopia, but that’s up for discussion,” 
Anderson said. 
He wore a tracksuit and his signature sunglass-
es, and he came across as pleasant, scholarly and 
faintly aloof — just like he does online. 

Anderson’s handsome and well-dressed, and 
his good looks don’t go unnoticed: He told me 
that 70-80% of his followers are female and that 
women frequently ask to meet up with him. He’s 
not interested at all.
“First of all, I’m married,” Anderson said, yet he 
prefers to keep details about his relationship pri-
vate and doesn’t wear a wedding ring. Like I said, 
he’s a man of mystery. 
“I am a very simple guy. I do the same thing 
every day. I go to the same cafe and I sit there for 
a very long time and drink a double latte,” he said. 
Anderson brainstorms affirmations, plans the 
day’s post and then returns home to construct the 
images, which takes about two hours. 

“If someone were planning to kill me, it would 
be very easy for them because I am always either 
at home or at the cafe. These are my only activities: 
drinking coffee, walking around and making the 
pictures. These are actually the only things I do. 
I read books, sure, and I read the newspaper, but I 
don’t have any real hobbies.”
He paused to show me the graveyard he was 
walking past in Oslo. As he sat on a bench and 
pulled out a cigarette, I asked about one of his 
more cryptic posts. 
“How did you come up with ‘I am Gucci 
Grandpa?’”
“In Norway, the Gucci stores use this old model 
with white hair, but he looks very good,” Ander-
son said. “I see the advertisement all over and it 
just came to me: Gucci grandpa. Ads are probably 
the biggest inspiration for me.”
His posts often include nods to late capitalism. 
Internet culture also seems to seep into them.
“Do you like memes?” I asked. 
“No, I’ve never liked memes. I thought they 
were kind of silly. I realize now that I am making 
memes. But memes on Instagram that are quickly 
made, I do not enjoy.” 
Skeptical, I showed him various memes and 

asked him if he thought they were funny. Ander-
son wasn’t impressed. 
“I don’t understand it. What does it mean?” 
I tried another. He wasn’t impressed and 
seemed floored when I told him that it had over 
80,000 likes. “Oh, so people must actually like 
that,” he declared, subtly surprised.
Finally I found one Anderson could appreciate. It 
was a picture of Microsoft’s Clippy saying “Perhaps it 
is the file which exists and you that does not.” 
“I understand that one — the derealization, the 
idea that people spend time inside and do drugs 
and spend too much time online; the perfect reci-
pe for believing that you are not real. But it’s not for 
me. I just don’t understand memes, I guess.” 
He prefers to call his work “high art,” but he 
knows that people don’t seem to buy that. 
After a few months of posting, his following 
exploded, landing articles in publications like Vice, 
Elle and Rolling Stone. Spinoff accounts cropped 
up using his personal style — a style that transcends 
language, culture, and geography. Anderson knows 
people copy his signature graphics: 
“It’s an inevitable part of social media,” he told 
me. “I don’t think too much about it. And I know 
this won’t last forever.”
Mats Anderson still baffles me a bit, but he 
comes across as genuinely content, and the copy-
cats prove that his work is compelling. Maybe he 
wasn’t kidding when he posted “I am extremely 
happy. You should be worried.”
I am niche campus microcelebrity 
The affirmations trend spread to campuses, 
starting with New York University. In the spring, a 
roommate trio thought that @afffirmations was, 
“the funniest thing in the world,” so in a group 
chat, they began sharing hyper-specific affirma-
tions-style images created with the photo-editing 
tool Picsart.
By mid-April, they expanded their reach and 
created a public account with NYU-specific refer-
ences like “Not Having AC In Rubin Builds Char-
acter.” The account, known as @nyuaffirmations, 
now boasts over 7,000 followers. 
The trend spread at a notable pace, with over 
30 universities turning to Instagram pages to take 
part in ironic positivity
The affirmations are so specific to their cam-
pus that they don’t make sense to non-students. 
“The rats in Ldub are my friends,” reads a post 
from a @yale_affirmations; “TU crane is the 
father figure I never had,” from Tulane; “I will 
NOT fling myself into the banks of Old Raritan” 
from Rutgers; “I am big Blacksburg boss” from 
Virginia Tech. And even with a lack of context, 
I find the plight of these random campuses to be 
hysterically charming. 
When I do understand the context, it’s even 
better. The University of Michigan’s affirmations 
page, @umichaffirmations, started in June of this 
year when an anonymous person decided to tailor 
the trend to Ann Arbor. 

Wednesday, November 3, 2021 // The Statement — 2

I AM the college experience: 

post-ironic affirmations spread to campuses around the world

BY ANNIE RAUWERDA, 
STATEMENT CORRESPONDENT

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Page Design by Sarah Chung, Brittany Bowman


3 — Wednesday, November 3, 2021 // The Statement

Is there a 
Is there a 
problem? 
problem? 

BY SARAH STOLAR, 

STATEMENT CORRESPONDENT

W
alking in the door, my mind was an entan-
glement of anxiety and relief. I looked over 
the faces of those inside the cafe and finally locat-
ed a familiar blonde haircut at the far corner of the 
room.
I sat down on the stool beside my friend, Ella, 
who had invited me to the Starbucks right next 
to our high school. Starbucks: a place for business 
meetings, homework parties and hangover recov-
eries — not a place for gut-wrenching conversa-
tion. But we both needed this, and a public place 
would allow us to process our emotions with a 
little more polish and compassion.
Ella was one of the closest friends I’d ever had. 
We had been friends since eighth grade, interact-
ing on a daily basis in school or on our own per-
sonal adventures. With our shared values and 
identical wild humor, we gravitated toward each 
other and remained in constant contact.
But for the first two months of senior year, 
she barely spoke to me. When I approached, she 
walked away. When we were partners in French, 
she was curt and to the point. She rarely ate lunch 
with me, and when she did, she talked to others 
without making eye contact in my direction.
I knew something was off, yet she never gave 
me the chance to ask why she was upset. Only 
coldness and avoidance with no explanation.
Finally, in late October, she slowly began to 
interact with me again. With a steady progression 
back to what I hoped was normalcy, we ended up 
at Starbucks, where she explained the reason-
ing behind her distance. Over the summer, I had 
started dating someone, but with our busy sched-
ules, I never had the chance to tell her until almost 
the start of the school year. Ella found out about 
my new relationship from a mutual friend before 
I revealed it to her and was livid that I hadn’t told 
her for so long.

We hashed out every event, feeling and grudge. 
She revealed her past experiences with abandon-
ment and the distrust my miscommunication had 
created. I felt guilty for reigniting her old fears, but at 
the end of our conversation I still couldn’t shake my 
underlying anger over how she chose to react to her 
distress. We seemed to have resolved our situation, 
but there was a lingering tension in our relationship 
that had sprouted over the few months prior.
And despite our conversation, the damage had 
already been done. We had grown distant. 
It felt like I was walking on eggshells around 
Ella, as if my presence would snap the illusion 
of peace we held up for the sake of those around 
us. Every interaction with her since then has felt 
forced and tight. It’s as if there’s an invisible wall 
up between us. On the rare occasion that I see her, 
I am immediately reminded of our rift.
We had to start our relationship over and 
reconstruct the trust that was lost. I don’t think 
we’ll ever be back to what we were before.
At Starbucks, Ella told me how she refused to 
let herself act “okay” when she was hurting — she 
wasn’t going to pretend that everything was fine 
when it wasn’t. I respected that she internally rec-
ognized the validity of her emotions. But in most 
ways, she did act like everything was fine, con-
tinuing all of her normal actions with a punctua-
tion of coldness focused in my direction. The way 
she approached the conflict made me constantly 
question which of my actions had caused such a 
reaction and if she would ever actually tell me. I 
shouldn’t have to play detective to figure out what 
was bothering her, but I definitely couldn’t force 
her to open up to me. I gave her space to determine 
what she needed to do, but in doing so, no solution 
was ever reached. The issue festered, resentment 
building and building until we didn’t even recog-
nize our friendship anymore.

The whole situation made me realize how 
much I valued respectful confrontation in rela-
tionships. Since our friendship’s undoing, I’ve 
fully embraced the idea of verbalizing my con-
cerns, whether with roommates, friends or fam-
ily. I despise resentment and rarely hold grudges 
— I immediately make clear what’s bothering me 
so matters don’t spin out of control. I forgive easily 
since when I bring up a problem directly, I know 
the other person has heard me and internalized 
what I have to say. It frees me of any ill will related 
to a conflict because they now know how their 
actions have affected me, allowing us to mutually 
decide how we can move forward in a more posi-
tive manner. Most people tell me they appreciate 
my honesty, that they respect that I’m upfront 
without being overly rude. 
Confrontation is often seen as aggressive, 
negative or frightening. But in my experience, the 
effects of passive aggression and avoidance are 
much more destructive.
***
W
hat comes to mind when you hear the word 
“conflict?” Is it a fistfight, a screaming 
match or a cold distance from someone who you 
have wronged? Is it characterized by active ver-
bal projection against another person? Is silence 
the most cutting method of getting one’s anger 
across?
One’s approach to conflict is heavily influenced 
by their communication style. There are four main 
types of communication: passive, passive-aggres-
sive, aggressive and assertive. Those who are pas-
sive don’t express their concerns or feelings while 
those who are passive-aggressive will commu-
nicate their frustrations in subtle ways, whether 
through body language, indirect comments or a 
bitter demeanor. Aggressive communication is 
characterized by combative interactions in which 

the aggressor tries to dictate the situation, allow-
ing no room for others to respond. Assertiveness 
is seen as the healthiest way to respond to conflict 
— defending one’s own emotions or desires clearly 
while remaining respectful to those at the other 
end of the communication.
This doesn’t mean that each of our conflict 
management styles is stagnant. We can change 
our communication method completely based 
on the environment we are in. A person may not 
have the same response in a personal situation as 
opposed to an academic setting. Or, if you’re like 
me, there is a spectrum of the intensity of your 
assertiveness: I’m much more poignant (but no 
less assertive) with my roommates than I am with 
my boss. I’m not okay with letting things slide, but 
I adapt based on my position or comfort level.
Growing up in Minnesota, the concept of pas-
sive-aggression is so ingrained in local lifestyle 
that it has become a regional inside joke. “Minne-
sota Nice and Minnesota Ice” perfectly encapsu-
lates the two behaviors we are known for — when 
speaking with a Minnesotan, you will be met with 
the polite, stand-up Midwesterner or a demeanor 
as cold as our January blizzards.
Passive aggression is a common approach to 
conflict throughout the Midwest. This geograph-
ic trend presents a possible cultural influence on 
communication styles, as residents within a cer-
tain region generally share common social and 
behavioral norms due to their similar lifestyles. 
One study shows this geographic significance, 
as residents of the “Upper Midwest” had much 
lower “assertiveness” scores than residents of 
the New York Metropolitan area. In other words, 
Midwesterners were much more passive in their 
communication with others than New Yorkers. 

Design by Megan Young
Page Design by Sarah Chung

tell me
tell me

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


Wednesday, November 3, 2021 // The Statement — 4

The laugh track

BY LANE KIZZIAH, STATEMENT CORRESPONDENT

T
here’s something perfectly unfinished about 
the comedy club on 4th Avenue. It’s next to a 
Running Fit store and housed in the basement of 
a virtually unmarked building. You could pass it 
every day and never notice unless you happened 
to see the 8-by-11-inch sheet of printer paper on 
the door that says “Ann Arbor Comedy Show-
case.” 
The core of the building is used as a leasing 
office — one that seems to be perpetually under 
construction. I’ve gone to see three or four shows 
there over the last year, and it never looks like the 
project is any closer to its finish. When I walked 
in that Saturday, going to see a show with my 
friends, it seemed like there were the same protec-
tive plastic coverings and “Excuse our mess” signs 
that lined the walls the last time I was there. But 
maybe its dingy unfinishedness is exactly what a 
comedy club should look like.
Past the entryway and down the stairs, a folding 
table was set up to sell tickets. The man behind the 
table handed me three pieces of paper, explaining 
that one was for me to keep as a receipt, one was to 
sign and give back to him and the last was for me 
to hand to another guy behind a hosts’ stand. It all 
felt very complicated for an operation being run 
from a folding table in the basement of an office 
building. When I asked some of my roommates 
who had never seen live comedy before if they 
would come with me, I felt like I was responsible 
for their experience — if they didn’t find it funny, 
then it was my fault that they’d wasted $15. 
The exercise of going to a comedy show feels 
simultaneously extremely cool and painfully 
uncool. I felt like I wasn’t half-interesting enough to 
be there while also hoping I didn’t run into anyone I 
knew. For some reason, it seemed like everyone felt 
this way, as if the audience was all milling around, 
waiting for friends. Eventually, the rest of my room-
mates showed up and we were taken to our seats. 
The Ann Arbor Comedy Showcase looks like 
a scene from the “Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” or the 
opening scene of Seinfeld [COPY: need quotes 
around tv shows]: The whole room is composed 
of small tiered levels of seats that get increasingly 
huddled as they go down to the stage. The floor 
in front of the stage is packed with small, round 
tables for two. The host led us down to the sec-
ond row of tiered seats. As we sat down, my friend 
Emily leaned over to me.
“Can you imagine sitting right next to the 
stage? You’d probably get spit on.”
Yeah, spit on or made fun of. 

The front seats are the ones the comedians 
bring into their sets, usually to pick on as a way 
to connect with the audience. I theoretically 
like the idea of being brought into the show, 
but I assume it’s also terrifying, sitting there 
with the constant knowledge that someone 
could single you out in a room of 60 people. 
I was glad we were sitting higher up, out 
of the literal and metaphorical splash 
zone. I wanted to do the observing 
without the fear of being observed. 
The stage looks pretty much as emblem-
atic of a comedy show as you can get: just a black, 
three-legged stool and a microphone with a sin-
gular spotlight trained on it. Looking up at the 
spotlight, I couldn’t tell if it was an illusion of the 
lights or an image my mind had superimposed 
onto the idea of a comedy show, but the air almost 
looked smoky. 
°°°
I
’ve loved comedy since I was in middle school. 
I’ve always been really interested in the whole 
“scene” of it all. I stayed up to watch SNL every 
weekend. I read all of the trendy comedian’s 
memoirs — Amy Poehler’s Yes Please, Tina Fey’s 
Bossypants, Mindy Kaling’s Is Everyone Hang-
ing Out Without Me, Aziz Ansari’s “Modern 
Romance” — to figure out how these comics got 
where they were. It would be a few more years 
before I’d be introduced to stand up, but even 
my initial brush with comedy left me wowed. I 
couldn’t fathom how someone could be so witty, 
so quick on their feet. It felt like magic to me. 
But, of course, it’s not magic. If anything, it’s 
closer to science. Plato and Thomas Hobbes theo-
rized that the motive for humor is pleasure in 
pain, flaws or “the indignity of others.” When we 
laugh, it’s because we’re laughing at someone else’s 
shortcomings. On the contrary, Freud believed that 
laughing was a sign of sexual or aggressive thought. 
But he also believed the same thing about fear. And 
food. And dreams. That theory is pretty much 
defrauded, but the idea of tension and release is still 
integral to comedy. It’s often the buildup to the joke 
that makes the payoff rewarding. 
Now, most people understand humor through 
the incongruity theory: Our brains perceive two 
things that don’t appear to make sense together, 
but when the true context is revealed we see them 
in a new light, and the comedy is revealed. It’s the 
surprise when the doors open in a haunted house 
and Tom Hanks is standing there wearing a suit 
covered in pumpkins in SNL’s “David Pumpkins” 
sketch. Or the absurdity of Costello asking, “Who 
is on first?” and Abbott saying, “Yes.”
°°°
W
hen the lights went down — a transition 
from near to absolute darkness — I saw at 
least a little apprehension cross my friends’ faces. 
The MC walked up to the stage to start warming 
up the crowd. I’d seen her before, she’s an Ann 
Arbor local who does this on the weekends. She 
does bits about her job at a homeless shelter and 
her son’s dating life. 

I’ve always felt like comedy is very black and 
white. In my mind, there was an “it” factor to cre-
ativity. People like the MC had it, and I didn’t. But 
“art,” “artifice” and “artificial” all derive from the 
same Latin root ars-, which means skill. All art is 
artificial. Sculptures are built, words from poems 
are carefully selected, the same scene of a movie 
can be shot over and over again until it has the 
desired effect. But that doesn’t mean it’s not real 
or meaningful. I know “Meet the Robinsons,” the 
2007 animated Disney classic, isn’t a true story, but 
I still cry every time I watch it. And there is no natu-
rally occurring comedy just like there’s no naturally 
occurring art. Every joke is preconceived whether 
it’s in a Dave Chapelle bit or an objectively shitty 
sketch written by an amateur comedy group. 
I wish there was a formula for coming up with 
creative ideas. I Googled “how to write a good 
joke,” and according to Google, the golden equa-
tion contains three parts: There’s recognition, the 
relatable context that the comedian sets up for the 
audience; discomfort, the incongruity that leaves 
the audience confused and creates tension; and 
then release, the moment the audience under-
stands the larger picture and the joke pays off. 
°°°
“
So who’s in love here?” the MC asks the crowd.
She started talking about how COVID-19 
has affected her dating life. She told the audience 
about how she was sick of the high-maintenance 
men and college-aged boys she’d been meeting 
in Ann Arbor and how she had been dating a guy 
named James on and off for the past couple of 
years. The setup. 
“And, in other news, I lost 211 pounds during 
the pandemic,” she says. 
The audience cheers. It’s not really clear where 
this train of thought came from, but everyone’s 
happy for her nonetheless. The incongruity. 
“His name was James.”
The release. I’d heard this joke before. This exact 
joke from this exact woman here a few weeks ear-
lier, but I still laughed. I don’t think the fact that I’d 
heard the joke before — the fact that it was probably 
written and rehearsed and used dozens and dozens 
of times before it ever got to me — took away from 
its humor. If I heard it a third time, I’d probably still 
laugh. But thinking about it that way does feel a 
little off-putting to me like I’ve accidentally pulled 
back the curtain to see the wizard. The logical part 
of my brain knows that standup comedians don’t 
make stuff up on the spot but I think there’s a kind 
of belief suspension in watching standup. 
We know it’s an act, but we have to believe the 
standup comic even more than if it was fiction. 
When an actor delivers a monologue, the audience 
knows them as two people at the same time: the 
actor and the character they are portraying. There’s 
an obvious underlying assumption that everyone 
on the screen is being someone they’re not. With a 
standup comedian, there’s only who they say they 
are. The audience has to believe that they’re seeing 
something authentic. But does it even matter who 
they are or who we think they are? 

It’s why I’ve never understood heist movies. 
In every art heist movie, the thieves sneak into 
the museum or the mansion or the gallery, slip 
the painting out of the frame and put a replica in 
its place — and no one notices. At least four or five 
scenes go by until someone realizes the painting 
is a fake. Sometimes they never do. For all I know, 
I’ve seen a thousand forgeries and thought they 
were the real thing. Every painting I’ve ever seen 
could be a forgery, and I’d have no idea. There is no 
inauthenticity until someone tells you that some-
thing is inauthentic. You don’t feel cheated out of 
a concert until someone tells you the band is lip-
synching. On some level, you can’t help but believe 
the magician until you see the wires holding up 
the trick. You don’t remember the standup come-
dian is reading from a script until you’ve heard it 
twice. It’s almost as if the belief in authenticity is 
more important than its existence. 
Maybe the MC is an undiscovered forgery. 
Maybe there never was a James. Maybe I’ll run 
into her at Kroger someday, walking through the 
produce aisle with her husband. But shopping for 
lemons doesn’t make a very good punchline. 
°°°
B
y the time I’d ordered my second drink, the 
headliner, Ken Evans, came on. He was prob-
ably around 65, wearing a short-sleeve button-up 
and a newsboy hat.
The first thing he did was call out everyone 
in the audience: the nicely dressed couple sit-
ting at center stage is probably rich, the man sit-
ting alone couldn’t get a date, the larger tattooed 
couple off to the side definitely lives in a trailer 
park. He went on about the toilet paper short-
age during the pandemic and the Midwest and 
the haunted hayride he used to run. I wondered 
whether Ken practiced this monologue on his 
drive over from Novi, repeating it to himself 
and remembering where to pause for laughs. 
He picked up the cord of the microphone and 
walked around the stage, taking a path he’s prob-
ably done a hundred times before in a hundred 
other comedy clubs like this one. 
He’s not really my sense of humor. It’s a little 
too crude, talking about the problems of middle 
age that I might find relatable in twenty to thirty 
years, so I mostly just watched the crowd. There’s 
a woman near the stage who was absolutely dying. 
She was far more entertaining than the show 
itself. She kept cackling, grabbing her husband’s 
arm and keeling over with laughter. 
I read somewhere that caricature art is the 
most vulnerable, authentic type of art there is. 
The argument was that a caricaturist draws 
exactly what they see before them in real-time. 
There is no time or backstage for preparation, 
no place to hide. As I watched the crowd and the 
comedian, I felt like I was watching a caricatur-
ist at work. 
Ken singled out the nicely dressed man at cen-
ter stage, playing up the bit that he had money. 

Design by Katherine Lee
Page Design by Sarah Chung

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


