10

: 00 a.m. By 7:00 p.m. on 
Nov. 5, Jonathan Vaughn, 

the Anderson survivor and former 
Michigan football player who has 
been leading the protest, will have 
been camping out in front of President 
Schlissel’s house for 28 days. 

On a normal day during the 

protest, Vaughn wakes up in his tent 
around 6:30 or 7:00 a.m. and heads to 
the Michigan Union, where he orders 
a coffee and breakfast sandwich from 
Sweetwaters Coffee & Tea. One of his 
favorite parts of the day is enjoying a 
morning cigar with his coffee. 

At 10:00 a.m., Ann Arbor is a brisk 

37 degrees, and Vaughn is getting out 
a pack of hand warmers from his tent 
to stuff in his pockets. Putting the 
hand warmers in his pants pockets, 
Vaughn said, targets a main artery 
and keeps his toes warm during the 
day. Spending anywhere between 14 
to 18 hours of the day outside in the 
elements, Vaughn said staying warm 
is crucial to his endurance. 

In terms of the camp, Vaughn said 

he has gotten used to sleeping outside 
but will have to prepare his tent better 
for the winter ahead. Currently, 
Vaughn said he relies on generators 
and heaters to keep him warm, but 
they do not last the entire night. 

What makes his days go by faster 

and what keeps his mind off the cold, 
Vaughn said, is being able to talk to 

his fellow campers and those passing 
by who stop to check in and offer 
their support.
11

: 00 a.m. Vaughn estimates 
that in his 28 days camped 

outside the president’s house, he 
has personally met around 4,000 
people who have shared their stories 
and supported his cause. Out of the 
people who have come up to talk to 
him, Vaughn estimates he has heard 
around 200 to 300 individual stories 
of sexual assault or rape occurring on 
campus in the past several years. 

Vaughn said he finds it interesting 

that young women tend to feel more 
comfortable sharing their stories 
with him than with their families and 
school administration. 

“Some of the freshmen are two, 

three months in and they don’t feel 
safe, you know?” Vaughn said. “The 
newness has worn off and they don’t 
feel safe or they’ve already been a 
victim. I find that — the word’s not 
sad, more angered — at how did the 
resources go so wrong?”

If anything comes from this 

protest, Vaughn said he hopes he can 
create a safer campus environment 
for the students and professors of the 
University. Later tonight, with the 
help of other student organizations 
on campus, Vaughn hopes to use 
the manpower to bring even more 
attention to the protest. He notes, 
toward the end of our conversation, 
that he will spend most of the day 
planning logistics for the expansion. 

Schlissel himself, Vaughn says, has 

never walked across the sidewalk in 
front of his home where the protest is 
located, opting for an alternate route 
around the side. Vaughn notes that 
someone from the president’s house 
consistently checks for the protesters 
each morning. 
12

: 00 p.m. Vaughn and Jack 
Hanna, another survivor of 

Anderson’s sexual abuse, sit in chairs 
in front of the tents. It is cold, but the 
two are more focused on their shared 
goal than the weather. They pull six 
large boxes of t-shirts, which they will 
distribute that day and the next, out of 
a car.

Hanna is an Ann Arbor resident 

and a former rower for the U-M 
rowing club. Though he was not a 
student at the time, Hanna received a 
physical examination from Anderson 
so he could compete in a regatta with 
the club. Both Hanna and his wife 
were victims of Anderson’s abuse. 

“It’s healing for me every time I 

come up here,” Hanna said of the 
protest site. 

Chuck Christian, an Anderson 

survivor 
and 
former 
Michigan 

football player who said he has been 
camping with Vaughn for 18 days 
after driving from Boston to Ann 
Arbor, returns to the site at 12:40 p.m. 
He and Vaughn speak with passersby, 
many of whom sign a large “Support 
the survivors” poster board or take a 
“Hail to the Victims” button. 

“I think they’re letting us know 

that they realize that this rape culture 
is a problem,” Christian said of the 
passersby. “And that they realize that 
things need to change.”
1

: 00 p.m. At about 1:40 p.m., a man 
arrives at the protest and introduces 

himself to Vaughn and Christian. The 
men hug after the newcomer, who 
preferred to stay anonymous, tells 
Vaughn and Christian that he was a 
victim of Anderson. He had flown in to 
support the protest after hearing about 
it on the news. 
2

: 00 p.m. The camp is humming 
along. Vaughn is playing some 

music from a bluetooth speaker, while 
Christian talks with passersby near 

their large sign. A few people sign the 
poster, but most who walk by either 
have already signed, or they ignore 
the protest and mutter quietly. 

“I walk past every morning, so 

I do know that it’s about the sexual 
assault, sexual allegation situation,” 
Engineering 
sophomore 
Collin 

McManus said. “I can see obviously 
it’s peaceful, these guys always have 
great energy. They’re making a 
statement for sure.” 

Christian shares that he is an artist, 

producing paintings for many notable 
celebrities and athletes, including 
head football coach Jim Harbaugh. 
Everyone is very excited for the 
campout scheduled for later in the 
evening. The mood overall is very 
cheerful. Christian dances, noting 
how he is grateful that he is still able to 
despite his prostate cancer diagnosis.

“I dance everywhere,” Christian 

said after hearing a catchy song. “See, 
‘cause the thing is, I was supposed to 
be dead two and half years ago. So it’s 
like, I dance every chance I get.”
3

: 00 p.m. Christian and Vaughn 
are sitting in the chairs outside of 

their tents with music playing from 
the speaker. The two talk to a few 
passersby, passing out pins to those 
who want them. At about 3:20 p.m, 
Vaughn leaves and does not return 
during this hour. 

Most of the conversation during 

this time is with Christian, who 
speaks with another survivor and 
us while gluing together more 
pins. When he was a student at the 
University, Christian said he painted 
the mural in the Bursley Residence 
Hall’s multicultural lounge. Two 
years ago, Christian returned to 
repaint the mural after renovations. 

Christian’s 
wife, 
then 
his 

girlfriend, originally recommended 
him for the project. He begins 
talking about his family life and his 
prostate cancer diagnosis. About 18 
months ago, Christian was placed 
on hospice and given very little time 
to live. Christian has previously 
attributed his late-stage diagnosis to 
his unwillingness to go to a doctor 
after being abused by Anderson.

From his perspective, everything 
changed when Christian saw his 
wife praying for his illness to be 
cured. After that, Christian said 
he lifted himself up and used the 
bathroom on his own for the first 
time since being placed on hospice. 
He slowly worked his way through 
to be able to “light up” his son in 
basketball once again and now sleep 
outside for the protest.
4

: 00 p.m. Christian and Vaughn 
are in their element as South 

University Avenue buzzes with 
students wrapping up class for the 
week. Just a couple hours after 
meeting, Christian and a survivor 
speak like old friends while they 
glue together pins and “Hail to the 
Victims” buttons to hand out. 

Vaughn takes an order for a dozen 

“Hail to the Victims” t-shirts that 
families of soccer players are going to 
wear to this Sunday’s game, six maize 
and six blue. 

Christian said he prefers the maize. 
“They stick out more,” he said.
Kenneth Stockton, an Ann Arbor 

resident who is a survivor of sexual 
abuse from a Little League baseball 
coach when he was a boy, comes to 
visit the protest once or twice a day. 
He gives Christian a fist bump when 
he first arrives. 

“Christian, with all of his health 

issues, it’s amazing that he’s here,” 
Stockton said. “What Vaughn and 
Christian and the others are doing 
here is really crucial — it’s very 
courageous.”

When Stockton and Christian 

pose for a photo, The Daily’s 
photographer remarks on the height 
difference between the two men. 
Stockton says he recently had a 
nightmare about being haunted by 
someone seven feet tall.

“It’s because I’ve been spending 

so much time with you, Chuck!” 
Stockton remarks.
5 

: 00 p.m. In just two hours at the 
protest, more than 450 people 

walk, bike, jog or otherwise pass by 
Vaughn and Christian. Vaughn and 
Christian put up signs, make “Hail 
to the Victims” buttons, discuss their 
dinner plans and talk with people 
who stop by. 

Christian proudly shows us a video 

of a song his son had written for him 
following Christian’s prostate cancer 
diagnosis.

A large number of passersby are 

students walking home from class 
or heading out to begin their Friday 
nights. LSA freshman Sam Lipsit stops 
to sign the petition and comments on 
the lack of education about Anderson’s 
horrible legacy at the University. 

“I think being a new student here 

and not knowing much about the 
Anderson situation shows a lot about 
the situation in of itself,” Lipsit said. 
“So I think it’s really important that 
especially younger students here like 
myself come and learn about this and 
support the protest.”

michigandaily.com
Ann Arbor, Michigan
Wednesday, November 10, 2021

ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY ONE YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

GOT A NEWS TIP?

Let us know: Call 734-418-4115 or 
e-mail news@michigandaily.com

IN DEX

Vol. CXXX, No. 58
©2021 The Michigan Daily

NEWS.........................2

ARTS...........................3

MIC.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

OPINION....................5 

STATEM ENT..............6

SPORTS......................7
michigandaily.com

For more stories and coverage, visit
Follow The Daily 
on Instagram, 
@michigandaily

 The Daily joined protesters from 10 a.m. Nov. 5 to 10 a.m. Nov. 6. Here is what we observed. 

DAY&NIGHT

24 hours with Anderson survivors, protesters 

Design by Madeline Hinkley, Photos by Michigan Daily Photo Staff

Since Oct. 8, survivors of late University of Michigan athletic doctor Robert 

Anderson have been camping outside of University President Mark Schlissel’s 
house in protest against the University’s handling of the nearly 1,000 individuals 
who have come forward with sexual assault allegations against Anderson. Over 
the past few months, survivors have appeared in front of the Board of Regents, 
rallied students and community members at numerous protests on the Diag and 
testified at hearings in support of legislation protecting survivors. 

Schlissel has apologized to survivors indirectly at Regents’ meetings and in 

the press, but the survivors are asking Schlissel and the Board of Regents to hold 
a formal conversation with them about the University’s role in perpetuating 
Anderson’s abuse as well as the larger culture of sexual assault at the University. 
You can read all of The Michigan Daily’s coverage of Anderson, starting since 

news first broke in February 2020, at michigandaily.com/news/robertanderson.

In a statement to The Daily, University spokesperson Rick Fitzgerald wrote 

that the University is currently in the process of confidential mediation and that 
they have been hearing from Anderson survivors since allegations surfaced: 

“President Mark Schlissel and members of the Board of Regents have 

repeatedly apologized to all of those who were subjected to abuse by the late 
Robert Anderson.

 “We cannot provide an update on the mediation that is ongoing because it is 

under court supervision and the judge has asked the parties not to share details 
of the process.

 “We’ve also heard directly from several Anderson survivors at meetings of 

the Board of Regents, through media reports and other direct messages. The 

president, regents and many others have been listening very carefully.

 “We will continue to meet in mediation with the attorneys the Anderson 

survivors have hired to represent them and we will continue to heed the judge’s 
direction not to discuss the process outside of the mediation sessions.

 “At the same time, the university continues to implement new policies, 

processes and procedures in order to make our campus safer for every member of 
the university community.”

To document the day-to-day of protestors, the encouragement they receive 

from the University community and the challenges they face in making their 
voices heard, reporters, photographers and videographers from The Daily sat 
outside of Schlissel’s house from 10:00 a.m. on Friday, Nov. 5 to 10:00 a.m. on 
Saturday, Nov. 6. Here is what we observed, hour by hour. 

Daily News, Photo and Video Staff

Read the full story. 
at michigandaily.com
Chuck Christian, a football player for Michigan for the 1977-80 seasons, has been camping alongside Jonathan 

Vaughn. They, and other Anderson survivors, demand action from the University. 

Jonathan Vaughn and Chuck Christian have pitched tents on South University Ave. on the grass in front of President 

Schlissel’s house. Vaughn has been there since Oct. 8 requesting a direct meeting with Schlissel. 


The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
News
2 — Wednesday, November 10, 2021 

The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is publishing weekly on Wednesdays for the 
Winter 2021 semester by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available 
free of charge to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily’s office 
for $2. If you would like a current copy of the paper mailed to you, please visit store.

pub.umich.edu/michigan-daily-buy-this-edition to place your order.

BRITTANY BOWMAN
Managing Editor babowm@umich.edu

BARBARA COLLINS and LIAT WEINSTEIN 
Managing News Editors news@michigandaily.com

Senior News Editors: Emma Ruberg, Hannah Mackay, Calder Lewis, Jasmin 
Lee, Kristina Zheng, Lily Gooding
Investigative Editor: Sammy Sussman
FOIA Manager: Ayse Eldes

ELIZABETH COOK and JOEL WEINER
Editorial Page Editors tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Senior Opinion Editors: Julian Barnard, Brandon Cowit, Shubhum Giroti, Jessie 
Mitchell, Evan Stern

ELISE GODFRYD and ELIZABETH YOON
Managing Arts Editors 
 arts@michigandaily.com

ALLISON ENGKVIST and MADDIE HINKLEY
Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com

ANDIE HOROWITZ
Managing Statement Editor statement@michigandaily.com
Deputy Editors: Samantha Cole, Leo Krinsky

MADISON GAGNE and OLIVIA BRADISH
Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com

Senior Copy Editors: Caroline Atkinson, Anjali Chiravuri, Ethan Patrick, 
Kelsey Burke, Emily Wilson, Vanita Seed, Ellen Howell, Kathryn Kulie, Rena 
McRoy, Alison Chesnick

PARTH DHYANI and NAITIAN ZHOU
Managing Online Editors 
 webteam@michigandaily.com

IULIA DOBRIN and ANNIKA WANG
Managing Video Editors video@michigandaily.com

Senior Michigan in Color Editors: Noor Moughni, Maya Kadouh, Eliya Imtiaz, 
Jessica Kwon, Lola Yang

Senior Sports Editors: Drew Cox, Lily Friedman, Jack Kingsley, Brendan Roose, 
Daniel Dash, Jared Greenspan, Jacob Cohen

Senior Video Editors: Margaret Rudnick, Jordan Shefman

Senior Social Media Editors: Kirti Aplash, Natalie Knight, Cristina Costin, 
Ryan Postman, Evan DeLorenzo, Sarah Kent, Bella Morreale

Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building

420 Maynard St.

Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327

www.michigandaily.com

ARTS SECTION

arts@michigandaily.com

SPORTS SECTION

sports@michigandaily.com

NEWS TIPS

tipline@michigandaily.com

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

tothedaily@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL PAGE

opinion@michigandaily.com

TARA MOORE
Business Manager

business@michigandaily.com

CLAIRE HAO

Editor in Chief

eic@michigandaily.com

PHOTOGRAPHY SECTION

photo@michigandaily.com

NEWSROOM

news@michigandaily.com

CORRECTIONS

corrections@michigandaily.com

LANE KIZZIAH and KENT SCHWARTZ 
Managing Sports Editors sports@michigandaily.com

Senior Arts Editors: Kari Anderson, Drew Gadbois, Andrew Pluta, Grace 
Tucker, Sophia Yoon
Arts Beat Editors: Lilly Pearce, Peter Hummer, Mik Deitz, Sabriya Imami, 
Kaitlyn Fox, Anya Soller

SHANNON STOCKING and ALLISON YIH
Managing Design Editors 
 design@michigandaily.com

ANAMIKA KANNAN and GABRIJELA SKOKO
Michigan in Color Editors michiganincolor@michigandaily.com

HALEY JOHNSON and ASHA LEWIS 
Managing Social Media Editors socialmedia@michigandaily.com

Editorial Staff

Business Staff

Senior Photo Editors: Emma Mati, Miles Macklin, Becca Mahon, Julia 
Schachinger
Assistant Photo Editors: Grace Beal, Tess Crowley, Kate Hua, Jarett Orr, 
Dominick Sokotoff

RORI MILLER
Creative Director

EMILY OHL and GERALD SILL
Managing Podcast Editors podeditors@michigandaily.com

SCHUYLER JANZEN

Sales Manager

ADVERTISING

WMG-contact@umich.edu 

JACK GRIEVE
Digital Managing Editor jgrieve@umich.edu

ALEX HARRING and SARAH SZALAI 
Co-Chairs of Access & Inclusion accessandinclusion@michigandaily.com

Senior Podcast Editors: Doug McClure, Max Rosenzweig, Avin Katyal

Associate Editor: Julia Maloney

Senior Layout Editor: Sophie Grand

Bright Sheng, School of Music, The-

atre & Dance professor, will continue to 
teach composition lessons this semes-
ter and is scheduled to teach a regular 
course load next semester, the University 
of Michigan announced in a statement 
on Nov. 3. This comes after the situation 
received national scrutiny and opened 
up conversations on political correctness 
and academic freedom. 

Though Sheng has not been rein-

stated to teach the composition class in 
which controversy originally arose, “no 
sanctions have been imposed on him,” 
the statement reads.

Sheng initially faced backlash from 

students for showing a video featuring 
an actor in blackface to an undergradu-
ate seminar on Sept. 10. The use of this 
video in class caused students to speak 
out and criticize Sheng. 

Sheng, after consultation with SMTD 

administration, stepped down from 
teaching the class on Oct. 2. A different 

professor took over the class in which 
the controversy arose and continues to 
teach the course. 

On Sept. 16, Sheng released a formal 

apology to the department, yet this too 
received backlash from students, spe-
cifically the part of the apology in which 
Sheng listed people of color that he has 
worked with. Sheng has also offered to 
meet with students and discuss different 
perspectives one-on-one.

Following Sheng’s apology, students 

wrote an open letter to SMTD Dean 
David Gier calling for Sheng’s removal 
from the undergraduate composition 
seminar and an investigation into the 
course, citing a failure to create a safe 
environment. This letter was signed by 
18 undergraduate composition students, 
15 graduate composition students and 9 
SMTD staff and faculty members.

Gier responded to the letter in a Nov. 3 

email to his colleagues, emphasizing that 
the incident opened up conversations 
regarding the intersection of academic 
freedom, freedom of speech and the 
importance of fostering a diverse envi-
ronment for students.

“SMTD students and faculty rou-

tinely confront complex, challenging 
material, and consider complicated his-
torical legacies that require purposeful 
discussion, critique, and analysis,” Gier 
wrote. “As dean I am steadfastly com-
mitted to fostering such dialogue within 
our School, and protecting the rights of 
both students and faculty to pursue lines 
of inquiry and express ideas without fear 
of reprisal, a value that is fundamental to 
the university’s core missions of research 
and education.” 

On Oct. 21, around 700 University 

faculty members and students signed an 
open letter addressed to Grier calling for 
Sheng’s return and for the administra-
tion to apologize. The University has not 
yet reinstated Sheng. 

On Oct. 20, the University’s Office of 

Public Affairs confirmed that the Equity, 
Civil Rights & Title IX Office deter-
mined they will not be investigating 
Bright Sheng’s course.

In the Nov. 3 statement, the Univer-

sity says it supports academic freedom 
and free speech and plans to continue 
discussing these issues with the Office of 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and the 
National Center for Institutional Diver-
sity. SMTD is also set to host a series of 
facilitated conversations to promote dif-
ferent perspectives on campus.

University President Mark Schlissel 

said in a Nov. 3 statement that the Uni-
versity is committed to having open con-
versations about diversity.

“Discourse that addresses conflicts 

among differing viewpoints is essen-
tial to higher education,” Schlissel said. 
“Honest and respectful discussions of 
ideas 
— even those that make us uncom-

fortable — help us learn and grow. These 
are issues we must address together as 
an academic community committed to 
inquiry and greater levels of understand-
ing.”

Provost Susan Collins and Robert M. 

Sellers, Vice Provost for Equity & Inclu-
sion and Chief Diversity Officer, both 
said in the statement that work within 
the community to navigate these issues 
and their intersection will continue.

Daily Staff Reporter Kate Weiland can 

be reached at kmwblue@umich.edu.

ACADEMICS
UMich releases official statement on Bright Sheng 
 President Schlissel, SMTD dean pledge commitment to academic freedom

KATE WEILAND

Daily Staff Reporter

MADELINE HINKLEY/Daily

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer speaks with The Michigan Daily at the Michigan Union on Friday, Nov. 5.

PHOTO

 Gretchen Whitmer talks higher education, voting rights

GOVERNMENT

The governor sat down with The Michigan Daily during her visit to Ann Arbor

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer sat down 

with The Michigan Daily in the Michigan 
Union on the morning of Nov. 5 while in 
Ann Arbor to sign the second bill repeal-
ing the state’s “tampon tax,” a term 
referring to the state’s value-added tax 
on menstrual products. In the interview, 
Whitmer discussed efforts to increase 
gender equity in Michigan, the impor-
tance of student political involvement and 
her vision for state-wide improvements in 
education, child care and infrastructure. 

The Michigan Daily: Yesterday, 

you signed a bill repealing the state’s tax 
on menstrual products, and you’re here 
today signing similar legislation. What 
kind of message do you hope to send, 
and how do you think it will benefit 
Michiganders? 

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer: (Twenty-

three) other states do not collect sales 
tax on tampons and pads. Michigan has 
though, and so for 10 years we’ve been 
trying to change this law. I actually was 
the author of it a couple of times in the 
legislature. Rebekah Warren, who used 
to represent Ann Arbor, was one of the 
first authors of it. 

I never dreamed that it would take 

this long to get done, number one, and 
number two, that I’d be the one who’s 
signing it. But I’m thrilled because 
we know that the purchase of these 
essential items is not discretionary. It’s 
an absolute essential need, and when 
we tax it, we disproportionately hurt 
women and girls in Michigan, and that’s 
why it’s so important that we eliminate 
this tax: So anyone who mentrautes in 
the state of Michigan now will not have 
to pay this additional burden. 

People spend thousands of dol-

lars (on menstrual products) over the 
course of a lifetime. This is a meaning-
ful improvement in terms of the bottom 
line for people like my daughters and 
me, all of us who menstruate. 

TMD: Michigan is only the 23nd 

state to repeal the tax on menstrual 
products, while 28 more haven’t done 
so. What would you say to the other 
states that are continuing to tax these 
products as luxury goods? 

Whitmer: What I’ve said to past 

legislatures who wouldn’t get the bill 
passed is that there is an extra burden 
on women, and we should alleviate it. 
So other states should as well. But this is 
something that we can boast in Michi-
gan. We’re going to have a day of action 
in 90 days, when this goes into effect, 
where we’re going to encourage people 

to buy these products and give them to 
(shelters). 

TMD: After you recently vetoed 

a bill that would institute voter ID 
requirements, Secure MI Vote has 
begun work circulating a petition to 
implement these requirements without 
your approval. How would you antici-
pate students being affected by these 
efforts?

Whitmer: We had a historic elec-

tion in 2020. We had huge turnout. It 
was a fair and safe election despite all of 
these false narratives that are out there, 
all of these attacks on our electoral sys-
tem, and it worked. The results reflect-
ed the will of the people, and that’s what 
our democracy is all about. 

Usually, the person who doesn’t 

win an election goes back and tries to 
change how they communicate, change 
what they focus on, and earn the sup-
port of the masses. Instead, the Repub-
lican reaction to the outcome of last 
year’s election is to cut people who val-
idly voted of the ability to vote by creat-
ing barriers by making it more difficult. 

This is absolutely undermining our 

democracy, and it’s trying to turn over 
an election that was fair and full and has 
been litigated to the nth degree. They’re 
trying to cheat, and I’m not going to let 
it happen on my watch. So I’m going to 

veto any additional threat to our elec-
toral system that is designed to make 
it harder for people to vote, including 
students. 

We’ve recently made it easier for 

students to vote when we amended our 
Constitution. It used to be that you had 
to vote in-person for your first election. 
That had a disparate impact on younger 
voters, so I’m not going to let any addi-
tional threats and any additional hard-
ship happen. I want to make it easier for 
students to vote, because I think stu-
dents have the longest interest in out-
comes of elections and they need to be 
able to vote. 

TMD: What would be the one piece 

of advice that you have for students who 
want to pursue a career in public ser-
vice, but might be discouraged by the 
current political climate? 

Whitmer: Don’t get discouraged. 

Don’t tune out. Right now is the time 
to tune in. Any students who are inter-
ested should jump in and either work on 
a campaign or run for office themselves.

Now, younger people have a tenden-

cy to think that they don’t quite have 
the credentials to run. That’s baloney. I 
encourage young people to get out there 
and to run for office. 

JULIA RUBIN

Daily Staff Reporter

NEWS BRIEFS 

Rising numbers attributed to fall break, Halloween weekend

COVID-19 cases at the University of 

Michigan have increased over the past 
two weeks, according to an email sent to 
the campus community from Universi-
ty President Mark Schlissel Nov. 5. The 
increase in cases can be attributed to 
social gatherings and household expo-
sures, Schlissel wrote. 

According to the U-M COVID-19 

Dashboard, the recorded number of 
cases jumped from 68 the week of Oct. 

17 to 104 cases the week of Oct. 24. Of 
these cases, just over two-thirds of 
them can be traced to the student popu-
lation. 

The positivity rate on campus also 

rose from 1.3% the week of Oct. 24 to 
2.4% the week of Oct. 31. 

The University identified two clus-

ters this past week, which are believed 
to have contributed to the rising num-
bers. The clusters involved a total of 40 
students from two different academic 
programs. All positive cases are now 
isolating. 

Schlissel wrote that the cluster cases 

are linked to gatherings over the Hal-
loween weekend and travel during Fall 
Break rather than in-person classes.

“As changes in weather have driven 

more activities indoors, it is very impor-
tant to wear a face covering, make good 
decisions when interacting and stay 
home if you’re sick,” Schlissel wrote.

The University has also implement-

ed “enhanced surveillance measures” 
to isolate any additional cases that 
might stem from these clusters, accord-
ing to the dashboard. 

The campus community is also 

experiencing a rise in influenza cases, 

Schlissel wrote. The University Health 
Service saw flu cases increase from 13 to 
154 this past week. UHS said the major-
ity of flu cases are in individuals who 
have not received the flu vaccine. In 
his email, Schlissel urged community 
members to get their flu shot as soon as 
possible. 

“As we’ve said before, the flu is likely 

to be a larger concern this year after sev-
eral months of fewer in-person interac-
tions,” Schlissel wrote. “Please get a flu 
shot.” 

Daily Staff Reporter Justine Ra can be 

reached at rjustine@umich.edu.

JUSTINE RA

Daily Staff Reporter

COVID-19 cases increase on campus

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
Arts
Wednesday, November 10, 2021 — 3

“You’re not like other girls,” he says. 
You are supposed to take this as a compliment. 

But what he really means when he says this is that he 
looks down on women and girls as a whole and you 
do not fit the degrading image of women he has in his 
mind.

And of course you don’t! Because (like all other 

women), you’re unique and a powerhouse; these are 
two things that couldn’t be further from that image of 
women he has in his mind. This is something you’ve 
only learned with time, or are maybe just realizing 
now. If that’s you, welcome. I’m so honored to be a 
part of this moment with you, and we are so glad 
you’re here. 

First, the crucial question: Where does the “not 

like other girls” phenomenon come from? Obviously, 
in the general sense, it’s the product of a patriarchal 
society that devalues women. But the phenomenon is 
reinforced in a plethora of ways in pop culture as well 
as through interpersonal interaction (like the one 
with our Average Joe above).

For example: despite my respect for Taylor Swift as 

a woman, a musician and a strategist (Swifties, please 
don’t come for me), the iconic and pervasive lines “She 
wears short skirts / I wear t-shirts / She’s cheer cap-
tain, and I’m on the bleachers” are the poster child 
for this trope. “You Belong With Me” shot to stardom 
and still has a special home in the cultural zeitgeist 
because it resonated with all of us, reminding us of 
that pang of sorrow and jealousy we felt watching our 
crush date someone else.

Over some delightful chords, Swift says what we 

only wish we could have: You should be with me 
instead. Unfortunately, the song doesn’t just say that 
your crush should be with you because you’re great — 
it crosses a line by arguing that your crush would be 
better off with you because the girl he’s with now is 
“like other girls” and you’re not.

In the equally popular cult-classic film “Pitch 

Perfect,” Becca (Anna Kendrick, “Love Life”) is an 
excellent archetype of this. She’s moody, she likes to 
produce music instead of singing it, she wears dark 
eyeliner, she refuses to partake in activities that many 
other women find fulfilling, she rejects the advances 
of the Dream Guy™ — you get the gist. While she 
ultimately does find love and belonging in her rela-

tionships with other girls, the film elevates her as the 
desired woman because she’s “not like them.” 

A significant period of my life was defined by my 

efforts to not be like other girls. I wore the same 
Under Armour sweatshirts as the boys in my class, 
I read the Warriors series when they did (you know, 
the completely plausible one about the warring gangs 
of cats), I wore the same DC skate shoes and I spent 
my recesses playing knockout on the basketball court 
instead of sitting on the bleachers talking to my girl 
friends. Not that there was anything inherently 
wrong with that. In hindsight, though, I did every-
thing the boys did, not just out of enjoyment, but also 
because I thought that being “like other girls” was 
a bad thing (wrong) and figured the best way to be 
the least like other girls was to be like the boys (also 
wrong). 

As my roommate pointed out over one of our 

mac and cheese dinners, it has “become cringe” to 
say that you’re “not like other girls.” How interest-
ing that, as the concept has been interrogated, its 
insidious nature exposed to the world, it is women 
who take the fall. Even now, the message is clear: 
It is the women who once fell prey to the ideology, 
rather than the men who cultivated it, who should 
feel embarrassed. From its conception, the “not 
like other girls” phenomenon was destined for a 
significantly long run before its current reckoning 
because it obscures the role of the oppressor in pit-
ting women against each other, allowing for him to 
abscond, even now.

In possibly my favorite tweet of all time, @mcapri-

glioneart wrote: “No, no, no. You misheard me. I 
didn’t say ‘I’m not like other girls.’ I said ‘I LIKE 
OTHER GIRLS. IM GAY.’” In another (now deleted) 
tweet, @MissElla wrote, “im not like other girls in 
their mid-twenties. Im childish like a 13 year old and 
moody like a 90 year old on their death bed.” These 
women illustrate (in the most amusing way pos-
sible) what we know to be true, now and forever: It’s 
not embarrassing to be like other girls. In fact, it’s an 
honor. I couldn’t be more proud of the ways I am like 
other girls. I cherish the relationships I have with the 
women who enrich my life, each one of them bring-
ing something special to the table I’d be worse off 
without. They empower and inspire me to be the best 
version of myself, and lift me up and accept me on the 
days when I can’t manage that. 

Loneliness, at one time or anoth-

er, has played a central role in many 
people’s lives. Whether it is actual 
isolation or a fear of it, it plays into 
how people look at their social inter-
actions, and at the value of their lives. 
How lucky we are that music exists! 
“Outsidership,” especially when con-
sidered through music, is strangely a 
very connecting experience at times, 
realizing you and others see the world 
in the same way. And there have been 
so many fantastic musicians (Nirva-
na, Radiohead, Velvet Underground) 
who express deeply their own per-
sonal experiences of outsidership. 
Much of rock, indie rock and grunge 
were founded around this feeling. 
The more specific you get, the more a 
general audience can relate.

My anger rises when these bands (so 

often white, straight and cis masculine) 
or their fans pervert the label of “out-
sider” and take it only for themselves. It 
most certainly has to do with the feeling 
of being wholly individual — but every-
one is a whole individual. Pop music lis-
teners are whole individuals too. Taking 
the label of “outsider” and keeping it for 
oneself is not what most of these bands 
were about. Ironically, being an out-
sider is a shared experience. It is widely 
shared by women, people of color and 
members of the LGBTQIA+ commu-
nity. I have certainly stepped into many 
rooms in my life full of men and instant-
ly felt an uncomfortable twinge as I had 
to reconsider how to relate to them in 
conversation, or if I should instead stay 
silent. And there are many fans of these 
bands, and some bands themselves, that 
don’t fall into any of these categories and 
refuse to acknowledge outsider identi-
ties besides their own. Although we 
might all at some point feel desperately 
alone, there are some who are born into 
that and can never escape from it. This 
creates certain bands and listeners that 
thrive off making people uncomfort-
able. In communicating their own emo-
tional experiences, they use too much 
anger, not enough empathy.

In writing this, I am not trying to 

attack anyone’s social experiences. 
Some prefer to exist mostly or entirely 
alone. Some thrive that way and don’t 
need people in their everyday life 
to enjoy their existence. Some have 
become alone due to others not talking 
to them because they think they are dif-
ferent or odd, which in turn causes them 
to talk to fewer people, and then fewer 
and then barely any at all. These are not 
the people I am talking about, and nor 
would I ever want to criticize them. The 
ones I refer to are those who use their 
“outsider” mindset to suck the joy out of 
art for others.

I have met countless people, often 

men, with a superiority complex about 
the music they listen to. They look down 
on pop music, dismissing it as pap. At 
one point, I bought into this. Entrenched 
in the world of male-dominated punk 
before realizing how deeply problem-
atic it is, I bought into a bitter outsider 
mindset that looked down on pop 
music, which I pronounced with spe-
cial derision. Then, amid discovering 
the usage of swastikas and iron crosses 
by bands [COPY: need a link here] like 
the Ramones and the Dead Boys in the 
CBGBs punk scene in New York (docu-
mented by Legs McNeil and Gillian 

McCain in “Please Kill Me”), [COPY: 
need a link for the book] or Sid Vicious of 
the Sex Pistols, I realized how messed up 
they had made this culture. The swasti-
ka, as they tried to explain it, served as 
a symbol to shock people. [COPY: link] 
Obviously, that is absolutely no excuse. 
In their anger, they alienated those who 
had already undergone trauma and trial, 
who had literally been cast out of society 
and tortured and persecuted.

They claimed the outsider label as 

their own, making the punk scene a 
worse place to be for people with actual 
marginalized identities. As discussed in 
Todd Haynes’s new documentary “The 
Velvet Underground,” The Factory, run 
by Andy Warhol and producing acts such 
as The Velvet Underground, was a toxic 
place for women, a place where they were 
valued only for their looks. When you see 
a whole music scene full of white people, 
or full of men, it’s not because there were 
no marginalized identities that would 
have wanted to become part of the scene. 
It’s because there was a lot of racism or 
sexism or any other -ism involved. When 
listeners consist of a majority of men, it is 
worth asking oneself why.

Sometimes, the culture is formed by 

the band. But other times, it is misinter-
preted by the fans. Especially with sen-
sitive subjects, it matters less the intent 
that the artist created with, and more 
the way the general audience will most 
likely interpret the lyrics. For example, 
Kurt Cobain of Nirvana was an avid 

feminist, and wrote “Polly” and “Rape 
Me” (both stories concerning sexual 
violence) as middle fingers to sexism. He 
believed that men should be educated 
not to rape, rather than women being 
asked to protect themselves. How-
ever, the lyrics to both of these songs 
are incredibly incendiary. While he 
meant them to be empowering stories 
of women defending themselves, that 
is certainly not their only or even their 
most obvious interpretation.

Bands in such positions of promi-

nence have a lot of influence, and when 
they release something, it will surely be 
interpreted in a million different ways. 

The source also matters; on discussing 
with a friend, he remarked that these 
probably would have come off quite 
differently as Courtney Love songs, 
rather than Nirvana songs. Even though 
Cobain’s intentions were good, these 
songs can likely serve to fuel something 
terrible inside some listeners and do not 
take into account his responsibilities as 
an influential male artist. 

Even if the mostly male, white bands 

that filled these genres aren’t at all bad 
people, not many of them considered 
their domination of these musical 
genres. It is due to this that a whole coun-
ter-movement formed (that of riot grrrl) 
and is still ongoing. When searching for 
indie rock bands in the ’90s, you have 
to pick through legions of white men at 
the forefront, before reaching people of 
identities that society has automatically 
deemed outsider. For example, Long Fin 
Killie, an indie rock band from the ’90s 
headed by Luke Sutherland, a gay Black 
man, has just 1,470 monthly listeners on 
Spotify. Although they made important 
strides toward inclusion in one of the 
whitest, most male-dominated genres 
of them all, his and the band’s names 
are virtually unknown. It is this form of 
sexism, racism, homophobia, transpho-
bia, etc. that is the most prevalent: that of 
simply not considering how much space 
you take up, and whose voices are not 
being heard.

It’s an honor to be like other girls
The real “outsiders”

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Design by Samuel Turner

Design by Jessica Chiu

Design by Kristina Miesel

EMMY SNYDER

Daily Arts Writer

ROSA SOFIA KAMINSKI

Daily Arts Writer

Finding hidden gems has always 

been an obsession of music fanatics: 
stuffing eager faces into dusty crates, 
with two fingers grazing the record 
sleeves alternating to and fro, leafing 
through hundreds of records to grab 
some tantalizing faded cover art and 
bring that forgotten music to the light. 
When the needle hits the wax, the 
question arises for the music collector: 
To share or not to share?

Do we rush to have the song in 

another’s ears, hide it away for the 
perfect moment to surface or keep 
it tucked away forever? What if it’s 
shared to the wrong person? What if it 
finds its way to the internet? What if, 
God forbid, it gets to a place like Tik-
Tok or Youtube recommendations? 
Before long, everyone’s playlists and 
“Now Playing” are marked with that 
special sound you worked so hard to 
find, that secret gem you kept all to 
yourself. These are the anxieties of a 
gatekeeper.

It’s a perfectly normal consider-

ation, rest assured. We might all have 
thought proudly to ourselves, I lis-

tened to them before they were cool, 
in response to a shared appreciation 
for an artist, slyly signaling that we are 
definitely not jumping on any band-
wagon. We all desire to be just a tad 
bit original; we all have a little hipster 
inside of us that secretly delights at the 
discovery of an untouched piece of art 
that brings us the same level of enjoy-
ment as any other. Because as much as 
we might like to think we are comfort-
able with the exposure and discourse 
of our favorite hidden gems, there will 
always be a time an album goes omit-
ted in a discussion, a song so obscure 
yet so deliciously good it can’t even get 
extended playlist treatment, an artist 
we purposefully neglect to mention. 

Gatekeeping is less an active cam-

paign to silence the spread of music 
and more of an internal plea we all 
have in our minds — in one way or 
another, no matter how loud that plea 
is actually voiced, the desire to keep 
things dear to us safe will always ring 
true. As much as we cheer for the 
success of the artists that bring us so 
much joy, the transition from obscu-
rity to popularity is one without its 
pitfalls for devoted fans. The Japanese 
funk band that hasn’t found its way 
through the Youtube waves yet, the 
bedroom pop artist you’re pretend-
ing wasn’t just reviewed by Pitchfork, 
the 15,000 monthly listener indie-folk 
artists you could have sworn was only 
1,500 a month ago, as much as we’d 
like to champion around their success, 
there’s a small part of us unwilling to 
let that go. So where does this desire to 
gatekeep come from?

Discovery is inevitable, and it’s safe 

to say that gatekeepers understand 
that. If they have confidence in the 
quality of what they are attempting 
to gatekeep, whether that be a psy-
chedelic pop artist from the ’70s that 
verges a little too hard on the abstract 
or an album only available on the deep 
reaches of Youtube, they also have 
the slight doubt in their mind that 

quality will inevitably translate into 
pedestrian attention marked by Spo-
tify curated playlists and mainstream 
publication reviews. Gatekeeping is 
impossible, yet it prevails despite futile 
efforts. It’s not so much a tangible abil-
ity to control the spread of informa-
tion — especially in our time where 
it spreads at such a rapid pace — but 
rather an empty attempt at control for 
comfort.

The question “to share or not to 

share” is not as hard for those who 
dig purely for their own enjoyment 
and pay no attention to any rise in 
popularity, or for those who truly 
don’t care for those who dig to truly 
expose, such as the label “Numero 
Group” with a model to revitalize 
and renew the music. Their project 
with Duster allowed new distribu-
tion of their music along with their 
newfound popularity, amongst other 
forgotten artists. They give them a 
second chance at success for their art, 
a second chance at exposure for their 
music to reach a wider audience.

As for communities like Rateyour-

music.com, the music side of TikTok, 
Discord servers devoted to the dis-
cussion of music, subreddits and pri-
vate Facebook groups, the question 
remains a delicate one. Gatekeeping is 
still a very prevalent practice in Inter-
net communities, but it’s hard to say if 
their influence of popularity reaches 
outside their own communities, or 
is contained to the bickering inside a 
comment box. 

Despite the fact these are micro-

climates and niches amongst music 
communities, they speak to a very 
real approach to the division of artists 
amongst listeners. Surely, we can’t all 
be as perfect as an archive label, and 
surely, we aren’t as bad as Internet 
hoarders masquerading as collec-
tors. But still, that inner hipster rests 
inside of us, and where does it come 
from? What is the obsession with 
“obscurify,” the engine that ranks 

how “obscure” your Spotify data is, 
and what is the delight of having our 
number hit 70%, 80%, 90%? 91%? 

We gatekeep to prevent the music 

from being subject to analysis from 
others. In effect, when others listen 
to a piece of music, it changes as it 
gets passed around from ear to ear. 
No matter how hard we try, how hard 

we stay to our convictions, the seeds 
of doubt from Pitchfork reviews and 
YouTube replies and empty com-
ments from friends will always be in 
the back of our minds. Gatekeeping 
is simply a prevention tactic until the 
very last moment before the pristine, 
delicate, perfect, untouched percep-
tion of the music we hold in our minds 
gets muddied by the subjection of 
others’ thoughts and feelings. It’s a 
method to stave off that second before 
the image of the music we hold so dear 
in our head, the absolute image of that 
music, is altered. 

Even guilty pleasures are a part of 

this treatment. On one hand, we con-
ceal our guilty pleasure songs and art-
ists to save ourselves the shame and 
embarrassment of sharing such enjoy-
ment, but on the other, is it not to also 
preserve our own image of that music 
in our head? Do we hide our pleasure 
at these songs to save them from the 

judgment of others? To conceal is to 
contain it in its most pure form to be 
enjoyed forever, on repeat: a rapture of 
sound at each click of that play trian-
gle, free from outside scorn and meant 
just for you.

When we value the esoteric qual-

ity of the work more than the work 
itself, what we lose is that confi-

dence in it. This, in turn, is possibly 
another reason why it’s gatekept so 
hard: because that perfect image 
of the work cannot be touched by a 
scathing critique or the idea that the 
work’s quality is dependent on The 
virginal piece of music brought to 
light sacrifices the delight and plea-
sure of its obscurity. That’s why we 
gatekeep, but we also show: to feel 
the intimacy of introducing a friend 
to music never touched by their ears. 
Sharing music is a way of connec-
tion and communication. To share 
a hidden gem or an obscure piece 
of music special to us contains the 
same level of intimacy as sharing 
our favorite ’80s hits or our most lis-
tened to artists. The reason people 
gatekeep is because of this intimacy, 
or the fear of that intimacy. 

Why do we gatekeep?

CONOR DURKIN

Daily Arts Writer

A public lecture and reception; you may attend in person or 
virtually. For more information, including the Zoom link, visit 
events.umich.edu/event/84264 or call 734.615.6667.

Rhys Isaac Collegiate 
Professor of History
Susan 
Juster 

 Mumbling 

Masses and 
Jumbling 
Beads”

Wednesday, November 10 2021 | 4:00 p.m. | Weiser Hall, 10th Floor

LSA COLLEGIATE LECTURE

Finding Catholics 
in Early America

“

Read more at MichiganDaily.com
Read more at MichiganDaily.com


4 — Wednesday, November 10, 2021 
Michigan in Color
The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com

Every time I think society may be making 

progress when it comes to protecting, respect-
ing and standing in solidarity with women 
as we fight systemic abuse, I am gravely mis-
taken once again. As a Drake fan, it pains me to 
write this article, but we must talk about this 
issue. In his highly anticipated album, Certi-
fied Lover Boy (CLB), Drake credits R. Kelly 
as a writer on his song “TSU.” The track opens 
with a clip of DJ OG Ron C asking women 
“what’s going down” in a drawling voice as R. 
Kelly’s “Half On a Baby” gradually builds in 
the background. Drake did not work with R. 
Kelly on this song, nor is R. Kelly’s voice in the 
song, yet CLB producers credited R. Kelly with 
co-writing because they used some of his song 
in the production. 

This credit is problematic because it pro-

vides R. Kelly, an accused and convicted rapist 
and child molester, access to monetary royal-
ties that could help fund his court trials for 
sex trafficking and sexual abuse. Drake has 
chosen to associate himself with this man and 
completely disregard how this may harm his 
fans who are Black women. This proves, yet 
again, that America couldn’t care less about 
the treatment of Black women, and will con-

tinue to find ways to show it. 

Not only has Drake created space for a cele-

bration of R. Kelly’s music, but he has also rein-
troduced potential trauma for the women who 
have fought against R. Kelly’s power in the past 
years. Numerous women, many of whom are 
Black, have shared their stories about R. Kelly, 
opening up about being sexually assaulted by 
the singer. He married Aaliyah when she was 
only 15 years old, and yet he was continuously 
embraced in the entertainment industry and 
by Americans at large. The 2019 documentary, 
“Surviving R. Kelly,” centers the women who 
came forward as they describe their abusive 
relationships with him. These women have 
had to continuously relive their trauma in 
private and public, and people continue to 
deny and gaslight their truth at the hands of R. 
Kelly. His maintained power, despite endless 
claims against his humanity, is a testament 
to the social influence of success and the dis-
advantage that victims of sexual assault have 
when their abuser is someone with significant 
social wealth. Drake is considered one of the 
greatest musicians of all time and is the epit-
ome of social influence and power. Once this 
power imbalance and influence is addressed, it 
becomes unbearably clear what kind of harm 
can come from Drake’s crediting R. Kelly on 
his highly anticipated album. 

Drake’s producer, Noah “40” Shebib was 

somehow baffled by the fact that people would 
believe he and Drake — someone who has also 
been accused of having inappropriate rela-
tionships with minors — would work with R. 
Kelly based on R. Kelly’s past. Although Drake 
and Shebib claim they do not support R. Kelly, 
their choice to sample OG Ron C suggests 
otherwise. Simply, they have failed to take 
accountability for the harm they have caused. 
If they knew they would have to give R. Kelly 
credit, and how that credit would benefit him, 
why use the sample? Regardless of their inten-
tions, the impact of their decision has major 
consequences for the women who are fight-
ing R. Kelly, his wealth and his power, in this 
legal battle. It was recently revealed that R. 
Kelly has been struggling financially and has 
obtained a lot of debt, so Drake’s credit has 
provided R. Kelly with financial capital that he 
could use to back his court trials. Aside from 
simply financial capital, Drake’s cultural influ-
ence often guides social trends, so this credit 
has validated his fans’ support for R. Kelly’s, 
whether intentional or not. 

CLB’s theme is to embrace “toxic mascu-

linity and acceptance of truth,” and in its first 
few weeks, it tied the record for most top ten 
hits off a single album. It has also held a top 
two spot on the Billboard Top 200 (albums) 
list for five weeks in a row. This album was all 
but guaranteed to reach millions of ears and 

make millions of dollars, and as a result, so did 
R. Kelly. 

R. Kelly was recently convicted of racketeer-

ing, sex trafficking, acts of bribery and exploita-
tion of a child in New York. He also faces similar 
charges in other states, including Illinois and 
Minnesota. Drake’s blatant negligence for this 
writing credit’s impact is disgusting and is a 
perfect example of how men have the privilege 
to ignore the struggles women endure while 
still being able to succeed. Granted, it is similarly 
disturbing how accepting society is of such deg-
radation for the sake of quality entertainment. 
While women continue to fight the treacherous 
battles towards gender equality, men are able to 
ignore our pain and continue to contribute to 
the root of the inequity and society lets it hap-
pen.

Drake’s choice is especially difficult for me, 

as a Black woman, because it always feels like 

no one is fighting for us when we say we are 
struggling and need help. Even the Black men 
we expect to fight for us ignore our pain with 
ease. It is extremely difficult to see yet another 
artist, who I have been supporting for years, 
who creates art that I love and consume on a 
daily basis, prove to be yet another individual 
who couldn’t care less about the very people 
who love and support them. It feels like all the 
advocating and boycotting that I do is point-
less because society seems to be flooded with 
people who simply don’t care about the strug-
gles Black women around them endure. I don’t 
know how much more disappointment I can 
take. I don’t understand why I constantly have 
to choose between consuming what makes 
me happy and fighting for what I believe in. 
Will Black women ever receive the respect we 
deserve? Or will we continue fighting for our-
selves with no end in sight?

I am my bedroom: neat, colorful and 

diverse. There, my two cultures collide. Cov-
ering my bed lies a 49ers blanket overlaid by 
an Indian shawl. Painted on the walls are my 
favorite sports teams’ colors amidst a portrait 
of Hindu idols, like Sai Baba and Ganesh. My 
closet is the same. On one side hangs a tradi-
tional kurta and on the other, a simple suit: 
both tailored for the appropriate occasion.

Raised in America, I did my best to connect 

with my Indian side; I loved visiting the temple, 
celebrating Diwali, attending Garba and other 
Indian functions. Even though I had never been 
to India, I never felt lost. I always felt connected 
to both my heritage and my place of birth.

When I first settled in Ann Arbor this past 

semester, I was delightfully shocked by the 
amount of Indians here, which I thought would 
be few based on my misconceptions of the Mid-
west. I was excited to join organizations like the 
Indian American Student Association and meet 
new people who share my heritage. In many of 
my conversations with students in the organi-
zation, we discussed what traditions or customs 
we grew up participating in and what it was like 
growing up Brown in different parts of Amer-

ica. Whenever the question about what part of 
India we were from arose, I would enthusiasti-
cally answer that my family was from Gujarat, 
but hesitantly add that I had actually never been 

to India.

Typically, when I tell people that I’ve never 

visited India, I receive comments like “So 
you’re whitewashed,” or “You’re basically 
white.” I would uncomfortably laugh off the 
joke, not knowing how to respond. However, 
this time, after telling my new friend at the 

University of Michigan that I had never been 
to India, I got a new response: “So you’re a 
coconut.” I was confused. I’d never heard that 
term before. I paused for a second, and before 

I could answer, my friend replied, “You know, 
white on the inside, Brown on the outside.” 
That phrasing seemed familiar. It then hit me; 
I recalled numerous instances when people 
throughout high school would use different 
colored foods interchangeably to describe 
people of color.

Coconuts. Apples. Twinkies. Bananas. 

Oreos. What do these foods have in com-
mon? While these items are all just harmless 
foods, when used in the context of race, they 
become insults used to demean people of color 
who don’t conform to conventional or model 
minority stereotypes.

Now, I have heard all sorts of interactions in 

which people hurl these words at one another. 
I’ve heard people from the same minority 
communities use them to describe each other; 
I’ve even heard people use these phrases to 
describe themselves.

When people within the same communities 

use these metaphors to describe each other, they 
are effectively telling others that they are not 
good enough — that they don’t fit in or that they 
sold out. Just because I don’t watch as many Bol-
lywood movies as you or speak as fluent Gujarati 
or Hindi as you doesn’t mean I’m any less Indian. 
On the other hand, this same logic applies to 
people who think others are “too Indian” or 
F.O.B.s, meaning fresh off the boat. It’s ironic, isn’t 
it? If you are seen as “too” Brown, you are pres-
sured to assimilate. If you are seen as not “Indian 
enough,” you are mocked.

So why do we feel the need to put groups of 

people into distinct categories? Henri Tajfel, a 
prominent social psychologist, suggests that 
it’s because of the social identity theory, which 

states that a person’s social identity gives them 
a sense of dignity; thus, they subconsciously 
develop an “us versus them” mentality. When 
terms like coconut, bananas or Oreos are used, 
it is implied that someone has fallen out of the 
social groups they identify with, causing them 
to feel as if they don’t fit in anywhere. 

Whether or not someone has racist inten-

tions, using these foods to describe someone is 
racist. It undermines our individual identities 
and assumes that all minority groups are the 
same. While terms like coconut or Oreos aren’t 
as blatantly offensive as other slurs, we need 
to understand the negative stereotypes these 
words validate. Using foods as racial meta-
phors based on the physical colors of our skin 
is not only dehumanizing for people of color 
but it is also illogical since our identities aren’t 
reliant solely on our skin tones.

There is no “right” way to be a person of 

color. By creating such narratives, we restrict 
people into boxes and only perpetuate the 
model minority stereotypes we fight so hard 
to break. Just like my bedroom, I encompass 
pieces of both my cultures. It is important to 
acknowledge our history and ancestry, and 
there is no one way to do that. Let’s take own-
ership of what it means to be a person of color 
and recognize that existing as a person of color 
varies for everyone.

A³ (Asian American Authors) Spotlight is a writer inter-

view series created by TMD’s Michigan in Color and Arts 
sections to spotlight and celebrate Asian American authors. 
The goal of this series is to feature artists whose content 
diversifies the landscape of Asian diasporic literature.

At the beginning of our phone call, Jyotsna Sreenivasan 

and I agree that had we met in person, we would be drink-
ing herbal tea together. Sreenivasan — an author, English 
teacher and University of Michigan alum — is easygoing 
and lights up when we talk about books — perhaps a symp-
tom of her passion for teaching. The author’s voice is soft 
but strong; it’s hard to feel nervous in her friendly pres-
ence. In her collection of short stories released this past 
May, “These Americans,” Sreenivasan explores the gap 
between immigrant parents and their second-generation 
children in her latest book. (Second-generation Americans 
in the book are defined as native-born with at least one 
immigrant parent.) The author sat down with The Daily 
to speak about “These Americans,” teaching English and 
being second-generation.

Sreenivasan’s book “These Americans” is a collection 

of seven short stories and a novella , all of which feature 
second-gen Indian Americans grappling with what it 
means to live within, between and beyond two cultures. 
Favorites of mine include “The Sweater,” in which college-
aged Nandini learns how to knit sweaters while dealing 
with the all-encompassing pressure from her parents to 
succeed academically and attend business school; “Mrs. 
Raghavendra’s Daughter,” in which Mrs. Raghavendra 
simultaneously grapples with her grown daughter’s sexu-
ality and her husband’s death; and “Hawk,” the novella, in 
which recently-divorced Manisha tries her hand at teach-
ing at a private school in the face of what initially appears 
to be innocent cultural misunderstandings.

The book — which often focuses on parent-child rela-

tionships — explores what it means to be a parent when 
cultural expectations of love (familial, romantic, friendly) 
don’t fully translate between generations. Sreenivasan 
paints ephemeral scenes filled with the weight of mis-
communication; yet, despite occasional frustration at the 
characters, this book makes my eyes water and evokes 
memories of the worries my mother tried her hardest to 
hide from me. The love with which she writes about Indi-
an parents makes me want to call my mom and read to her 
about Revati’s heartbreaking friendships lost with age in 

“Crystal Vase: Snapshots,” or the overwhelmed narrator 
in “Perfect Sunday,” searching in Idaho for jobs that make 
ends meet while taking care of her kids. 

I’m curious about Sreenivasan about her attitude 

towards portraying Indian American families. She laughs, 
“Well, first you have to live through it, right?” She pon-
ders for a second, “I think as a younger person, you’re 
only thinking of your point of view, right?” For Sreeniva-
san, understanding the perspective of an immigrant par-
ent took time. A few years ago, Sreenivasan wrote a story 
about an immigrant father frustrated with his teenage 
daughter. After immersing herself in a different perspec-
tive within her work, she began to realize “how much love 
there was behind all of those strict rules.” 

As she became a mother, her perspective changed even 

more. “Once I had a baby,” she says, “I realized how hard 
it was to be a parent … My parents were trying to do the 
best they could, and they didn’t have a lot of Indian role 
models for raising a kid in a different country.” Parenthood 
prompted Sreenivasan to ask herself, “What’s it like from 
(my parents’) point of view?”

“(The answer) seems to strike people in their hearts,” 

Sreenivasan says, which is a bit of an understatement. Every 
time I read the author’s perspective of a parent frustrated 
with their child, whether it’s Mrs. Raghavendra fighting 
with herself to accept her daughter, or Prema determined 
that her daughter will have a better life, I feel punched in 
the gut by the overwhelming intensity of the “parental” 
perspective I normally butt heads with. The author is inten-
tional with her endings — Sreenivasan’s short stories are 
distinct; instead of telling an entire story, she creates vivid 
snapshots of families left without any sense of firm resolu-
tion that readers might be used to. At first, I found the end-
ings puzzling, but as I continued reading the increasingly 
elaborate stories, I couldn’t stop thinking about them.

Each of Sreenivasan’s short stories arose independently 

of each other. Sreenivasan had published many stories 
over the past two decades, but she only considered putting 
them in a collection within the last few years. The author 
played around with the order of her stories, taking inspi-
ration from a collection by another second-generation 
author: Julia Alvarez’s “How the Garcia Girls Lost Their 
Accent.” Ultimately, she decided to arrange her stories 
in ascending order of the age of the second-generation 
subject, indicating a sense of cultural growth with age — 
fitting, considering how central the theme of being second-
generation is to her works and, most importantly, her life. 

The Certified Lover Boy: Why Drake 
crediting R. Kelly harms Black women

Digesting foods as racial metaphors

A3 Spotlight: Jyotsna Sreenivasan 
asks what Indian parents can give 

to their American children

Design by Madison Grosvenor

Design by Caitlin Martens

MARIA PATTON

MiC Columnist

DEVEN PARIKH

MiC Columnist

MEERA KUMAR

Daily Arts Writer

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

I stuck through “Gilmore Girls” even though Lorelai 

Gilmore seemed like the kind of person to tell you she 
didn’t study for the test when she really did, the kind to 
make you feel bad for pulling out a calculator to add up 
the bill plus the 15 % tip on top even though after din-
ner your mind can only do so much mental math and the 
kind of person to tell you she never said something so 
adamantly she’d make you question your own sanity for 
weeks on end so you’d ask yourself Did I really feel that 
and hear that and understand that? Over and over and 
over. Even though she really did say the thing she said 
she didn’t say.But Lorelai made up for everything in wit 
and it made her tolerable, charming even, so that liking 
Lorelai one day and despising her the next depended on 
the episode and your mood and whether you watched 
“Gilmore Girls” on a Wednesday or a Friday. Because 
Lorelai was so temperamental, paper-thin in that special 
sort of way, she rendered it almost impossible to cherish 
or hate or adore or even simply enjoy her in all her volatil-
ity. Her relationship with Rory was impactful, powerful, 
the mother-daughter duo America loved to love because 
Lorelai Gilmore named her daughter after herself and 
no one in the history of motherhood had ever done such 
a bold thing. It was genius, and it made watching their 
bond unfold and grow once a week an even more enjoy-
able prospect. 

You do not grow to despise either Rory or Lorelai 

because they have never been the kind of characters with 
enough substance to follow, to unravel, unpin and untie, 
until you begin to realize you aren’t really liking what 
you’ve found. It is an instantaneous process, it happens 
between the span of one episode and another for you to 
realize, YOU KNOW WHAT, THIS ISN’T REALLY 
WHAT I HAD IN MIND. You begin to understand that 
Lorelai is filled to the brim with immaturity and that Rory 
is more of a mother than she ever will be and even more 
so, if Lorelai is this insufferable, then Rory must be a mil-
lion times more unbearable. Rory is so smart and so pretty 
and she’s going to become the next Christiane Amanpour 
and Rory is just the most perfect, thoughtful, insightful 
teenager this country has ever seen. Except it was never 
really about the kind of person Rory Gilmore was, because 
nothing about a normal teenage girl from the East Coast 
was as ragingly fantastic as everyone had made it seem 
for so long, but it had everything to do with the position 
that Rory occupied. The grandparents that paid for a pri-
vate school education, Stars Hollow, the blue house with 
the wrap-around porch and the very entirety of white 
womanhood gave her charm, the unabridged power and 
propriety that became so synonymous with what it meant 

to be Rory Gilmore. And to deny Rory such a thing is to 
reduce her to nothing. 

And what about Lane Kim? Whatever happened 

to Lane Kim? Rory’s best friend forever and ever, the 
all-star supporting character of the 20th century. Lane 
Kim played in a rock band, and was cool with a capital 
C even when she was handing out fliers for her mother’s 
Seventh-day Adventist Church. She was able to straddle 
being a first-generation Korean-American, Stars Hollow 
in all of its entirety and her mother’s ever-watchful eye 
that made most viewers forget what it felt like to have a 
modicum of privacy and peace, all with remarkable ease. 
The Lane Kim we all knew hid her childhood, her inter-
ests, the things she loved most about life in her bedroom 
closet and under baseboards. But most of all, Lane was 
never allowed to be a woman, never allowed to love or 
learn or grow in the way that Rory was. And when you 
grow up on the periphery of someone like Rory Gilmore, 
almost there but never close enough, when you can never 
seem to belong, never seem to fit or be taken as you are, 
never allowed to truly be without a million and one strings 
attached, you get Lane Kim and you get Chastity from “10 
Things I Hate About You” and you get Dionne from “Clue-
less” and you get every other token best friend, antagonist, 
fairy godmother, Extra Number 23, woman of color. So 
instead, you aggressively champion all the Rory Gilmore’s 
of the world. Convince yourself you see so many pieces of 
you in all of them, even though they were never designed 
for you and never think about women like you. And no one 
wants to end up being a Lane Kim, with your existence 
undesirable in every way, mostly, your only life’s purpose 
existing as a means to teach Rory or Cher or Bianca how 
to be a better person. 

Lane Kim was written in a way that rendered her 

devoid of complexity and meaning. Show writers chose to 
portray her as a projection, a side extension of Rory Gilm-
ore more than anything else. And because it seemed as if 
Lane Kim was nothing without Rory, much of the way 
her life unfolded was the will of what the show’s writers 
deemed a fulfilling future. And no one ever fought for 
Lane the way they did for Rory or Lorelai. Lane’s boy-
friends were always missed attempts at love rather than 
full-fledged relationships. Rory had dreams, Rory went to 
Yale, Rory stole a yacht but it was okay because she was 
Rory Gilmore and Rory Gilmore has always been magnif-
icent. Rory let her dreams fall apart on her own doing and 
Lane wasn’t allowed to dream. Lane never left Stars Hol-
low even though she so desperately wanted to and Rory 
came back because she really had nowhere else to go. And 
Rory Gilmore was allowed to fail, to fall apart and come 
undone, to not know any better, and Lane Kim never got 
the chance. 

All my love to the Lane Kims of the world. Because they 

have always deserved so much more. 

All my love to Lane Kim

SARAH AKAABOUNE

MiC Columnist


5-Opinion

O

ver the last few weeks, the 
United States has had one of the 

biggest waves of labor strikes that it’s 
seen in recent history. Thousands of 
workers across different industries 
have been striking with demands 
including better pay, safer working 
conditions and more. This parallels 
a large worker shortage, as well as 
issues across the supply chain that 
have been happening this year. 
While these strikes may seem to have 
come out of nowhere for some, when 
analyzing how workers have been 
treated in America over the past few 
decades, it’s clear to see that this has 
been a long time coming.

The most common demand that 

has been seen during this 
recent wave of labor strikes 
has by far been better wages 
— after looking at minimum 
wage rates over the last few 
decades, it’s not very hard to 
understand why. Workers 
in the U.S. have seen barely 
any 
increases 
in 
wages 

over the past few decades, 
which is especially obvious 
when looking at minimum 
wage rates. In 1980, the minimum 
wage was $3.10, and which slowly 
increased to $7.25 in 2009 — the 
federal minimum wage has since 
stagnated. When accounting for 
inflation, this means that U.S 
workers have seen a 30% decrease 
in their wages over the past four 
decades, despite the cost of vital 
services like health care, housing 
and education increasing at the 
same rate as or more than inflation 
would suggest. This is shown by the 
cost of a degree more than doubling, 

health care expenditures increasing 
tenfold and the median cost of rent 
increasing by more than 500% since 
1980. All of this makes it obvious that 
the U.S. minimum wage is no longer 
a livable wage, and hasn’t been for a 
while, with workers that make more 
than the minimum wage not doing 
much better. The average purchasing 
power for most American workers 
has practically stagnated over the 
last 50 years.

Considering how American wages 

have been handled in recent history, 
widespread worker anger would 
already be very understandable. 
But, when looking at the wages of 
the people they work for, their anger 
becomes all the more justified. Since 
1978, the average salary of CEOs at 
the 350 largest companies in the U.S. 
has increased by a staggering 1,322%. 

Even when accounting for inflation, 
this means that the average salary of 
CEOs at the largest companies in the 
U.S. has tripled over the last 40 years. 
Workers have seen a net decrease in 
their pay over the last 40 years while 
their bosses have seen a massive 
increase — of course, they’re going 
to demand higher wages. Despite 
this staggering reality, for a long 
time, many workers didn’t protest or 
strike due to fear of losing their jobs 
and being replaced by someone who 
would take that low a wage. 

This shift in labor perspectives 

is highlighted in one of the biggest 
strikes that has occurred during the 
recent wave at John Deere. The strike 
started after a contract offered to the 
worker’s union by John Deere was 
considered lackluster, especially with 
John Deere’s profits being higher 
than ever (and the CEO getting a 
160% raise). The main demands being 
made are higher wages and increased 
benefits that are more in line with 
what John Deere previously offered 
its employees. John Deere has offered 
multiple contracts in hopes to end the 
strike, but as of Nov. 3, these workers 
are still on strike.

With the labor shortage that this 

year has seen, companies can no 
longer replace workers as easily as 
they could in the past, meaning that 
many workers have finally gotten the 

leverage to tell their bosses 
they deserve to be paid more 
by rallying with other workers 
and 
striking. 
What 
puts 

even more pressure on these 
companies is that the labor 
shortage has left millions 
of jobs open, meaning that 
workers can easily find new 
employment if they’re not 
satisfied with their current 
job. This flexibility has been 

evident, particularly in August of this 
year, when more than four million 
workers quit their jobs. 

The recent wave of labor strikes 

in the U.S., while seemingly sudden, 
comes at a time where workers are 
finally able to fight for themselves 
after they’ve been screwed over for 
the last 50 years. The recent labor 
shortage has created somewhat 
of a lightning-in-a-bottle moment 
for workers to use their newfound 
leverage to finally get their fair share 
of pay when it comes to their labor.

A

s has often been the case in 
his political career, President 

Joe Biden is on the precipice of 
spearheading legislation that would 
be extremely consequential — not 
only for its widespread political 
ramifications but also for the tens of 
millions of everyday Americans who 
would benefit from it. Biden, along 
with Congressional Democrats, is 
closing in on some of the biggest and 
most progressive pieces of legislation 
in modern American history. They 
are working to pass a $1 trillion 
bipartisan infrastructure bill and a 
$1.75 trillion reconciliation bill, just 
over seven months after passing and 
signing a $1.9 trillion rescue package. 
This is all being done with a bare 
50-50 Senate majority, and a mere 
three vote cushion in the House. 

These are realities that should 

make every progressive in America 
enthused beyond measure. Yet, 
unfortunately, looking in the political 
Twitter-verse and inside the political 
beltway, I have found a fair amount 
of progressives in a state of sheer 
disappointment over what Democrats 
are on the verge of getting done. 

It is an unfortunate truth that 

Democrats and the White House 
have had to scale back some of their 
legislation. Groundbreaking policies 

such as free community college, 
paid family and medical leave and 
dental and vision benefits being 
added to Medicare coverage all had 
to be stripped from Biden’s originally 
proposed social infrastructure bill. 
These cuts are not ‘moderate Joe’ 
clawing back proposed progressive 
initiatives. In fact, it is abundantly 
clear these cuts are the last thing the 
president wants. Free community 
college, for example, is a policy Biden 
has long supported and is especially 
meaningful to his family, given 
First Lady Jill Biden’s history as a 
community college professor. Rather, 
these cuts are bound to happen when 
you not only start with an extremely 
bold topline but also are combatting 
having to cater to all 50 Democrats. 
The vast majority of cuts are a result 
of either Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va. 
or Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz., two 
relatively moderate Democrats that 
Biden cannot afford to lose. 

A problem with starting high and 

negotiating down is that it leaves 
the public feeling as though they are 
missing out on a lot. When all they hear 
about is widely supported and urgently 
needed policy proposals being axed, it 
leaves everyday Americans wondering 
why the president would choose to 
cut legislation he supported. Many 
Democrats have lamented just how 
important various policies were, and 
how crucial they would be in forming 
Biden’s legacy. When these energizing 

reforms are eliminated, it leaves voters 
questioning what good is left in the bill. 

The answer: an overwhelming 

amount. 
Both 
congressional 

Democrats 
and 
progressive 

organizations need to champion 
what is left in this bill, because it 
can still affect an immense amount 
of positive change throughout the 
country. A big problem for Democrats 
is that the media are always keen 
to highlight when measures are cut 
from spending bills. It is dramatic, 
drives controversy and conversation 
and as a result is inevitably good 
for their programming. What isn’t 
so enthralling to the cable news 
producers is the mundane policy 
details that do stay in. So, Democrats 
nationwide must place a paramount 
focus on parading their policy to the 
public and in a digestible way. Polling 
shows most voters support much 
of the underlying policy within the 
bill, but are unaware of the specific 
contents of this plan. All they hear is 
that things are being removed, lots of 
money is being spent and the other 
party is criticizing the plan 24/7.

Without 
that 
communication, 

not only is the public ill-informed on 
the heroic effects Democrats have 
worked to achieve, but the party 
will also find itself failing to cash in 
on what should be a monumental 
political win. 

I

n the wake of the largest racial 
reckoning that this country has 

seen in decades, initiatives focused 
on achieving racial equality have 
popped up across the country in 
many different forms, whether 
that be programs for Black and 
non-white 
students, 
corporate 

awareness of activism or, most 
commonly, 
diversity 
training 

programs. Diversity, equity and 
inclusion training, while well-
intentioned, is often misguided, 
not 
engaging, 
unspecific 
and 

ultimately tends not to prompt 
lasting behavior changes by those 
that hold power. DEI training 
sessions on this campus do little 
more than allow organizations to 
brush off true biases and silence 
voices that ask for genuine change.

DEI 
training 
is 
often 

unengaging and repetitive, which 
lowers participation and doesn’t 
leave room for lasting impact. 
Usually, 
training 
involves 
a 

quick lecture about implicit bias, 
accompanied by a quick activity 
that often centers on the idea of 
privilege. This formulaic approach 
is no longer good enough. While 
research shows that repetition 
can be helpful in memory and 
information 
retention, 
keeping 

audiences engaged is essential to 
improving inclusivity, especially 
with 
college-aged 
audiences. 

Whether it is a simple slideshow 
or a virtual activity, many of these 
training sessions are made up 
of worn-out ideas and activities 
that, quite frankly, become more 
of a chore than a time to actively 
engage with biases and work to fix 
them. Creating engaging content 
that focuses on problem-solving 
as opposed to simply lecturing 
will allow students to engage with 
biases present in their specific 
organization and work to fix those 
specific problems. 

Moreover, DEI efforts are often 

vague, choosing to focus on generic 
circumstances 
of 
implicit 
(or 

explicit) biases instead of tailoring 
scenarios to the specific program 
that is hosting the experience. 
Coca-Cola’s 
diversity 
training 

famously included slides on how 

employees should focus on being 
“less white.” It goes without saying 
that this goal is both impossible 
and unnecessary, but it shows 
how DEI training often involves 
broad, vague ideas of oppression 
instead of concrete goals. This 
is counterproductive and only 
leads to resentment towards both 
the organization and minorities 
within it, further perpetuating the 
problem. A bias training session 
hosted for Fraternity & Sorority 
Life should look very different from 
one hosted for resident advisors, 
with two completely different sets 
of circumstances in which biases 
arise and need to be solved.

In my three years at this 

university, I have been through 
multiple different DEI training 
programs across the different 
groups I have been involved in. 
One thing that has remained 
constant across them all has been 
the centering of white identities 
as the foundation for eventual 
equality. Many DEI programs 
involve a privilege walk, in which 
students will take a step forward 
or mark down a certain answer 
which sums up to account for some 
sort of score. It serves as a way for 
the more privileged people in the 
room to reflect upon themselves 
and their own privilege, but only 
by comparing their lives with 
those of people who grew up 
with less privilege. And since 
this university is approximately 
65% white with a median income 
of $154,000, the disparities in 
privilege only serve to make non-
white and low-income students 
feel the full weight of their own 
marginalization. Activities that 
force a contrast in privilege 
between groups of students are 
asking for marginalized students 
to shoulder the brunt of the burden 
in creating equal space. They force 
more privileged students to look 
down on less privileged ones with 
pity instead of allowing them to 
criticize the organization in which 
they both belong.

The ensuing discussion about 

privilege rarely helps either with 
white people often monopolizing 
the 
conversations 
with 
their 

own first-time reckoning with 
privilege. Centering whiteness 
allows the presence of people 

of color to be acceptable only 
because white people say it is. 
Instead, diversity efforts need 
to be centered not on giving 
white people space to become 
comfortable 
with 
their 
own 

prejudice, but on allowing the 
needs of BIPOC to be centered 
instead. 

Inclusivity should be the goal, 

and 
centering 
the 
non-white 

experience and allowing BIPOC 
to speak for themselves about their 
needs in an organization is crucial 
for effective diversity efforts. 

Diversity training programs 

can be valuable, especially on 
a college campus where people 
come from a variety of different 
backgrounds, and I don’t intend 
to entirely de-value them. They 
are 
a 
straightforward 
way 

to get information to a wide 
audience, which is why they 
are so common among student 
organizations 
on 
campus. 

However, without changing the 
cultures of exclusivity present 
in so many organizations, they 
are 
effectively 
empty 
words 

meant only to placate minority 
students into continued silence. 
Instead, these DEI programs 
should be replaced with sessions 
that give BIPOC students a voice 
to change their organization. 
Their experiences should be 
centered by having students of 
color lead and be consulted in 
creating teaching or problem-
solving sessions. We are capable 
of creating true change and more 
inclusive organizations across 
this campus, but that begins with 
improving the way we teach and 
talk about diversity.

Ultimately, the only way to create 

a more inclusive organization is 
to make space for voices that have 
been marginalized. Historically, 
this space has not been easy to 
come by, with Black and non-
white students forced to protest 
or strike in order to get the 
visibility and space they needed. 
Cultures are changing, though. 
We now have the resources to 
create this space without asking 
marginalized people to assume 
that responsibility alone, and we 
owe it to future generations of 
students to create the campus they 
deserve.

Opinion

BRITTANY BOWMAN

Managing Editor

Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building

420 Maynard St. 

Ann Arbor, MI 48109

 tothedaily@michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at the University of Michigan since 1890.

CLAIRE HAO

Editor in Chief

ELIZABETH COOK 
AND JOEL WEINER

Editorial Page Editors

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of The Daily’s Editorial Board. 

All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS

Julian Barnard
Zack Blumberg

Brittany Bowman

Elizabeth Cook
Brandon Cowit

Jess D’Agostino
Andrew Gerace
Shubhum Giroti

Krystal Hur

Jessie Mitchell

Gabrijela Skoko

Evan Stern
Elayna Swift

Jack Tumpowsky

Joel Weiner

S

aartjie Baartman was a fetish 
for 
European 
scientists. 
An 

indigenous Khoikhoi woman from 
South Africa, the “unique structure” of 
her sexual parts made her the ultimate 
object of interest for the 19th-century 
biological notion of race: During her 
lifetime, she was paraded as a “sexual 
freak” in Paris and London, standing 
naked before a gaping and laughing 
audience, and after her death at the 
age of 26, naturalist Georges Cuvier 
pickled her remains in jars for display 
in a Paris museum. 

The modern notion of race and 

racism was not born from innate 
fear, confusion or interest in peoples 
different from us; in the 19th century, 
white people justified domination 
through colonialism and “confirmed” 
the white man’s superiority with 
physiognomy and phrenology — a 
pseudoscience. 
Sara 
Baartman’s 

biological uniqueness, her steatopygia, 
was determined to be a sign of a 
diseased 
and 
morally 
degraded 

character—inciting fear, terror and 
hatred against the “inferior” races. 

Horror sickened and sloshed 

my insides as I sat reading Sander 
Gilman’s Black Bodies, White Bodies 
for my philosophy class. Why hadn’t 
I known this? Why hadn’t I learned 
this—until now?

According to Yale philosopher 

Jason Stanley, a fascist education 
glorifies the nation, omits sins of the 
past and impregnates a student’s 
heart with pride. It teaches the great 
mythic past, and the dominant racial 
group is posed against the inferior 
while political opponents are deemed 
a threat. A fascist education promotes 
obedience under the fascist leader who 
sets the rule on what is true and false 
by feeding lies and depriving people of 
critical tools to weigh in on policy. 

We see omissions of historical 

realities in Texas textbooks, where 
African American slaves are “workers” 
or “immigrants.” Former President 
Donald J. Trump’s response to the 
1619 Project, the 1776 commission, 
promotes a “patriotic education” in 
which “our youth will be taught to love 
America with all of their heart and all 
of their soul.” One day before the first 
national celebration of Juneteenth this 
summer, Trump demonized critical 
race theory, a curriculum aimed to 

provide an understanding of racial 
disparities persisting in institutions 
and systems, calling it “psychological 
torture” and a curriculum meant to 
“brainwash” children. 

Since President Trump’s executive 

order banning “diversity training” 
following protests in light of George 
Floyd’s death, he has used the term 
as a political weapon to fear monger 
Republicans against Democrats in a 

new culture war. Florida Governor 
Ron DeSantis has since called it 
“state-sanctioned 
racism” 
and 

Republican parents parrot Trump’s 

words in recent school board fights. 
Last week, Michigan Senate Bill 
460 passed, banning the teaching of 
critical race theory, the 1619 project 
and related “anti-American and 
racist theories.”

In contrast to fascist education, 

according 
to 
Jason 
Stanley, 
a 

democratic 
education 
elucidates 

different perspectives on a nation’s 
complex and variegated past. It enables 

citizens to make individual judgments 
about policy in order to overcome 
divisions and make for a more perfect 
unity. In a democratic education, all 

people have voices, not just those 
that came to dominate. The center of 
democracy is truth. 

Nikole Hannah-Jones, a Pulitzer 

Prize-winning journalist for the New 
York Times and creator of the 1619 
Project, echoed the same principles 
at Rackham Auditorium in late 
September: “The classroom should 
be teaching us to question and have 
skepticism.” Hannah-Jones argued 
that the American education system’s 
emphasis on “propagandistic history” 
and “American exceptionalism” fails 
to address and critique the social 
inequities underlying history. 

German Jewish scholar Victor 

Klemperer’s book “The Language of 
the Third Reich” warns us against the 
dangers of a fascist education: After 
the fall of the Third Reich, Professor 
Klemperer watched as his young 
adult students began to fill in missing 
gaps in their “neglected education” 
as he taught concepts of culture, 
democracy and humanitarianism. 
Yet as soon as someone referenced 
heroic propaganda or the patriotic 
language of the Third Reich, the 
concepts would become “blurred, 
and we were adrift once again in 
the fog of Nazism,” making rational 

deliberation impossible. Even young 
women who had not seen any military 
service were “clinging to Nazi thought 
processes.” According to Klemperer, 
the purpose of “The Language of the 
Third Reich” is to “strip everyone of 
their individuality, to paralyze them 
as personalities, to make them into 
unthinking and docile cattle in a herd 
driven and hounded in a particular 
direction.” 

Nelson Mandela told us that 

“education is the most powerful 
weapon which you can use to change 
the world.” Indeed, education can be a 
weapon when its purpose aligns with 
fascism and undermines America’s 
fundamental notion of democracy. 

President Trump, critical race 

theory is not dividing the nation. The 
deliberate denial and erasure of the 
truth and the loud cries of wolf over 
a curriculum that is not being taught 
does. We cannot commit horrific 
crimes and then say that educating 
future generations about these crimes 
is racist, poison and brainwashing. 
Critical race theory does not teach 
us that America is “evil.” It teaches 
us to learn from disgusting realities. 

The fight over Critical Race Theory is a fight over democratic education

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
 Wednesday, November 10, 2021 — 5

LILY KWAK

Opinion Columnist

The recent wave of labor strikes 

has been a long time coming

KEONI JONES
Opinion Columnist

MADELINE HINKLEY/Daily

What democrats are doing is a BFD

DEVON HESANO
Opinion Columnist

DEI trainings: the band-aid fix 

we need to retire

MRINALINI IYER
Opinion Columnist

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

File Photo/Daily. 

Read more at MichiganDaily.com


P

refatory

Monday, Oct. 25, 2021: Julia Verklan Maloney

The building is compact with soft red bricks lined in 

stone filigree trim. Its beauty lies in the reflective dormer 
and casement windows, sprawling alcoves and wooden 
rails. Charm and feminine austere is within the patterned 
tiling, fanciful garden-scape and coffered ceilings. 
Imaginative and luxurious, exclusive and emancipating. 

As a female student on campus, the Michigan League 

was built for me. It is a building that in its creation offers 
the chance of fairness and freedom, two ideologies not 
fully realized outside its walls. A building I am trying to 
understand.

As I sat at table 5 within the Bentley Historical 

Library, I had an agenda. I sought to expose, know and 
deconstruct the history of the first women responsible for 
the foundation and eventual construction of the Michigan 
League through their first-hand accounts. The Bentley, 
situated on North Campus, houses 11,000 research 
collections to promote the study of the histories of both 
the state of Michigan and the University of Michigan 
for researchers regardless of academic or professional 
affiliation. In front of me sat two foam supports, one plastic 
page-turner, a set of blue rubber gloves and a rolling cart 
holding 7 dust-proof boxes. The subjects: Ethel Fountain 
Hussey, the first president of the Women’s League, 
and Mary Bartron Henderson, leader of the Michigan 
League’s construction campaign. 

As I opened the first box, a waft of mildew escaped 

from the cardboard. Inside, there appeared to be over 20 
leather-bound agendas with browning pages and gold-
embossed lettering. The remaining 6 boxes contained 
nearly the same contents, smell and aura — around 100 
agendas and files of correspondence dating from as early 
as 1876.

Within the leather binds and manilla folders, sprawled 

in purple-typed ink and smeared black fountain pen, there 
found are the two key aforementioned names. Hussey 
and Henderson dedicated their life efforts to ensure 
equal access and recognized existence of co-education 
in Ann Arbor. Their work was materially realized and 
documented throughout a series of letters, journals, 
sketch drawings and recorded skepticism. And it was all 
contained within the 7 boxes positioned next to me.

Hussey and Henderson had both the time and 

inclination to keep full diaries and threads of 
correspondence, each outlining almost every day of their 
working and personal lives in Ann Arbor up until their 
death. According to the agendas’ prefatory, the purpose of 
such extensive documentation was to serve as a guide for 
remembrance and a potential keepsake for old age. They 
are books that take 5 years to fully fill yet are good for the 
next 100. They are letters meant for exchange between 
2 people yet are conversations needed for U-M students 
everywhere.

Books and letters that exist to inspire and educate, not 

to be left dormant in dust-proof boxes. 
A 

look back in time

Jan. 1, 1890-Sept. 29, 1915: Ethel Fountain 

Hussey’s Story

It had been some 70 years since the school’s founding 

and only 20 since the first woman, Madelon Stockwell, 
was admitted to the University of Michigan. The female 

population on campus was rapidly growing.

Yet such a number was ignored and intentionally 

isolated. Female students had no designated residence 
halls to sleep in, forcing them to rent out local houses. They 
had no spaces to gather, denying them the opportunity to 
socialize and acclimate.

Seclusion angered Ethel Hussey, wife of astronomy 

professor and U-M alum William J Hussey. Although 
not a U-M alumna herself, she was engaged in campus 
affairs through her husband’s work as a teacher and 
acclaimed administrative figure. Although tangential 
at first, Hussey’s involvement in campus affairs turned 
personal following her external view of gender-based 
inequity in Ann Arbor. Considering there was no building 
for women to congregate, Hussey felt that female students 
were wrongfully stunted intellectually, socially and 
athletically— she was sure of it. Such fervor is highlighted 
in her diaries, with smeared ink and quick cursive to 
outline her intensity. Using her husband’s connection to 
administration as leverage, her fiery correspondence to 
her male counterparts was to enable female voices beyond 
her own.

Hussey’s push for equity was apparent, for she was 

unwilling to wait another 70 years for recognition at an 
institution pegged as being “progressive.” Eventually, 
with the influence of her husband, Ethel’s ferocity led to 
the formation of the “Women’s League of the U. of M.” in 
October of 1890: A female governing institution to which 
she would be elected the first president. It was ultimately 
an intangible compromise. Her persistence allowed for 
an equitable constitution for all college girls, serving 
as a sponsor for meetings, dances and lectures. With a 
formally recognized name and clear purpose, the League 
was to be a haven and home for the growing population 
of female scholars. And while the League’s intention was 
grand, it still lacked a physical space — its members met 
in a single office in the corner of Barbour Gymnasium. Its 
cramped nature may have left enough room for a small 
gathering, yet did not provide nearly enough footing for 
what was to be the coming generation of female scholars.

Her next objective was simple: supervised and 

refined student housing for women in an effort to create 
a community on campus followed by a gathering space 
big enough to host events, lectures, meetings, dances and 
more. 

In one of her accounts, Ethel writes: 
“The aim is no less personal freedom, but greater 

personal comfort, with greater social opportunity and 
enjoyment available to the average girl who comes to take 
her chance.”

Under the League, she advocated for the establishment 

of Martha Cook and Helen Newberry Residence Halls 
— a fight she would inevitably win after spearheading 
donation campaigns and marketing efforts. Yet it was 
no easy triumph. Similar to her earlier campaigns, 
she was met with a series of defeated responses from 
administrators, outlined financial barriers from the 
regents and social hills to climb from the general student 
body. From 1909 and onward, Hussey penned countless 
letters to University President James B. Angell, donors 
and professors pushing for female dormitories — all of her 
writings were persistent and bothering.

In 1911, the building plan for Martha Cook Residence 

Hall was approved, with its construction ending in 1914. 
Her first goal had been achieved despite hardship and 
doubt, making way for the achievement of her second — 
an ample meeting space for the League. It was a goal to be 

left unfulfilled, for Hussey passed away on Sept. 28, 1915. 
A formalized space of social opportunity had not broken 
ground. 

Jan. 1, 1926 -Apr. 26, 1937: Mary Bartron Henderson’s 

Story

It had been four years since her first correspondence to 

the Board of Regents, seven years since the construction 
of the Michigan Union and over a decade since Ethel 
Hussey’s passing. Mary Bartron Henderson, U-M 
alumna and executive secretary of the Alumnae Council, 
was waiting on the approval of a $1 million campaign to 
construct a building for women. It was to be the sister 
to the Michigan Union and a closing chapter to Ethel’s 
objectives.

The Union was built to provide students with 

opportunities for academic enhancement and socializing 
— a plan that at the time had restricted access on the basis 
of gender. Male students and administrators, along with a 
door guard, enforced inhibitory policies for female entry, 
closing the literal and metaphorical door to opportunity 
while offering no alternative. Instead of entering a space 
founded upon discriminatory principles, Henderson 
instead desired to create and open a new one of her own, 
leaving the door open and unrestricted for her succeeding 
sisters.

Henderson was relentless, speaking at every event from 

director luncheons to national conventions, talking to 
anyone who would listen. It was a race to raise $1 million, a 
race that was anything but unaided.

To raise funds for the building campaign, some female 

students made flapper beads out of lamp pulls to save 
change, others double-bunked to rent their rooms out on 
football weekends. Leftover savings went to the cause. 
Students and alumnae sold small items, including yellow 
pillows, “freshies” (cold cream papers), maps and League 
playing cards in support. Clara Clemens, daughter of Mark 
Twain, toured major Michigan cities performing “Joan of 
Arc,” donating the proceeds to Henderson’s movement. 
Yet the largest gift for the effort came from U-M Alumni 
Mr. Robert P Lamount, offering $100,000 under one 
condition: the money was to be used to memorialize 
Hussey in the form of a swanky women’s lounge.

And through Henderson’s direction and endless 

pursuit of both wealthy contacts and small donation 
endeavors, the shovel broke ground in 1927. $1 million had 
been raised, the cornerstone had been laid.

The construction of the Michigan League was a 

triumphant victory for Ann Arbor women. On May 4, 
1929, a new door opened and was propped open for female 
students to enter.

Nov. 10, 2021- Onward: The Future Story of U-M 

Women Everywhere

Students can find the Hussey Room located on the 

second floor of the Michigan League. As a spectator walks 
through, they are greeted by portraits of female heroines 
like Joan of Arc and Judith lining the walls. At the head 
of the room, painted above the wood paneling and lofty 
curtains is the mural “Young American Womanhood.” 

It is the most prominent and eye-catching painting 

in the famed room, stretching across the northern wall. 
It depicts a young woman in the 1920s seen in three 
semblances: An austere scholar in gown and mortarboard 
holding the lamp of knowledge, a steely athlete in tennis 
garb and a graceful belle in a gown, holding roses with her 
left hand as she extends her right.

When you’re a prospective freshman touring the 
University of Michigan, your tour guide will tell you an 
anecdote about how wherever you go in the world, you’ll 
see a block M. Maybe it’s just new car syndrome, maybe 
it’s infectious school spirit, but I have seen this to be true. 
Whenever I’m traveling, the ever-recognizable bold block 
M invites complete strangers to shout “go blue” in passing, 
even when you’re halfway around the world.

Our university’s student body has many epithets. We 

are Victors, Valiant. We are the Leaders and the Best. We 
are Wolverines. But those are just names — when a person 
thinks of the University, they think of the maize block M.

Unlike the University of Michigan, most D1 colleges 

have some sort of mascot. The term mascot derived from 
an 1880s French opera called “La Mascotte,” loosely 
translating to “lucky charm.” In the opera, a struggling 
farmer is repeatedly visited by a young girl. In the end, the 
farmer produces a bountiful crop, crediting his visitor as a 
talisman of good luck.

By the 1900s, the term “mascot” was widely used as a 

reference to such talismen. Eventually, the term became 
synonymous with the costumed pep squad members who 
dance on the sidelines between plays. Our biggest rivals, 
the Spartans and the Buckeyes, parade their mascots 
across the field at contentious matches to rile up the crowd.

It has been nearly a century since the University 

embraced the wolverine as its mascot. In 1923, U-M 
football coach Fielding Yost was inspired by a University 
of Wisconsin tradition of players carrying along live 
badgers when the team entered the stadium. But unlike the 
Wisconsin badgers, wolverines are not native to the state 
of Michigan.

The school got its mascot from the longstanding 

nickname belonging to Michiganders in general. The 
origin of this nickname is debated. Yost thought it traced 
back to a colonial-era fur trade running out of eastern 
Michigan which dealt primarily in wolverine pelts. Others 
think it derives from an insult waged against the gluttonous 
French settlers or the state’s mischievous soldiers operating 
during the Michigan/Ohio border disputes. All of this to 
say, there were no wolverines around the state when Yost 
went looking in 1923.

Yost contacted 68 different trappers but eventually had 

to settle for a taxidermied wolverine named Biff in 1924. 

However, after four years of searching, Yost procured a 
pair of live wolverines from the Detroit Zoo.

The wolverines, Biff and Bennie, proved too wild for 

the school to subdue. The pair of wild animals chewed 
through their cages and were aggressive towards the staff, 
so they were retired to captivity after just one season. The 
University has not had a mascot since.

Even when you acknowledge the historical basis of the 

mascot, the wolverine still seems like a unique, if not odd, 
choice. The carnivorous mammal is actually a member of 
the weasel family, known for its solitary, roaming lifestyle. 
It’s not the kind of pack animal you’d expect as a traditional 
mascot.

Try to picture a wolverine in your head. It’s probably 

brown and furry, with big sharp teeth and claws, but is it 
the size of a dog? Is it hunched over? Does it look like this 
guy?

Scott Hirth, co-owner and president of The M Den, 

believes this unfamiliarity with what a wolverine actually 
looks like is part of the reason why the mascot never 
materialized.

“A long time ago, it was difficult to get a good drawing of 

a wolverine that could turn into an actual mascot,” Hirth 
said. “Everybody likes the concept of a wolverine. That’s a 
ferocious beast. You certainly want to be thought of that as 
how you play on the athletic fields, but in terms of actually 
selling products, that has never really moved.”

Regardless, when the University was founded in the 

1800s, they took on the state’s moniker of wolverine 
without considering its historical or biological justification, 
nor its implications on the school’s future branding.

In the 1960s, as our rivals were workshopping foam-

suited jesters to convey their school’s likeness, the 
University invited a pair of dogs to perform at halftime. 
In the 1980s, students campaigned to establish Willy the 
Wolverine as the school’s official mascot. And in 2011, 
athletic director David Brandon teased at revisiting the 
idea. Needless to say, none of these short-lived efforts have 
survived.

The M Den is the official merchandise retailer of 

Michigan Athletics. To Hirth, the block M is just as 
identifiable a logo as any mascot would be.

“It just speaks to what the University is,” Hirth said. 

“A lot of other universities have an official mascot. They 
don’t really stick to what classically defines Michigan or 
their university, and Michigan has done that from the very 
beginning of licensing days.”

***

When I was a kid, my dad would take me to all kinds of 

sporting events. We bonded over soft pretzels in between 
quarters or frozen lemonade at the seventh-inning stretch. 
I didn’t understand any of the rules, but it was exciting, and 
I enjoyed the company.

Michigan football was a family affair. My dad and 

his dad would pack up the Sedan with M-printed seat 
cushions and rain ponchos. My brother and I would deck 
ourselves head to toe in maize and blue. The whole family 
would complain about traffic over the sound of pre-game 
radio as we drove to Ann Arbor.

Sometimes we would stop at my cousins’ tailgate outside 

the steps of the Big House. My brother and I would giggle 
as our dad chanted “you suck” along with the student 
section. And after the game, we were rewarded with one 
item from The M Den.

I remember sprinting from the stadium to beat the post-

game rush, roaming through the labyrinth of coat racks 
amid a sea of navy blue. Many of those items were nearly 
identical to the ones hanging on the same racks a decade 
later.

Hirth spent his childhood in The M Den, just like me. 

When Hirth was 10, his father opened up The M Den with 
a partner. Hirth and his other co-owners worked in the 
store their whole lives. After he graduated from the Ross 
School of Business, Hirth and his partners, Julie Corrin 
and Steve Horning, took The M Den over in 2013.

Hirth said that the U-M branding has stayed 

consistent over the years. The best-sellers are always 
navy shirts or sweatshirts with the block M or block 
Michigan lettering. Hirth called these his favorite 
products — alongside a specialty Swiss watch which is 
more of a unique item.

In recent years, the “sailor vault logo,” which Hirth 

describes as “kind of like a bear with a sailor hat on,” has 
risen in popularity. Hirth attributed this phenomenon to 
the logo’s licensing becoming looser within the last five 
years, allowing for companies like Nike and Champion 
to begin putting it on their designs. Hirth now calls it 
the “number three logo” behind the traditional lettering 
options.

Yet in Hirth’s experience, other items with wolverine 

iconography don’t sell as well as the classics.

“It’s not like we haven’t tried to carry different looks over 

the years,” Hirth said. “The word wolverines almost never 
appears on Michigan products and if it does, it usually 
doesn’t sell as well. That’s just the way the merchandise 
world is — very, very consistent over time.”

The M Den is unique in the collegiate athletics 

retailing industry. For one, it gets colder in Michigan 
than it does down south, meaning that Hirth’s team has 
to stock t-shirts for August and jackets for November. 
The M Den is also an exclusive partner with Michigan 
Athletics, so it has to ensure that all locations — the 
stadium, the mall, downtown, online — stay stocked 
through the year. Not to mention, there is the issue of 
not having a mascot.

“Everybody else has a mascot,” Hirth said. “Yes, to 

a degree, we have that sailor vault guy that everybody 
loves, but it is fundamentally a different game in this 
industry.”

Whereas other schools’ retailers will produce two 

batches of any clothing item or tchotchke, one with the 
mascot and another with the school name, U-M can only 
partake in the latter.

Still, Hirsh said that the basics — the maize lettering 

on a navy background — “warm his heart.” There is a 
special unifying message in adorning the same block M 
my dad wore when he was on campus, and his dad before 
him. Every few years, we swap in a limited variation 
acknowledging our latest championship win, but for the 
most part it remains exactly the same.

The University is a pretty old school, being that it was 

among the first public universities founded in the United 
States. It’s impressive that our public image has remained 
steadfast for so many years, even if the wolverine mascot is 
just a passing thought.

“Just like there’s no advertising in our football stadium, 

we don’t have a mascot,” Hirth said. “I think it works for 
who Michigan is.”

***
In the past, the University’s athletics department has 

dismissed the idea of a mascot, calling it “unnecessary 
and undignified,” and arguing it “would not properly 
reflect the spirit and values of Michigan athletics.” The 
department did not respond to requests for comment on 
this story.

The University walks a fine line between two 

competing realms of collegiate philosophy: education and 
enrichment. People choose their college based on whether 
they’d like to work or whether they’d rather just have fun. 
The University holds a unique position in American higher 
education, with a decorated reputation for both athletics 
and academics.

The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
6 — Wednesday, November 10, 2021

S T A T E M E N T

It’s great to be a Michigan Wolverine: Exploring the history of U-M’s mascot hesitancy

MELANIE TAYLOR

Statement Correspondent

Of apples and trees 

and Wolverines

LILLY DICKMAN

Statement Correspondent

When comparing myself to my mother, I can confidently 
claim that the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree. As far as 
mother-daughter pairs go, we’re about as similar as they 
come. We love to laugh, and we share the same quick-witted, 
self-deprecating sense of humor. We’re both anxious and 
right-brained people, operating on the “up-tight” side of the 
Type A-Type B spectrum. We’re curious and ambitious. 
We’re the lightest sleepers, and when we get hiccups, they last 
for weeks. We have a fascination with Hollywood, film and 
television. We like to complain. We love to write. We value 
friendships and family. We grew up in the same town. And 
last, but certainly not least, we’re both Michigan Wolverines. 

It’s as if I’m a carbon copy of my mother roaming the streets 

of Ann Arbor, just 30 years later. The phenomenon makes for a 
great experiment. If she and I are the control variable, then the 
year is the independent variable, and the climate, the times, 
and the campus culture is the dependent variable. I couldn’t 
help but wonder what has changed since my mom was the 
one frequenting the Big House, the Shapiro Undergraduate 
Library and Pizza House. I wondered how those changes will 
shape and mold two similar people differently.

The first step to answering this question was pretty 

simple: I called my mom and started with the basics.

“What was your favorite place to study when you were 

here?”

“The Law Library.” Me too.
“Favorite late-night snack?”
“Pizza at Brown Jug.” Ah — for me it’s pizza at Joe’s.
“Favorite spot on campus?” 
“The Diag and the Big House.” Me too.
“Studying before the sun rises or after it sets?”
“Before it rises.” Me too.
I could see already that she and I were on similar pages 

in 1986 and 2021, and that not too much had changed in 
Ann Arbor to account for that. Digging deeper, I asked my 
mom about her major, her academic aspirations and the 
opportunities provided to her when she was a Wolverine. 

“I majored in political science because I wanted to go 

to law school, although I don’t think I knew why,” she 
reflected. “I was an English minor because I loved that — 
I loved writing — but I didn’t want to be a journalist and I 
didn’t understand how I could otherwise support myself as 
a writer.” 

I’m similar to my mom in that I love writing and being 

creative yet don’t necessarily know what I’ll do with that 
passion after college. However, it seems like a couple 
aspects of modern-day Michigan, if not modern day in 
general, will hopefully better guide me and make me way 
more equipped to find a satisfying career so that I don’t 
have to latch onto a pre-law track like my mom did.

For Michigan women everywhere

JULIA VERKLAN MALONEY

Statement Associate Editor

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Read more at MichiganDaily.com

Design by Sojung-Ham, 

Riley Montgomery | Page 

Design by Sarah Chung


The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com 
Sports
Wednesday, November 10, 2021 — 7

SO WE CAN STAY TOGETHER

STAY SAFE
MASK UP
STAY WELL

*Social distancing is recommended for individuals who are not fully vaccinated.

When I watch Michigan football 

games, here’s how I set it up: The game 
goes on my TV, I have my laptop open 
to watch another game and toggle 

through 
Twitter, 

then I have my 
phone to occupy the 
inevitable simulta-
neous commercial 
breaks with some-
thing else.

Saturday’s game 

was ridiculous. It 
started at 7:30 p.m. 
and ended at 10:54 

p.m., and that was one of the short-
er games of the season. Last week, 
against Michigan State, the game last-
ed three hours and 59 minutes, almost 
identical to the NCAA average, is aver-
aging three hours and 24 minutes a 
game this season. Way back in the 
before times of 1996, college football 
games averaged just over three hours 
in length, almost exclusively because 
of the commercials. 

Watching college football games 

is losing its excitement. In a game 
like Saturday’s, when neither team 
was especially electric and tensions 
were low, the continuous commercial 
breaks kill the flow of the game. And, 
as a viewer, those frequent breaks 
make it hard to stay engaged.

You can’t watch a football game 

for football’s sake because you aren’t 
actually watching football. You’re 
watching an ad for some auto insur-
ance group that you’ve seen 27 times 
in the last month. You’re watching the 

announcers come back from commer-
cial break for 30 seconds to talk about a 
sponsor that the TV network lined up, 
just so they can send you back to com-
mercial break to watch an ad about 
a drug for a disease you don’t have. If 
you’re lucky, you’ll see a punt or kickoff 
between the breaks.

The college football viewing expe-

rience is no longer about Michigan 
versus Indiana, or watching Purdue 
upset Michigan State, but it’s about the 

commercials. 

When Michigan isn’t playing, I 

generally don’t watch college foot-
ball. When 3:00 p.m. or 6:30 p.m. rolls 
around, maybe I’ll turn on a couple 
games in order to watch the last eight 
or so minutes of close matchups. I 
want to see if North Carolina can upset 
Wake Forest, or if Alabama will actu-
ally lose to LSU, but the TV networks 
made it so only the last 15 minutes are 
interesting. 

The football doesn’t matter.
The first three-plus hours of the 

game isn’t fun to watch, no matter how 
good the teams are because I can’t 
watch the game. Tennessee versus 
Kentucky was an electric, high-scor-
ing game. I could only watch the end of 
it because every time there was a com-
mercial in the Michigan game, there 
was a commercial in that game, too. 

Commercials at the end of drives 

make sense — it’s a sensible ending 

point and people are expecting to 
take a break. There were 11 drives in 
the first half of the Wolverines’ game 
Saturday, and 27.5 minutes of com-
mercials each half isn’t terrible. But 
when a drive lasts one play because of 
a turnover, and they go straight back to 
a commercial, it feels like I’m not even 
watching football. 

Instead, the excess number of com-

mercials comes from one main source: 
booth reviews. It’s one of the biggest 

reasons the Michigan versus Michi-
gan State game was four long hours 
— a product of eight replay reviews. 
Some reviews take up commercial 
breaks and minutes of dead air time 
as announcers flounder to fill the 
void of silence that would otherwise 
accompany watching slow-motion for 
five minutes. There cannot be replays 
that take minutes away from the game, 
removing the viewer and sowing dis-
satisfaction in the audience. 

Maybe put a time limit on replays or 

create a quicker process to go through 
replays. I don’t know, I’m not an expert, 
but this needs to be reigned back in. 
The NFL has an average game length 
12 minutes shorter than college football 
with much less variable game lengths. 
So we know it isn’t about the sport itself. 

Major League Baseball, which is 

notorious for its pace-of-play problems 
and has been experimenting for years 
on how to improve it, finishes its games 
16 minutes faster than college football. 

The audience for college football, 

unlike the MLB, will not shrink. 
Instead, its pace-of-play problem will 
simply prevent it from growing as 
average viewers will be turned off by 
the commercial-plus-football model of 
televised games. 

Something needs to change. Maybe 

the replays, maybe a shortened half-
time, I don’t know what. 

But college football often just isn’t 

fun to watch anymore.

Managing 
Sports 
Editor 
Kent 

Schwartz can be reached on Twitter @
nottherealkent.

 SportsWednesday: Please, for the love of god, make football games shorter

KENT

SCHWARTZ

MADELINE HINKLEY/Daily 

College football’s excessive reviews and commercials have led to a pace of play problem that’s killing the enjoyment of the sport. 
 
 
 

With just three games remaining on its 

schedule, the Michigan football team isn’t 
sugarcoating the challenge that lies ahead. 

“The last stretch is the most important 

three games,” junior offensive lineman 
Trevor Keegan said. “We gotta lock in. 
Hone into our assignments, hone into film. 
It’s on us.”

By winning eight of their first nine 

games, the Wolverines have put themselves 
in an admirable position 
entering the home stretch; 
a Big Ten title remains 
within their reach. The 
path to Indianapolis — 
which 
some 
Michigan 

players have referred to as 
a new three-game season 
— begins with a daunting 
trip to State College to face 
No. 23 Penn State. 

It’s a game that the Wol-

verines may not be at full 
strength for. 

A bevy of Michigan 

players 
departed 
Sat-

urday’s contest against 
Indiana prematurely, turning the pop-up 
medical tent into a popular destination. 

Sophomore running back Blake Corum 

hobbled off in the first quarter and was later 
seen on the sidelines in street clothes and 
donning a boot. Senior cornerback Gemon 
Green was helped off the field before half-
time. A pair of wide receivers — sophomore 
A.J. Henning and freshman Andrel Antho-
ny — left in the third quarter. 

Most notably, Cade McNamara spent an 

offensive series in the tent, with Harbaugh 
admitting after the game that the junior 
quarterback is “working through some-
thing,” which Harbaugh also said after the 
Oct. 30 loss to Michigan State. 

And that list doesn’t even include junior 

tight end Erick All, who missed the game 
after limping off in the waning seconds of 
the Michigan State loss. 

“I don’t have any updates on injuries at 

this time,” Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh 
said on Monday. “It’s a matter of the team 
working every day, grinding every day. 
You’re refreshing, trying to have good days. 
Good meetings, good practice and then go 
play the game.” 

On the surface, the rash of injuries 

would seemingly pose challenges for 
Michigan’s offense. All is the Wolverines’ 

leading receiver. Corum is an integral 
component to the explosive 1-2 running 
back punch. Anthony burst onto the 
scene against the Spartans with an elec-
trifying 155-yard, two-touchdown per-
formance. 

Missing any of them would presumably 

limit Michigan’s offensive capabilities. And 
yet, they’re attacking practice as if all were 
healthy. 

“It doesn’t change,” Harbaugh said of 

the game plan. “It’s more of a next man-up 
mindset than changing a game plan.”

For the most part, that’s because Har-

baugh has confidence in the reserves to help 
fill any voids. He specifically mentioned that 

the running back room is equipped to han-
dle the potential loss of Corum and fresh-
man Donovan Edwards, who has been out 
since the bye week. 

“There’s really good, quality players 

there,” Harbaugh said. “Those guys that have 
been preparing, they’ve been working all sea-
son and now comes their opportunity.” 

At this point, nine games into the season, 

hardly anyone is fully healthy. Still, the Wol-
verines are embracing the injury bug as part 
of the grind. 

“It tests your manhood,” Keegan said. “If 

you’re a little banged up, we want to play, we 

want to play for each other. 
Coach (Harbaugh) talks 
about it all the time when 
his elbow popped out 
(when he was playing).”

Keegan is no stranger 

to playing through injury 
himself. He’s battled a 
shoulder injury through-
out the year, an issue he 
maintains has plagued 
him since high school. 
Now, he says the ailment is 
on the upswing. 

“It’s just getting a lot of 

treatment to try and get 
your body right,” Keegan 

said. “You’re gonna be up at six o’clock, 
6:30 every day in the facility not leaving 
until nine. The biggest thing is trying to 
play with confidence because you know 
if you’re lagging with something, you’re 
not gonna be able to play with full confi-
dence.”

Added Harbaugh: “It’s a quality. It’s 

something that a lot of football players take 
a lot of pride in. Pain threshold — some have 
it, some have a very high pain threshold. It’s 
a very good quality. I know a real football 
player prides himself on it.” 

Against the Nittany Lions on Saturday, it 

appears as if the Wolverines will have to test 
how high that threshold can go. 

Michigan dealing with rash of injuries 

ahead of clash with Penn State 

JARED GREENSPAN

Senior Sports Editor

MILES MACKLIN/Daily

Michigan is entering the last three games of its season with a load of injuries.

On a roster as deep as the No. 2 Michigan hock-

ey team’s, players know they need to maximize 
their time in the lineup to maintain their spot on 
the depth chart.

This weekend against Michigan State, the 

Wolverines knew they’d be without senior defen-
seman Nick Blankenburg due to injury which 
created a hole in their lineup. Steve Holtz was the 
next man up.

The sophomore defenseman suddenly found 

himself debuting on the first pairing with sopho-
more defenseman Owen Power in a tough rivalry 
series against the Spartans. In the Wolverines’ 
series sweep, Holtz cashed in on his opportunity.

“He’s getting the most 

of his debut,” junior for-
ward Nick Granowicz 
said after Saturday’s win. 
“Second game and he 
looks like a regular.”

In 
unsheltered 
ice 

time, 
Holtz 
rounded 

out Michigan’s defense 
with a sound physical 
game. He can be a reli-
able option for the Wol-
verines’ defense, whose 
bottom pairing has been 
a revolving door between 
junior Jay Keranen, freshman Ethan Edwards 
and senior Jack Summers.

All weekend, Holtz delivered punishing hits 

to the Spartans’ forecheckers. Like many physi-
cal teams the Wolverines have played, Michi-
gan State tried to dump the puck in and force 
bad passes but Holtz’s 6-foot-4 frame meant he 
could take those hits and make the right play on 
defense, buying time for his teammates to get in 
position.

“I take pride in (my physicality),” Holtz said. 

“When I’m looking to hit someone, I’m looking 
to separate them from the puck and then that 
way I can create some space and some time for 
my partner.”

But it’s not just his large body that creates phys-

ical success — it’s how he uses it. Skating next to 
Power, Holtz looked small despite being only an 

inch shorter. However, he skates with his center 
of gravity held lower than most other skaters, and 
his body acts as a spring to leap out onto an oppos-
ing player. His stout hockey stance makes him 
practically immovable.

That showed itself on Friday, when he leveled 

Spartans forward Erik Middendorf with a hit in 
front of the Michigan State bench. As Holtz sent 
Middendorf halfway over the boards to the erup-
tion of the Children of Yost, he not only took his 
man out of the play but also pushed the momen-
tum further in the Wolverines’ favor.

By delivering punishing hits and playing with 

an edge, Holtz rounds out the offensively-gifted 
top four defensemen. On such a skill-heavy roster, 
Holtz diversifies the units that the Wolverines 
can send on the ice.

“(Holtz) brings a little bit of an edge, a little 

grit that we don’t have,” 
Michigan 
coach 
Mel 

Pearson said. “Especially 
the way teams are playing 
against us (is) so aggres-
sive, physical, and he 
brings that physicality.”

Not only does his size 

offer a different look for 
the defense, but Holtz is 
one of three right-handed 
defensemen on the Wol-
verines’ roster — Blanken-
burg and junior Keaton 
Pehrson being the others. 

Lefties have a harder time pinching along the 
right side boards without exposing themselves to 
big hits, but those three have an easier time han-
dling that workload than most.

Holtz proved he’s a good shutdown defense-

man against Michigan State, and it’s a role that 
helps solve Michigan’s unsettled bottom pair. 
While he doesn’t have the offensive prowess of 
the top four, he shuts down opposing rushes and 
throws his body around. That’s something Pear-
son will look at when he calls Holtz’s name.

“We always talk about players having money 

in the bank so to speak,” Pearson said. “ … (Holtz) 
made some deposits, so when he goes to try to 
get some money out or has an off night or tough 
game, at least he knows he can go in there and get 
a deposit, get another chance to play.

“He made a huge deposit this weekend.”

Holtz adds physicality to Michigan defense

CONNOR EAREGOOD

Daily Sports Writer

KATE HUA/Daily

Steve Holtz steps up to fill hole in lineup 
created by Blankenburg injury. 


Sports
The Michigan Daily — michigandaily.com
8 — Wednesday, November 10, 2021

Val Nainima brings strong basketball foundation as new assistant coach

Val Nainima is a stickler for 

basketball basics. Passing, dribbling, 
shooting. As most do, she understands 
them to be the foundations of 
basketball, and having a solid 
foundation is key to being successful 
on and off the court. Throughout 
Nainima’s entire basketball career, 
she’s continued to build on her 
foundation in each position.

Nainima hails from Rakiraki, Fiji, 

a small island in the South Pacific. 
She started playing basketball at age 
13 when her mom “wanted her out 
of the house”. Her mother’s friend 
was hosting a basketball basics clinic. 
From then on Nainima was hooked. 

During her high school years, she 

started building her reputation as a 
stellar point guard. She competed 
both on the Fiji National Team and 

the U-20 team. In both 2005 and 
2007, Nainima led her teams to gold 
medals in the South Pacific Games.

After her outstanding performance 

in high school, Nainima was recruited 
to play collegiately in America. She 
began her career at LIU Brooklyn 
under coach Stephanie Gaitley, now 
Fordham’s head coach. During her 
freshman season, she became the first 
player in the Northeast Conference to 
win both rookie of the year and player 
of the year in the same season. Her 
sophomore season provided similar 
success. Nainima became the fastest 
player in LIU history to reach 1,000 
career points.

“She’s one of the best, if not the best 

player, I think I’ve coached,” Gaitley 
said. “What I love about Val was 
when she stepped across the line, she 
was all business, but off the court, she 
was as nice as could be and had the 
respect of coaches and teammates. 
I mean, as a freshman, she was not 

only rookie of the year, she was player 
of the year. Her humble personality 
and her willingness to just care about 
others just kind of just set her apart 
from a lot of people. So not only was 
she an unbelievable player, but she’s 
an unbelievable person.”

Gaitley left LIU after Nainima’s 

sophomore 
season 
after 
which 

Nainima decided to transfer. Her 
success at LIU caught the eye of 
Dawn Staley, South Carolina’s coach 
and the U.S. Olympic coach. After 
transferring and sitting out a season 
due to NCAA regulations, Nainima 
was eager to get back on the court. 

The decision to transfer proved 

advantageous for Nainima. She 
received 
All-SEC 
Second-Team 

Honors and ended her collegiate 
career as one of the Gamecocks’ top 
3-point shooters and point-guards. 
Perhaps more importantly, Nainima 
learned 
valuable 
lessons 
from 

Staley, furthering her foundational 
understanding of the game.

“I’m not gonna lie, as a point guard 

she holds us to the highest standard,” 
Nainima said. “Everything is your 
fault. You’re accountable for every 
single thing. Even if you didn’t pass 
the turnover, you’d have to think like 
three, four levels ahead. And I gained 
so much within that amount of time 
that I was with her. And a level of 
toughness, a standard of eliteness. 
Of how to hold yourself at a different 
level compared to everybody else on 
a daily basis. And it’s stuck with me.”

After college, Nainima decided 

to try her hand at professional 
basketball. 
She 
played 
overseas 

in 
Germany 
for 
New 
Basket 

Oberhausen. Spending three seasons 
with the team, Nainima also coached 
a U17 team in the organization during 
her time overseas.

Shortly after Nainima’s stint 

overseas, Gaitley approached her 
about joining Fordham’s coaching 
staff. Nainima accepted and began 
her seven-year journey with the 
Rams, starting first as their video 
coordinator and later moving to 
assistant coach.

“And so I said, ‘Hey, listen, 

why don’t you come in as a video 
coordinator? And then we’ll continue 
to move you up’,” Gaitley said. “And 
that’s what we did. And she just 

continued to blossom every year. And 
she was a terrific assistant coach with 
a great future.”

At Fordham, Nainima was the 

guard-specific coach and helped the 
team to three NCAA Tournament 
appearances. 
Under 
Gaitley’s 

tutelage, she gained an appreciation 
for the details.

“She’s 
a 
defensive-minded 

coach,” Nainima said. “Obviously, 
I didn’t play a lot of defense, but it 
was great to see it from the other 
side and the amount of detail that’s 
put in the defensive side and being 
able to wrap it up with who I was 
naturally, as an offensive player, I 
learned so much.”

During Nainima’s time away 

from Fiji, she continued to compete 
for the Fijian National Team. To this 
day, Nainima remains an important 
member of the team. She’s been 
captain for the past 11 years.

“It’s one of the proudest moments 

of my life,” Nainima said. “I would 
say there’s nothing compared to 
wearing your national team jersey 
and name on your chest.”

Juggling playing and coaching 

can be a challenge. But Nainima has 
found a balance, and takes joy and 
pride in it. Playing for her national 
team is a great pride for Nainima, 
alongside coaching young women in 
the game she loves. Her continued 
experience playing for the team has 
helped her not only become a better 
athlete — but a better coach.

“Everything 
slows 
down,” 

Nianima said. “The more I coach, 
and the more I see things and the 
more I learn from other coaches 
around me, everything slows down. 
And then you can sort of cheat 
the system a bit. I know defensive 
formations, 
I 
know 
offensive 

formations. I know how not to work 
hard all the time, but smart.”

She’s also applied that mindset 

to a different role in the realm 
of basketball. She worked for 
Basketball 
Fiji, 
a 
grassroots 

organization intent on increasing 
the presence of basketball in Fiji. 
Nainima served as the development 
officer 
and 
high-performance 

manager. 

She launched the first Hoops 

for Health program in Fiji, which 
introduces basketball basics to 
young kids and highlights the 
importance of a healthy lifestyle. 
She also set up many tournaments 
for high schoolers and young players 
in Fiji that weren’t available to her 
when she played in high school.

Throughout it all, Nainima has 

understood the importance of 
grassroots basketball, especially 
considering her ties to it. Giving 
back to the community that has 
shaped her life’s trajectory is a great 
source of pride for Nainima. She 
hopes to continue to inspire kids 
like her from the South Pacific that 
basketball is possible for them.

“I love working with young 

people, Nainima said. “I love 
teaching basics. I mean, if I ever 

retired 
from 
coaching, 
that’s 

what I’d love to step into — more 
grassroots level basketball. It makes 
me so happy to give back to other 
Fijians as much as I can.”

Now at Michigan, Nainima has 

an opportunity to yet again build on 
her foundation. Wolverine players 
and coaches alike have expressed 
their love for her contagious energy, 
and her passion for basketball. 

“She’s just been phenomenal for 

us on her first couple of months 
on the job,” Michigan coach Kim 
Barnes Arico said. “She’s working 
with our point guards and just 
doing an outstanding job.”

Basketball has been Nainima’s 

entire life. From the start, she 
understood 
the 
special 
place 

basketball would hold not only in 
her career, but in her heart. 

“To me, I believe (basketball’s) 

a tool that’s used to impact a young 
person’s life or someone’s life,” 
Nainima said. “I think impacting a 
person’s life is huge. And basketball 
has been that tool for me. And I’ve 
been impacted by other people as well 
as, it’s not just not a one-way thing. 
And it’s made me a better person.

“It’s made me a better coach, a 

better player and I hope to give back 
to others the same way that basketball 
has for me.”

At this point in her career, 

Nainima’s foundation is sturdy. But 
if her winding basketball journey 
shows anything, the fire to build upon 
it remains burning inside her. 

ABBIE TELEGOF
Daily Sports Writer

TESS CROWLEY/Daily 

This year, the Michigan women’s basketball team’s mantra is all about being “the hardest working team in America.”

‘He doesn’t believe in off days’: DeVante’ Jones’s drive to succeed never ends

There’s 588 names listed in the 247 

Sports Composite rankings for top 
basketball recruits in 2017.

 DeVante’ Jones’s name is nowhere 

to be found.

 Jones, who hails from New 

Orleans, was a steady force in high 
school averaging 17 points, five 
rebounds, 6.5 assists and three steals 
his senior year at St. Augustine. The 
college offers, though, didn’t come. 

Louisiana is far from a fertile 

recruiting ground for basketball. 
Among that 2017 recruiting class, just 
two players from the state cracked 
the top 300 in the rankings and only 
seven are listed.

So, 
hoping 
to 
improve 
his 

recruiting opportunities, he moved 
to Massachusetts where he played a 
year at Notre Dame Prep. There, his 
scoring average jumped to 25 points 
per game, but while 588 other players 
found offers, Jones was mostly met 
with silence.

 His recruiting profile was 

completely blank. He didn’t have a star 
rating. He didn’t have a crystal ball 
prediction. There was no information 
about official visits or offers.

Now, Jones is coming to Michigan 

to take on a critical role with the 
team, as the Wolverines are lacking 
in guard depth. With the departure 
of starting point guard Mike Smith, 
it will be on Jones to fill in that gap 
offensively, and more importantly, 
guard the other team’s best ball 
handler — a role that Smith could 
rarely occupy. Jones, who boasts a 
6-foot-6 wingspan and whose three 
steals per game were third best in the 
country last year, believes he’s up to 
the task.

So five years later, how did Jones — 

a self-proclaimed “unathletic player” 
— go from a complete unknown 
to someone Michigan believes is a 
catalyst for a championship season?

It started with a willingness to 

outwork everyone in his way. 

***
There may not have been much 

information on Jones, but the guard 
will happily give you the scouting 
report himself, and he won’t hide the 
flaws:

 “Me being a kid (who was) very 

overlooked just because I’m 6-foot-

1, not very athletic, that’s why (my 
height is) a knock on my game,” 
Jones said. “A lot of people feel like 
I can’t do a lot of things that other 
guys with crazy athleticism, crazy 
height can do.”

 One person who did feel Jones 

could do all those things was Coastal 
Carolina coach Cliff Ellis, who had a 
front row seat to Jones’s development. 
When asked to speak about Jones, 
Ellis gushed about his former player.

 “He’s a guy that’s going to bring it 

every day,” Ellis told The Daily. “He 
really doesn’t have a weakness to his 
game. There are only three things you 
do with a basketball — dribble, pass 
and shoot — and he can do all three. 
He defends hard; he’s a tough kid; fun 
to coach; brings it every day.”

 But when pushed to expand on 

what makes him so fun to coach, Ellis 
doesn’t budge:

 “He brings it every day.”
 Maybe it really is that simple.
 Jones is an all-around player, 

and despite his shorter stature, his 
physicality and ability to disrupt 
passing lanes help him thrive among 
his taller peers.

 At Coastal, he redshirted his 

freshman year due to academic issues, 
but once he had a chance to play, he 
did not waste the opportunity. Jones 
went on to be a three-year starter 
with the Chanticleers — culminating 
in a Sun Belt Player of the Year award 
last season.

 His commitment to always 

putting in the extra work allowed him 
to reach new heights. 

 “The funny thing about DeVante’ 

is he doesn’t believe in off days,” 
former Coastal Carolina assistant 
coach Patrice Days said. “There were 
times when we had to tell him to get 
out of the gym. Whatever you asked 
him to do, he’s done it.”

 Jones is just wired to go the extra 

mile. Other players may be flashier 
or possess more raw skills, but when 
it comes to effort, those who have 

worked with him insist there’s no one 
quite like Jones. He lifted weights 
to become more of a hard-nosed 
defender and constantly worked on his 
jump shot to expand his range. It takes 
a certain mindset to turn yourself 
into a top college basketball player — 
especially without the expectations 
coming in — but Jones has it. 

As he transitions to Michigan, 

Jones is still attacking practice with 
the same ferocity he had when he 
was an under-recruited player out 
of high school. Much will be made 
about Jones’s fit as a smaller guard 
in a bruising Big Ten conference 
that features several elite big men. 
But size has never prevented Jones 
from being whatever type of player 
he wants to be.

 “I feel like my body size doesn’t 

really affect me,” Jones said. “I feel 
like I use my body very well. I’ve had 
comparisons to Fred Van Fleet, so I 
just try to implement his game using 
my floater, being crafty. But at the 

end of the day, I can’t always get to 
the rim or shoot layups so that’s why 
I’m working on my three ball. It’s just 
understanding the game so a lot of 
studying and watching a lot of film. 
It’s not really as hard as people think.”

 That workhorse mentality is 

second nature to Jones, and it comes 
through in his words. Adding a 
3-point shot. Making time for extra 
film sessions. He’ll shrug it off as part 
of the job. His teammates, though, 
have taken note of his relentless effort.

 “His mentality is that no matter 

how tall you are, how big, how strong, 
how fast, you’re not going to outwork 
him,” Coastal Carolina forward Isaac 
Hippolyte, who played with Jones 
the last three seasons, said. “This 
has been his mentality since I’ve met 
him and since I became a teammate 
with him at Coastal. He’s never going 
to take no for an answer. He’s never 
going to leave the court without 
coming out victorious.”

 Every year with the Chanticleers 

he was ready to take on whatever 
was thrown at him, even as the target 
on his back grew. Jones’s stat line 
improved each year, going from 13 
points, 3.8 assists and 3.6 rebounds as 
a sophomore to 17.4 points, 5.7 assists 
and 5.8 rebounds as a junior. Last 
season, Jones’s scoring average was 
again on the uptick at 19.3 but the rest 
of his numbers were more perplexing.

 Jones’s assists dropped to just 

2.7 per game, while his rebounding 
skyrocketed to an average of 7.2 — 
good enough for eighth-best in the 
entire Sun Belt Conference.

 Jones assessed the roster and 

figured out what he could do to best 
help the team. If Coastal needed more 
help rebounding, then he was going to 
go up and get some damn rebounds. 
That was the attitude instilled in him.

 “His sophomore year, he was 

second in the Sun Belt in assists, so he 
already proved that,” Days said. “So, 
I told him he had to prove to people 
that ‘you were a winner’ so he did 
whatever we needed him to do. His 
role changed, and he adapted to it.”

 At Big Ten Media Day, fifth-

year senior guard Eli Brooks and 
sophomore center Hunter Dickinson 
both expressed their confidence in 
Jones, saying he could win Big Ten 
Defensive Player of the Year. After 
just a few practices with the team, 
Brooks is already seeing the same 
traits in Jones that those at Coastal 
Carolina witnessed over four years.

 “When we play open gym and, 

even in practice, he’s everywhere,” 
Brooks said. “He brings it every single 
day so it’s just something that you can 
appreciate.”

The chip on Jones’s shoulder is 

more of a chunk at this point. 

He has never fit the mold of a top 

prospect, but he’s worked tirelessly to 
earn his spot in the college basketball 
ranks. In 2017, he wasn’t even a blip on 
the recruiting radar. In 2021, he was 
choosing between Michigan, Texas 
and other top schools for the next step 
in his collegiate career. 

This year, he wants to prove that he 

should’ve had the attention of those 
programs all along.

No recruiting profile can illustrate 

the player Jones turned out to be. 
He did it through hard work and 
never listening to the scouting report 
imparted on him.

 “He came in as a three star,” Ellis 

said. “He’s leaving as a five star.”

ALLISON ENGKVIST/Daily 

Michigan grad student guard DeVante’ Jones steps up to take on a critical role with the Wolverines, as the team lacks in guard depth after Mike Smith left big shoes to fill. 

JOSHUA TAUBMAN

Daily Sports Writer


