Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Orson Welles is a name that is synonymous with brilliance. The acclaimed director, radio show host, producer, writer and actor was once the king of the entertainment world with famous radiocasts like “War of the Worlds” and the groundbreaking film work, “Citizen Kane.” Director Richard Linklater’s newest film, “Me and Orson Welles,” delves into the man behind the magic (in an outstanding debut performance by Christian McKay) through the eyes of an up-and-coming actor (played by Zac Efron) who gets sucked into the business as they attempt to put on Welles’ rendition of “Julius Caesar” at the Mercury Theatre.
The story, based on the book by Robert Kaplow, follows young actor Richard Samuels as he lands a role in  “Caesar” after a chance encounter with Welles. Samuels is quickly pulled into the drama of the theater and is fascinated by Welles as he is taken under his wing, rapidly learning the ups and downs of theater and life.
“[Welles] was so ahead of his time, and took a lot of risks, ultimately — just so unafraid,” Efron said in an interview with The Eagle. “I think that’s something; that’s a great way to be remembered.”
Though some might think of Welles as an inimitable person, McKay plays him brilliantly in both his uncanny physical resemblance to the star and his captivating performance both on and off stage. Though certainly the standout character in the film, most of the general crowd’s curiosity to see “Welles,” an indie movie lies in Efron’s seemingly surprising involvement. Though his detractors may expect the worst, Efron plays his character with ease, channeling the naïveté of a 17-year-old trying to make it big, while simultaneously  — and believably — charming Welles and his older crush, Sonja (Claire Danes). 
Efron said “Me and Orson Welles” seemed like a natural role to pick, especially because of Linklater’s involvement in it.
“[When] Rick [Linklater] talked to me about it — that was probably the most flattering thing in the world,” he said.
 “Me and Orson Welles” marks a turning point in Efron’s career. Known best for his song and dance routines in films like “Hairspray” and the “High School Musical” series, “Welles,” though not lacking its own small musical performance from Efron, takes him out of the comfort of the teen films he has starred in so far.
“Though it appears on the surface to be a bit more serious or dramatic [than my other films], I think that for a younger audience, you know, who did see ‘High School Musical,’ who did see ‘17 Again,’ it’s an interesting transition,” Efron said. “I think that at a first glance ... a theater in the ‘30s might appear to be a bit more stuffy, sort of boring kind of story, but I think the audience will come to soon find out is that it is every bit as fun as ‘High School Musical,’ and probably more real world and practical.”
One of the troubles in making the film was creating a realistic physicality to make sure it actually looked like it was taking place in the ‘30s. Linklater — director of such films as “Before Sunset” and “Dazed and Confused” — said making the film was akin to a “historical re-imagining.”
“That’s kind of the magic of cinema — when you’re recreating a moment in time like this,” Linklater said. “We’re trying to, as physically possible, recreate November 1937... Beyond the physics, you’re really trying to create a mood, an atmosphere.”
The impact of Welles’ career is not lost in the film. The audience gets a backstage look at Welles’ Type-A personality as he takes over everything he has his hand in, changing Samuels’ life in a second before spinning it around again. One scene in particular allows the audience to get a peek at the genius in action, as Samuels accompanies Welles on a trip to the radio station to watch him broadcast. Welles begins improvising to the shock of his cast mates, showing why he was considered a brilliant man as he improved others’ work at his own leisure.
“I love that line [in the film]: ‘It doesn’t matter who does it first, it matters who does it second,’ in that... the innovators are often overlooked because they kind of prepare people to appreciate that idea later on,” Danes said.
“Me and Orson Welles” is a unique look into Welles’ mentality as he changes Samuels’ life with one opportunity. Though the film had trouble being picked up for distribution despite its warm reception at places like the Toronto International Film Festival, Linklater is hopeful that as long as the film touches people, it will reach beyond box office numbers.
“[Cinema] is a powerful medium,” he said. “It travels, it communicates. That’s what we’re all trying to do here — share our passion [and] tell stories.”
“Me and Orson Welles” opens in D.C. on Dec. 11.
You can reach this staff writer at cmoore@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Between serious men, call girls, bomb dismantlers and foxes, 2009 has showcased a gamut of peculiar characters — ones that have shaken the very fabric of the traditional protagonist. Here are some of the best: 
10. Antichrist
In perhaps Danish auteur Lars von Trier’s most audacious work, “Antichrist” is a horrifying tale of a couple grieving the death of their young son. “Antichrist” boasts electrifying performances from Charlotte Gainsbourg and Willem Dafoe and an ending that will leave you paralyzed in your seat.
9. Sugar
Miguel Santos, nicknamed Sugar, leaves a professional baseball academy in the Dominican Republic to play for a minor league team in the Midwest United States. A raw, objective interrogation of the American dream, “Sugar” slams it out of the park with fierce intelligence.
8. The Girlfriend Experience
Chelsea, played by porn star Sasha Grey, ain’t your normal call girl. The subject of Steven Soderbergh’s latest low budget artistic exercise, “The Girlfriend Experience,” Chelsea makes $2,000 an hour around Manhattan. It’s a disjointed, haunting tale of capitalism, sex and everything in between.
7. A Serious Man
In a peculiar follow up to “No Country for Old Men,” the Coen Brothers’ “A Serious Man” is a tart tale of Professor Larry Gopnik’s despair as his life falls apart. Beneath the film’s quirky, nostalgic artifice lurks a sinister statement on human nature, which manages to be devastating, sidesplitting and provocative, often all at once. 
6. Inglourious Basterds
Led by a band of “Natzi-huntin’” vigilantes, Quentin Tarantino’s “Inglourious Basterds” is as reckless a war movie as they come. Christopher Waltz is best in show as a strudel-eating, gun-toting Nazi whose docile bullying will leave you in stitches and with chilled bones. It’s a perverted fantasy that marries Tarantino’s two obsessions: revenge and cinema. 
5. Adventureland
In this sweetly melancholy coming-of-age tale, we follow the misadventures of James Brennan, a college graduate who is forced to move home in 1987 for financial reasons. Timely, huh? “Adventureland” is a nostalgic account of transient young adulthood that is equal parts funny, sweet and poignant.
4. Where the Wild Things Are
Adapted from Maurice Sendak’s classic children’s story, “Where the Wild Things Are” exhibits the most consistent child-perspective in film history. Director Spike Jonze has truly struck gold: he has created a piece of art that matches the creativity of its source material and modernizes its powerful, emotional undercurrent.
3. An Education
As the precocious Jenny, Carey Mulligan brings a subtle grace to her role as a young girl caught between two worlds: the isolation of her parent’s home and mod 60s London. “An Education” is a stirring tale of an old soul trapped in a young body — one hindered by the era’s scarce avenues of female liberation. By the time Jenny chooses her direction, the compassion you feel for her is unparalleled.
2. The Hurt Locker
Charismatic James is new to a highly-trained bomb squad and recklessly throws his subordinates into danger without the slightest fear. With death lurking around every corner, Bigelow utilizes her austere desert rubble background as a template for consolidating the audience’s suspense to the pressing of a button or the movement of a finger. It’s conceptual art-meets-the-battlefield – and it works to grueling, brilliant extents. 
1. Fantastic Mr. Fox
Of all the films to tackle issues of identity, family and love, the finest emerges from a foxhole within Wes Anderson’s fable “Fantastic Mr. Fox.” After years of a complacent existence with a steady job and family life intact, Mr. Fox yearns to tap into his animal instincts. He and a friend sneak off to steal from local malevolent farmers, which renders the whole animal community in danger. Anderson crafts a visionary world of make-believe through stop-motion animation that is both a vivid recollection of Roald Dahl’s book and a decidedly Wes Anderson-flavored movie. Set in an enchanting atmosphere where clay puppets meet meticulous set design, “Fantastic Mr. Fox” is a masterpiece of brain and heart.  
You can reach this columnist at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU men’s basketball team needed a month to get its first win of the season, but they finally secured it from Howard University Tuesday night.
The game was close. as neither team could stretch its lead to more than six points. Those six points were all the Eagles needed as they defeated the Bison by 59-53. 
“We’re happy; it’s nice to win. We’ve been close, and we can take satisfaction from holding on,” said Head Coach Jeff Jones.
Defense was the name of the game in the first 13 minutes for both teams. After AU jumped to a 2-0 lead after winning the opening tip, neither team was able to create a good opportunity to get a shot off. 
Howard was able to tie the game after two free throws three minutes after the opening basket. They used the free throws as momentum and capitalized on AU turnovers to push their lead to four. AU turned up the defensive pressure, making use of a full court press to fight back and tie the game at 9-9 before going into a timeout on the floor.
AU’s Nick Hendra stepped up and single-handedly pushed the lead to five. After two free throws and a defensive stop, Hendra found himself open atop the arc and knocked down a  three-point basket. After a Howard score, Hendra took the ball straight through the lane and hit an uncontested layup, giving AU the 16-11 lead.
Howard was able to tie the game back up at 19-19 only a few minutes later. The Eagles responded with a 5-0 run to end the half with a 24-19 lead.
Both teams made fast starts in second half, trading back-to-back-to-back three point baskets. Following this offensive explosion, the defenses picked up again. Howard used a three-minute AU scoring drought to pull even with AU at 34-34.
The teams traded baskets and turnovers over the next five minutes and remained tied at 45-45 with five minutes to go. Nick McCormack was finally able to shake the nerves and produce the spark the Eagles needed to break the tie.
“[McCormack] was nervous to start his first game, but he came back in the second half and settled down,” said Jones.
McCormack stepped up and made two free throws to give AU a two-point lead. On the next possession, McCormack made a very athletic tip on Stephen Lumpkins’ miss to give AU the 49-45 lead.
AU took off running from there. The game turned into a test of the team’s nerve and will to win. Howard closed the gap to two but was forced to foul as time counted down. The Eagles stepped up, made their free throws and finished the game with a win.
Four AU players each scored in the double digits, but it was sophomore Riley Grafft who led the way with 14 points. Lumpkins recorded eight rebounds for the Eagles. Despite the winning effort, AU committed 16 turnovers to maintain its average of 16 per game.
AU will make the short trip to the Verizon Center on Saturday to face cross-town rival and 16th ranked Georgetown at 4 p.m. They are now 1-7 on the year with seven games to go in their non-conference schedule.
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Times are tough. The worst of this recession may be over, but economic experts say recovery will be slow. In the meantime, many American cities face severe budget strains. In Pittsburgh, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl has come up with a creative solution to help solve his budget problems, but it’s not a good one. Ravenstahl has proposed a “Fair Share Tax,” which is essentially a student tax. The mayor wants to add a one percent tax on college tuition. It is estimated that students in his city would pay up to $400 more a year. This is an awful idea.
Ravenstahl’s justification for the tax is that students use city services without paying for them — but so do tourists. And tourists are not struggling to pay for an education. Why not tax them or some other group? This tax will be painful for students, especially those on scholarships. And as The Eagle reported, “Should an identical policy be implemented in the District, AU undergraduate students would be obliged to pay $344.56 per year in taxes, based on one percent of this year’s tuition rate at AU, which is $34,456.” For some AU students, this might sound reasonable, but many of us are pinching every penny these days.
Besides, isn’t this taxation without representation? Many students who go to college in Pittsburgh don’t live there. They don’t vote there. However, they do shop in the city, and when they do, they pay sales tax. This should be enough. Ravenstahl should realize that no student will want to attend college in his city if his additional tax is implemented. Clearly, the mayor must find a way to bring in revenue, but he must not do it on the backs of 100,000 young people pursuing higher education.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
An estimated 2,000 AU students, faculty and staff have received the swine flu vaccine at the Student Health Center’s two recent clinics in the Mary Graydon Center, according to Dan Bruey, Health Center director. 
The university expects another shipment of the vaccine in the next two weeks, Bruey said. The number of doses AU receives depends on the District’s distribution to other local colleges and universities, Bruey said. So far, AU has received higher numbers of the vaccine than other D.C. universities, he added.
About 1,100 members of the AU community were vaccinated at the first clinic on Nov. 20 and about another 900 people were vaccinated Dec. 1, Bruey estimated. Additional students, faculty and staff received the vaccine Wednesday afternoon at the Washington College of Law.
The line for the first clinic stretched out the door of MGC, down the stairs between MGC and the Battelle-Tompkins Building and across the Main Quad to the steps of Hurst Hall.
The clinic opened around 8:30 a.m., earlier than its scheduled 9 a.m. opening.
Russell Reichers, a sophomore in the School of International Service, got in line at 8:30 a.m. at the top of the steps next to MGC for the first vaccine clinic. He said he knew a few people who had swine flu and thought he had a moderate chance of getting it himself. But he got the vaccine because his parents wanted him to get it.
For the second clinic, there was a small line of people waiting for the 10 a.m. opening.
Bruey was a little surprised there was only a short line for the second clinic, but probably “people were not as nervous” about the vaccine, he said.
“Either students are too busy or they’ve decided they’re not going to get the vaccine for whatever reason; they don’t feel they’ll get sick, they’re taking their chances, you know, that type of thing,” Bruey said. “Or people might just think, ‘I’m not aware of it, there may be apathy ... I’d rather work on finals or projects or the end of school than to deal with that.’”
Some students, like Alexa Desko, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, chose not to get the swine flu vaccine because of its possible side effects. 
Desko got the seasonal flu vaccine, and she feels she has already been exposed to swine flu, she said.
“I’ve been making sure to take vitamins or taking care of myself so I don’t think that I’m as at risk as other people, so I’ve just been trying to use alternative ways to stay healthy,” she said.
Desko said she knows people who have had swine flu who have told her having the disease is “not too bad.”
“I’m not that worried about it,” she said. “I think it’s a lot of hype.”
Desko said her friends were sick for only a few days. However, Bruey said it is important for people to receive the swine flu vaccine since serious complications, such as pneumonia, can result from the H1N1 virus.
So far, no students have reported adverse effects of the vaccine, Bruey said. A few students have reported redness around the shot area, yet that is normal, he said.
Mike Rourke, a junior in the Kogod School of Business, is also choosing not to get the vaccine, although he got the seasonal flu vaccine. Rourke said he does not have a pre-existing medical condition so he felt the swine flu vaccine was not necessary.
“If [swine flu] is only going to bother me for a couple of days, I’d rather take the chances than get a vaccine I don’t really trust,” he said.
You can reach this staff writer landerson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In mid-March of 2004, the government of Angola was preparing to welcome a cohort of foreign dignitaries. Government officials deeply desired to impress their guests. After all, the ambassadors they were welcoming had just provided Angola with a $2 billion loan. In a world that has all but forgotten the African continent, foreign investment is especially appreciated by the few nations that receive it.
It may surprise some that these were not American diplomats, nor ambassadors from Western nations that Angola was greeting. Instead, it was the People’s Republic of China that was being welcomed. Delegates from Beijing not only visited Angola that year, but also Algeria, Gabon and Nigeria. These trips — and the economic agreements that accompanied them — were a part of China’s increasing efforts to integrate itself with the African continent. Although this intent may seem benign, the regional sphere of influence China is cultivating has several troubling implications.
Why has Beijing been compelled to reach out to African nations? Analysis indicates that it is China’s expanding demand for oil that has stimulated its proactive African relations.
While it was a net exporter of oil in the 1990s, by 2006 China had become the world’s third largest importer of fossil fuels. Obviously, if its booming economy is to be sustained, Beijing must procure an increasing supply of energy. Estimates indicate that China’s demand for imported oil are to sharply increase from 3.6 million barrels per day in 2006 to 13.3 million barrels per day in 2030. 
Clearly, this 10 million barrel addition will be a significant burden. Without cultivating foreign relations with regions that chronically export fossil fuel, the world’s oil supply might by-pass China. 
Enter Africa. What do Angola, Gabon, Nigeria all have in common? No twist here — they all export copious amounts of oil.
Consequentially, commerce between China and Africa increased 45 percent between 2007 and 2008 alone. By January this year, Africa was exporting an astounding 80 percent of its oil to China. However, Beijing also recognizes the importance of not only trade, but increased investment. Besides its loan to Angola, China has financed a $300 million dam in Ethiopia, provided a $2.5 million interest free loan to the Central African Republic and purchased $2.3 billion stake in a Nigerian oil rig. 
At this point, some may be wondering where the problem is in this. Why does this involvement give the Chinese a diplomatic advantage in the region? Western nations still give aid to Africa. Moreover, many European powers still assist in investment within there former colonies.
All true. Yet African nations have been swayed by the results of Chinese involvement. The minister of construction in the Congo Republic has been quoted as saying, “The Chinese build things, the Europeans don’t.” This suggests that this regional influence of China is developing to the detriment of that of the West.
More troubling to Western nations are the conditions that China attaches to its African investment — or lack of them. Beijing has given aid to disgraced leaders like Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe and Omar al-Bashir of Sudan.
This disregard for humanitarian concerns that should cause nations world wide to be concerned with China’s increased involvement with Africa. Unfortunately, Beijing remains unperturbed. When asked if the genocide in Darfur should prevent Sudan from attaining Chinese loans, the Chinese Foreign Minister uttered a cold, terse reply: “Business is business.”
Joe Wenner is a sophomore in the School of International Service and the College of Arts and Sciences and a moderate columnist for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Since his car accident on Nov. 27, Tiger Woods has been at the center of a media firestorm. Rumors have been swirling around Woods as to why he crashed his car early that Friday morning.
Coverage of the accident has expanded beyond Woods’ usual stomping grounds on ESPN and the Golf Channel. Now, Tiger is finding himself on CNN and Fox News, as every major news outlet wants a piece of the story. The biggest news so far is how little Woods has said publicly about the crash. Of course, his hesitance to speak on the issue has become a story in itself. His request to keep this matter private would be perfectly understandable if he were not one of the most popular and highest paid athletes in the world. When someone is that well known, some things just cannot be kept private.
Woods is paid to be seen. Like most athletes, he is a celebrity. He receives truckloads of cash from Nike and Gatorade because he is one of the most recognizable people on the planet. There is no question that he had to become the best player in the world to get there, but that does not mean he is off the hook when it comes to any personal misfortune.
Woods is not the first prolific athlete to face media scrutiny for possible foul play. A Detroit Tigers’ outfielder did not get any privacy when there were reports of an altercation with his wife. Kobe Bryant did not get any privacy during his rape case in 2003. In fact, none of the athletes who show up on Deadspin in compromising positions seem to have much privacy. It is part of the job description to be a part of the public eye when an athlete gets paid millions upon millions of dollars to play a game.
With Woods’ case, many people have accused the media of violating his privacy when they should be leaving him alone and taking him at his word. It is important to remember that it is not in the best interest of reporters to let negative stories just go away. When the world’s best golfer gets into a car accident at 2:30 in the morning, it is a story. When it may possibly be tied to infidelity and an angry golf club-swinging wife, it becomes the non-stop media juggernaut that now graces the airwaves.
The public should not feel so bad for these professional athletes. They are incredibly talented and make more than enough money to provide for their family. But when stars mess up, they need to recognize that they are not just like everyone else. Whether or not it is fair for athletes to be under more media scrutiny is not up for question. It is a part of the job which is otherwise filled with incredible perks. So Tiger Woods should not be surprised or indignant about reporters starting to pry into his private life. In sports, privacy goes away with anonymity.
You can reach this columnist at slindauer@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Julian-Israel Canizares, a junior in the School of Public Affairs, always dreamt of attending a military academy — that is, until he actually went to one.
Canizares spent his freshman year of college at the United States Coast Guard Academy. In addition to schoolwork, Canizares said first-year students were required to participate in military training, athletics and engagement with upper classmen that included memorizing arbitrary pieces of information to be repeated on demand. Canizares was also involved  in extra curricular activities like the glee club.
By the middle of the year, Canizares found all his endeavors were catching up with him. 
“I was having a lot of difficulty juggling academics and military duties,” Canizares said. “I’m much more of a one-track, focus on one thing and really get-it-done [person] than multi-tasking [oriented].”
As Canizares’ grades and athletic performance continued to suffer, an adviser told him that he was in danger of losing his scholarship and his place at the academy.
“It came down to ‘you’ve got to make a decision as to whether or not you’re going to stay at the academy,’” Canizares said.
That is when Canizares made the decision to transfer to a new school.
In last week’s profile of an upset student who is planning to leave AU, sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences Jack Eichner found the university had not met his needs as a student. 
Eichner and Canizares are part of a large group of students who rethink their college choice. In 2005, 7.1 percent of freshmen at 4-year colleges planned to transfer to another school, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. Like Eichner and Canizares, these students wanted to find an institution that would be a better fit.
Canizares found that fit at AU.
 “[AU] suits my interests actually a lot better than the academy,” Canizares said. “I have a lot more freedom to do what I want to do and ... to just pursue social things that I wasn’t able to do at the academy.”
When Canizares was looking for schools to which he could transfer, a strong political science department was one of his main criteria. He hopes now to go into the State Department or join the intelligence community. He joked that one day he might go on to become the president of the United States.
Actually, President Barack Obama did transfer during his college career. The president started at Occidental College and transferred to Columbia University in search of something “more urban and ... more diverse,” according to US News and World Report.
Steve Pemberton, the co-founder and former co-president of national college admission consulting firm Road to College, said that while transferring universities is not uncommon, there are certain challenges that transfer students face.
“It is not uncommon for students to feel isolated and disconnected from the student body at their new school,” Pemberton said. 
Sean Dixon, a senior in CAS, said this was particularly an area of concern for AU’s transfer students commuting to campus.
“American is a school of cliques if you haven’t been there since freshmen year,” Dixon said. “It’s extraordinarily difficult to penetrate the social strata.”
To help with the adjustment AU has recently restructured its Transfer Transitions Orientation Program, according to Assistant Director of New Student Programs Natalie Gempesaw-Pangan. 
An interactive panel discussion with students who have already experienced the transfer process at AU was also added to the program. Those on the panel continue to reach out to the newer students throughout the year in order to help them establish bonds on campus, according to Gempesaw-Pangan. 
“[The director of New Student Programs, Tiffany Sanchez] and I are huge believers and we do agree that when students feel connected they’re more likely to integrate themselves,” Gempesaw-Pangan said. “So it’s as simple as if you have a buddy to go to that student organization meeting, you’re more likely to go as opposed to if you’re going by yourself.”
This January, Gempesaw-Pangan and Sanchez will hold transfer focus groups to assess needs on campus.
During his first year at AU, Canizares lived on Tenley Campus where he made friends he could “hold on to as being new” to AU like him.
“We ended up ... becoming this really, really close community,” Canizares said.
Although he still misses some aspects of the academy, Canizares said he is happy with his decision to come to AU.
“I actually can’t really imagine going to any other school,” Canizares said. “I’ve made some really great friends, taken some really, really interesting classes, learned a lot of things, done a lot of new things ... I’ve met a lot of really great professors who’ve really helped me to figure out what I want to do eventually.”
Canizares said the school has given him the option to pursue interests in art, music and theater. 
“It’s been a great experience overall,” Canizares said.
You can reach this staff writer at sparnass@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
 The Young Victoria
Grade: B 
It seems as though when each new year rolls around in the world of filmmaking, there is a flurry to make the perfect period piece. While “The Young Victoria” is not perfect, it is certainly one of the best to come out this year. “Victoria” is based on the life of Queen Victoria of the House of Hanover, who reigned for 63 years over Great Britain. To this day, she is the longest reigning queen in the history of the United Kingdom – a fact that speaks to her fascinating life. 
Victoria is played by a fresh-faced Emily Blunt (“The Devil Wears Prada,” “Sunshine Cleaning”). Through most of the film, Blunt portrays the Queen from her late teens through early twenties — the main period on which the film focuses. Blunt gives a touching yet quiet performance of the young queen, who was sheltered and controlled most of her life by her mother and overbearing Uncle John. She could not listen to the music that she wanted. She couldn’t even walk down the stairs by herself for fear she may injure herself and jeopardize the next in line for the throne. Blunt brilliantly plays the character innocently and, at times, manages to unleash Victoria’s bursts of immature wrath. 
In addition to Blunt’s exquisite performance, the cast includes two-time Oscar nominee Miranda Richardson as Victoria’s mother, as well as a suave Paul Bettany playing the kind politician, Lord Melbourne, who advised and guided Victoria during the beginning of her reign. In a short but passionate performance, Jim Broadbent plays the fiery King William. While most of the characters are strict and have a typical English reserve, Broadbent is loud, brazenly honest and terribly lovable; his brief performance was a perfect fix amongst all the calm characters. 
Through the first half of the film, it seems as though “The Young Victoria” is a coming-of-age piece, focusing on the maturity and responsibility that Victoria developed as a result of inheriting the crown at the tender age of 18. However, during this time, a subtle romance was blossoming between her and Prince Albert from Germany. Earlier in the film, Victoria and Albert meet at her home and strike up a friendship. Throughout the years, they write each other and keep in contact through letters and occasional visits. Slowly but surely, a romance is born and they become inseparable. 
The handsome Rupert Friend (“Pride and Prejudice”) takes on the character of Prince Albert. Friend masters a German accent for the film and does a wonderful job balancing Albert’s quiet and romantic nature with the yearning need to prove himself. Complications in the relationship ensue when Albert finds himself wondering where he stands in the royal home. A man married to a powerful woman in those days found himself quite useless, which was certainly the case with Albert and Victoria.
In terms of historical accuracy, the film is pretty much spot-on. There are minor changes to add cinematic grandeur, but the integrity of Victoria’s life is honored.
“The Young Victoria” is nothing like films of young queens and royalty past. If you’re hoping to see something in the vein of Coppola’s glittering “Marie Antoinette” or Saul Dibb’s flirtatious and passion-ridden “The Duchess,” “The Young Victoria” is likely not for you. But if you enjoy period pieces with lovely aesthetics, deep and talented actors and a soft and slow romance, you will love “Victoria.” 
“The Young Victoria” opens in D.C. theaters Dec. 18. 
You can reach this staff writer at ydesta@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The struggles continued for the AU men’s basketball team over the Thanksgiving break, as they lost all three games to the Fairfield University Stags, the University of Manhattan Jaspers and the University of Maryland Eastern Shore Hawks.
As has been the case in most games this season, the Eagles played a solid first half against Fairfield. They led the Stags 29-27 at the half as they hoped to notch their first victory.
AU kept within striking distance, as Fairfield led only by three with 9:57 left in the second half. However, Fairfield would use a 15-4 run to take control of the game, capped by a three-pointer from guard Lyndon Jordan.
The key second half run pushed the Fairfield lead to 60-46 with five minutes remaining, and the Eagles were never able to recover as they lost 72-56. The Eagles turned the ball over 20 times in the contest, allowing the Stags to pick up 15 steals. Fairfield also sliced through AU’s defense, shooting 63 percent from the field during the second half.
Stephen Lumpkins and Nick Hendra led the team in both points and rebounds in the loss. Lumpkins, a sophomore forward, chipped in 14 points and nine rebounds, while Hendra, a junior guard, registered 14 points
and seven rebounds.
Fairfield improved to 3-1 as four different players scored in double figures. Forward Yorel Hawkins led the Stags attack with 18 points on 8-11 shooting, while guard Derek Needham had 13 points, seven assists and four steals.
On Friday, Nov. 25, the Eagles welcomed Manhattan to Bender Arena. They found themselves down quickly, as the Jaspers raced to a 14-1 lead just five minutes into the game. AU was trailing 21-13 with five minutes left in the first half when a 16-6 Eagles run gave them a 29-27 lead heading into the locker room.
The second half started just as the first half did, with Manhattan coming out strong. The Jaspers opened the half with a 13-3 run to take a 40-32 lead that they would never relinquish. 
Two free throws by AU sophomore forward Riley Grafft cut the Manhattan lead to 56-52 with 4:12 remaining, but the Eagles would never get closer. A jumper by Manhattan guard Darryl Crawford extended his team’s lead to 61-54 with under two minutes remaining, as the Jaspers would improve to 3-2 on the year with the 69-62 victory.
AU again had trouble protecting the ball, as they tallied 23 turnovers, compared to just six by the Jaspers. In the loss, freshman Mike Bersch sank four three-pointers and led the team with 16 points. Grafft, the only other scorer in double figures, totaled a double-double with 15 points and 12 rebounds. 
The Eagles had no answer for Crawford, as he poured in a game-high 26 points for Manhattan. Guards Rico Pickett and Antoine Pearson had 13 and 12 points for the Jaspers, respectively.
AU was looking for their first win in seven tries as they wrapped up the break with a Nov. 28 road game against the also winless UMES Hawks. The Hawks would keep the Eagles winless and notch their first victory in the process as they defeated AU 65-58.
With the score tied 21-21 with 1:56 remaining before halftime, the Hawks closed the half on a 11-4 run to take a 32-25 lead. Two UMES three-pointers spurred the run, including a buzzer-beater by guard Kevin White.
Two ties marked a tight second half, as the Eagles fought their way back. A free throw by Hendra tied the game at 49-49 with 5:29 left to play, but the Eagles were never able to grab the lead. Down 61-58 with one minute remaining, AU had a chance to tie, but Daniel Munoz’s three-pointer was off the mark. A missed three-pointer by Grafft with the Eagles down four as time was winding down killed any chance of a comeback, as UMES came out on top.
Lumpkins totaled 15 points and nine rebounds in the loss, while Hendra added 11 and sophomore Simon McCormack had 10. Forward Neal Pitts and guard Tim Burns, who each had 16 points, led the Hawks.
Three losses over the Thanksgiving break dropped AU’s record to 0-7 before a Dec. 1 victory over Howard University gave the Eagles their first win. Turnovers have been the teams Achilles heel, as they are averaging just over 16 a game.
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Muslim-American from a Puerto Rican family, Hamza Perez grew up in the hood. Now he’s an artist and makes rap music about jihad, the Arabic word for struggle. 
Sounds like America’s worst nightmare, as one radio disc jockey put it while interviewing Hamza in his studio.
But Hamza (born Jason Perez) is no ordinary Muslim, nor is he your everyday rapper. Having grown up surrounded by crime, he’s a recent convert to Islam and the focus of Jennifer Maytorena Taylor’s latest documentary, “New Muslim Cool.” 
The film illuminates a “clash of civilizations” between Islam and the West in post-9/11 America and provides a unique look into the life of the young Puerto Rican-American rapper, whose conversion to Islam leads him down some very unconventional paths as he struggles to better himself and his community through his faith and his music. 
What began as an ensemble piece about the “phenomenon” of religious minorities in the San Francisco Bay Area who use hip-hop to express themselves and bring together their faiths with pop culture, Taylor’s new film grew into a longitudinal, character-based documentary about American Muslim practices and current youth culture with Hamza at its center.
“I realized this could be a really good portal into a much larger, deeper story about American Muslim practices and culture today and was certainly a good way to look critically at the kind of ‘clash of civilizations’ paradigm that was really gaining a lot of ground right after 9/11,” Taylor said in an interview at AU before attending a Master’s lecture where she educated aspiring filmmakers on the nuances of documentary creation. 
As her research drew on, hip-hop culture became less the focus of the film and more the context. Hamza and his wife Rafiah’s day-to-day and spiritual lives became the real heart of the film, which Taylor called a “coming-of-age story.” 
The first scene introduces viewers to Hamza, a former drug dealer, who explains how, years ago, he was sure his future would lead to only two things: prison and an untimely death. 
He was delighted when both came true.
Hamza’s life of crime ended abruptly with his conversion to Islam. Hamza fondly recalled how his discovery of Allah led to the spiritual death of Jason Perez and his rebirth as Hamza.
He began volunteering his time, helping inner-city youths engrossed in the drug scene move on and find safer means of income. He also worked at a local prison to preach the benefits of a spiritual approach to life, holding a special prayer session afterwards for the Muslims. 
Throughout the course of production, Taylor said she became more familiar with the interior life of the spirit and just how integral a role faith can play in people’s lives.
Following Hamza and his wife Rafiah sporadically for more than three years, Taylor and her crew documented how the newlyweds confronted everyday challenges. In addition to meeting in-laws and dealing with Rafiah’s cesarean section, they were forced to deal with some not-so-typical ones as well, like when the FBI raided Hamza’s local mosque and put him and his family under surveillance.
“In the space of two minutes during an interview, Rafiah would wonder about a mysterious panel van parked outside her house and then ask who forgot to put the lid on the peanut butter,” Taylor said.
Equally bizarre was the community’s reaction to the FBI raid. Rather than taking immediate legal action and “marching on city hall,” as Taylor expected, the mosque’s members held a barbecue for the neighborhood, thanking their neighbors for not vilifying them or caving to post-9/11, ‘Islamophobic’ stigmas. 
“The character and his community responded in a way that one might consider kind of counterintuitive to this news event,” Taylor said. “I actually had to struggle to find the thread of the story, because it didn’t conform to what I thought they should do.”
The FBI’s actions are illuminative of a big disconnect in the levels of law enforcement that has become more apparent after 9/11. Once many domestic law enforcement agencies were federalized, the country saw an onset of joint terrorism task forces that didn’t always pay attention to what local authorities knew about the situation on the ground.
“That was probably a factor in this case — that the local cops knew ‘Oh, these guys aren’t doing anything,’ but the Feds didn’t,” she said. 
Because the level of scrutiny that Hamza’s community faced might be intrinsic to a climate of post-9/11 fear, Taylor said the FBI’s actions were understandable, noting there is a big difference between understanding these actions and thinking they were justified. 
Taylor said she never anticipated how deeply she would end up “exploring the most elemental processes that make us human” — namely a search for a higher purpose, hope and forgiveness.
“New Muslim Cool” allowed for a tremendous communication of emotionsfv with which its characters could have been humanized or dehumanized. 
Taylor tried to humanize Hamza, but didn’t want to leave the impression that he was one of a kind.
“Hamza’s not the only hero of this story,” she said. “There’s a lot of people who I think had the same kind of heart.” 
You can reach this staff writer at ccottrell@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On Tuesday afternoon, hours before his televised address at West Point, President Barack Obama wisely acknowledged, “None of this is easy. I mean, we are choosing from a menu of options that are less than ideal.” For such a statement, I applaud the president for his candor and realism. He is right in asserting that Afghanistan can no longer be the forgotten war regulated to the back page of the American mind. Afghanistan is not the “good” war, it is really the great unknown — troubled by a corrupt and feeble central government, a lack of infrastructure, and persistent attacks from Al-Qaeda and the Taliban, Afghanistan has a bleaker future than even Iraq. That would have been difficult to say three years ago. 
Had the president decided to withdraw immediately from Afghanistan, I would have respected his decision. But his timetable for America’s exit is shortsighted and setup for failure.
The moment Obama decided to add more troops to the equation should have been the moment he placed all of his cards on the table. Go all in, or do not go at all. Expediting the deployment of 30,000 troops may help in the short term, but it is not a viable solution. Contrary to what some Congressional Republicans have argued in recent days, this is not about aiding the enemy by handing them our timetable for departure. There is no doubt that Obama recognized the divisions in his cabinet and the widening rift in his party over war policy. But even more certain is the fact that the July 2011 date to begin some form of an orderly exit coincides well with a looming presidential election the following year. Politics, rest assured, is always part of the equation. 
No one can argue with Obama surrogates that reject the prospects of extended nation building in Afghanistan. America’s finances will not defeat an entrenched insurgency if the Afghan government refuses to cooperate on issues such as educational development or reductions in the illegal drug trade. What is perplexing about the Obama war plan, however, is his awkward marriage of a substantial troop increase with his refusal to embrace the essential features of the army’s counterinsurgency tactics. Adding manpower to protect the civilian population is admirable, but what will happen when we depart in the coming years? 
Unless we commit ourselves to ramping up the training of Afghan security forces, the current mission will go to waste. If the president is sincere about leaving Afghanistan in stable condition, he will grant American troops the time they deserve to prove their mettle.
Michael Stubel is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the School of Communication and a moderate libertarian columnist for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As budgets across the country are strained by the pressure of the economic climate, some cities are starting to think about taxing the student population attending universities located in those cities — a practice which is likely to spread should it pass, according to an expert from the American Council on Education.
The mayor of Pittsburgh, Luke Ravenstahl, is exploring a tax on students dubbed the “Fair Share Tax.” It would add a 1 percent tax onto college tuition. Pittsburgh contains seven colleges and universities with 100,000 students who do not pay to use city services, according to a press release on the mayor’s Web site. The tax would raise $16.2 million in a year for the city, the press release said.
“Every day, public safety and public works personnel are providing core services to the thousands of students in our city,” Ravenstahl said in the statement. “Whether it’s a building inspector called out to a rental property, or public works crews picking up students’ garbage, it all adds up to costing city taxpayers.”
D.C. has 12 colleges and universities, which thousands of students attend each year, according to the College Board Web site.
Should an identical policy be implemented in the district, AU undergraduate students would be obliged to pay $344.56 per year in taxes, based on one percent of this year’s tuition rate at AU, which is $34,456. The AU tuition rate changes year to year, and it has gone up annually at least since 2003, according to the AU Annual Reports on the university’s Web site.
While Ravenstahl does not think it fair for “working people ... to shoulder this burden [of public services] alone,” Jackie Schumacher, a graduate student in the School of International Service, said such a tax would not be fair to college students because studying is not their occupation.
“If you’re generating money for the economy it should be taxed, but if you’re not making money [you] shouldn’t be taxed,” Schumacher said.
Junior in the College of Arts and Sciences Laura Harris said she does not think such a tax would be a good idea for D.C. because students are not the only people in the city who use its services and resources without being taxed.
“There are a lot of people who come to D.C. that don’t live here that use resources all the time,” Harris said. “I just think that’s not fair to students and their parents to have to pay more than they thought they would have to pay here at schools ... AU is already expensive.”
Ravenstahl is not the only mayor considering dipping into students’ wallets. In April, the mayor of Providence, R.I., David Cicilline, proposed a fixed tax of $150 per semester for students at schools including Brown University and Providence College, according to an article in USA Today, even though those schools have voluntarily donated to the city government for the past six years.
D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty’s office did not return calls to say whether a similar tax is planned for university students in the District.
You can reach this staff writer at mfowler@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students For Liberty miss the mark on capitalism
In her recent letter to the editor, Irena Schneider, President of AU Students for Liberty, wrote that she is “baffled to see” how rapidly her libertarian student group has grown. Likely hoping to promote greater interest in AU SFL, she takes the opportunity to elaborate on what libertarianism is based on, citing the belief that “capitalism is not a system of power or oppression” and that “the free market is the most humane way of looking at the world” as the common inspiration for her fellow potential APA research subjects.
It seems Irena and her ilk somehow missed out on the economic developments of the last few years. They remain oblivious to the brutality of capitalism. Even the sheer size of the human costs of the financial crisis — evictions, foreclosures, layoffs, and hunger — seems to have had little impact on the so-called liberty movement.’ At a time when the failings of the free market are most evident, it is, indeed, baffling to witness the continued relevance of libertarianism.
Mikhail Romanov 
Senior, CAS
Don’t like partying? There is still plenty to do at AU on weekends
In “Upset Student Explains Transfer,” Jack Eichner complains that he wasn’t informed about alternatives to frat parties on the weekend. Did Eichner try to join any clubs? There are a few which I can think of. The first, American Literary, is the AU literary magazine. Many lit majors (and other majors) are a part of this student publication­ — which attracts a variety of members from lit majors to international relations majors to business majors. Another club, AU Gamers, existed last year — inviting gamers of all kinds (video games, board games, etc) to play. There is also the Philosophy Club — which holds events such as film screenings and talks — and may be of interest to those not interested in frat parties. There is even a Creative Writing Club! While extracurriculars do not make up for the academic dissatisfaction Eichner felt, I wonder how much of an effort he made to find his niche in AU’s social sphere. I hope, however, he finds happiness at his new school.
Emma Wimmer
Junior, SOC
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU student clubs and organizations will have more travel options besides AUTO vans next semester, when Avis Car Rental expands rental services to 18-year-olds for university-sanctioned travel, according to Student Government President Andy MacCracken.
Effective Jan. 1, clubs at AU can rent cars from the Avis Car Rental office at 4400 Connecticut Ave., near the Van Ness Metro stop, for use by their student club or organization. Students can rent any car on the Avis lot, including a 12-passenger vehicle; AUTO vans can currently only hold up to 10 people for insurance reasons, according to MacCracken.
MacCracken said that he has been working on the Avis rental car contract over the summer and for most of this semester with the AU administration. Hallie Porter, who is in charge of contracts and purchasing for AU, negotiated with Avis over the rentals and secured the contract a few days ago.
Porter said that AU originally reached out to several car companies about expanding AU’s car rental services, but Avis had the best pricing. 
“Avis rental car provided us with an agreement that not only approved 18-year-old drivers, but also with aggressive pricing,” Porter said. “Avis rents only by the day, week or month. Hourly rentals will be left to Zip Car and Flex Car.”
Rentals will be $36 per day for a compact car or $101 per day for the 12-passenger van. Clubs and organizations will be paying for rental fees out of their own club funds, according to Porter. 
MacCracken said that this new Avis rental car contract would end the limitations that many clubs and organizations have in regards to where they can travel. 
“AUTO['s insurance policy] sets it so that you can’t travel with their vans out of a 50-mile radius,” MacCracken said. “If you are an AU organization, and you have to go somewhere where AUTO has limitations, this [Avis car rental program] would be a great service.”
MacCracken said that use of Avis rental cars will be limited to AU's clubs and organizations for now, including club sports.
It remains to be seen whether the lowering of the car rental age to 18 for AU students using Avis cars will affect the SG’s ongoing project to lower the Zipcar rental age to 18, according to MacCracken. He said that there are no new developments on lowering the Zipcar age right now, but the SG will be working on this project next semester.
MacCracken said that the new Avis rental car program is part of AU’s continuing efforts to expand services for students.
“Opening the age requirement is part of a two-part approach to helping students travel [with clubs and organizations] by giving students more accessibility and decreasing travel costs,” MacCracken said.
Corrections appended Dec. 3, 2009 at 10:26 a.m. and Dec. 17, 2009 at 4:14 p.m.
You can reach this staff writer at jryan@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Doesn’t it seem like days ago that we were collecting syllabi and scribbling notes onto clean, white pages? Now, we’re filling in the bubbles on professor evaluations and wondering where the semester went. After 27 issues of The Eagle, the staff over in MGC 252 is breathing a sigh of relief ­­— but like most of you, we’re already looking toward next semester.
For our loyal readers, you may have noticed that some of what you’ve read in The Eagle over the last few months has sparked a bit of controversy. Regardless of where you stand on “sex-perimentation,” the Women’s Resource Center or anything you may have discussed over TDR breakfast any given Monday or Thursday — we hope that we got you to think. And to talk. And to further the dialogue across campus. And whether you like it or not, we fully intend to continue that conversation in spring.
The Eagle staff works hard everyday to think of new ways to engage the campus community. One of our greatest goals is to have a relationship with the campus we cover. We want to reach anyone who feels underserved by The Eagle. If you feel you have a story to tell, or if you have a news tip you want to share, we would be thrilled to hear from you. It is our goal as the campus newspaper to cover what’s important to this community, and we all know that life at AU does extend beyond the Student Government and the Metro. That’s why we’re calling all clubs, greeks, athletes — and everyone in between — to send us their press releases and photos. We want this newspaper to reflect AU as closely as possible, and you can help us do that.
As the fall semester draws to a close, The Eagle wishes everyone the best of luck on their exams and final papers. Enjoy whatever holidays you may celebrate, and keep making news in the new year. 
Jen Calantone
Editor in Chief
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
