AU men and women emphasized their refusal to be silent on issues involving violence and assault during Take Back the Night Tuesday.
The evening started with a rally at 8 p.m. at Glover Gate. Participants then spent the night at Kay Spiritual Life Center telling personal stories and testimonials.
"[The rally] is a symbolic thing," said Carmen Rios, Director of Body Image, a focus area of Women's Initiative, and a freshman in the School of Communication and the College of Arts and Sciences. "It signals that you're not going to be vulnerable on campus." 
Melva Jones, AU's former Office of Multicultural Affairs program coordinator, returned to AU to facilitate the annual event that she initiated on campus seven years ago.
"I knew through my interactions with students that the AU community had a voice and needed a forum to express it," she said. "And after my departure, a freshman student, Jessica Hollander, continued the program until she graduated."
Since then, different people have taken responsibility for continuing the Take Back the Night tradition. Kyrie Bannar, the program's coordinator and a junior in the School of Public Affairs, got involved with the program two years ago.
"There [were] a lot of nerves leading up to it making sure every detail is right, but once you get there, it's not about the event, it's about the people," she said. "I thought [Tuesday] night was fantastic."
One in seven women in the United States become sexual assault victims, Jones said.
Members of the community shared personal stories until 1:30 a.m., according to Bannar. The event's goal was for every voice to be heard.
"It's a really safe place for people to talk about their experiences," she said. 
Take Back the Night accomplished its mission of getting the message out about assault and violence, according to Jones.
"The event went the way it was supposed to because voices were heard, a community was restored and healing began," she said. 
Jones said she will always come back for Take Back the Night.
"I will never miss this event unless I am immobile or asked not to return," she said. "AU has my heart with them always."
Tuesday's event was also preceded by several events to generate interest, according to Bannar.
"One is the Clothesline Project - writing a message or statistic on a shirt to hang in MGC," she said.
Women's Initiative sponsored the event.
You can reach this staff writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Latin American Student Organization will hold the 10th anniversary Latino Youth Conference, which works to inspire Latino kids in D.C., Maryland and Virginia to continue their education by going to college.
"Essentially, we hope to inspire these kids to think about the opportunity of continuing their education," said Isel Galvan, LYC's recruitment chair and a junior in the School of Communication. "Whether it be a four-year institution, community college or a trade school, I believe that education beyond high school is extremely important for Latinos, especially when looking at high school drop-out rates and lack of Latinos in college."
The conference, which is themed "Why College? Why Me? Why Now?," will feature several different guest speakers and workshops designed to help students who are considering receiving their college education.
"[The conference] is a day-long affair, which includes workshops on financial aid, the college application process, student and career panels, as well as a keynote speaker," Galvan said. "We will also be providing a parent/counselor track in order to help the students' most valuable resources, [their] friends and family, in providing a strong support network as the student begins their college career."
This year's guest lecturers include Antonio Gutierrez, one of the original LYC organizers and an AU alumnus, Kimberly Reyes and Frances Troy, who work at Duke University and Northern Virginia Community College admissions respectively and Vanessa Rodriguez, an AU alumna who will hold a "student inspirational workshop," according to Galvan.
Other workshops will include an alumni/student panel for students to ask questions, an interactive workshop where students will work in groups and present what they have learned from that day at the conference, and "Sí Se Puede!," a lecture for parents and counselors about attaining a college education, she said.
The conference will take place Saturday in the Mary Graydon Center. Check-in for students will begin at 8:30 a.m.
You can reach this staff writer at atuman@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
April 1
A resident in Leonard Hall told his roommate he was going to punch him in the face. A resident director and a dean are handling the situation. Room changes have been initiated.
April 2
A D.C. Fire Department ambulance transported a student from McCabe Hall to the hospital. The student reportedly overdosed on medication.
A student was stuck in an elevator in McDowell Hall. An elevator technician responded and released her. No injuries were reported.
A student in McDowell fainted twice after donating blood. She was conscious and coherent upon Public Safety's arrival. DCFD and Emergency Medical Services transported her to the hospital.
Letters were missing from an  AU logo located on a wall in Mary Graydon Center, on the first floor near the Terrace Dining Room stairway.
A rope from a sexual assault awareness display sign in MGC's first floor was cut.
April 4
Public Safety officers saw a student carrying an open can of beer on Tenley Campus. Two additional cans of beer were recovered from the student. The incident will be referred to Judicial Affairs and Mediation Services.
Two students were tugging on a rope outside of MGC when the rope snapped and injured both of them. They both had abrasions on their hands. The students signed medical refusal forms.
An Anderson Hall resident left his room unlocked for about six-and-a-half hours. Upon his return, the student discovered his laptop computer and his debit card were missing from the room. Upon checking his online bank statement, he discovered a fraudulent charge. He reported the card stolen to the bank.
A bathroom stall door in MGC was forcibly removed from a wall.
A visitor reported feeling dizzy and disoriented in MGC. When DCFD and Public Safety arrived, the sick person was conscious and coherent and said he did not need medical attention. He signed a medical refusal form.
A student in Letts Hall was transported to the hospital for alcohol overdose. A partially filled bottle of vodka was observed in the room. The sick person was noncompliant and unresponsive to DCFD's request for information. The sick person physically resisted their efforts. A second subject also failed to comply with officers' requests. JAMS charges will be filed.
Acquaintances became involved in an argument in the tunnel. A former student refused to leave a business establishment at a supervisor's request. The former student was barred from the area.
Two individuals were stuck in an elevator in McDowell. Public Safety, Facilities Management and DCFD were notified. The individuals were released without injury.
Concerned parents wished to have incidents documented regarding a possible conflict between two roommates in Anderson. Housing and Dining is aware of the situation.
April 5
Two helmets were stolen from a motorcycle outside Capital Hall.
April 6
A student in Hughes Hall fainted and regained consciousness after donating blood. She signed a medical refusal form and went to the Student Health Center.
A student inadvertently left her wallet unsecured and unattended in MGC. When she returned to retrieve it, it was gone. Later, she learned her debit card was used at the Campus Store. Her residence hall room and mailbox keys were among the items taken.
A community member reported suspicious activity by a non-community member around the Main Campus and surrounding areas. Officers made contact with the non-community member and he was barred from all AU property.
A Public Safety Aide discovered graffiti on the fire exit stairwell of Anderson's north terrace level.
An outside law enforcement officer turned in a piece of property that belonged to an AU student to Public Safety. The student was notified via e-mail.
April 7
Graffiti was discovered on the second floor of Centennial Hall. It appeared to have been written with a crayon. A report was taken and Aramark wiped the graffiti from the wall.
A student in the Sports Center felt lightheaded when finishing her workout after having donated blood the night before. An ambulance responded. The student signed a medical refusal form.
A bank customer in the tunnel became irate when a wire transfer was not being processed as fast as he wanted. As the customer left the bank, he damaged a door when he kicked and pushed it open. The Metropolitan Police Department took a report. JAMS charges will be filed.
The letters "E," "R" and "N" were missing from a wall display in the Tavern. Facilities Management was notified.
The contents of a trash can outside Hughes were on fire. Public Safety used a fire extinguisher to put out the fire. There was no damage to the trash can or surrounding area.
DCFD responded and freed a student stuck in an elevator in Letts. No injuries were reported. A resident director, resident assistant and staff from Facilities Management responded to the scene.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Associated Press named AU men's basketball player Derrick Mercer as its "Men's basketball All-American Honorable Mention," according to an AU Athletics press release.
Mercer was the first student in Patriot League history to record 1,200 points and 500 assists. He was named the Patriot League Player of the Year and was also named to the Patriot League all-tournament team.
Mercer, a point guard on the basketball team, is a senior and will graduate in May.
-ANNA TUMAN
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Student leaders at the University of Maryland screened portions of a pornographic movie Monday night, despite threats from a state senator to remove all funding from the school, The Washington Post reported.
The student union originally planned to show the pornographic film "Pirates II: Stagnetti's Revenge" Saturday night. Administrators canceled the screening after state Sen. Andrew Harris, R-Baltimore and Harford Counties, threatened to introduce legislation removing all state funding from schools showing pornography.
The student leaders showed a half-hour portion of the film. A panel on free speech and pornography accompanied the screening, according to the Post.
-CLINT RICE
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Colorado Springs, Colo., man coughed up a nail that doctors said had been in his nose for about 30 years, the Associated Press reported.
Doctors stopped performing an MRI on Prax Sanchez after becoming aware of something metal in his face. Sanchez then coughed up a nail that was more than an inch long.
Dr. Jamieson Kennedy, Sanchez's physician, told the AP the nail could have been in Sanchez's face for as long as 30 years.
Sanchez told the AP he does not know how the nail became embedded in his nose, but he is considering framing it.
-C.R.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
More than 260 people died as the result of an earthquake that devastated a mountainous region of Italy Monday, CNN.com reported.
The quake's death toll was estimated to be at more than 260 as of Wednesday evening, CNN reported. The number is likely to rise as more bodies are found.
The tremors, which measured at a magnitude of 6.3 on the Richter scale, left more than 28,000 people homeless. The earthquake occurred about six miles below ground and was centered in the city of L'Aquila, the U.S. Geological Survey told CNN.
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi told CNN that 4,000 people were working on the rescue effort, and had enough room to house about 30,000 people.
-C.R.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Thursday, April 9
Ask A Veteran Forum
7-9 p.m.
WHERE: Ward 1
INFO: AU student veterans will share stories and take questions from the audience during a panel on the current war, what it's like to serve and the transition back to civilian life.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail brandonkrapf@gmail.com.
Friday, April 10
Dance: "International Vibe"
7 p.m.
WHERE: The Tavern
INFO: The International Student Leadership Team's international festival will include dishes from 15 different regions, a talent and fashion show and dancing. Tickets cost $20 at the door, or are available for advance purchase for $15 in advance from Butler Pavilion, room 410.
CONTACT: For more information, visit www.american.edu/ocl/isss/upload/ISLT-International-Festival-Sp09-Flyer.pdf.
Saturday, April 11
Holi Festival of Color
1-4 p.m.
WHERE: Main quad
INFO: Join in on the South Asian Student Association's celebration of spring. The festival involves throwing colored powder and water at each other. Participants are encouraged to bring white clothes.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail sasa@american.edu.
Sunday, April 12
Film: "Campfire"
7 p.m.
WHERE: Bender Library, Media Classroom
INFO: "Campfire," the story of a widowed mother and her two daughters who want to join a new settlement in the West Bank, is the latest in the Discover World Cinema video series.
CONTACT: For more information, visit www.library.american.edu/about/events/discover.html.
Monday, April 13
Lebanese Festival
7-11 p.m.
WHERE: Main quad
INFO: The Lebanese Cultural Club will share information about Lebanese culture and samples of stuffed grape leaves during this event.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail atieh@american.edu.
Tuesday, April 14
Campus Beautification Day
8 a.m.-2 p.m.
WHERE: Main quad, Tenley Campus and the Brandywine building
INFO: Faculty, staff and students will be able to help beautify the campus by installing plants, placing mulch and cleaning up the campus. A barbecue in the Woods-Brown Amphitheater will follow planting.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail kkirlin@american.edu.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Over the past year, AU Housing and Dining Programs has sought to implement a program that would encourage more interaction between resident assistants and their residents in order to hear their experiences at AU while not invading students' privacy.
In January, Intentional Interactions replaced EagleEye as a program to increase contact between the two groups. 
When information about the Housing and Dining's EagleEye program leaked in mid-September, some students said they were alarmed by the seeming lack of privacy it generated, especially if RAs were able to talk to resident directors about certain individuals they were worried about. 
After numerous student complaints, Housing and Dining Executive Director Chris Moody decided to not approve the program, and Director of Residence Life Rick Treter had to go back to the drawing board. 
The new program, which Housing and Dining internally refers to as Intentional Interactions, is "the best part of EagleEye," according to Treter. 
"A version of [EagleEye] has been redrafted to remove any types of concern about invasion of privacy [or] storage of student information, to be a guide for RAs in helping to have conversations with their students," Moody said. 
Intentional Interactions is a tool for RAs to have increased relations and conversations with the residents living on their floor, according to Treter. RAs are given lists and contact information for places to point their residents to if they have any questions or problems with any facet of student life. All on-campus residents, especially freshmen, are encouraged to schedule, but can opt-out of, one-on-one conversations with their RA. 
Under EagleEye, each RA had a list of questions he or she could ask students about their AU experience. The RA was then required to log residents' answers and track trends across their floor. 
Louise Brask, a freshman in the School of International Service, participated in EagleEye in the fall. 
"Last semester, when I was first interviewed by my RA, I was a little taken aback that they had been writing everything down," she said. "It seemed very forced and very unnatural."
Suggested questions for Intentional Interactions are the same as they were for EagleEye, Treter said. The main difference is that there will not be any information tracking. 
"The focus of EagleEye became learning about students," Moody said. "But that wasn't what it was designed to do. It was designed to give the RA resources to give back to the student, and so I think all the conversations that happened in the fall about EagleEye were really productive because it helped to re-focus the goal on giving RAs resources to help residents."
EagleEye was not meant to be an invasion of privacy, Treter said. 
"It was not my intention from the beginning for it to be anything that was intrusive into somebody's private area," he said. "That's not my goal and that's not something that I want."
The problem with EagleEye was the mandatory reporting of all residents, according to an RA in a North side residence hall who asked to not be identified.
"RAs are already encouraged to bring any problems they see on their floor to the RDs," the RA said. "But making a mandatory reporting database of all residents and their reactions to our questions was not a good idea."
The RA said he or she partially follows Intentional Interactions. The RA does not use the questions provided by Housing and Dining, but instead said he or she tries to have meaningful conversations with his or her residents. 
"I consider what I do to be the intent of Intentional Interactions," the RA said. "I do not press my residents for more information; I let them talk to me about how they are doing, and I try to assist them with any issues or problems they are having."
The goal of Intentional Interactions is for students to get to know their RAs better and for the RAs to give better guidance - not to screen for at-risk students, Treter said.
"We already have a mechanism in place for students at-risk to be identified," he said.
In the system, RAs talk to RDs about certain students they see as at-risk.
"In no way, shape or form was that program meant to ascertain those individuals," he said.
Housing and Dining wants RAs to be there for their residents if they need advice or simply want to talk - similar to the role of a University College program assistant, Moody said. 
"I want students to understand that their RA is not just an enforcer of community standards, that they are not just there to police the floor," Treter said. "That their role is much larger than that, and what they are charged with is really making sure that students are getting connected to resources and that they are having a good residential experience at AU from the time that they're here." 
Chris Dychala, a freshman in SIS, said he did not think Intentional Interactions was an invasion of privacy, but he would not utilize the one-on-ones with his RA.
"It feels like we're being babysat by the RAs and having this intentional mentor just to make sure students are OK, I don't really think it's something that's necessary," Dychala said.
Intentional Interactions is better in increasing basic communication between students and RAs, Brask said. 
"I probably would have done it at the beginning of the year to get to know my RA better," she said.
You can reach this staff writer at thallerman@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The D.C. Council voted unanimously Tuesday to honor same-sex marriages performed in other states - a decision some AU students have vocally supported. 
Lawmakers expect the proposal to go to Congress for a final vote on May 5, according to The Washington Post. Tuesday's vote was the first step in a larger battle to legalize gay marriage in the District - an issue that the council expects to consider soon. 
D.C. already grants domestic partner rights for insurance benefits, hospital visits and other purposes, Council Chairman Vincent Gray said in a press release Tuesday. 
"However, the unanimous, affirmative vote today sends a clear signal that the council is prepared to stand up for the human rights of all D.C. residents no matter what their sexual orientation," Gray said in the release.
The council's decision sends the message that they value all relationships, AU Queers and Allies President John Marzabadi said. This could help further the cause for legalizing gay marriage, especially because it was a unanimous vote, he said. 
"The decision is a step in the right direction," Marzabadi said. 
While it is too soon to tell what effect the proposal will have on the AU community, it could have a noticeable effect on school policy, he said. AU is currently one of the few universities that provides domestic partner benefits for same sex couples, and a congressional decision to honor same-sex marriages in D.C. could influence the type of benefits same-sex couples see, he said. 
On a larger scale, the proposal will send a message to Congress and open up debate on the same-sex marriage act, Marzabadi said. 
"I think we could definitely see in 2009 at least three or four other states legislating or mandating same sex marriage," he said. "And that's just the states that we know of that have pending legislation."
Sam Schmidt, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, said he felt it is just a matter of time before gay marriage will become widely legalized.
"After a while the government is not going to be able to restrict a select group of people's rights," he said. "It just won't outlast the movement." 
Madison Major, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said she hopes the proposition is the first step toward same-sex marriage. 
"I don't know about [the] near future, but yeah, I'm optimistic," she said. 
While D.C. is a fairly liberal city, the real issue is getting the proposal past Congress because D.C. has federal oversight in all internal matters, according to Marzabadi. 
"I think right now that's kind of a 50-50 situation," he said.
Queers and Allies does not have an official position on council's vote, Marzabadi said. 
"But we are in favor of marriage equality, to put it lightly," he said.  
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Auxiliary Services is reviewing contract proposals from Barnes & Noble and Follett, the current vendor, to determine which company will supply and manage the campus store next year.
AU is looking for its future provider to have innovative ideas and can help the university redo the store's lower level and accommodate the Internet's increasing presence in book purchases, according to Auxiliary Services Director JoDe Norris.
"What is promising for me is - should Barnes & Noble get the bid approved - is they have better online resources, I was told," said Student Government President Seth Cutter. "It gives me hope that they've been such a successful company that they know how to do it."
The online resources and new managers that would come with Barnes & Noble might outweigh the benefit of Follett's familiarity, Cutter said.
"Maybe Barnes & Noble will be bad," he said. "But at least we'll have a taste of both."
Other changes that would accompany a new contract, such as management changes, might also be beneficial, Cutter said.
"If bookstore management is quality, you will have quality management in the community," he said.
AU is also looking for a provider with good customer service and communication with faculty and students, Norris said.
"We need to try and reach them even harder," she said. 
Auxiliary Services is attempting to educate professors on the book adoption process - how professors select the books they would like to use for the upcoming semester.
Professors rarely meet the textbook adoption deadline, which is April 15 for the fall semester, Norris said.
"[Adoption] is always difficult no matter how good a contractor is on education," she said. "We usually have 15 or 20 percent adoptions [by the deadline] and that probably is a little high. Faculty, they don't understand why it has to be so early."
Both Barnes & Noble and Follett would keep April 15 as the deadline to adopt books for the fall semester and would develop a relationship with faculty to communicate the importance of the adoption process.
If books are adopted on time, the provider is able to secure the adequate number of books and more used books, which students can buy for lower prices, Norris said. 
"It's first come, first serve," she said.
Next year's book prices are likely to remain the same whether AU signs a contract with Follett or Barnes & Noble. 
Forrest Young, a freshman in SPA, said he prefers to get his books elsewhere since he has a tight budget and can often find cheaper books online.
"I would prefer to go to the bookstore and support the bookstore, but I just can't because I'm a college student," he said.
When students buy textbooks from Follett and sell them back to the bookstore, they receive 50 percent of the money if the book was new and 25 percent if it was used, Norris said.
The process can be confusing and difficult, Young said.
Samantha Wingo, a first year graduate student in the School of Public Affairs, said she has bought books from both vendors.
"I haven't had any problems," she said. "Some things aren't always there [at the campus bookstore] and they don't have ones you need, but I've never had a problem ordering [books]."
Last week, the two possible providers presented their proposals to a forum of faculty, students and staff members, who rated the presentations on a one-to-10 scale, Norris said. The forum will meet Friday to determine which company will best benefit the university and will make a final decision in the next two weeks.
You can reach this staff writer at landerson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The national teenage birthrate has increased for the second year in a row following a previous 14-year trend of steady decreases.
The rate at which unmarried women who gave birth rose by seven percent between 2006 and 2007, according to the Centers for Disease Control National Center for Health Statistics. The same report showed Texas, New Mexico and Mississippi - all states that traditionally vote conservatively - had the three highest number of teen birth rates. In Mississippi, there were 68.4 births for every 1,000 girls aged 15-19. The report did not cover how many pregnancies were terminated.
The consensus among many experts is that nobody is certain as to what is causing the sudden rise in unplanned pregnancies, although authorities on both ends of the ideological divide have voiced their opinions.
"With any kind of contraceptive there's a risk involved," Karin Thornton, AU's associate Catholic chaplain, said in response to the report. The Roman Catholic Church and the federal government both advocate for abstinence-only programs. Under President Barack Obama, the programs could receive significant funding cuts, according to The Washington Post.
Critics of these programs argue that abstinence-only programs do not always provide a complete and effective education.
"I think it's pretty clear from a number of independent research studies that abstinence-only education is not particularly helpful to students," said Women's Initiative Director Ashley Evans. 
Evans said that although she supports a person's right to abstain, she also emphasized the need to get all the information.
"'Abstinence-plus' programs would be a more comprehensive solution," she said.
While she said she supports a complete education, Thornton said she did not know about other programs outside of her area.
"I don't know the matter of the education is because I haven't listened to their particular plan," Thornton said.
Evans and Thornton chose not to comment on the CDC's report, but were happy to share their views on the general topic.
Parents have a role in their children's actions, said Rebecca Hsieh, a graduate student in the School of Public Affairs' Justice, Law and Society program.
"I feel that's where parents really need to intervene and talk with their kids and realize what they're going through because it's ultimately the kid's decision," she said.
Women's Initiative will host "I Heart the Female Orgasm," a sex-education presentation put on by authors Dorian Solot and Marshall Miller, on April 24.
While the program is part of a national movement, Evans said she encourages men to attend, calling the event "the climax of the year."
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Universities across the country are moving away from traditional forms of discipline to systems based more on mediation and restorative justice.
Universities originally set up legalistic discipline systems in order to stand up better in court, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. However, many schools are now choosing to focus more on building better citizens and less on judicial punishment. 
The goal of using mediation and restorative justice is to distinguish university discipline systems from legal systems, Gary Dickstein, the past president of the Association for Student Conduct Administration and student judicial matters director at the Ohio-based Wright State University, said in a phone interview.
"Our job is not necessarily to be punitive," he said. "It's to be more educational. The court system can be punitive."
AU is also working to help students who end up in Judicial Affairs and Mediation Services, according to JAMS Director Rosie McSweeney.
"The philosophy of student conduct is focused on education and accountability," she said in an e-mail.
Changes are also occurring in the terminology used. Wright State, along with many other universities, are working towards a shift in language to help separate its disciplinary proceedings from legal proceedings, Dickstein said.
"When we have terminology like 'guilty,' 'innocent' and 'judges,' people begin to get confused," he said. "We use 'disciplinary.' To some people, it might be semantics, but to us, it's an important distinction, because we are not in the business of trying to take the place of the court system."
Wright State had decided to rename the Office of Student Judicial Service the Office of Community Standards and Student Conduct. The new name would be less ambiguous, Dickstein said.
AU is reviewing the language in its student conduct code, McSweeney said.
Changes in terminology would make a big difference, said Jared Alves, a freshman in the School of Public Affairs.
"To me, it just comes down to a matter of semantics," he said. "It would put it into a more informal sense. Maybe it would mean something psychologically."
James Page, a freshman in the Kogod School of Business, said he thinks moving away from legal terminology could have both costs and benefits.
"It seems a little more friendly," he said. "It makes the university seem more compassionate, but at the same time, you're babying the students."
Making sure the language adequately reflects the purpose of the student code of conduct is important, McSweeney said in the e-mail.
"We aim to educate students to be respectful and contributing citizens who make considered decisions," she said.
You can reach this staff writer at crice@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Many AU students praised President Barack Obama's recent promise to ease tense relations between Cuba and the United States.
Obama announced last week that he is searching for a "new strategy" for the United States to use in its relations with Cuba, especially regarding travel and trade, according to The Washington Post. He will likely reduce restrictions on Americans' ability to travel to Cuba before the mid-April Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago.
"I think it's definitely a good step forward in foreign policy, and not just in travel issues," said Taline Kevonian, a second year graduate student in the School of International Service.
While many Americans enter Cuba through Mexico or Canada, many more will likely visit the island if restrictions are loosened, she said.
"A lot of straight-edge people don't want to go through Mexico or Canada because the government says it is illegal," Kevonian said. "But they will say, 'OK, the government isn't against Cuba, so I can go [if restrictions are lifted].'"
Katie Shankle, a junior in SIS, said she definitely opposes the embargo on Cuba yet has concerns about the process and implications of lifting the restrictions. She spent the fall 2008 semester in Havana, Cuba, studying with AU Abroad's enclave program.
"The Cubans want the embargo lifted," Shankle said. "They are a poor country and need money, and the cheapest country to trade with is the United States."
But from a historical perspective, she said lifting restrictions would alter a country where there are cars from the 1950s and buildings from before the Cuban Revolution; where there are no McDonald's restaurants on Cuban street corners and no real Chinese food restaurants.
"What I am sad to see is the Americanization of a place that is frozen in time," Shankle said. "Cuba will look at the last days of what it's been like for 50 years."
Cuba's infrastructure may also not be able to support American tourism, since the nation is very different from typical American tourist destinations and situations like power outages are common, she said.
Lifting travel restrictions may eliminate some problems Shankle said she faced in Cuba.
"When we were there, the discussion was on whether the program would survive with the restrictions," she said.
Americans do not have access to banks, credit cards or means of cashing checks while in Cuba, Shankle said.
The AU students who travel there could only travel outside of Havana for education purposes and could only buy education or art-related items, she said.
"We had to be very cautious bringing back T-shirts because technically we're not allowed to," Shankle said.
They could not have an internship or stay with a Cuban family and the classes they could attend were limited, she said.
"The United States wants to keep us in a pocket of Havana and doing exactly what they specify in classes with chosen Cuban teachers and American students," Shankle said.
Easier travel would come at a cost, she said.
"I'm grateful I got to see Cuban government as a closed government, pre-whatever happens before the embargo is lifted," Shankle said. "It's still untouched so it's incredibly unique. It's a glimpse of a closed society and what those peoples' lives are like."
You can reach this staff writer at landerson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After protests over a potentially offensive issue of The Hoya, Georgetown University's campus newspaper, more than 100 students turned their anger into constructive ideas for improving the paper and putting it in better touch with the community on Tuesday night.
Students who claimed to be offended by The Hoya's April Fools' issue asked questions and gave suggestions to six of the paper's editors during a panel discussion, according to Hoya Editor-in-Chief Andrew Dwulet.
"At times, many students expressed their anger and discontent, but I do think it was ultimately a good first step," Dwulet said in an e-mail. 
Students offended by The Hoya's April Fools' issue staged a sit-in at the paper's office April 2, according to Dwulet. The joke issue came out March 31.
Alessandra Brown, a senior at Georgetown, was one of the angered students. After she and others met on Thursday to discuss what action to take over the April Fools' issue, they decided to hold a sit-in and Brown was elected spokesperson for the event. Brown is the president of the Georgetown NAACP, but said she is not speaking on behalf of the organization.
"I personally saw how offensive [the issue] was, and not just to minority groups," she said.
The issue made derogatory comments about Asians, interracial couples, black people, single mothers on campus and the LGBT community, Brown said.
"It was incredible that they could say so many offensive things in so few words," she said.
The sit-in began around 11:30 p.m. April 2, while The Hoya staff were preparing for the production of the paper's Friday issue, Dwulet said. About 60 students from organizations including NAACP, the Black Student Alliance, Georgetown Pride and others, marched into The Hoya office carrying copies of the April Fools' issue and sat silently in the office for roughly 20 minutes. The Hoya staff continued to work around the protesters, Dwulet said.  
"At the very beginning I didn't exactly know what to do," he said in a phone interview.
Dwulet offered to take anyone interested downstairs to discuss the issue at hand, but no one responded, he said. After twenty minutes, Dwulet said Brown gave a short statement explaining that a number of different groups on campus were deeply hurt by the contents of the April Fools' issue. 
Dwulet posted an apology on The Hoya Web site Friday, stating that while the issue was only intended as parody, it crossed the line in some instances.
"Our intent was to satirize everything and to publish a joke issue that was just ridiculous," Dwulet said in a phone interview. "Our intent was never to harm but it doesn't change the fact that a number of articles were insensitive and over the line."
Brown feels The Hoya's April Fools issue was a manifestation of a larger issue, which is students feeling comfortable in making insensitive comments, she said.
"I personally believe that Georgetown has an environmental problem," Brown said. 
Dwulet said he agrees there are broader issues of race and diversity at Georgetown that will now be addressed because of the current controversy. 
He said he is looking forward to continuing this dialogue through the meetings he has planned with several additional student leaders. 
"We're really asking ourselves some important and overdue questions, about our organization how well we rep the community, about all those things, so I think that is a good thing," Dwulet said.
Nora Schauble, a sophomore in AU's School of International Service, said she thinks Georgetown students may have blown the issue out of proportion by holding the sit-in. A more effective method of communication would have been to speak with the editors or sign a petition, she said. 
"I just feel like it's not appropriate in that situation," Schauble said. 
Sudath Mawatha, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, said he understood why so many Georgetown students were upset. 
"If you discriminate like that, it's not good," he said. "Don't joke about it either."
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Matt Bulger does not understand why the undergraduate senators opposed a bill to defy the ROTC program at AU, and the answer is quite simple: Bulger's voice is heard because former ROTC cadets defend it. Moreover, we should be reminded that part of the sacrifice that the Army and Air Force cadets give while being students at AU includes their obligation to refrain from expressing their opinion in uniform, while allowing other students to freely speak. 
Being AU, it should be apparent that we support U.S. forces. It's bad enough that not every flag is lit at night, but to remove privileges that ROTC cadets deserve is highly un-American. The cadets have gone too many years without meeting spaces, AUTO vans and minimum publicity at AU. They have abided by the Career Center's policy of "one recruiting visit per year" and no mention of ROTC is made on the AU Web site. If Bulger wishes to comprehend further, I would suggest he thank men and women like Lt. Ryan Rooks, a 2005 AU graduate who flies for the D.C. National Guard, or Jonny McGuire, a 2007 AU graduate who is deployed in Iraq. What about Stephanie Burns, a 2007 AU graduate who flies medical missions in Afghanistan? 
Surely we cannot forgo the mission to save lives for the dissent of a few. On the battlefield, there is no straight or gay, nor is there the presence or absence of amendments. It's only a matter of life or death, and I am glad that the undergraduate senate prefers our alumni to have the privilege of saving more lives and defending the voices of free speech at AU.
Jacob Choi
Senior, College of Arts and Sciences
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I am writing to you as an AU alumna and as a proud member of the Coca-Cola family. I read your front-page article with heightened concern for the lack of balanced reporting of the issue at hand. Your citing of one Web site as the basis for your allegations begs for verification. Therefore I am writing to you to convey the facts regarding Coca-Cola's business in Colombia and around the world.
Over the past several decades, Colombia has experienced much internal conflict. Yet despite the volatile environment, Coca-Cola and its bottlers have maintained operations and provided safe, stable economic opportunities for the people of Colombia for more than 70 years. Coca-Cola has supported programs that aid children, promote education, and bring relief to victims of the country's ongoing conflict, including a recent $10 million grant to start the Colombian Foundation for Education and Opportunity, an organization that addresses the needs of victims of violence. We openly and publicly deplore and condemn all acts of violence committed by any paramilitary group. And, the company and our bottlers continue to take steps to protect the individual freedoms and the personal safety of Coca-Cola workers and their families. 
The allegations that Coca-Cola bottlers in Colombia have been complicit in violence against union members are absolutely not true and has been proven false time and time again. In fact, two different judicial inquiries in Colombia ? one in a Colombian Court and one by the Colombian attorney general ? found no evidence to support the allegations that bottler management conspired to intimidate or threaten trade unionists. 
These allegations were the thrust of a lawsuit filed in 2001 against the Coca-Cola company in a U.S. district court in Miami. The company was dismissed as a defendant. On Sept. 29, 2006, the court issued a decision to dismiss the two Coca-Cola bottlers in Colombia from all remaining cases as well. The court ordered that the cases be closed. The entire ruling can be accessed on www.cokefacts.com.
In 2006, The International Labor Organization, a United Nations governing body for workplace rights, accepted requests independently made by Coca-Cola and the International Union Federation of food and beverage workers to conduct an investigation and evaluation of Coca-Cola bottling operations in Colombia. The ILO has completed its independent evaluation and issued a report that may be reviewed at: www.ilo.org. The report found that Coca-Cola bottlers are upholding labor standards that have been ratified in Colombia, including respecting collective bargaining agreements and providing a safe working environment. 
I would encourage students and others interested in understanding the complexities of doing business in Colombia to please review these public records. I believe that these would provide a more complete picture of our business and would add perspective to the Internet myths and rumors reported on this week. 
AU students should know that Coca-Cola shares students' concerns. And we are sincere in our commitment to being part of the solution to the problems facing Colombia and in ensuring fair labor practices everywhere we do business. We welcome public, private, union and civil discourse and partnership as a means of addressing these issues. It is through these dialogues that real progress has been made.
A. Raquel White 
Alumna, Class of 1994
Group Director, Public Affairs and Communications 
Coca-Cola Eurasia and Africa Group
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Last semester, popular outcry from students and administrators alike contributed to the eventual scrapping of "EagleEye," a proposed Housing and Dining program. 
Originally considered too intrusive by students and too confusing by resident assistants, Residence Life Director Rick Treter went back to the drawing board, narrowed the scope of his plans and quietly unveiled a new program called "Intentional Interactions." The revised program, in place since January, has been made more student-friendly and less intrusive.
What this program tries to do more than anything is codify what it means to be a good resident assistant. The program encourages RAs to ask their resident' specific questions in an attempt to strengthen the student-RA relationship. 
"I want students to understand that their RA is not just an enforcer of community standards, that they are not just there to police the floor," Treter told The Eagle. 
Improving communication between the RAs and students is an admirable goal. It is important that students - especially freshmen away from home for the first time - have someone to talk too that isn't a friend. RAs, already natural authority figures, need to take this role. 
Good RAs already make themselves available to their residents, good RAs already keep a watchful eye over their flock, good RAs already do all the things that this program requires of them. For a good RA, this program has no use. This program was made necessary for the duds among them. A student should not be robbed of a personal confidant and friend based on unlucky placement in the dorms. This program ensures students will have someone to talk to when things get tough. 
We hope this program will help the less motivated, less personable RAs on campus come out of their shell - even if it takes a little prodding. By forcing "Intentional Interactions," students and their RAs will have no choice but to grow closer. 
The university, and specifically Rick Treter, deserve credit for continually trying to improve resident life on campus. EagleEye was decidedly off-base, but this scaled down, non-Big-Brother-esque new program is a worthwhile endeavor.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Board of Elections Chair Emily Ann Kokol was out of line when she forced me to take down my campaign banner that hung from the parking garage. It was the kind of power-starved attitude that she exhibited that makes people hate the Student Government.
Before placing the 14-foot long banner that read, "Mayer For President, Vote Tuesday," I thoroughly read through the BOE's rules regarding campaigning. The word "banner" appears only once in the rules, expressly stating that no banners are allowed to hang on the quad. Nowhere are any regulations mentioned about the parking garage.
I had the banner approved by the BOE before I hung it. I specifically asked where I was not allowed to hang it. They told me that it could not go on the quad or be within 15 feet of a "polling place" once the election started. That was fine by me. The garage was completely fair game.
More than simply wanting to get myself attention, hanging this banner was about making the process of running for office fun. The BOE has such stringent rules, it is no wonder that only eight people applied for the four executive positions. Campaigns for student government should be about who is the most creative, not who is the most popular.
I was very proud of my banner. More than simply a campaign sign, it was the most clever campaign tactic I had ever seen used. A huge banner, hung where everyone could see, in complete compliance with the rules and nobody had ever done it before.
Ms. Kokol was not as impressed with my banner as I had hoped. She demanded that I take it down, citing a rule that says that candidates are not permitted to campaign inside Bender Arena.
First of all, the banner was clearly not inside. It was outside. Secondly, the parking garage is not Bender Arena. It might be attached to Bender Arena, but it is not Bender Arena. Anybody can see that. Anybody except Ms. Kokol.
It is my opinion that she simply could not deal with the fact that I had maneuvered my way around the rules so well. People like Ms. Kokol only take positions like chair of the BOE because they are desperate to feel important and could never develop the internal fortitude to put their own name on the ballot. So they thrive off of making other people's lives difficult by enforcing upon them unnecessary burdens.
Ms. Kokol ought to lighten up. She exemplifies the reason people are apathetic towards the Student Government. I congratulate President-elect MacCracken on his victory and urge him to keep this in mind as he moves forward. If students are ever going to care, the SG needs less regulation, more transparency and, most importantly, needs to take itself a little less seriously.
Mike Mayer,
Junior, School of Public Affairs
Former Student Government presidential candidate
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Board of Elections' primary purpose is the oversight and implementation of the Student Government's elections each semester. The BOE, acting with the Judicial Board, not only maintains consistency in how elections are conducted but constantly evaluates and interprets the Election Guidelines given to each candidate and available on the BOE's Web site - www.ausg.org/boe.
The decision to ask Mike Mayer to remove his banner was not made by one person but rather the whole of the BOE. In the election guidelines, it clearly states that campaigning is not allowed in Bender Arena, along with other commonly frequented buildings on campus. The BOE unanimously decided that the garage was indeed a portion of Bender and therefore was off-limits for campaigning. Like most decisions made by all portions of the Student Government, it is made clear to all candidates that decisions made by a member of the BOE can be appealed to the Judicial Board. This course of action was not taken in this particular situation.
After speaking to the member of the Board who originally approved the banner in question, it was discovered Mr. Mayer was verbally informed as to appropriate banner locations in addition to the election guidelines. We regret that there was any misunderstanding in this situation. Had a specific location been unclear or had someone wanted to appeal a decision made by the BOE, members of the board were available in their office every day for the week prior to elections.
Should any member of the AU community have any additional questions or concerns regarding elections, the BOE or the SG, we would urge you to follow up with us directly by e-mail (boe@american.edu) or stop by our office (MGC 262). The Eagle is not an appropriate venue for anyone to vent his frustrations or concerns with individuals and we hope those who take issue with any decision made by the SG, elections-related or not, are taken up through the appropriate channels.
Emily Ann Kokol
BOE chair, 2008-2009 academic year
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
