Thursday, Feb. 12
Film: "Passion for Sustainability"
12:30-1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Bender Library, Media Classroom
INFO: This documentary focuses on Portland, Ore., businesses with a set of environmentally sustainable practices called The Natural Step.
CONTACT: For more information, call Chris Lewis at 202-885-3257.
Friday, Feb. 13
Lavender Languages Conference
10 a.m.-noon
WHERE: Butler Pavilion, sixth floor
INFO: Scholars from across the country will present on LGBTQ rights under the Obama Administration, addressing topics including the "Ask, Don't Tell" policy. Pre-registration is not required, but entry to the conference costs $5 for AU students.
CONTACT: For more information and to buy tickets, visit www.american.edu/cas/anthro/lavenderlanguages.
Saturday, Feb. 14
Performance: "Hay Fever"
2 and 8 p.m.
WHERE: Harold and Sylvia Greenberg Theatre
INFO: Romantic dreams go awry when members of the Bliss family invite over guests in this humorous play. Tickets cost $5 for AU students and $10 for guests.
CONTACT: For more information and to buy tickets, visit american.tix.com.
Sunday, Feb. 15
AU men's wrestling match
1 p.m.
WHERE: Bender Sports Arena
INFO: The men's wrestling team will compete in this conference event against Bucknell University.
CONTACT: For more information, visit aueagles.cstv.com. 
Monday, Feb. 16
The Great Punch-Out: A Week of Hard-Hitting Boxing
7 p.m.
WHERE: The Library of Congress, 101 Independence Ave. S.E.
METRO: Capitol South (blue and orange lines)
INFO: This event, which runs from Sept. 24 through today, features Hollywood and documentary films about boxing. Show times are 7 p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and 6:30 p.m. Wednesday. Admission is free, but seating is limited, so reservations are recommended.
CONTACT: For more information, call 202-707-5677.
Tuesday, Feb. 17
Black History Month Jeopardy
8-10 p.m.
WHERE: The Tavern
INFO: Participate in an evening of trivia - without Alex Trebek - at this event co-sponsored by the Black Student Alliance, the AU chapter of NAACP, Phi Beta Sigma fraternity and Sigma Gamma Rho sorority.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail ma@american.edu.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Feb. 4
A student reported a fire outside of Constitution Hall and extinguished the flames with water. The Department of Public Safety responded and noticed a large pile of newspaper ashes on the step landing near the Tenley field side doors. Public Safety contacted the Grounds Department to remove the ashes. The D.C. Fire Department was not contacted. No damage, other than to the approximately 20 newspapers, was reported.
A locksmith reported noticing damaged doors at the bridge connecting McDowell Hall and Leonard Hall. It appeared someone pulled on the doors to gain entry from one building to the other. The door leading from McDowell was propped open with a drinking glass. Graffiti was written on the windows.
A resident director in Anderson Hall reported two incidents involving the same student suspect. During the first incident, a desk receptionist asked the suspect to leave the building because he had been confrontational. Upon being asked to leave, the suspect made threatening and disparaging remarks to the receptionist and then left the building. The suspect later returned to the building. When confronted by a different receptionist, the suspect walked by the desk, made an inappropriate remark to her and continued into the building, ignoring her request to show his AU identification card. The suspect walked to the conference room area, returned, and left the building. The resident director indicated she would file Judicial Affairs and Mediation Services charges.
A student became weak and disoriented while purchasing food at the Eagle's Nest. She indicated she had donated blood earlier in the day and had not had a chance to eat. She signed a medical refusal form and left.
Feb. 5
The D.C. Fire Department transported a student in Constitution Hall to Sibley Hospital. The student vomited profusely and indicated she had been feeling ill for the last week.
An unidentified individual took an iPod and accessories from a parked vehicle on Massachusetts Avenue. The complainant also notified Metropolitan Police Department.
A vehicle's manufacturer's emblem was taken from a rear passenger tire of a parked vehicle in the Nebraska parking lot.
A community member reported defaced property in Letts Hall.
Feb. 6
Public Safety responded to a report of a sick person and found an individual conscious, alert and very pale in Anderson. She stated she had been feeling ill for the past few days and made an appointment with the Student Health Center. She declined medical transport. She walked to the health center with a friend and a witness.
Public Safety responded to a report of a despondent individual on the main quadrangle of the Washington College of Law. The individual appeared confused and had no identification. She was escorted to a Metrobus stop to Sibley. MPD responded but the individual had departed the area.
Public Safety observed an Army Corps evacuation sign had been forcibly removed from a signpost and was missing from the area outside the Office of Financial Aid building. A site manager indicated no one from the Army Corps project removed the sign.
Feb. 7
Water flowing from a broken pipe activated a fire alarm in the Sports Center. People evacuated the building. Facilities Management closed the valve to the broken pipe and authorized the alarms be silenced. 
A smoke detector in the basement of the Mary Graydon Center activated a fire alarm. Smoke from contractors welding in the basement triggered the detector.
Feb. 8 
Three unidentified individuals carrying three large containers of ice cream were seen walking out of the Terrace Dining Room area through the loading dock doors. The individuals fled the area with the containers upon being confronted by the complainant.
While on a routine patrol at Leonard Hall, Public Safety discovered the front entrance door lock to the Child Development Center on the ground next to the door. Public Safety canvassed the interior and exterior and determined there were no signs of forced entry. It is possible the lock may have fallen from the door due to the door slamming when opening and closing.
A student became lightheaded and fell several times after taking hits of tobacco from a hookah in the Amphitheater. The student was conscious and very alert upon arrival of Public Safety. The student indicated he took in more nicotine than he could handle. The student signed a medical refusal form.
Feb. 9
A student reported a broken window in a lower level classroom area in the School of International Service building. Facilities Management taped the window and  placed caution tape in front of the window area until the glass could  be replaced.
An individual in Capital Hall fell, causing an abrasion on his knee. Public Safety provided first aid. The individual refused further medical treatment and signed a medical refusal form.
Feb. 10
A student consumed alcohol and drugs. DCFD transported the student to Sibley.
An employee reported her vehicle was damaged while parked in the Nebraska lot.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The U.S. Postal Service may cut one day of mail delivery per week due to budget deficits, possibly affecting AU students and the university mail delivery system.
Postmaster General John E. Potter proposed the delivery cuts to Congress on Jan. 28, asking the legislators to rescind the requirement that mail be delivered six times per week in order to compensate for the U.S. Postal Service's deficit of $2.8 million last year, according to The Washington Post. The post office will likely face a $6 billion loss this fiscal year unless action is taken, Potter told the Post.
Delivery on the day with the lightest average mail flow would be suspended, which could be Saturdays or Tuesdays, according to the Washington Post.
Depending on the day eliminated, AU's mail system may be strained, according to AU Director of Facilities Administration and Financial Services Anthony Williams.
AU students can pick up their packages from the residence hall front desks Monday through Saturday. However, mail is only delivered to campus Monday through Friday.
"We are waiting to see which way it goes," Williams said. "Hopefully it is Saturday." 
If mail delivery is cut on Saturday, AU will not be affected, Williams said. However, the removal of Tuesday delivery will be difficult, he said.
"It will be a challenge if it is Tuesday, not just here at AU, but also in the world," Williams said. Many paychecks and business operations depend on Tuesday delivery, he said.
Ed Gilhool, associate director of Housing and Dining Programs, said he is confident that AU will be able to handle any possible increase in mail as a result of the Postmaster General's proposal.
"We could easily anticipate an increase in the Monday mail volume as a result of the proposal, but feel it will remain manageable overall," he said in an e-mail. "Once we know more, we will be able to evaluate our current processes and minimize, to the best of our ability, the impact it may have on students."
Due to the large volume of mail in Anderson and Centennial  Halls, students pick up their packages in a separate room during certain hours, while North side residents do not have scheduled hours. The university is discussing the possibility of reconfiguring the Anderson-Centennial Hall desk area during the summer of 2010 to improve package pick-up, Gilhool said.
"We are exploring design options that could increase our ability to offer more regular package delivery to students," he said. "As of now, however, no specific decisions have been made."
Kate Lindsay is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences and a resident assistant who occasionally works in the Anderson-Centennial mailroom. She said that every package must be logged in and notices of packages must be e-mailed to students. There are often long lines of students waiting to pick up their mail, she said.
Two days without mail delivery may make the situation more difficult, she said.
"It may be hard with an extra day off because so much mail comes in on Mondays from Sunday," Lindsay said. "Two days off could possibly clog up the system with two days of mail in one."
Margot Kaplan, a freshman in CAS, said she did not care about the possible decrease in mail delivery until she heard package delivery would possibly be included in the cuts. The only mail Kaplan sent recently was her absentee ballot, but she said she often shops online and receives packages from her mom.
With e-mail's popularity, old-fashioned snail mail is rare, according to some AU students.
Sara Rigdon, a junior in the School of International Service, said she rarely uses the post office and opts for e-mail and phone calls instead. She said one less day of mail service would not matter much to her.
"I don't even know how many days they're open now," Rigdon said.
You can reach this staff writer at landerson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU was named to the 2008 President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll, the highest federal recognition given to schools for community service, according to an AU press release.
The 2008 President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll award is given to schools that show outstanding community service skills throughout a one-year period.
This award recognizes the commitments AU students have made to service including their work with programs such as D.C. Reads, Alternative Break Program and D.C. Today ... D.C. Tomorrow, according to the press release. 
AU is one of 635 schools that have been honored on the list. George Washington University was the only other D.C. school to be named to the Honor Roll, the press release said.
-ANNA TUMAN
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Faced with a budget shortfall of more than $150 million, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority officials are considering money-saving options that include closing the rail system early, The Washington Post reported.
According to the Post, Metro General Manager John B. Catoe Jr. said he will cut $81 million by lowering administrative expenses and cutting more than 300 jobs.
Closing the rail system at 10 p.m. is one way that has been suggested to cut the remaining $73 million from the budget. Other proposals mentioned in the article include shutting down the yellow line on weekends and after 9:30 p.m. on weeknights or raising fares.
-CLINT RICE
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Police arrested a Middletown, Ohio, teenager after he allegedly ordered more than $37,000 worth of candy and charged it to his former high school, reported WLWT.com.
Jad Holmes, 18, ordered more than 100,000 candy bars and lollipops from a candy manufacturer using the school's purchasing number, police told WLWT. Police were not sure how Holmes knew the number.
The manufacturer became suspicious at the size of the order and called the school, according to WLWT.com. Investigators told them to ship an empty box.  Holmes was arrested when it arrived.
He is being charged with theft, according to the article.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A firefighter died after a 40-story Beijing luxury hotel, scheduled to open this year, burned down Monday near the end of the Chinese New Year's celebrations, CNN.com reported.
The Mandarin Oriental Hotel was unoccupied at the time of the fire, but one firefighter died of smoke inhalation. Six other firefighters and a construction worker were hospitalized, according to CNN.com.
Police suspect fireworks to be the cause of the fire, according to CNN.com. Central China Television, which is constructing a complex next door to the hotel, apologized after claiming staffers authorized the shooting of fireworks that accidentally started the blaze.
-C.R.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Two AU clubs on opposite sides of the political spectrum, Students for Justice in Palestine and AU Students for Israel, tabled on the main quad Tuesday on behalf of one cause: Frisbee.
Chelsea Lund, a senior in the School of International Service, brought together many of AU's clubs to support the union of sports and conflict resolution. Ultimate Peace is an organization that promotes peace in the Middle East through Frisbee games.
"[Ultimate Frisbee] is about the team on both sides, supporting each other," she said. "If there's a foul called, you admit it; it's about honesty and it's about working with your teammates and the other team."
As a member of AU's Ultimate Frisbee team, Lund invited her teammates to play a match at the event, in addition to the several clubs that tabled nearby. OneVoice, an international grassroots movement for negotiation between Palestine and Israel, and AU's Community Action and Social Justice Coalition were also participants.
Most of the clubs at the event participated in activities together previously, but this was the first chance for several of the on-campus clubs focused on  Israel and Palestine issues to co-sponsor a social event, according to Lund.
Rachel Weingartner, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences and a Students for Justice in Palestine member, said the event sounded like a good opportunity. 
Nick Haras, a first-year graduate student in the SIS International Communication program, participated in Students for Justice in Palestine during his four undergraduate years at AU and continues to do so as a graduate student.
"In Lebanon, for example, soccer matches were used prior to the civil war to try to bring Muslim-Christian reconciliation," he said. "Sports allow people to interact with each other and to compete, to get out a lot of energy in a context that doesn't turn violent."
All the clubs present addressed some aspect of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Lauren Barr, the president of the OneVoice Movement at AU and a sophomore in SIS and CAS, said the OneVoice Movement had not worked with the Ultimate Frisbee team before.
"It's exciting that we've partnered with them, it's kind of fun to cross boundaries that usually aren't related," Barr said.
The biggest mishap of the event was a late start, Lund said, but the clubs were able to stay late so students leaving class had a chance to see everything.
"I was excited to see so many people show up for the tabling, that was the part that I thought would be the hardest," she said. "I also got a great Frisbee game going, which was the whole point of the event."
Lund is also arranging a D.C.-wide Frisbee game March 22 on the National Mall. Club teams and individuals can sign up and pay $10, which will go towards Ultimate Peace.
You can reach this staff writer at klitvin@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A new Web site that offers discounts to local restaurants, retail stores and events is beginning to attract AU students with its deals.  
CityShopGirl.com, founded in October of 2008 by Kelly Collis Fredrick, lets users register for free to receive daily e-mail updates about promotions in the D.C. area. Users can then redeem the promotional codes at such locations as Mie N Yu restaurant in Georgetown, the D.C. Shorts Film Fest and NationalJeanCompany.com, according to Fredrick. 
"I think every shopper is always looking for a good deal and CityShopGirl aims to do just that," Fredrick said in an e-mail. "CityShopGirl keeps the promotion short and to the point; meant to be read on your iPhone or BlackBerry." 
Fredrick works directly with the vendors, charging a fee in exchange for the publicity she gives them among CityShopGirl readers. Spas and specialty stores are especially popular, Fredrick said. 
"We look for hip and trendy locations that our readers want to go to," she said in an e-mail.
Shannon Green, a sophomore in the School of Communication, has been interning for CityShopGirl since the beginning of this semester. Green was originally drawn to the company because it was something local that she and her friends could take advantage of, she said. 
"I really like how [Fredrick] focuses on all kinds of things going on in D.C.," Green said.
Green has used CityShopGirl promotions several times, including at Dupont Circle's Firefly restaurant and bar, as well as at NationalJeanCompany.com. The discounts are typically between 15 and 20 percent. While some of the vendors are more expensive, many are within the means of a college student, she said. 
While the site mainly targets females between the ages of 18 and 25, Green said that the restaurant and event promotions open CityShopGirl up to men as well. 
Plans could also be formulated for a CityShopGuy.com, according to Fredrick. 
Louis Peterson, a junior in the School of Public Affairs, said he could see males using CityShopGirl just as much as females.
"I don't see it being gender specific because I know there are certainly guys who spend a lot of money on clothing, but I really don't have the disposable income right now to even consider that," Peterson said. 
Green is currently helping Fredrick develop a branch of CityShopGirl for Philadelphia, Green said. Originally from Philadelphia, Green is researching a list of potential vendors in her hometown area, she said. 
Kimberly Dustman, a junior in the Washington Semester's economic policy program, said she would definitely use a site like CityShopGirl. 
"I'm originally from the rural Philadelphia area so I haven't ventured out into the city too much, so I think it would definitely be great if I knew what was going on and the sales that all the stores were having," she said.
Dustman said she would especially appreciate discounts to restaurants and clothing stores, as she gets tired of eating on campus and is also trying to build up her professional wardrobe. 
Green feels CityShopGirl has the potential to become popular on AU's campus. The site already has a strong following at Georgetown University and George Washington University, she said. 
"[Fredrick]'s trying to get the AU crowd really involved," Green said. 
To help encourage the AU community to join, CityShopGirl has already featured several special discounts for students and hopes to do many more, Fredrick said. 
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Shai Reshef is starting a new online university, complete with courses, students, professors and deans. What it will not have, however, is tuition.
The University of the People, as it is called, relies heavily on volunteers and both retired and active professors. The university is set to open in April, and classes will start with the fall semester. 
"I realized how powerful online learning can be and how far you can go with it, but how expensive it can be," Reshef said in a phone interview.
Reshef said he was not sure if any AU professors had volunteered to teach classes, but said he had a long list of professors from other universities who had.
"Since we announced, we're overwhelmed with professors and professionals," he said. "I saw a few names from quite impressive universities."
The only costs to attend the university are a registration fee ranging from $15 to $50 and exam fees, ranging from $10 to $100 for each test. The exact prices depend on the country of the student's residence.
Courses at the university, which will only offer bachelor's degrees in business administration and computer science, will be open-source online courses posted online by universities. To get credit, students will have to post at least twice a week on a class message board, complete quizzes and assignments assigned by professors, and take the final exam. With the exception of the final exam, students can complete all activities on their own time from wherever they have Internet access.
Nicole Melander, a Kogod School of Business professor and head of the AU Online Learning Advocacy Committee, said she teaches some online courses at AU, but that her classes require students to attend online sessions at specific times. She also said she liked the idea of a tuition-free online university, but was not sure that it would be able to replace interactions with real professors, especially for students in areas without easy access to other educated professionals.
"Online asynchronous learning has been highly successful," Melander said in a phone interview. "But I think the target is largely the third world. They need more than just some Web pages to read and some activities to complete."
AU students will not be able to get credit from the UoP right away, because it is not accredited, according to AU Registrar Linda Bolden-Pitcher. The UoP will have to gain full accreditation for students to transfer credits to AU, Bolden-Pitcher said.
"If it's accredited as a four-year institution with qualified degrees, then that's something that we would definitely investigate," she said. "Someone's got to be in charge to make sure the faculty are doing what they're supposed to be doing."
The UoP plans to seek accreditation as soon as possible, and estimates it will take about three years, Reshef said.
Imad Benrabah, a graduate student in Kogod, said he did not think an online school would be able to provide him with the connections a more traditional education could.
"My first concern is the interaction between me and the other people," she said. "I'm interested in networking."
The new idea has a long way to go before it gains acceptance, Melander said.
"It's so fundamentally different from what we think of as a college education that it's hard to get your mind around it," she said. "It's a very visionary thing. I'm not sure if the world is ready for it, but it's a great concept."
You can reach this staff writer at crice@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU Undergraduate Senate unanimously passed a resolution Feb. 1 encouraging the Campus Store to list the ISBNs of textbooks online rather than directing book buyers to the Follett Higher Education Group's Web site. 
The resolution seeks to alter the bookstore's relationship with Follett, its textbook provider, before its contract with the company expires in June, according to Class of 2012 Sen. Jared Alves, one of the bill's sponsors. Rather than merely directing students to efollett.com to purchase their books, the resolution encourages the university to list the ISBNs, authors and editions of textbooks.
It seeks to make cheaper book-buying via Web sites such as Amazon and half.com easier and to correct the difficulties students have with the bookstore, such as incorrect textbook editions and book shortages, Alves said.
"The resolution specifically shows the sentiments of the student body," he said. "The bookstore contract is up at the end of June. Instead of allowing Auxiliary Services to renew it without concessions, the resolution just lets them know student feelings."
Auxiliary Services is the administrative office that manages retail services on campus such as the bookstore and postal services.
Since the Undergraduate Senate theoretically represents the student body, and the resolution was passed unanimously and with little debate, it shows how much students want action to be taken in regard to textbooks, Alves said.
Rachel Strohman, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, said that while she has not needed the ISBNs to purchase her textbooks from Amazon.com, the resolution is a good idea. 
"Follett often charges ridiculously high prices," she said. "I can often buy new books from Amazon for cheaper than used books from Follett."
In solely using Follett, there is stifled competition, Alves said.
"We are touted as a capitalist society and as not having monopolies, which is what efollett is," he said.
However, the cost of textbooks, shortages and timeliness are often out of the bookstore's hands, said Auxiliary Services Director JoDe Norris.
In order for the bookstore to ensure an adequate number of textbooks are available, professors must adopt a textbook and let the store know which books they want for their classes by the Oct. 15 deadline for the spring semester, she said.
"But that's rarely met," she said. "It's usually closer to the semester start date, which makes it harder to get used books on time."
If professors do not submit their book requests on time, it is less likely that used copies - or any copies - will be available, Norris said. Thus, students will have to pay more.
A bookstore committee made up of students, faculty and staff discusses many issues the campus store faces such as cost and efficiency, she said.
"It tries to team with the faculty and educate everyone about the importance of the textbook process," Norris said.
She said she understands the student senators' motivation but wishes that the connection between students and the bookstore could improve.
"Their reasoning is not the relations I would like to see with the bookstore," Norris said. "But I understand."
The Undergraduate Senate's resolution would come into action before the Higher Education Opportunity Act, signed in August 2008, that will require universities to list the ISBNs of textbooks online by 2010.
Rather than waiting an additional year for the national legislation to be enacted, Alves said it does not make sense to waste money on textbooks for the 2009-2010 academic year. 
The senate also passed another textbook-related resolution on Sunday, Alves said. It endorses a piece of legislation passed in the Faculty Senate and the creation of a committee of students, faculty members and administration to act as oversight for Auxiliary Services in matters such as the bookstore.
The recent flow of legislation regarding textbooks illustrates the need to take action, Alves said.
"We see, week after week, these things come through demonstrating we want something done," he said.
You can reach this staff writer at landerson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Expansion of AU's national prominence and improvements in alumni relations are extremely important to the university's continued growth, President Neil Kerwin said during a Kennedy Political Union event Monday.
"We need to find ways to engage alumni in the light of the university, we need to serve their needs as they progress through life, needs for career assistance, needs for lifelong learning," he said. "We simply need to increase the outreach that we undertake with our alumni."
Kerwin has been president of AU since 2005 and has been closely involved with the university since he first graduated from AU in 1971. Before his presidency, Kerwin served as the dean of the School of Public Affairs and then as the university's provost until he took over the presidency from Ben Ladner.
Kerwin discussed the need for AU to improve its reputation.
"We need professional approaches to telling this institution's story," he said. "We need to make sure that when people hear the name American University they don't ask 'Gee, where is that?'"
In an effort to better market AU to the community at-large, the university is in the process of completing comprehensive market research and study. When the study is completed, AU will roll out a new marketing campaign, with the university's Web site as its centerpiece, Kerwin said.
"It will certainly have as its anchor the new Web site, which we expect to launch in March," he said. "The Web is the future and a lot of the marketing we do will be fundamentally linked to that capacity."
Kerwin said he has an optimistic vision for AU, despite the economic difficulties many universities currently face. He described the current economic crisis as extremely dangerous and worrisome, but maintained that the university was in good financial standing.
"I'm very proud of the financial condition that we find ourselves in today," he said. "I'm very pleased that we have been able to develop the kind of reserves that allow us to say with confidence that this is not an institution that is confronting freezes in either hiring or salary."
AU is financially stable, partly because 81 percent of the university's annual budget is paid through student tuition dollars while only half of one percent - totaling $2 million - comes from the schools endowment funds, The Eagle previously reported.
AU has dealt with criticism in the past for its small endowment, but it has been a benefit during this difficult economic time, during which students will continue to pay tuition costs, The Eagle previously reported. Other colleges have lost millions of dollars as their investments have decreased in value along with the global stock markets.
The night before this event, Kerwin attended an informal question-and-answer session with students in the McDowell Formal Lounge. 
Following Kerwin's speech, he took questions for an hour. Students took the opportunity to confront Kerwin with what they viewed as AU's faults. 
One student, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences' Audio Technology program, told Kerwin the program was "embarrassing at best" and that it was unfair for him to have to pay full tuition.
Another student discussed how SPA advisers had not helped her when she transferred from the Washington Mentorship Program. The student, who became emotional at times, said poor communication caused her to have to spend an extra semester at AU.
Throughout the speech and subsequent question and answer session, Kerwin acknowledged that the university had faults and said he hoped many would be fixed in the near future.
"You'll see during the next couple of years a serious effort to remove some of the inefficiencies, some of the frustrations that you've [students] told us about," he said. "We know that making your life as simple as we can with administrative services is critically important, so that you can devote the time and attention you need to develop as scholars and people."
You can reach this staff writer at cszold@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Wellness Center-sponsored abstinence education program that focused on sexual purity ended Monday night with students openly challenging the presented views. 
During the question-and-answer session, some students in the audience challenged what they described as religious overtones, exclusion of gay people and rhetoric pertaining to sex victims. Dr. Lindsay Marsh, the guest speaker, responded to students by saying that abstinence is a choice all people can make and that her program tries to emphasize the worth and value of all individuals, not to judge or condemn.
Most students criticized Marsh, a 32-year-old virgin and author of "The Best Sex of My Life," for her claims that gay people could change their lifestyle if their hearts were open to God, that certain people were predisposed to promiscuity and that kissing could devalue a person.
While the GLBTA Resource Center took no official stance on Monday night's programw, individual members of the community were vocal in conveying their questions and concerns.
One student asked if he was included in Dr. Marsh's message despite the focus on male-female relationships and marriage to which she responded that many people on her team are former gays and that God can renew a person open to change.
Laura Flanagan, a freshman in the School of International Service and College of Arts and Sciences, came to the event expecting to learn about abstinence in daily life but said she was shocked when she heard Dr. Marsh's stance on gay people. 
"My heart stopped and that's when I realized that this wasn't what I was expecting it to be," she said.
Allan Duffy, a health educator with the Wellness Center, said on more than one occasion that the Wellness Center did not support Dr. Marsh's perspective on GLBT issues.
"I believe it is a message you can make applicable to your lifestyle as a GLBTA," he said.
The event was scheduled in an attempt to balance the perspectives the Wellness Center presented on sexual choices and to offer more abstinence-centered discussions at student organizations' requests, according to Duffy. In a subsequent interview, he said that everyone felt included by the Wellness Center at some point because it should be trusted as a safe space.
The clash of ideas evident at the event was on par with other recent sex-focused events at AU, such as the Trojan Evolve campaign and events that address abortion, Duffy said.
In a subsequent interview, Marsh said the diverse student audience was unusually challenging, as she typically speaks to middle and high school or church audiences.
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Money is getting tight and college is still expensive. Any little bit of money saved is a victory for cash strapped students. Thankfully, AU's Undergraduate Senate and the U.S. Senate are keeping students in mind. The Undergraduate Senate passed a resolution Feb. 1 that called for the Campus Store to list textbook ISBN numbers online, making it easier for students to buy books online. 
Without an ISBN number students will often order different editions of required books, leading to lost time and money. By refusing to list the ISBN numbers online, the bookstore kept students from buying used books online, and instead forced them to buy new on campus. 
The act by the Undergraduate Senate had been preempted by a national law passed in 2008. The Higher Education Act, signed into law by former President George W. Bush, requires all universities to list ISBN numbers online by 2010. The Undergraduate Senate has effectively asked AU's administration "why wait until 2010?" Textbooks are expensive right now. The resolution, which is unfortunately non-binding, nevertheless sends a clear message to the administration that students will no longer stand for shoddy and expensive service at the AU campus bookstore.
The Follett Higher Education Group's contract to run the campus bookstore is ending this June, making this a perfect chance to make the bookstore's policies more student friendly. The Undergraduate Senate's unanimous vote in favor of listing ISBN numbers online is a timely reminder to the administration that students will not settle for the bookstore's expensive status quo. 
Thankfully for students it seems that the administration - including President Neil Kerwin - is aware of student's complaints. Kerwin said at a recent meeting with students that their complaints about the bookstore have not gone unheeded. Kerwin also said that Vice President of Finance and Treasurer Don Myers is in the process of evaluating the bookstore's services. Myers is sure to find what students have been dealing with for years: poor student service and overpriced books.
It is extremely important that the administration is not only aware of student complaints, but also actively involved in alleviating them. Follett's contract cannot be renewed automatically. Taking the path of least resistance is not the right move for the students or for the university. Bidding for the contract must be competitive. Companies interested in serving AU's students must be willing to make concessions. Listing ISBN numbers online is one concession that the administration should insist on. 
The Undergraduate Senate deserves accolades for lending visibility to this issue. The campus bookstore's inefficiencies are fixable and can be changed. By letting the administration know clearly where students stand, they have no choice but to listen. 
In an earlier editorial, The Eagle highlighted many problems students have with the bookstore's service, Now, we implore Kerwin and the rest of the AU administration to listen to the students and their representatives in the Undergraduate Senate. A more efficient AU will not only help students, but also the university and its reputation.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Abstinence-only education is a controversial topic anywhere in the United States and is especially so on AU's campus. AU hands out condoms like lollipops, and they are often used for the same reason. While there are surely abstinent members in the AU community, the campus culture is not one conducive to that choice.
The Wellness Center, in an effort to promote an underrepresented viewpoint, hosted Dr. Lindsay Marsh, a proponent of abstinence-centric sex education. Marsh quickly proved controversial as she alienated the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community by suggesting that if they open their hearts to God they can be saved.
Even though the Wellness Center has made it clear they do not support Marsh's more controversial viewpoints, the center still deserves blame for bringing her to campus. The AU community is made of people of varying different backgrounds and sexual orientations. A speaker whose viewpoints so consistently denigrate members of this community should not be hosted on campus.
A speaker like Marsh is not only offensive but also counterproductive to her own cause. Abstinence-only education is flawed, but abstinence as a lifestyle is not. If the Wellness Center had been more careful and brought a less controversial, fact-based educator, an important aspect of sex education would have received its due debate. Marsh accomplished nothing more than confirming what many at AU already believed - that abstinence is untenable in today's culture.
Despite this extremely unsuccessful attempt at representing varying viewpoints, it is important that the Wellness Center continue to try. The comments leveled at Marsh after her program focused on her religious overtones and exclusionary rhetoric - not necessarily on her support for abstinence. The Wellness Center would be well suited to find a non-religious and more open-minded speaker next time around.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In an Op-Ed piece last week, professor Caleb Stewart Rossiter asserted "AU's 'Green Teaching Certificate' promotes bias." As the manager of the Center for Teaching Excellence's Faculty Corner, which administrates this program, I feel that professor Rossiter misrepresented the intent of the Green Teaching Certificate.
This voluntary program for faculty was created in conjunction with the student group Eco-Sense as an attempt to give "green" courses a familiar face on campus. The focus is not specifically on global warming but rather sustainability and conservation of resources. Beyond that, there are more than forty items on the list of things a professor can do to get a Green Teaching Certificate. Of these, he or she must make an effort to do only 11 of them. The two mentioned by Professor Rossiter are not requirements. They are simply suggestions for courses in which this type of content is appropriate.
The Green Teaching Certificate is in the second semester of a yearlong pilot project. The feedback we've received from faculty has been overwhelmingly positive. We certified 48 professors in the fall and 65 so far this semester. We've also encouraged participants to provide feedback so we can make the survey as responsive to their concerns and as inclusive of their ideas as possible.
As part of this process, the two items discussed by Rossiter were added this semester by a professor who teaches classes in environmental issues. Namely, these were that a professor "require students to undertake actions to reduce their ecological footprint [and] encourage students to pressure their congressional representatives to enact environmental protection measures." The wording of these questions is admittedly provocative. In consultation with other faculty members, we decided last month that the phrasing would be changed on subsequent versions of the survey. We agreed that they didn't accurately reflect the voluntary nature of this program. I could have explained all this to Professor Rossiter had he contacted me with his concerns. Instead, he used an editorial in The Eagle to not only express his reservations about the Green Teaching program but also to promote his own views on global warming.
Finally, I want to make it clear that the Center for Teaching Excellence in no way advocates for the "brainwashing" of students towards one political view over another. In fact, our mission is to help professors be better teachers. This includes encouraging students to think for themselves. You can read more about the true intentions of the Green Teaching Certificate here: www.american.edu/cte/greenteaching/index.html.
Kelly Nolin
Manager, Faculty Corner and 
Certified Green Teacher
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Imagine the surprise of a student who comes to Washington, pays over $150,000 for an education, graduates with honors, and leaves the university only to find that among the faculty from whom she learned, there remain supporters of fallacious reasoning and archaic ideas. In an appalling Op-Ed piece appearing in Monday's Eagle ("AU's 'Green Teaching' Certificate Promotes Bias"), Professor Rossiter shows his lack of understanding of the Green Teaching Certification, calls the environmental movement simply a "particular conclusion about the tradeoff between the environment and the economy," and ignores that climate change has been significantly linked to human-induced greenhouse gas emissions by an international panel of Nobel Prize-winning scientists (www.ipcc.ch). 
Prof. Rossiter's piece exhibits his ignorance in regard to the Green Teaching Certification program, which promotes an incentive based approach to combating environmental degradation in the classroom. While the checklist for Green Teaching Certification contains 46 specifically mentioned points, professors are required to comply with only 20 of these points to achieve the highest certification under the program, and are also welcome to create their own elements (www.american.edu/academic.depts/provost/teachingcenter/greenteaching/index.html). 
Rossiter takes specific offense at only two of these suggestions: that professors should require certain procedures (like printing double-sided, or submitting work via e-mail) and encourage political action, saying that professors are "not hired to tell students what to think, but to teach them how to think for themselves." In truth, professors are employed to teach students to evaluate relevant facts and emerging research, to create their own conclusions and to consider the legacy they leave as AU students, as stated in the school's "Ideas into Action, Action into Service" initiative. Even if Rossiter's alleged "tradeoff" were an accurate description of the opportunities our country has to reduce and mitigate climate change, protecting the environment by reducing consumption, waste and pollution would still be an ethically sound idea for professors to promote in their classes and for students to explore politically. After all, AU is the most politically active campus in the nation, according to The Princeton Review. "Tradeoff," however, represents an antiquated view of environmental issues, especially as companies increasingly combine money-making endeavors with progressive social initiatives in the newly emerging "fourth sector" (See NYT, "Make Money, Save the World," query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C02E1D9113EF935A35756C0A9619C8B63&sec=&spon=&partner=permalink&exprod=permalink). 
As U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon calls urgently on President Obama and leaders of other top industrialized nations to collaborate on international climate change agreements (See Washington Post, "U.N. Chief Wants Obama at Climate-Change Summit," Feb. 10, 2009), we have the opportunity here at AU to reduce our own ecological footprint and to become a more sustainable community by encouraging a brand of supportive, high quality teaching through the Green Teaching Certification program. Eco-Sense invites Rossiter and others interested in how to live responsibly in their environment to a Campus Sustainability Panel, at 7 p.m. on Feb. 19 in the Battelle-Tompkins Atrium.
Rose Davis
Senior, College of Arts and Sciences
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Valentine's Day was invented by greeting card companies to make single people feel lonely. So it is said. But guess what? The roots of this holiday are very old, and the original point was not what we think of today. Valentine's Day now represents, more than anything else, a ploy by companies to get people to buy stuff. Whether the holiday is new or old, selfish or selfless, our gripe is mostly that form eclipses substance when it comes to the Day of Love. It's another sacrifice on the altar of Holy Commercialism. And we have a problem with that.
You've seen the ads. They all relay the same message: screw this up and your woman will leave you. Let's admit it, those television Valentine's Day delinquents are all heterosexual men. Thank God for culture clash. But get the Valentine's Day thing right, guys, and you'll be making sweet, sweet love by sundown.
And who doesn't want that? It's almost as exciting as having someone respond to your column with an op-ed piece.
An aside: Mark Devries, "Op-Ed: 'Shiny Objects' Column isn't in on PETA's Joke," Feb. 2, 2009. Mr. Devries, we appreciate your criticism and enjoyed reading your well-reasoned response last week. 
But our culture of manufactured material wants has got us not feeling the love. It's like we never got a Valentine. 
And no, these aren't the musings of two bitter single people - we're both in happy, loving relationships. 
To understand the present, it's best to look to the past. And more than most other nationally recognized holidays, Valentine's Day has a somewhat evasive history.
There are a number of different theories about Saint Valentine and his claim to fame. The most popular theory casts him as a Roman priest who illegally preformed marriages after Emperor Claudius II outlawed them. When the priest's actions were discovered, he was beaten to death with clubs and decapitated. Not very romantic. Another theory posits Valentine was a prisoner who fell in love with the jailor's daughter. He sent notes to the daughter and before his execution, sent a final one signed "from your Valentine." Wow, now that's a Valentine to remember.
Anyway, fast forward to 1850, when Esther Howland, an American printer and artist, became one of the first to sell Valentine cards in the United States. Later, in the early 1900s, a card company named Norcross started manufacturing Valentines in earnest. Enter Hallmark in the mid 19-teens, and Valentine's Day exploded. Today, Valentine's Day is huge business. The Hallmark Company reports that more than 191 million Valentine's Day cards are exchanged industry-wide every year. Second only to Christmas, that's the biggest card sending day of the year. 
Darn, and we thought all the mail we receive about our column took that honor. 
Following the lead of the greeting card giants, other companies have been hit by cupid's arrow as well. Only instead of hearts, they see dollar signs. For example, U.S. flower companies raise their prices and about 30 to 50 percent in honor of the holiday and a number of restaurants we called offered only expensive "for two, prix fixe menus" on that day. Though we understand the law of supply and demand is hard at work here, we just don't think that's very nice. 
Now, just because we condemn Valentine's Day as an artificially commercial, corporate-exploited holiday doesn't mean we think people should be off the hook. Quite the contrary. The spirit of Valentine's Day - love and friendship - should be present all the time. We suggest this: give someone you care about chocolate or flowers on a random day in April. We guarantee the randomly-timed gesture will mean more, particularly because you didn't have ten commercials a day reminding you to do it. It'll also be cheaper. Everyone wins.
Ben Moss and Brittany Meyer are students in the Washington College of Law and columnists for The Eagle. You can reach them at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
We are only beginning to tell the story of AU. Spreading the good word about AU is a goal of university leadership, and it is a goal that I'm glad has moved to the forefront, even as we work to improve AU for future generations.
And to guide our improvement we have a grand new strategic plan, built by our community, which captures the spirit of this institution.
But in the world of grand plans, it is easy to brush aside the importance of small, yet meaningful, changes to our lives. Don't get me wrong - I'm all for big dreams. But I want to take a moment to offer a simple reminder to everyone at AU.
To make my case, let me give you an example.
New shuttle routes implemented this past fall were a huge improvement to transit service, and I commend Transportation Services for finding a practical solution to a problem that has existed for years.
But we're still falling short of the destination.
This is no complaint about standing up in the aisle during commuting hours. I understand that there are lots of people on campus, and they're all trying to leave.
Instead, I'm talking about the half dozen times a semester when the shuttles reach crush capacity - the type of overflow that leaves you stranded with countless other frustrated parents, visitors and students on a frigid curb in Tenleytown, counting the seconds until the next bus arrives.
The shuttle crush certainly isn't a daily occurrence. But for a few select days a year, things run amok: AU Admitted Students Day, Parents' Weekend and the first and last days of break, as students arrive and depart with luggage in tow.
During my time at AU, the shuttle system has maxed out during the exact same special events every year - and yes, I consider the first day of break a special event.
But despite this obvious pattern of overcrowding on specific days, there has never been a fix. It could be as innocuously simple as scheduling an extra driver. But alas, in the cold, we shall wait.
For some reason, the smallest improvements at AU seem to take the longest to make - and I'm not just talking about Transportation Services. There are simple yet unaddressed issues in every AU department that deserve attention, simple issues that could be fixed with little or no cost but would greatly increase the quality of life at AU.
And so my reminder to you is this: Have grand plans. Reach for the stars. Endeavor to be the best. But on the way, don't forget about the day-to-day occurrences that affect people personally. Don't forget about the importance of balancing grand plans with smaller efforts.
At the end of the day, students care as much, if not more, about the small AU things as they do about big AU things. You see, I'm not going to be here in 10 years - barely more than 10 weeks in fact. And while I'm encouraged about the Strategic Plan and what it represents, it doesn't really get my motor running.
What gets me excited is seeing improvements on this campus that affect my day-to-day life.
And maybe that's the real issue. In a land of grand plans - and AU has
many - we've forgotten to work on the small improvements that really affect students.
I'm proud of the steps we've taken to become a great national and international university, and I'm confident that we're well on our way. But I would be so excited to see a special events shuttle schedule this spring.
Just like I would love to see, at long last, Housing and Dining replace Chick-fil-A with Chipotle, a restaurant close to every student's heart.
Small decisions. Meaningful impact.
And be honest. In one corner: the AU Strategic Plan. In the other: foil-wrapped Chipotle burritos.
Which would you be more excited for?
Carl Seip is a senior in the School of Public Affairs and the AU issues columnist for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Opinions are personal. This is why in instances when people start throwing rhetoric around as fact, a person should step back and wonder if their "facts" are actually that. The recent stimulus package has been just such a case.
Instead of listening to pundits and people with vested interests, it is best to approach the argument from an objectively logical basis. Though there is no solution to this problem that is guaranteed to work, I believe, personally, that there is one option with more validity than the others.
If the financial crisis is examined carefully, it can be seen that the peek of prosperity before the fall was artificially created. What exactly does this mean? Homebuyers were taking out loans to buy properties they could not afford, and mortgage bankers would sell these loans in a bundle calling them securities. These securities were then bought by banks. When the homebuyers couldn't pay for the loans, the securities became worthless. From the beginning the homebuyers did not have the income or savings to pay for the houses. 
So in the end all that happened was the inevitable: the banks found out the securities were generally worthless. People were making millions off of assets that were not backed by real capital, creating fake wealth. So even though we are in a recession now, how prosperous would the economy have been if a different trajectory had been followed and this artificial wealth had not been created?
The Great Depression did not leave us with only bad results; it did lead to the articulation of macroeconomics and aggregate demand by John Maynard Keynes. His idea was that the Great Depression was caused in large part due to a lack of demand due to low consumption. President Franklin D. Roosevelt attempted to fix this problem by stimulating the economy through government action, and though many naysayers noted that unemployment rose during the New Deal, this is a gross misstatement. When the New Deal was in place, unemployment dropped. When FDR thought the economy was picking up, though, he tried to balance the budget by cutting many programs, which drove the country further into depression. 
So what is the lesson from this example? From what I know about the Great Depression, how it was dealt with and the fundamentals of aggregate demand, why people do not support the stimulus bill is a mystery. I know that our generation will have to pay for the stimulus later, but I would rather see higher taxes later than to see my friends and family lose their jobs.
The Great Depression shows that the stimulus bill is not pork. Yes, there are huge sums of money going to green initiatives, family planning, transportation, and so on, but is this really pork, or is this the government stimulating demand, keeping people employed and creating new jobs? This comes back to the artificial wealth of the boom before the bust. If people do not have enough wealth to support consumption even close to the level during the boom, the government must step in to inject funds to support our economy, and spending on these projects is the best way to do this.
Though I am presenting my own views on this subject, I believe everyone needs to form their own opinion on these issues and not take the word of others as gospel. Instead ask questions, research, even Google things and come to a personal conclusion. This issue goes much deeper than I can even come close to discussing in one short column.
Dave Stone is the arts consultant for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
