On Feb. 26, AU Abroad sent an e-mail to students to unveil its two newest programs - both of which are in India. Students now have the opportunity to study at Fergusson College in Pune or at Manipal University in Manipal. 
With more than 1,500 different recognized dialects and 24 official languages, India is the most multicultural country in the world - a fact many foreigners may find daunting, according to Ethan Merritt, an AU Abroad adviser. 
"I have never been more overwhelmed in travels abroad than when I spent time in Delhi," he said. "Thousands of people are all around you, all speaking different languages and going different places."
But after recently returning from India, Merritt and AU Abroad Director Sara Dumont said they found this high-scale diversity to be the most beautiful part of the country.
"What you get in India is a sense of what diversity really means," Dumont said. "You could travel 50 miles in any direction and be in a totally different culture than where before. That's what makes it so important for Americans to be able to study there."
Pune's Fergusson College is east of Mumbai, according to Merritt. Pune is small city compared to Mumbai, but it is known for its reputation as a young, vibrant cultural hub, housing multiple universities and India's National Film Archives and Institute.
Pune is not considered a tourist destination, according to Merritt. The Alliance for Global Education runs Fergusson's program. The Alliance is trying to limit the amount of students involved to 20, according to Dumont. Abroad students at Fergusson will live in homestays with a family, and have the option to be as involved with the family as they would like.
The second abroad program in India is held at Manipal University - one of the country's top five universities, Dumont said.
The world-renowned university is very international, and boasts degree-seeking students from more than 50 different countries. While Manipal is known for its medical and engineering curriculums, the university's Cultural Studies, Communications and International Politics departments run the study abroad program - a perfect fit for AU students, Merritt said. Manipal has a tropical climate, and is miles away from the beach. Its campus has a thriving community feel where all students and most faculty live on campus.
The two new India programs fill a void in AU Abroad, Dumont said. 
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU students can do more to affect change in D.C. Public Schools, School of Education, Teaching and Health Dean Sarah Irvine Belson said during a forum Saturday.
"It's great when people volunteer in schools," Belson said during the "Improving Student Achievement in Urban Schools" forum. "It's amazing that people work for Teach For America. That's great. But they should know they can do the same thing in their own backyard. That the next step is walking out there and actually being a teacher."
Presenters at the SETH-sponsored forum included Pedro Noguera, an education and sociology professor at New York University's Steinhardt School of Culture.
Noguera spoke to an audience of D.C. public school teachers and principals. They discussed ways to reform and improve public education, both in D.C. and nationwide.
Belson pointed out the lack of AU undergraduates in the hall. 
"We don't have enough AU alums," she said, gesturing at the crowd gathered to get Noguera's autograph on copies of his recently published book, "City Kids, City Teachers." "People who get recruited tend to be mid-career professionals. We don't want to lose that. But we want to work with more AU students."
SETH currently offers graduate programs in early childhood education, elementary education and secondary education, according to briefing materials. Tuition ranges between $4,000 a year for an elementary education teaching certificate and $6,000 a year for a secondary education certificate.
"Basically, you go to work in a D.C. public school or public charter school and get a master's for ridiculously cheap," Belson said.
The graduate programs include fieldwork in the D.C. public school system. Noguera said he believes that kind of experience is critical. 
"It takes time to become a good teacher," he said during his speech. "How you talk to the students matters. Trying to stifle children is not the best way to educate them. A lot of those things you need to learn as a teacher you learn on the job." 
Belson said she cares more about getting students involved in AU's education graduate programs than simply their cost. She referred to public school students who attend AU-sponsored educational programs.
"You get AU alums, you get them to bring their students on campus," Belson said. "Those students start thinking about college." 
That is the sort of community engagement Belson, who helped draft AU's new strategic plan, said she wants to foster.
"[There is this perception that] here we are sitting up on the hill and we're not part of the community ... that it's not easy to be part of D.C.," she said. "[But] there's even more of a need now in D.C. public schools, especially with the high turnover."
AU first received funding for the graduate programs in 2002, with a $2.4 million grant from the Department of Education. The program was active in 30 D.C. schools.
"That was before No Child Left Behind," Belson said. "The idea was you could change schools by putting in great teachers." 
The program's funding is now four times the original grant. It has had aided, in various forms, every D.C. public school and public charter school, she said.
Belson said she is frustrated that most AU students remain unaware of the program.
"I heard the School of Education's pretty good," said Rosie Jung, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences. However, Jung said she never heard of their graduate programs. 
Katie Solitrin, a sophomore in the School of International Service, said she thinks more AU students should get involved in D.C. public schools. 
"Students should help D.C. public schools, especially since the schools are failing to help schoolchildren," she said. "I think we have a social obligation to get involved with DC public education." 
Solitrin said she was unaware of AU's graduate partnerships with the D.C. school system.
Belson said reaching students is her next major objective. 
"I want AU students to know they can participate," she said. "I want them to know it's an easy thing for AU students to get involved in DC public schools."
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Feb. 25
The D.C. Fire Department transported a highly intoxicated and unconscious individual in Leonard Hall to the hospital. An acquaintance indicated the sick individual consumed alcohol.
A student in the Kogod School of Business building became unconscious and fell from her chair during a class lecture. She remained unconscious for five to 10 minutes. She was conscious and coherent, but weak when Public Safety officers arrived. The D.C. Fire Department transported her to the hospital.
Feb. 27
A student in Mary Graydon Center attempted to stand and lost consciousness for a few seconds. She fell and hit her head on the floor. DCFD transported her to the hospital.
An employee reported having lost his AU keys at an unknown location off campus.
A student discovered a debit card and cash missing from her pocketbook. Fraudulent charges were made on the card.
Public Safety observed a person sleeping in a hallway of the Ward Circle Building. The individual indicated he had been feeling ill for approximately 30 minutes and complained of gastrointestinal discomfort. The individual signed a medical refusal form. The individual said he had been attending a seminar in Ward.
Graffiti was discovered underneath a folding table in Mary Graydon Center. Authorities contacted Aramark to remove the graffiti.
The letter "e" was removed from the word "Tavern" displayed on a wall in Mary Graydon Center.
March 1
An AU microwave was taken from a Letts terrace-level lounge.
A student in MGC indicated she had not eaten since breakfast and felt dizzy for a second. She was conscious, coherent and refused medical attention.
A community member and non-affiliate were found in a Federal Hall dormitory room with alcoholic beverages. Public Safety issued a barring notice to the non-affiliate. A medical refusal form was signed. Public Safety took a report.
March 2
A student left her purse unsecured and unattended in a hallway for approximately five minutes. A few hours later, she noticed her wallet was missing from the purse. She waited to report the incident in hopes it would be returned to her.
An employee reported a tow truck digging up turf while driving on campus around the main quad. The operator advised Public Safety that he was on campus to provide a jump to a Deer Park truck parked between the Hurst and Ward Circle buildings.
A smoke detector in the fifth-floor kitchen lounge in Letts activated the building's fire alarm. Facilities Management and Public Safety responded. A stove was on in the lounge, but authorities did not find smoke or fire. Residents were allowed to enter the buildings after the alarm was reset.
March 3
An unattended purse was removed from underneath the victim's desk in Constitution Hall while the victim was away from the desk.
A student reported she parked her vehicle at in the Nebraska parking lot, and when she returned, she noticed items missing from the vehicle. Missing items included a wallet, iPod, credit card, Social Security card and cigarettes. The Metropolitan Police Department determined the incident was not a theft - she misplaced her property. There were no signs of forced entry to the vehicle.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Thursday, March 5
Recital: Spring Preview
Noon
WHERE: Battelle-Tompkins Atrium
INFO: The Department of Performing Arts will present "The Atrium Series: Bringing Music to the People," this week featuring a recital by Adam Hansen.
CONTACT: For more information, visit american.edu/cas/perarts.
Film: "Hot Zones"
12:30-1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Bender Library, Media Classroom, Library Lower Level
INFO: This film explains the link between environmental change and human health.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail Chris Lewis at clewis@american.edu.
Twelfth Annual Hunsberger Lecture
3:30 p.m.
WHERE: School of International Service Lounge
INFO: Join the School of International Service for refreshments and a presentation on "The Primacy of Foreign Policy in Japan," given by Kenneth B. Pyle.
CONTACT: For more information, please call Alex Mikulsky at x1603.
Friday, March 6
Skills Workshop: "Reducing Armed Conflict and Terrorism"
1-2 p.m.
WHERE: Ward 205
INFO: The Peacebuilding and Development Institute will present a free workshop by practitioner and scholar Kai Brand-Jacobson on "Opportunities & Strategies for Reducing Armed Conflicts and Terrorism."
CONTACT: For more information and to RSVP, e-mail shirak@american.edu.
Lecture: "Human Security in the Nation's Capital"
9 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
WHERE: SIS Lounge
INFO: There will be four panels featuring different speakers. The first two panels are from 9 a.m. to 12:15 p.m., and the second set is from 1:00 to 3:30 p.m.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail the department of Comparative and Regional Studies at crs@american.edu.
Saturday, March 7
WPA 28th Annual Art Auction Gala
6 p.m.- midnight
WHERE: Katzen Arts Center, AU Museum
INFO: The Washington Project for the Arts will host its annual fundraiser with more than 400 artists, collectors, business leaders and contemporaries.
CONTACT: For more information, visit www.wpadc.org/auction/auction09_main.html.
Sunday, March 8
Exhibit: "Kugach, Kugach, Kugach"
11 a.m-4 p.m.
WHERE: Katzen Arts Center, AU Museum
INFO: Visit this exhibit featuring the paintings and works of three generations of Russian artists before it closes March 15.
CONTACT: For more information, e-mail museum@american.edu.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Business Week magazine has ranked the Kogod School of Business as one of the top 30 best undergraduate business schools, according to an AU press release.
The magazine ranked 51 schools, with Kogod in 28th place.
The rankings are based on surveys conducted of business majors and business recruiters. The magazine also examined the average starting salaries for the school's graduates, the number of people who graduate from the program and follow up with MBA programs and the academic quality of the school. Class size, student-faculty ratio and the number of students with internships were evaluated to determine the academic quality as well.
Lawrence P. Ward, associate dean for academic programs in Kogod, said he was very proud of the Business Week ranking.
"I am particularly proud of our 'top 10' student survey ranking, which amplifies all that our outstanding faculty and staff do on a daily basis to create and sustain a challenging, highly engaged, innovative and rewarding academic experience for our students," he said in the press release.
This is the first time Kogod has made the ranking. Other schools ranked for the first time this year include Ohio University and Chapman University's Agryos School of Business and Economics.
-ANNA TUMAN
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority officials signed a deal Friday that will permit more companies to provide cellular phone service in Metrorail's tunnel system, according to The Washington Post.
The deal will allow AT&T, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile to install equipment in the tunnels over the next four years while providing Metro with about $25 million, according to the Post. Currently, only Verizon customers have cellular service in the tunnels.
The network will also allow WMATA to begin broadcasting "The Metro Channel" through its trains, stations and buses, according to the article. "The Metro Channel" will display information, news and advertising.
WMATA spokeswoman Lisa Farbstein told the Post the agency also plans to eventually provide Wi-Fi service throughout the transit system.
-CLINT RICE
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A California man wanted for robbery was arrested Feb. 25 when he showed up to take a police department entrance exam, the Associated Press reported.
Officers noticed that Romeo Montillano, who was suspected in a Dec. 8 Kmart robbery, had signed up to take the February exam. He was arrested when he arrived at a police station in Chula Vista, Calif., for the test, police spokesman Bernard Gonzales told the AP.
The 40-year-old was arrested on charges of grand theft, robbery and making criminal threats, according to the AP.
Upon being taken into custody, Montillano asked if he would still be able to take the exam, Gonzales told the AP.
-C.R.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Romanian prosecutor is attempting to find the parties responsible for building a bridge over the river in the village of Marginea, the Associated Press reported.
The old bridge was swept away by floods last July, and the villagers got tired of waiting for the government to build a new one, according to the AP. The new bridge was built in one day.
Prosecutor Viorel Damu told the AP the villagers could be jailed for up to three years or fined as much as 70,000 lei because they did not have a permit to build the bridge.
Villagers limited the weight allowed on the bridge to two-and-a-half tons after testing the bridge, the village's mayor told the AP.
The villagers might escape punishment if the investigation finds the bridge was built out of necessity, Damu told the AP.
-C.R.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Though some colleges have begun creating three-year bachelor's degree programs in an effort to save students money, there has not been a huge amount of interest in the possibility of similar programs at AU.
A majority of undergraduate programs at U.S. universities are meant to be completed in four years, but with the economy now in a recession, the three-year bachelor's degree might soon become viewed as a widespread option for cutting costs, according to USA Today.
Marla Boren, senior academic counselor in AU's College of Arts and Sciences, said AU offers several combined bachelor's and master's degree programs that reduce the total amount of time a student is in school. Boren has not yet seen an increase in the number of students interested in graduating early, but the recession may change this, she said.
Jesse Boeding, director of undergraduate programs in the Kogod School of Business, said some students save money by graduating early in order to stop paying tuition and enter the workforce sooner.
"Whether you stay four years or three years, you're going to have to pay for the credits in some way," she said. "But all of the overhead expenses of room and board and travel expenses and things like that are mitigated by re-sequencing your coursework." 
The amount of Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate credits students now come into college with have made it fairly common for them to be a semester or two ahead. Boeding said she knows of approximately 10 Kogod students who currently plan to graduate early.
Ryan Kim, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said he will be graduating this December to save money and get a head start on graduate school. He left high school two years early to attend De Anza Community College in Cupertino, Calif., before he transferred to AU. 
"I am concerned with not getting the full 'college experience,' but hopefully attending grad school will help to offset those concerns," Kim said in an e-mail. 
Early graduation might interfere with study abroad or internship opportunities. Therefore, students must make tradeoffs and decide which aspects of their college career are most important to them. 
Kristen Velit, a freshman in CAS, said she would only consider the possibility of an early graduation if she could still study abroad.
"I don't think missing the [typical college experience] would be that much of a disadvantage, but I really want to go abroad and if I wasn't able to because I was going to be graduating early, that would be a disadvantage that would overshadow it," she said. 
Studying abroad, being involved on campus and being able to explore different disciplines through a minor or second major can provide advantages in the job market that students who graduate early may not be able to take advantage of, Boeding said. 
"I think the primary [disadvantage] is sometimes students rush through school and it becomes a check-the-box mentality," she said. 
Karim Abdallah, a freshman in Kogod, said he thinks it is a smarter idea to stay in school for the entire four years.
"Well, seeing how the workforce is going these days, it's better to stay in school until the crisis is over," he said.
In the near future, AU is unlikely to instate any undergraduate programs specifically designed to be completed in three years, Boeding said. Since the university is an accredited institution, it cannot cut down the number of credits in its bachelor's degrees to make them three-year programs. 
"I think that AU has a structure that allows students to graduate early if they want to," Boeding said.
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A new bill in the Maryland State Senate may change the underage drinking laws in Maryland, but will probably not affect AU directly.
The bill, which is part of a package of bills designed to crack down on underage drinking, would make it illegal for anyone under 21 to consume alcohol in Maryland. Currently, it is only illegal for underage people to be in possession of alcohol.
At the moment, AU does not issue Judicial Affairs and Mediation Services charges to intoxicated people on campus, including those that are underage. A change in nearby Maryland's law would not affect this policy, according to AU Public Safety Chief Michael McNair. It would be difficult to enforce such a policy, he said.
"There is no way to tell if a person has been drinking unless you perform a breath test," McNair said.
At the moment, D.C. law only requires mandatory breath tests if the person has been involved in an accident.
"I just don't see it as being very useful," he said.
McNair said he also does not believe that the bill, if passed, would be a helpful change in the underage drinking policy since it would be impractical. 
"Without the alcohol, how would you know what [the underage people] consumed?" he asked.
Dan Principato, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said he believes AU would not change its alcohol policy if the bill passes, but that the precedent set by Maryland may prompt the District of Columbia to change its underage drinking laws to follow suit. This would require AU to change its policies, since universities are required to follow all state and federal law, according to Julie Mills, deputy director of AU's Student Advocacy Center.
However, Principato said he thinks that the intoxication policy would be too troublesome to be practical.
"[Resident directors] would have to be replaced with Public Safety writing up 95 percent of the people coming in on a Saturday night," he said.
Cash Nelson, a freshman in SPA, said he believes AU would not institute a stricter drinking policy.
"There's already too much resistance to American's drinking policies," he said.
Nelson and Principato both said they believed the Maryland bill is not a helpful step in fighting underage drinking. Nelson said he thinks the law attacks the wrong people. Rather than punishing the users, the government should be focusing on the distributors of alcohol, he said.
Nelson and Principato both said they would not change their drinking habits in the face of a new underage intoxication policy.
Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, D, sponsored the package of bills that are currently in the Senate. As of press time, it was still in committee.
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Housing and Dining Programs recently needed to prop open the second set of doors in the Letts Hall lobby after a complaint pointed out accessibility issues for students with physical disabilities who live there. 
During winter break, Housing and Dining installed a double barrier system in Letts Hall that was similar to the system used in Nebraska Hall, The Eagle previously reported. Students would first scan their AU identification cards at the front door of the building and show their ID to the desk receptionist, as in all residence halls. The second barrier would involve students swiping their ID again to get into the residential section of the building. Housing and Dining Programs Executive Director Chris Moody previously told The Eagle he planned to install the double barrier system in all of the other residence halls on campus in coming years.
However, a complaint filed by Carter Gibson, the Residence Hall Association's facility committee chairman, brought up the fact that a few students with physical disabilities were not able to get through the second barrier to the attention of Disability Support Services Director Joanne Benica.
"It's unfortunate that handicap accessibility wasn't considered in the implementation of the double swipe system," Gibson said in an e-mail. 
Since some of the students cannot physically swipe their ID cards, they must wait at the second set of doors until another student could scan them in, which could mean waiting several minutes during times when there is not much traffic in the dorm lobby, he said.
"It's a pretty big problem," Gibson said in the e-mail. 
Moody said he told his staff to prop open the second set of doors in Letts and turn off the scan function as soon as he heard there were physical access issues. 
"One door on each side [the north and south ends of Letts] is coded so that when it swipes, the doors will automatically open," he said. "The thing that was overlooked in that planning process was 'can all students swipe?'"
In the meantime, the doors will remain propped open until a new proximity reader system is installed.
The proximity reader will work much like the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority's SmarTrip card or the scanners found at grocery stores, according to Moody. Students who need to use the proximity reader would put their ID about an inch away from the reader instead of swiping and the doors would swing open. 
The proximity reader add-on is easy to install, will not decrease security and will mean Housing and Dining will not have to replace the second card swipe reader that is already in place, he said. 
The issue in Letts is not discrimination, Benica said. 
"Discrimination based on disability is when you purposefully exclude people with disabilities, and this was not a purposeful thing," she said. 
Benica said she did not think there was a lack of communication between Housing and Dining and Disability Support Services during the planning process for the new security measure, but the system just did not work properly. 
Nevertheless, the double barrier system is completely accessible to students with physical disabilities when it is fully working, she said.
As of press time, the lock shop was working with the proximity reader's third party vendor to consolidate the remotes needed to use the device from two to one, Moody said.
Housing and Dining will install the proximity reader in the other residence halls as they install the double barrier system in the coming years, according to Moody. 
In its entirety, AU's campus is between 80 and 90 percent barrier-free and handicap-accessible, which means that there is either a ramp or easy access to each space, according to Benica. Some buildings, such as the McKinley Building and Hurst Hall, only have handicap access on the first floor since they were built before elevators were widely used. The only buildings that are completely non-accessible to individuals with physical disabilities are the School of International Service building, the Hamilton Building and the President's Building, according to a Disability Support Services-supplied campus map.
You can reach this staff writer at thallerman@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU students braved a snowstorm that temporarily shut down most of D.C. Monday to be among thousands protesting coal and attempting to raise awareness of environmental issues.
A rally on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol marked the culmination of Power Shift 2009 - a four-day conference sponsored by Capitol Climate Action, according to the event's Web site. Many of the protesters then made their way to a subsequent sit-in at the gates of a coal-fired power plant that powers the Capitol, U.S. House and U.S. Senate office buildings, according to USA Today.
During the Greenpeace-sponsored non-violent sit-in, participants protested the use of coal power by physically blocking the entrances to the plant, according to Ian Pajer-Rogers, a Power Shift volunteer.
"Global warming is a vastly urgent issue that is unprecedented," he said. "So we just hope to really push the issue and continue to really put pressure on coal and make sure this is a kick-off event." 
Drew Veysey, treasurer and environmental science officer for Eco-Sense and a junior in the School of Public Affairs, said he recruited students for Power Shift by putting up posters, tabling, e-mailing and sending Facebook messages. Seventy-five students attended the conference and most took advantage of an Eco-Sense group discount that allowed them to pay $35 in registration fees instead of the usual $50.
Getting AU students involved was a very important aspect of Eco-Sense's participation with the event, Veysey said. 
"AU has a lot of students in international relations, international development and political science," he said. "Those [three] fields are extremely important to the future of the planet, especially as it concerns climate change." 
Eco-Sense members also contributed by doing volunteer work at Power Shift and housing participants from schools in New York, Texas and Vermont, according to Veysey.
Grenye O'Malley, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, housed four people for Power Shift and attended the conferences on Friday through Sunday. Her favorite speakers discussed how a green economy also needs to focus on issues of oppression and women's rights, she said.
"There were panels, workshops and conferences on everything from [GLBT] issues to religion to economics," O'Malley said. 
The conference drew students from across the country, and Power Shift volunteers helped ensure the thousands of protesters at the sit-in stayed peaceful, Pajer-Rogers said.
"We expect there to be a little bit of aggression coming our way, so we just want to make sure that we're completely non-violent at all times, de-escalating any situations that are getting heated and just making sure that we are keeping our people safe and keeping everybody safe," said Pajer-Rogers. 
Many of the protesters planned to risk arrest by blocking the power plant entrances. The most likely charges would be incommoding or failure to disperse - offenses about equal to a parking ticket, he said. 
However, there were no arrests in connection with the protest, according to USA Today. 
Instead of attending the two protests on Capitol Hill, Veysey said he spent Monday lobbying environmental ideas in several Power Shift-organized meetings with members of the Iowa Congressional Delegation. 
He said he focused on suggesting a cap and trade system of green house emissions to the representatives. This would create green jobs and investing in clean energy, Veysey said. The majority of the representatives were responsive to the ideas, he said. 
Pajer-Rogers said he did not think the snow kept any activists away from the Capitol Monday.
"I don't think it's a huge factor," he said. "I mean, people are pretty committed to this."
Bryan Davis, a junior at Ithaca College, said he took a bus to D.C. for Power Shift and spent some of the weekend staying with a friend at AU. He said he thought the number of people that came to support the Power Shift movement most likely changed the minds of many oppositionists.
"I came because I wanted to be reminded of just how many people care about the environment and green issues in our country," he said.
Mia Sloan, a freshman at St. Lawrence University, said she traveled 10 hours on a bus to make her voice heard on some important environmental issues.
"We want to shift into clean energy for the United States and lead the world in a greener planet," she said. 
Eco-Sense will be holding a meeting Thursday at 8 p.m. in Battelle Atrium to discuss Power Shift and what further steps need to be taken, according to O'Malley. 
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As the crowd streamed out of Ward 1 last Thursday, shouts for ethnic pride and gay rights rang through the air while faint voices sang "This Land is My Land." Former Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., had just given his talk about assimilation against the "cult of multiculturalism," and some students had been stifling and hushing their reactions to his words all night.
The AU chapter of the national organization Youth for Western Civilization invited Tancredo to speak on campus, and the event drew both interest and protest.
YWC started on campus last semester through the efforts of Kevin DeAnna, a senior in the School of International Service who also helped found the national organization. 
"I started it here and found some other people who agreed with its goals," DeAnna said.
YWC chapters also exist at several other campuses across the nation, according to the group's Facebook page.
The group's Facebook page also displays its mission statement.
"The purpose of Youth for Western Civilization is to form a right wing youth movement," the page said. "Youth for Western Civilization educates, organizes and trains activists on campuses across the nation to create a subculture that promotes the survival of Western Civilization and pride in Western heritage."
Protest organizers referenced the Facebook page during a preliminary organizational meeting prior to Tancredo's speech.
"The language on the Facebook group is flawless," said Bianca Jones, Inter-cultural Liaison of Black Student Alliance, who came to the meeting representing herself and not the BSA.
The AU YWC Facebook group's description said the group's purpose is to educate about and promote pride in Western heritage and incite debate among its members on "issues of vital important to Western Civilization."
Josh Jacobs, a freshman in SIS, said he thinks the YWC is not racist on its Facebook page or elsewhere.
"I'm Jewish, our vice president is Hispanic, our president is an international student and we have multi-ethnic and multi-religious members," Jacobs said.
Even with diversity within the group, one can still show pride in the group's collective Western heritage and identiy, Jacobs said. 
"We hold that you should not be proud of your biology. There is nothing special about being born white, black, or Hispanic. It's a skin color," he said.
"I felt the need to join the Youth for Western Civilization group in order to see what the group and some of their members stand for," said Nafiza Jelassi, a senior in SIS and the Kogod School of Business who is an Egyptian-born Muslim.
Jelassi said she felt the group directs its attitudes solely towards white Americans.  
"I want to disprove their stereotypes of people who don't fall into their understanding of who's an American by getting to know them and letting them get to know me," she said.
"It is important for Muslims to not only be open to others but to help people understand what we stand for," she said. "[YWC] is very new to our campus and perhaps some of the members may benefit learning from AU's diversity," she said.
DeAnna discussed the YWC's mission and views in an e-mail interview.
"We are opposed to radical multiculturalism, mass immigration, racial preferences and attempts to move curriculum away from Western Canon," DeAnna said in the e-mail. "We are a nonpartisan conservative youth group that is concerned about the far left climate on American college campuses and are trying to push the debate back to the center."
Vitus Van Rij and Amanda Patino, freshmen in SIS, helped to start and lead the group with DeAnna this year.
"The reason I was attracted to the group was because of the sort of hypocrisy I found on the leftist movement," Patino said. "There's this idea that we're all equal and whatnot, but at the same time there's nothing unifying about their actions ... there are plenty of other people trying to tear our country apart and they don't need our help doing it."
She said she helped DeAnna start AU's YWC chapter last semester, but they did not plan any events until this semester.
"[Tom Tancredo's talk] was our first main event," DeAnna said. "It went well ... It was to open a debate on immigration and assimilation and announce our presence on campus ... We got our message out, the lecture was well attended by both sides."
Some students wore black clothing and carried signs to protest of the event, but some came to support Tancredo's message and join forces with YWC.
Since Tancredo's lecture, YWC's Facebook group has increased its membership.
"I met a number of new members," DeAnna said. "I don't exactly have a formal roster right now ... [but] it's certainly growing ... and I expect that growth will continue."
Jacobs said he joined YWC a few weeks ago.
"The group offers a good alternative perspective on ... a very pro-multicultural campus," he said.
Jacobs is involved in College Republicans as well as in YWC, and several other YWC members are also affiliated with College Republicans, including College Republicans Vice President Luke Kraus and David Lindgren, a freshman in SIS.
Though College Republicans and YWC hold certain ideals in common, Lindgren said YWC needs to exist separate from a partisan organization.
"I am a member of the College Republicans," he said. "And although certain parts of the Republican ideology align with that of the YWC, I feel YWC focuses and seeks to promote a greater understanding of Western culture and the harm of multiculturalism in American society that college Republicans do not address."
YWC's message is for both those who associate themselves with Republicans and Democrats, Lindgren said.
"Specifically addressing the point of multiculturalism, an individual does not need to be a Republican or Democrat to understand the challenges multiculturalism poses and the problems associated with seeking to differentiate cultures," he said.
The purpose of the group's opposition to multiculturalism is to unify, according to DeAnna.
"America has a lot of different kinds of people here," he said in the e-mail. "Something has to hold us together."
Tancredo's talk expressed the group's goal to be as inclusive as possible, DeAnna said.
"[Tancredo] stated that people - regardless of race, religion or background - can become part of this country and identify proudly with American history and as part of the American people," he said in the e-mail.
You can reach this staff writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Fans flooded onto the court of Bender Arena Friday afternoon after the AU men's basketball team defeated the College of the Holy Cross 73-57 in the Patriot League championship game.
The win will guarantee AU a berth in the NCAA championships. The team's seed and first opponent will be determined Sunday.
Check back for a full article on the game.
Updated on 3/13 at 7:00 p.m.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The double swipe system recently installed in Letts Hall was installed to keep bad people out of residence halls. Instead, it only kept a few students with physical disabilities from getting to their rooms. The students, unable to swipe their AU identification cards at the second swipe terminal in Letts, would have been forced to wait for assistance to get through the locked doors. 
In response, Housing and Dining Executive Director Chris Moody made the right choice to keep the doors open all the time until a special swipe system can be installed.
It is unfortunate that this inconvenience ever existed for any Letts resident. Students with physical disabilities deserve to be treated with the same dignity and respect as all other students. It is important that AU take all of its students into account when they make changes to university buildings. 
Despite the small lapse in logic that caused the original problem, Moody deserves credit for his swift realization that security needs to take a backseat to accessibility until fixes are made that do not compromise handicap accessibility.
But for some buildings, no amount of assistance will change the fact that they are not at all accessible. Many buildings on AU's campuses were built before the Americans with Disabilities Act was enacted in 1990. Despite this, between 80 and 90 percent of the campus is now handicap accessible. Other than the School of International Service building, the Hamilton Building and the President's Building, all other buildings are at least semi-accessible. This is encouraging, but as with anything, there is room for improvement. In many buildings - Hurst Hall included - only the first floors are accessible. Continued work should be done to improve these accommodations. Hurst could use a renovation anyway.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Being at AU for four years now, I'm no stranger to rolling my eyes when another misguided "progressive" colleague, seemingly unaware or indifferent to the eugenics, racism, social planning and contempt for individual freedom synonymous with the word's history, proceeds to attack conservatives for being both "mean" and "stupid." Watching progressive ignorance embarrass itself can be fun, but the absurdity of Jacob Shelly's most recent column simply cannot be exaggerated, largely for the same reason infinity cannot be exaggerated.
First and foremost, Shelly shows his own "meanness" and "stupidity" when he throws all substance and seriousness to the wind by willfully embracing an ignorant caricature of former President Bush's term in office. Surely, our 43rd president's term in office was filled with failings, and we should be honest about what they are and what they are not. Seeing the federal response to Hurricane Katrina, our economic hard times and the war in Iraq as the result of President Bush being one-big meany-pants hardly is the mark of someone whose accusations of "stupidity" can be taken seriously.
Many of Shelly's assertions also go a long way in disqualifying him from making stupidity calls. For one thing, President Obama is hardly "wildly popular." His approval rating is about average for a president within his first 100 days, according to Gallup polls taken of presidents going back to Eisenhower. For another, the stimulus is hardly "wildly popular." At the end of January, CNN reported support for the stimulus dropped nearly 12 points in a week, finishing off at about a 51 percent approval rating. This of course says nothing of the more than 30,000 phone calls the offices of Sens. Snowe, Specter and Collins against the stimulus bill from their constituents, forcing them to shut off their office phones. 
While it's clear Shelly is titillated by the stimulus (even with the contraceptives funding removed, curiously enough), I'd love to know one "poor" person that will actually be aided by the stimulus, unless of course he means those 1.2 million additional recipients of Medicare as a result of the stimulus, which could even include Wall Street CEOs. Then again, seeing as the Dow has lost nearly 20 percent of its value since Election Day, nearly half of it coming since Obama's inauguration, they may need our tax dollars after all. 
Shelly should also be more concerned about making sure the provision in the stimulus to override governors' decisions to refuse stimulus money is actually constitutional before he starts questioning the motives of those against the money. And, given Shelly's logic that any governor refusing stimulus funds is clearly plotting a presidential run, he might want to talk to Gov. Phil Bredesen, D-Tenn., who is considering turning down stimulus money.
Fiction can be fun, or "awesome" as Shelly alludes. But without facts, the only person left sounding mean and stupid is Shelly himself.
William J. Haun
Senior, School of Public Affairs and former president, AU College Republicans
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Some of your readers may recall a letter that I previously sent to your paper in reply to an Alex Knepper column. In it, I take him to task on the straw man that he sets up, which stated that liberals cared less about victims of bigotry in non-Western countries than about the comparatively less severe discrimination in the West. Apparently, he has revived this canard in his latest column. 
I once more reiterate that crimes east of the Prime Meridian do not mitigate the crimes to its west, and it's more practical to address problems at home than those abroad. If Knepper says he supports the plight of victims of bigotry in Muslim countries, then I recommend that he donate his time and/or resources to human rights organizations (most of them run by leftists) that advocate for them (such as Human Rights Watch), instead of crassly appropriating their cause to score cheap political points against liberals. 
He also makes another erroneous point in regards to "victimhood" and "identity politics." First, no minority advocacy organization wants to perpetuate victimhood as conservatives want to caricature them. They are simply about transforming victimhood into empowerment. 
Second, identity politics is a fact of life in the U.S., let alone the world. Identity politics is but a simple acknowledgment of the fact that people are categorized into groups beyond their control. The identity of each group is shaped by the forces around it, and if those forces involve past discrimination, then that cannot simply be abandoned as easily as some say it should.
Barnaby Yeh 
Senior, School of Public Affairs 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I love my little sister. I have loved her with wild protection since before she was born.
But, would I be her friend if she were the new kid in class?
Ann doesn't have many friends at school. She does not go to giggly sleepovers; she is not invited to the movies. I asked her who is her best friend, and she said, "Phoebe." Phoebe is the class president and is nice to everyone. 
Alas, Ann, the fidgety kid who always finishes her test last and sits alone at the lunch table, has fallen prey to phony Phoebe. 
Last semester I did a photography project on Ann and her classmates. I followed the seventh graders from English, to recess, to lunch, sticking my camera in their faces all day long. 
The night before she took me to school, I was excited. Ann was nervous. "Don't say anything about politics," she warned. "You have to take that black nail polish off, you look goth," and "I want you to bring your pretty bag so you can get compliments," she offered. Seventh grade is all about keeping your cool and looking good.
It's actually quite a sight to see when Ann enters that austere world of Catholic middle school. She was the only girl playing kickball with the boys, the only student to read aloud in class with a funny accent and the only kid to laugh out loud at her teacher's meager jokes.
Mom, Dad and the doctors say Ann has social anxiety disorder, especially around kids her own age, which is why she is so great with little children and people over 18. The two-year-old at the church nursery and the 62-year-old teacher don't judge so harshly as does the middle school cheerleader. 
So, they say, her family is to be her friends. My sweet old dad and rambunctious mother are their own 12-year-old's best friends. I become one, too, when I visit home. 
Being Ann's long-distant best friend is not so difficult. Usually, when I call the house she makes me guess the score of her basketball game (5-55), or tells me about the "beautiful, so adorable" baby down the road with green eyes. Then she hands the phone off to one of her other best friends. 
The day Ann talked to me on the phone for more than three minutes, I was flabbergasted. "She's like a real sister!" I thought. Our parents weren't home, so she chattered on about her favorite new teacher, the team dinner at our house and the upcoming New York City trip with Hugh, her 53-year-old B.F.F. 
Ann has other good companions: my friends and my brother's friends. 
Ann will gladly bombard me and anyone I bring to the house with water balloons or snowballs, depending on the season. She will hide out in a tree and shout insults at high school boys while they barb back and speed off in their trucks. She will challenge anyone bigger than her to a wrestling match. 
When she was in kindergarten, Ann captured the school bully in a headlock and kept him there until he bit her upper arm so hard it left marks for days. Hear my mother's friend - a school counselor - tell the story, and Ann was the hero of the playground. All of the teachers were rooting for Ann when she took down that mean bully. Both kids lost recess for a week.
Another time, our cousin - 12 years older than Ann - provoked her into a wrestling match. "You wanna piece of me?" he chided. "I don't want a piece of you. I want the whole thing!" she sassed right back. 
If only she could be so brash with the punk at school who calls her "chubby tubby."
Kate E. Matthews is a senior in the School of Communication and a columnist for The Eagle. You can reach her at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Clarification Appended
I wish you were a more interesting student. You sit in my class 28 times during the semester and say nothing. Or if you do ask a question, you want me to repeat something so you can write it all down. Or you want to tell me that the reading or movie I assigned sucked. Or you want to attack something your classmate just said.
When you come by the office, you are only there to drop off a paper, pick up an exam, find out when something is due or complain about a grade. If I've asked you to come to my office, then you politely and cautiously answer my questions and leave. 
I'm bored in class. I'm bored during office hours. Where did my intellectual life go?
I'm exaggerating, of course. Year in, year out, AU is a great place to teach and learn, and every semester, I develop deep intellectual friendships with my students. But I'm hoping to provoke some of you into becoming one of those interesting students I meet every semester that make teaching so very rewarding. 
The interesting student comes to class with a real question, something that she has been thinking about since she left class last time. Or when she comes to the office to drop off a paper, she has a question that she has been thinking about for awhile. Or even better, she comes by the office not to drop off something or because she has to. She comes because some question just won't let go of her until she gets it off her chest.
And it's a real question. It's not about facts. It's not about right and wrong. It's about intellectual depth. Questions are about quests, after all. Journeys. You travel because you want go somewhere and get something. Maybe you thought of college as exactly that kind of place, imagining that you would at last meet people who cared about ideas and that you would have deep conversations about life's questions.
But you didn't count on all the things that frustrate those dreams. Required courses are boring. Classes with interesting course descriptions turn out to be oddly irrelevant to your real concerns. Any class before noon seems too early; classes after 2 p.m. are too late. Too much reading and too many papers mean you don't have time to mull over an idea before you are off to the next one. And the job you took to buy the books for college is not giving you enough time to read them, much less care about them.
But your years in college are precious, and you cannot let them slip by because you are too bored, tired or busy to make real education happen. You will never have time quite like you do now, time when you can really get to know an idea from all sides.
You came to college to become an intellectual. Now act like it. An intellectual turns over ideas in his head like you'd turn a rock over in your hand. He wants to know what will happen if he turns the rock on its edge, spin it, cut with it or lean it against something. He wants to know whether he can dig with it or carve something into it, whether it melts or freezes, whether he can squeeze something out of it and whether it pings or breaks when he taps it with something.
Maybe you cannot treat every class this way, but find some times each semester to come into class or into my office with something that feels fresh and new to you. Come with the fervent belief that no one has put two ideas together the way you have that day. And you might be right. Because you want to see new things, you might have made something new possible.
I can't wait to see you in class tomorrow.
Michael L. Manson is a College of Arts and Sciences professor in the Department of Literature. You can reach him at mmanson@american.edu.
Clarification: Due to an editing error, the headline of this column in The Eagle's March 5 print edition misspelled "You're" as "Your." The online version of the column was corrected to reflect the correct spelling. The Eagle regrets the error.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
