Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If there's one thing that any good college town should be filled with, it is a 24-hour diner. Among the fancy restaurants of downtown D.C. and countless trips to the Domino's in Tenleytown, it is often hard to find a good old-fashioned, reasonably-priced restaurant that accommodates both the crazy schedules of college students as well as their ever-expanding appetite. If you are a fan of classic American fare and eating at three in the morning, then American City Diner is the restaurant for you.
Located at 5532 Connecticut Ave. N.W., the American City Diner is a throwback to diners past. Its retro 1950s vibe is due to the mind of Jeffrey Gildenhorn, who had the idea to build the diner in 1989 after witnessing the new trend of high-tech without the successful routines and fare of diners from the 1950s and '60s. The older feel of the diner is apparent from the décor alone, as jukeboxes and simple tables line the walls. One can even purchase a Coca-Cola in the original glass bottles (once mass produced, but are outlived by fountains and plastics) as your beverage. 
The diner caters to all sorts of clientele, offering take-out meals as well as seating for birthday parties and an outdoor patio. The patio also serves as a movie tent, where patrons can watch classic movies at 8:30 every night while they eat their meals. American City Diner publishes their movie schedule online so diners can choose the night that best suits their tastes. "Annie Hall," "12 Angry Men," "On the Waterfront," "Cool Hand Luke" and "Rebel Without A Cause" are among some of the movies being shown at the diner during the month of August.
With the self-proclaimed "best milkshakes in town," American City Diner offers a variety of dessert items to complement their burgers, sandwiches and all-day breakfasts. With treats ranging from malts to ice cream sodas to banana splits and apple pie a la mode, you will leave the diner full to the brim and satisfied, no matter what time of the day you stop by. 
Though D.C. is home to a wide variety of restaurants with ranges of new and ethnic foods, American City Diner caters to a simpler fare. There are also some vegetarian options (a few vegetarian omelets, fresh fruit and a relatively sparse salad section), but most of the meals on the menu cater to meat-loving customers. Served from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., dinner entrees range from open-faced turkey sandwiches to baby back ribs and country fried chicken livers. All-day burger and sandwich options include the half-pound bacon cheeseburger, fresh egg salad and the self-titled "best sandwich south of New York City," the hot corned beef sandwich.
The 24-hour breakfast menu lists typical morning fare that can be enjoyed at any point in the day, especially after a night out on the town. With any-style eggs, omelets, cereal, muffins, pancakes, French toast, waffles and typical side orders like bacon, sausage, toast and home fries, the American City Diner can satisfy any breakfast fan. 
With a friendly staff and a menu that caters to a simpler time, American City Diner is an ideal choice for college students who want an old-fashioned, fairly priced meal in a constantly growing city. The restaurant's hours are ideal for those who have an endless appetite or for those who crave greasy and delicious food after a night out on the town. Catering to families, students, tourists and locals alike, the American City Diner should be a stop on anyone's D.C. eatery list. 
You can reach this staff writer at cmoore@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
To think of D.C. is to think of following dreams to the White House, Capitol Hill or maybe a lobbying firm. But for every congressional hearing, D.C.'s got a slightly more exciting local concert for you to attend. Sure, possibly for the first time in your life, all of your favorite bands are nearly guaranteed to stop near where you're living, but the music scene in the District has got any touring act beat. Below are some bands to keep an ear on.
The Aquarium
www.myspace.com/aquariummusic
Audiophiles know that Dischord defined D.C.'s music scene beginning in the '80s and continuing all the way through the early-2000s break-up of Q and Not U. While the label was and still is home to D.C. hardcore, and the aforementioned dance-punks have indeed stopped the music, The Aquarium have the whole post-post-punk thing down. It's also no accident Laura Harris lends her sticks to the sounds of two bands; she owns that kit. The band has a new single coming out this fall, and possibly a new LP in the not-so-distant future.
Benjy Ferree
www.benjyferree.com
Benjy Ferree virtually impossible to compare accurately to any other artist. His sound is part doo-wop, part rock 'n' roll and all passion. Ferree is from D.C. and cites area legends like Chuck Brown and Fugazi as influences. His interests are diverse, and his music reflects that. His latest, "Come Back to the Five and Dime, Bobby Dee Bobby Dee," is a nod to Bobby Driscoll, the child actor who played Peter Pan.  With Ferree's fiancée Harris at the drums, its obvious musicianship is at the heart of every track.
Imperial China
www.myspace.com/imperialchina
If you were absolutely forced to choose one style of music to define D.C.'s sound (and good luck with that), post-punk would definitely be it, and Imperial China's got it down to a science. They sound like the District, but in a new and constantly surprising way. Like every self-respecting post-punk band, they're angry - that guitar wails, for sure. But unlike the rest, they explore the nuances of that angst and come out with something special. 
Midnight Kids
www.myspace.com/midnightkidsmusic
It's hard to explain why a band who seemingly have yet to play a gig made this list unless you know about the Apes. Three-quarters of this stellar new quartet are ex-members of the former D.C. stand-out. The passion that made the Apes special is still there with a impressive new twist: more polished, more mature, more, well, Stereolab. The band still owns their beat, but now its down-right dreamy, like Blondie on a Sunday. Midnight Kids have a bright future that is definitely worth listening to.
Noon:30
www.myspace.com/noon30band
Noon:30 could be called D.C.'s answer to The Noisettes. But they're better than that. Their harmony screams polish, the distortion screams garage and lead singer Blue S. Moon just all out screams, or croons. It's beautiful, electronic post-punk pop. "French Song" is sung, unsurprisingly, in French but with a fearless American accent, which makes sense since this all-female trio is all about courageous interpretation.
True Womanhood
www.myspace.com/truewomanhood
Missed Sonic Youth touring this summer? You'll probably want to check out True Womanhood. Genuinely like nothing else in the city, the band plays music in a way you've never seen before: guitars bowed with other guitars; a giant metal, well, thing played for percussion. Perhaps one of the District's most experimental bands, their music is definitely some of its most beautiful and complex.
You can reach this staff writer at kpowell@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
VELVET UNDERGROUND
The U Street Corridor is D.C.'s generous gift to music lovers. With the 9:30 club and Black Cat at its Metro stop, locals have memorized a sort of homing pattern toward these two venues, counting on them as reliable stops for their favorite indie bands. But where can music lovers go when looking to find something new? The answer is just down the block. The Velvet Lounge is U-Street's answer to the sold-out indie hot spots of the District. Drawing frequent comparisons to a studio apartment or even a walk-in closet, the Velvet Lounge is a grungy little venue that houses the basics: a small bar and perhaps a smaller stage. The music there is typical to that of the bar scene - unapologetically noisy and edgy and brought to you by fresh-out-the-van out-of-town bands trying to make a name for themselves. The Lounge also features frequent D.J. sets and occasional movie screenings. So stop by the Velvet Lounge instead of just sitting there waiting for your favorite band to finish their latest album - you might find something you like.
-KATRINA CASINO
DC9
DC9 is a concert venue, an after party venue and a dance floor all wrapped up into one small bar located on, you guessed it, U Street. A gem often left undiscovered by the 18+ crowd, DC9 is a small, swank place where fans can go if they are looking to get up close and personal with their favorite bands, both local and national. The venue focuses its attention on a barely-elevated stage flanked by old-school projection screens for those stuck in the back; though with the size of the place, they hardly seem necessary. Bands don't just come here to play, they come here to party. Performers from the nearby 9:30 club have been known to keep the good times going by taking their entourages over the DC9 for DJ sets and dancing. And the dancing is everywhere - on the stage, on top of the tables and underneath the colored strobe light DC9 stole from your high school prom. Always filled with good music and interesting characters, DC9 is a no-fail place to hit up on those "What should we do?" Friday nights. 
-K.C.
NIGHTCLUB 9:30
"You know you live in D.C. when 9:30 isn't just a time," goes the joke among music fans in nation's capital. But the 9:30 club is more than just a local spot to go see a band - it is nationally recognized by bands and fans alike for its ability to host chart-topping performers one night and local groups the next, all piped through its state-of-the-art sound system.
What began as a haven to the straight-edge and punk kids of the '70s and '80s has now flourished into one of the top venues for live music, as Pollstar, the concert industry trade journal, deemed it. Formerly located at 930 F St., which is where the venue garnered its name, the 9:30 club came to its current location on the corner of Ninth and V Streets in 1996. 
Though originally known for their alternative music fare, such as Minor Threat and Fugazi several decades ago, the 9:30 club also welcomed then up-and-coming rock acts such as The Police and Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. 
Nowadays, the 9:30 club mainly sticks to more mainstream fare - some notable acts to visit the club include Radiohead, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Bob Dylan. 
Nevertheless, they still make time to foster newer artists and local talent. Local groups such as Honor by August, the Sketches and My Favorite Highway have performed at their hometown venue.
The club offers a menu of vegan- and vegetarian-friendly food, a coffee bar for those needing their caffeine kick and four full-service bars throughout its three floors for those over 21. But beware - their beer is pricey, to the tune of about six dollars a draft.
The 9:30 club is a two block walk from Metrorail using the U Street stop on the Green Line. Free neighborhood parking is limited, but the club also runs a monitored parking lot behind the venue for $10 a car. 
Upcoming shows include The Wallflowers on Sept. 3, Motorhead on Sept. 8 and Sondre Lerche on Sept. 11.
-TRACI J. BROOKS
FORT RENO PARK
In the grass barely a mile from campus, a robot wanders through crowds of screaming toddlers, seventy-year-old women and pierced punk rockers alike. This is Fort Reno. Located just across the street from Tenleytown's Woodrow Wilson High School, this park features open-air entertainment at its best. Run entirely by volunteers, Fort Reno hosts free concerts every June through July on Monday and Thursday evenings. The three-band roster changes every event, showcasing a multitude of acts over the six weeks season. The number of bands and styles that pass through this outdoor bandstand truly rivals the diversity of D.C.'s music scene with electric trios, acoustic duos, and hard rock solos alike. The only thing more eclectic than the bands is the crowd they draw in. Nights at Fort Reno bring families out together, as well as hordes of students of all ages. Throw in the occasional elderly couple, toss in a few friendly dogs (and, of course, local band Go Home Robot's sticker distributing robot mascot) and serve it all up on sheets, blankets and a few lawn chairs. This is the recipe for a fun, free and festive summer night. 
-CODY STEELE
BLUES ALLEY JAZZ SUPPER CLUB
Tucked away in a back alley off of Wisconsin Avenue, The Blues Alley Jazz Supper Club thrives in the heart of Georgetown. The 18th century red brick carriage house is home to the nation's oldest jazz supper club. This small, classic venue provides a one-of-a-kind intimate jazz experience reminiscent of the 1920s and '30s. Open seven days a week, Blues Alley provides Washingtonians with a little piece of New Orleans through their authentic Creole cuisine. The menu features food selections cleverly named after famous jazz musicians. If a night of listening to a jam session by some hip cats is in your sights, Blues Alley will fulfill your modern day speakeasy desires. Be sure to get there early to get the best seats in the house, as seating is on a first come, first serve basis. But be warned, this blast from the past won't be cheap. The average price of admission is $25, but can be as much as $60 depending on the performing artist. So save up those pretty pennies and get your zoot suit ready for an unforgettable night of jazz. 
-NATASHA CARLOS
ARTS CLUB OF WASHINGTON
If you like your jazz dressed up with a little bit of history and cultural awareness on the side, the Arts Club of Washington is your place. Founded in 1916, the Arts Club is located at the James Monroe House, a National Historic Landmark. The club draws upon D.C.'s variant cultural resources to bring to audiences acts along the lines of local pianists, jazz guitarists, and harp-and-flute ensembles. The club is also a non-profit organization, as its main goal is to support the arts in D.C. communities. Not only does this mean an erudite air of awareness and education, it also means a pretty good number of free events, so supporting the arts also means supporting your wallet.
-K.C.
THE BLACK CAT
Nestled along historic U Street, Black Cat nightclub is a must-see for those looking to experience the District's local music scene. The club offers two stages: the Mainstage and the Backroom. Its bar is called the Red Room, leaving little to the imagination as to the décor but offers a fully-stocked bar, pool table, pinball machine and seating areas for those looking to rest their legs made weary from dancing. Just past the bar is the Backroom, open for all ages. It hosts indie, rock and punk performances, as well as local DJ dance nights for the best of '80s pop and '90s grunge. Upstairs, the Mainstage lends to a much larger crowd, typically hosting the national acts, the likes of which include Arcade Fire, Korn, the Killers and The Donnas. The venue offers a more intimate experience with the band, who sometimes even circulate throughout the bar after sets. It's a good idea to purchase advanced tickets for the larger shows, since they typically sellout. The Backroom usually asks for a cover charge that can run up to $20. 
-MAUREEN McCARTY
THE KENNEDY CENTER
The summer's sweltering heat can leave one aching for the solace of central air and poolside dwelling. For sun-worshipers looking for a reprieve, The John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts offers some of the most prestigious talents frequenting our humble city. The Center's wide range of performances includes the National Symphony Orchestra, Fortas chamber music concerts, comedy shows, world-class jazz, theater, musicals, opera, ballet and book festivals.
The Kennedy Center's colossal structure is just a short walk or free shuttle ride from the Foggy Bottom-GWU Metrorail station. Set along the Potomac River, the center offers breathtaking views of both downtown Washington, D.C. and Arlington, Va. from its open-air rooftop terrace.  Below, culture-seekers of all ages can enjoy performances at any of the three main stages: the Eisenhower Theater, the Concert Hall and the Opera House. The average cost of tickets runs from $42 dollars to $150 dollars, varying with the show's popularity and seat location. For those of us on a tighter budget, the Kennedy Center's Millennium Stage program offers free performances everyday. For tickets and performance schedules go to: www.kennedy-center.org. 
-M.M.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Although swiping your card at TDR and sitting with your new posse at may initially seem cool to incoming freshman, it will get old - especially if you don't take a TDR hiatus every once in awhile. Sure, TDR has stir-fry, a sweet salad bar and all-you-can-eat ice cream. But it is crucial to embrace other restaurants as well by leaving campus on occasion and sampling some of the local area's most delicious cuisines. Depending on your mood and cravings, here are some excellent places you should definitely check out this semester. 
Thai: Neisha
Location: 4445 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., directly across from the Tenleytown Metro stop.
Why Go There? Neisha is a popular AU student destination that serves up an incredible Asian cuisine. It has an extensive menu of soups, salads, appetizers, entrées and desserts. Try ordering the satay (chicken skewers with peanut sauce) for an appetizer, followed by the grilled salmon in banana leaves for an entrée. If you're still hungry, order "a la mode" for dessert (fried banana served with young coconut ice-cream.) 
Sushi: Raku
Location: 7240 Woodmont Ave. in Bethesda, Md.
Why Go There? Tom Sietsema of The Washington Post Magazine said, "If there's a Bethesda restaurant I'd like to see cloned, it's Raku!" The restaurant is decorated with bamboo, cozy booths and colorful parasols that hang from the ceiling. Try ordering the seafood spring rolls or any type of sushi listed on the menu - you won't be disappointed. 
Italian: Angelico
Location: 4529 Wisconsin Ave., N.W. in Tenleytown.
Why Go There? Huge menu, awesome food, prime location, AU delivery - need we say more? Angelico is an Italian eatery, but offers everything from buffalo wings and roasted lamb salad to pizza, pasta and cannoli. It's a great place to pick up a quick bite when you're in a rush and are craving some comfort food. Try ordering either the basic spaghetti with meat sauce or treat yourself to the shrimp italiano (fresh shrimp sautéed with garlic and marinara sauce, tossed with fettuccine.)  
Pizza: 2 Amys
Location: 3715 Macomb St., N.W.
Why Go There? 2 Amys has been written up as one of the best pizza restaurants in D.C. for years. Within walking distance of AU, 2 Amys is at the fingertips of students. D.C. Foodies wrote that "2 Amys is hands down, the most wonderful place in D.C. to get gourmet pizza." Skip an appetizer (although the potato and prosciutto croquettes are delightful) and go straight to the pizza menu. Just like traveling to Italy, you can order anything on the menu and not be disappointed. Both the classic Margherita and the Calabrese (tomato, anchovy, fresh mozzarella, parsley and olive) are among the restaurant's best.  
Burgers: Five Guys
Location: Everywhere. (Georgetown, Bethesda, Dupont Circle, Arlington, Va., Chinatown, etc.) 
Why Go There? For out-of-towners who aren't familiar with this incredible burger chain, it's time to experience its utter deliciousness. Five Guys serves up classic burgers and cheeseburgers with no trans-fats and a plethora of available toppings including mayonnaise, onions, lettuce, pickles, grilled mushrooms, jalapeÃ?Â±os and the like. Also popular are the french fries, either regular or Cajun-style, and its kosher hot dogs.  
Burritos: Chipotle
Location: 4301 Wisconsin Ave., N.W. # B in Tenleytown.
Why Go There? Make sure you've been fasting for days before diving into one of these massive burritos! Chipotle's Mexican concoctions are huge, yet incredibly delicious and addictive. A growing chain around the country, Chipotle serves up scrumptious burritos, soft tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and, most recently, burrito salads! First-timers must try a steak or chicken burrito with rice, your choice of beans and a handful of other fresh toppings.  
Frozen Yogurt: Mr. Yogato
Location: 1515 17th St., N.W. near Dupont Circle
Why Go There? Trying to avoid those freshmen 15? Make a visit to Mr. Yogato, a very unique fro-yo parlor. Mr. Yogato carries 18 flavors of non-fat frozen yogurt and 40 different toppings including Captain Crunch, Junior Mints and toasted mini Eggo waffles and anything else their patrons could think up. The best part about visiting this healthy dessert haven is the crazy rules created by Mr. Yogato himself. If you wear a Yogato stamp on your head, you get 10 percent off your purchase, or you can get 20 percent off your total for reciting the Stirling battlefield speech from Braveheart in a great Scottish accent. Visit www.mryogato.com/rules.php for more Yogato rules.
You can reach this staff writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Confining your studying routine to the familiar shelter of Bender Library or Mary Graydon Center is a dangerous move. As an AU student, it's easy to develop the same plight as Princess Jasmine in "Aladdin" and remain within the palace grounds. Studying on campus is rather convenient, but beyond the quad dwells a whole new world and there's no evil Sultan keeping you from experiencing it. Hop on your magic carpet, or Metrobus or rail of your choice, and explore the plethora of alternative studying locales around D.C. at your disposal. The following places serve as a basic springboard for further off-campus studying adventures with easiest transportation routes from the AU/Tenleytown area. 
5) Sticky Fingers, 1370 Park Rd., N.W.
Best transportation route: Columbia Heights Metro, H4 bus. 
A few steps from the 14th Street core of Columbia Heights rests vegan sweet haven Sticky Fingers, an ideal spot for morning studying. Modern in its design, Sticky Fingers is a hotspot for the socially and politically conscious, as the establishment strictly abides to vegan and animal rights conditions and standards. Also a staple are killer pastries, which there's no shortage of here. From their famous sticky buns to delectable cupcakes, brownies and muffins, it's easy to flirt between sugar rush and diabetic shock. Once you're all amped up on sugar, though, Sticky Fingers has a dozen or so tables for studying or working purposes.  
4) Ebenezers Coffeehouse, 201 F St., N.E.
Best transportation route: Union Station Metro
Nestled on a quiet corner in northeast D.C. a few blocks from Union Station, Ebenezers Coffeehouse is the perfect spot for a day when you want to get far off campus. The building was purchased by the National Community Church in 2002 and extensively renovated before its 2006 opening. Not to worry, though - there's no trace of religion in the coffee. All profits of the fair trade coffeehouse go towards community outreach projects around the Capitol Hill neighborhood through the National Community Church. Aesthetically, Ebenezers has the sophisticated, sterile ambiance of a Starbucks, its exposed brick and eclectic seating arrangements make for a lively coffeehouse. Its barren basement is used for concerts and dance classes nearly every night. During the day, however, it makes for an excellent, expansive space to spread out your books and papers and dive headfirst into your work. 
3) SoHo Café, 2150 P St., N.W.
Best transportation route: Dupont Circle Metro, N buses
A hop, skip and jump away from the Circle resides SoHo Café, a quaint coffeehouse with ample pizzazz. Featuring bold colors and unique décor lining the walls, SoHo Café is an ideal destination for writing papers. The seating dynamic is tight and clustered, making it rather difficult to spread out, but ideal for getting down to business on your laptop. The café has recently acquired a liquor license, sporadically rendering it a bar hangout spot on weekend nights. During weekdays, however, SoHo boasts a fairly subdued work environment - a quick, easy retreat off campus for those in search of an afternoon studying session with a jolt of caffeine. 
2) Steam Café & Lounge, 1700 17th St., N.W.
Best transportation route: Dupont Circle Metro, N buses
Steam Café & Lounge is irrefutably the most accommodating place to study off campus, if only for its unique hours of operation. During the week, Steam is open from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. and to 3 a.m. on weekends, which is ideal if you've got a full day of studying ahead of you. The accommodating nature extends to the kitchen, too. Steam has an extensive menu that entails selections from every meal of the day, served from open to close - yes, all-day breakfast. The standard seating isn't particularly comfortable, but Steam attains its charm through the large windows that boast pleasant Dupont Circle vistas.  
1) Tryst Coffeehouse/Bar/Lounge, 2459 18th St., N.W.
Best transportation route: Woodley Park-Zoo/Adams Morgan Metro, H4 bus
Undoubtedly the most textbook "coffeehouse" in terms of personality, style and setup, Tryst is a fully functioning bar, café and lounge. With a haphazard seating arrangement composed of plush armchairs, dining room tables and everything in between, Tryst exudes a busy, yet welcoming atmosphere with delicious meals and myriad caffeinated beverage options, each served with Tryst's signature side of animal crackers. Studying and working in groups can be difficult given the helter-skelter seating organization and consistently popping business. The clientele ranges from students and locals to families lost on their way to and from the zoo, so it can get quite loud at times. For those that require silence to study, look elsewhere; for those who like boisterous work environments it doesn't get much better than this.
You can reach this staff writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If you are bored with this summer's biggest blockbuster hits and independent or foreign films are more your taste, look no farther than the award-winning E Street Cinema.
Conveniently located at 555 11th Street N.W., just a few blocks off the Red, Blue and Orange Line's Metro Center station, E Street Cinema evokes a unique and appealing atmosphere. 
Called D.C.'s "Best Movie Theater" in 2005 and 2006 by Washington Blade, the theater exudes an upscale and trendy vibe. 
"We aim to create a sophisticated, yet accessible atmosphere in our theater," said E Street's assistant manager Will Dempster. "We also try to foster a community atmosphere by offering our guests opportunities to visit the theater for special screenings and events with actors, directors and film producers."
E Street may sell gourmet cookies and cappuccinos at its concession stand, but it also works to be welcoming to all demographics through special movie nights and promotions.
E Street Cinema is part of the national Landmark Theater Chain. According to the theater's Web site, Landmark Theaters is the nation's largest theater chain dedicated to exhibiting and marketing independent films.
According to Lankmark's Web site, "As long as there are filmmakers creating compelling cinema, we will remain committed to exhibiting meaningful films as part of a unique sophisticated entertainment experience." 
E Street Cinema's commitment to this goal is without a doubt apparent. Not only does a trip to E Street offer great entertainment, it is also always an opportunity to walk away feeling smarter and more cultured.
"While we do show Academy Award-winning films and some commercial hits every year, we also show many films with a more limited distribution - documentaries such as 'Food, Inc.' and foreign films such as 'Sin Nombre' and 'Rudo y Cursi,' Dempster said. "These films were not shown at other theaters in the city."
Though E Street might appeal to a smaller fan base than the Regal Cinema off the Gallery Place Metro stop, the theater itself is expansive. Boasting eight auditoriums of which seven have wall-to-wall screens and stadium seating, E Street is able to show many movies at once.
Not only is the quantity of films available at E Street noteworthy, so is the quality. According to the theater's Web site, the auditoriums are equipped with "the latest state-of-the-art sound technology, including one auditorium with Dolby Digital Surround EX."
Also worth mentioning is E Street's effort to continually draw the college demographic to the theater. 
"We offer several programs marketed directly to students," Dempster said, referencing the student discount as well as their Midnight Madness film series. 
The Midnight Madness film series runs every Friday and Saturday night at midnight and shows classic films like "The Goonies," "Back to the Future" and "Office Space," according to Dempster. 
The series is only one of the many special events put on by E Street. The theater is often the host of many acclaimed film festivals such as the D.C. International Film Festival, the Politics on Film Festival, the D.C. Shorts Film Festival and the German Film Festival.
Seeing a film at E Street Theater is a must for any AU student. It is a great place to go with friends, family or a date to see some of the years' most thought-provoking, yet often underrated films. 
Currently playing at E Street is "Away We Go," "Shrink," "In the Loop," "Burma VJ: Reporting from a Closed Country," "Food Inc.," "Humpday" and "The Hurt Locker." 
General admission tickets at E Street Cinema are $10, but are $8 for students with a valid school ID. E Street also offers a bargain discount of $7.50 per film for all shows before 6 p.m. Monday through Friday and for the first show of the day on weekends as well as on holidays. 
In addition to E Street Cinema, there is another Landmark theater two Metro stops away from AU on the red line in Bethesda, Md. which shows similar films. 
You can reach this staff writer at ostilitis@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU's assistant track and field coach Julie Culley will be representing the United States at the 12th IAAF World Track and Field Championships in Berlin, Germany.
The third-year assistant coach qualified for the world championships in July at the 2009 Metting International d'athletisme de la Provience de Liege in Belgium. She did it with a personal best time of 15:21.87 in the 5,000 meter. It is Culley's first appearance in a world championship event.
"I'm extremely excited about competing on one of our sport's grandest stages," Culley said in a press release from AU Athletics.
The championships will be the largest stage she has been on since returning from a three-year hiatus from track. After graduating from Rutgers University, the 2002 NCAA All-American felt she needed a break from competition. Culley put her career on hold and became the first head coach of the Loyola College women's track and field team. 
"I had a great college experience but with a lot of ups and downs," Culley told the Athletic Department. "By the time I graduated, I just felt like I needed a break from competition." 
Unable to keep the itch for competition out of her blood, Culley began training with AU's head track and field coach Matt Centrowitz. According to AU, she improved her 5,000-meter time improve by 55 seconds in the first 18 months of her training with Centrowitz she. With help from Centrowitz, Culley posted a Championship qualifying time that is more than minute faster than her previous record.
"Training with Coach Centrowitz and being a part of his program at American has helped me to fully realize my potential as a runner," Culley said in an AU press release. "When I take the track next week in Berlin I am confident that I will represent my country proudly."
Culley graduated from Rutgers University in 2004. During her time there she was named the NCAA Woman of the Year for the state of New Jersey and set school records in the 3,000, 5000 and distance medley relay. The 5,000 meter preliminaries are Aug. 19, and Culley will then move on to the finals Aug. 22 if she qualifies.
You can reach this staff writer at atomlinson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Washington, D.C. boasts a remarkable amount of tourist attractions, especially in the art realm. However, once becoming an AU student, the task of distinguishing oneself as anything but a tourist can sometimes be difficult. It takes time to get used to the area and find the best-kept secrets in the city, but that task just got a little easier - just make a visit to the Kreeger Museum.
Named after David and Carmen Kreeger, the museum holds an impressive collection of art that spans a variety of movements from the 1850s to the 1970s. The Kreeger's passion for art, which is quite clear since most of the museum's pieces are from their personal collection, helped to transform their former home into the current museum.
"The Kreeger Museum's collection includes an exquisite collection of masks from sub-Saharan Africa as well as master works of western and Asian sculpture," said Molly McMullen, the head of marketing and public relations for the museum.
Other than myriad Monets and Picassos that fill the structure, the architecture of the museum itself is reason enough to visit. Architect Philip Johnson worked to create a structure that could work as a home as well as a showcase for art. By combining elements from the past, the building draws inspiration from a variety of styles, such as Byzantine and Roman architecture.
The beauty of the museum does not remain within its outstanding structure, for there is also a sculpture garden outside that would impress any visitor.
Music was also a passion of the Kreegers so the museum houses a great hall that is still used for concerts hosted by the museum throughout the year. The architecture of the building was even designed to help amplify the sounds, which makes the experience of a musical performance in the museum unbeatable.
The fact that the museum was once a home makes it fascinating to walk through the building and see how the previous dining room or living room has been transformed. While viewing the art, visitors are able to see into the lives of the previous inhabitants, which is a unique experience.
Located less than two miles away from AU's main campus, the museum is close and convenient. Kreeger even offers free parking for visitors who decide to drive.
A major advantage of Kreeger that allows it to stand out from other D.C. museums is its private and intimate setting to enjoy art. 
"While still being a large space with numerous art works, the museum is a manageable size," McMullen said. "This allows visitors the opportunity to see the entire museum at a leisurely pace and 'commune' with individual works, rather than feeling rushed or facing the all too common sense of information-overload that is often encountered in cultural institutions."
McMullen said that visitors can tour the museum with a knowledgeable docent, so even if patrons are not art experts they can still learn and enjoy what the museum has to offer.
Another bonus for students is that the museum offers a discount to those with a valid student ID. The museum also has a variety of events that happen throughout the year including "evening concerts, artist talks, lectures, classes and artist studio visits," McMullen said.
Rather than being bombarded with tourists running after their children and people annoyingly holding up their maps of other D.C. destinations, the Kreeger is a completely different type of museum experience. It allows for a fun and knowledgeable trip for any visitor. Since it is so close to AU, there is no excuse not to explore this D.C. gem again and again.
You can reach this writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
November
Tue. 3 Randolph Macon (exhibition) 7:30 p.m.
Sun. 8 Catholic (exhibition) 4:30 p.m.
Fri. 13 @ St. Francis (Pa.) 7:00 p.m.
Mon. 16 Albany 7:30 p.m.
Wed. 18 Mt. St. Mary's 7:30 p.m.
Sat. 21 Florida Atlantic 12:00 p.m.
Mon. 23 Fairfield 7:30 p.m.
Wed. 25 Manhattan 7:30 p.m.
Sat. 28 @ Maryland-Eastern Shore 2:00 p.m.
December
Tue. 1 Howard 7:30 p.m.
Sat. 5 @ Georgetown TBA
Wed. 15 @ DePaul TBA
Sat. 19 UMBC 2:00 p.m.
Mon. 21 @ Penn State 5:00 p.m.
Mon. 28 @ Florida TBA
January
Sat. 2 @ Brown 1:00 p.m.
Mon. 4 @ Columbia 7:00 p.m.
Sat. 9 @ Lehigh 7:00 p.m.
Wed. 13 @ Bucknell 7:00 p.m.
Sat. 16 Colgate 2:00 p.m.
Wed. 20 @ Army 7:00 p.m.
Sat. 23 Holy Cross 2:00 p.m.
Wed. 27 Navy 7:30 p.m.
Sat. 30 @ Lafayette 1:00 p.m.
February
Sat. 6 Lehigh 2:00 p.m.
Wed. 10 Bucknell 7:30 p.m.
Sat. 13 @ Cologate 2:00 p.m.
Wed. 17 Army 7:30 p.m.
Sat. 20 @ Holy Cross TBA
Wed. 24 @ Navy 7:00 p.m.
Sat. 27 Lafayette 2:00 p.m.
March
Wed. 3 Patriot League Quarterfinals TBA
Sun. 7 Patriot League Semifinals TBA
Fri. 12 Patriot League Championship
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
September doesn't just mean the start of classes and schoolwork; it is also the start of an active AU fall sports lineup. 
Often, when someone thinks about AU sports, the basketball team is the only thing that comes to mind. While they have been successful in the last few years, the AU field hockey, volleyball and soccer teams have also succeed in their respective sports. The fall season holds several NCAA tournaments and Patriot League Championships just like in the springtime.
Of the fall teams, the women's volleyball team has been the most successful. The Eagles coach Barry Goldberg has accumulated a record of 296-187 over 19 seasons with the school. His success has not come in just a few unbelievable seasons, and his consistency has shown on the court, as the Eagles have been selected as Patriot League preseason number one for the eighth year in a row.
Along with their strong coaching staff the team returns most of their members, only losing four members to graduation. To go along with their veteran squad, the Lady Eagles also have the world's tallest female twins returning in front of the net. They have been an important part to AU's success in the last few years and look to continue their dominance again this year.
The volleyball team opens their season Aug. 28 at George Mason University, and their home opener will be on Aug. 29 against George Washington.
AU's field hockey team has also put together a stretch of winning seasons and has created a winning atmosphere. The ladies will begin their season Aug. 28 against Indiana in search of their seventh consecutive Patriot League Title. Five-time Patriot League Coach of the Year Steve Jennings 12 will be returning behind the bench for American.
The team's success has not come without recognition as they are ranked in the national top 20 in both the coaches' and RPI polls for the sixth consecutive year. With the Lady Eagles only losing three to graduation, they look to continue that dominance.
Among the players returning are Patriot League Rookie of the Year Tatum Dyer, Third Team All-American Christine Fingerhuth and All-Mid Atlantic Region and Patriot League Second Team selection Kristin Gebhart. All of these players, including several other national selections, will be attempting to continue Jennings' smash mouth defensive minded hockey. 
It is clear that the ever-evolving talent pool paired with Jennings' coaching style has been fruitful, as the team rides a 43-game conference win streak. They have struggled recently against non-conference opponents however, and will have to make it through their first nine games before seeing a League opponent. They open up their conference schedule on Oct. 3 at Holy Cross.
The final two sports of the fall season are men's and women's soccer. Both teams have struggled in recent past but look to improve off of last year.  The men's team finished the year in the Patriot League semi-finals with a final record of 9-7-3 overall. The women didn't have quite the same success posting a 5-10-4 record, but have certainly made progress towards winning.
Perhaps the most important thing for the men to concentrate on is continuing their success at home and in the conference. They had a record of 5-2-1 at home and a 5-1-1 record against conference opponents; winning these games are how teams become champions. The Eagles were successful in overtime, winning several nail-biters in extra time. These wins are crucial since they often boost morale and give a team confidence.
The AU fall sports line is packed with great games. AU Athletics has something for everyone. Not only can everyone enjoy good matches, but they also can be part of a winning culture. While not all teams are on top of their respective Leagues, they are certainly moving in the right direction.
You can reach this staff writer at atomlinson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU is not the only hot bed for sports this year. Washington, D.C. boasts some of the most (and, if we're being honest, least) successful teams on the East Coast. The city will be able to provide something for everyone, whether it is the NFL, NBA, NHL or MLB. 
Washington Capitals
Last season, the Caps established themselves as the toast of Washington. They finished second overall in the Eastern Conference behind the Boston Bruins and first in their division. Even though they lost to the eventual Stanley Cup Champion Pittsburgh Penguins, it is still comforting to know that league MVP Alexander Ovechkin resides in the District. The playoffs also showcased young goalie Semyon Varlamov, who displayed he can be a regular starter even at only 21 years old. 
Caps games are easy to get to and it's not hard to find cheap seats at Verizon Center. Live NHL games are a must see, especially when you get to see some of the league's best like Ovechkin and Alexander Semin.
Washington Wizards
Maybe it's best to keep visits to the Verizon Center limited to Caps games, unless you happen to be a die-hard Wizards fan. Last year, the Wizards finished last in the Eastern Conference, no easy feat considering they had to finish worse than the Knicks. In an attempt to bolster their roster for the upcoming season, Washington traded their first round draft pick, No. 5 overall, to the Timberwolves for Randy Foye and Mike Miller. The veteran core of the team returns with Gilbert Arenas and Antawan Jamison. 
Arenas is not the player he once was. In the '08-'09 season, he had a solid year, but he's no longer one of the top guards in the league. The fans that have stuck with this team should be commended for putting up with so many setbacks. Looking on the bright side, there's no place to go but up.
Washington Nationals
The Washington Nationals have quickly become baseball's biggest joke. They have by far the worst record in the league, their minor leagues are not full of big-time prospects, their stadium is embarrassingly empty for most games and they have yet to sign their first round draft pick Stephen Strasburg. 
To the untrained eye, there are no reasons to go see this team play, but with further inspection a terrible team has a lot to offer a sports fan. Besides being conveniently close to its Navy Yard Metro Stop, Nats games are cheap. 
Want better seats but do not want to pay a hefty price for a bad team? 
The easy solution is to buy some cheap seats and move down, it is probably the best part of having such an empty stadium. Nationals Stadium is also new and in good shape, as it has not seen much wear and tear since it's opening. So grab yourself a Nats dog and make the most of Adam Dunn striking out four times.
Washington Redskins
While D.C. fans can find a reason to get behind the dirt cheap Nationals, it is difficult to get behind the extremely costly and mediocre Washington Redskins. 
The Capitals may be D.C.'s best sports franchise, but deep down in the hearts of fans, this is Redskins country. Unfortunately the Redskins have found an owner who can spend a ton of money without bringing any success. 
The Redskins have been moving in a more positive direction of late with quarterback Jason Campbell. In a move that owner Dan Snyder has become infamous for, the 'Skins signed defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth to a $100 million deal. Ideally, Haynesworth's presence in the Redskins defense can help push them over the top and get them to the playoffs, but history has shown money cannot fix the teams problems. 
Not much can beat going to a game at FedEx Field, but it's not easy or light on the pocket to get seats to a game. It may just be best to take the cheaper route and scream at Dan Snyder from the comfort of your own home.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF DRINKING ON CAMPUS
THE NEW JAMS
The disciplinary office formerly known as Judicial Affairs and Mediation Services will now go by a new name that administrators hope is more student-friendly. 
JAMS became Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution Services as of May 1, but the new name brings no policy changes, according to Rosie McSweeney, director of the office. McSweeney said the new name better reflects the office's function. 
"The purpose of our office is to uphold community standards, assist in resolving community and interpersonal conflicts, and educate students to be active and respectful citizens who make considered decisions," she said in an e-mail. 
This name change followed a similar change on a national level when the organization that serves student conduct professionals, formerly the Association for Student Judicial Affairs, became the Association for Student Conduct Administration, according to a press release sent out by the Office of Campus Life.  
While many universities have recently begun to favor less formal disciplinary approaches, AU has already been doing this through its use of disciplinary conferences, McSweeney said. These conferences are used for policy violations that would not warrant removal from housing, suspension or dismissal from the university. 
In accordance with its name, SCCRS continues to offer conflict coaching and mediation training for members of the AU community, according to McSweeney. 
HOW YOU CAN GET BUSTED
Despite its new name, SCCRS can and will continue to discipline for alcohol-related offences. 
It is not against AU policy to be intoxicated and students cannot get in trouble simply by returning to campus drunk. However, students are often written up for disorderly conduct as a result of alcohol consumption, according to Julie Mills, deputy director of the Student Advocacy Center. 
"So, say you are coming back from the dorm and you are yelling, screaming, fighting with a desk receptionist or tearing down posters on your hall: you may be responsible for disorderly conduct," Mills said in an e-mail. 
Possessing, drinking and distributing alcohol in the residence halls is prohibited, even for students who are 21, according to McSweeney. As of last year, it is also prohibited to be in the presence of alcohol or drugs within the residence halls and students can be written up even if they are not partaking themselves, McSweeney said. 
While AU's residence halls are dry, its campus is not. Alcohol is permitted at events with appropriate authorization, according to McSweeney. 
The most common way for students to get caught drinking in their dorm room is by being too loud and disruptive, according to Mills. In the majority of the alcohol violations cases the Student Advocacy Center sees, the resident assistants only found the contraband substances in the process of investigating a noise complaint.
"Thus, if you're a student that drinks on campus, it would be wise to take steps to minimize the noise in your room," Mills said. 
Consequences of getting caught for such violations can include educational interventions (such as classes or reflection papers), parental notification and a changed standing with the university, according to McSweeney.  
IF YOU'RE CAUGHT
The Student Advocacy Center offers free, confidential advice that can help students prepare for their SCCRS hearing and understand the procedure and possible outcomes, according to Joel Croft, associate director of the center. 
"Students often stress out unnecessarily and we help ease anxiety that comes with going through the Student Conduct office," Croft said in an e-mail. 
The most important things to remember are that the Student Conduct office wants the experience to be education, not punitive, and that it is best to be honest with them, he wrote. 
The Student Advocacy Center will also be starting a program on safe partying on and off campus, which will host information sessions in the residence halls and bring in a lawyer to talk about student rights, according to Mills. 
SAC can also direct students toward resources that will help them deal with off-campus offenses, said Croft. 
DRINKING OFF CAMPUS
DOUBLE TROUBLE
It is obvious that students who drink on campus are risking trouble with SCCRS, but many fail to realize this risk extends beyond the boundaries of AU as well. 
The Metropolitan Police Department often contacts SCCRS about incidents that occur off campus, meaning that a student can face university penalties on top of his or her police citation, according to Croft. 
The Student Conduct Code allows this in order to keep students safe and ensure AU's reputation as a good neighbor, Public Safety Chief Michael McNair previously told The Eagle.
PARTYING IN THE DISTRICT
As they begin going to off-campus parties, freshmen will undoubtedly hear rumors that it is safer to stay within the D.C. city limits and avoid venturing into nearby Maryland. 
According to many upperclassmen, this is because D.C. police officers tend to simply send everyone home when breaking up a party, whereas Maryland police are more likely to issue citations for underage drinking. Until recently, however, the underage drinking laws in both districts have been extremely similar. 
D.C. decriminalized underage drinking in 2004, according to Officer Quintin Peterson of the MPD. This means that the consumption of alcohol by someone under 21 is a civil rather than criminal offense and can be punished by fines, community service, or a brief driver's license suspension. Offenders cannot be arrested or receive a criminal record. 
If on public property, however, students can be charged with alcohol-related misdemeanors such as Possession of an Open Container of Alcohol, Disorderly Conduct, DWI (driving while intoxicated) or DUI (driving under the influence), Peterson said in an e-mail. Unlike civil offenses, misdemeanors can go on a criminal record. 
PARTYING IN MARYLAND
On Oct. 1, new legislation will go into effect that moves underage drinking in Maryland from a civil to a criminal offense, according to Elena Russo, Maryland Police Department spokesperson.
Any underage person charged with obtaining, consuming or possessing alcohol will have to appear in court, according to House Bill 299. The new will also make it a misdemeanor for a person of age to supply alcohol to someone under 21. 
In addition, using a fake ID to purchase alcohol will become a criminal offense, according to the bill. 
Under previous Maryland law, underage drinking was a civil offense punishable by a maximum fine of $500 for a first offense. 
Russo said she does not think discrepancies have existed or will exist in the future between the way underage drinking is handled in Maryland versus D.C.. 
"No matter if you're in D.C. Maryland or Virginia, underage drinking is against the law and law enforcement will handle whatever incidence they're faced with appropriately," Russo said. 
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If Andy MacCracken, a junior in the School of Public Affairs, were president of the United States, he would enjoy having his own airplane.
"I'd try to be out and about as much as possible, actually meeting with people around the country," MacCracken said. "Policy wise, there's too much going on in the country to pick any one thing I'd do. I'll leave all that to the experts."
But as AU Student Government president, MacCracken knows what he would like to change about the university.
"Year after year AU is ranked one of the most politically active campuses in the country," MacCracken said. "I'd like to see that kind of engagement on campus issues. There are a lot of things going on that more students should and would like to have a say about."
The SG president is planning to complete the five-year B.A./M.A. program in public policy. He figures the extra year of school will be helpful in the struggling economy, he said.
What exactly I do from there, I'm not sure," he said.
MacCracken would like to be in the sphere of public policy decision making, whether it is with an non-governmental agency, the government or something else, he said. He does not have a preference, but is most interested in health and education policy, he said.
But if he could do absolutely anything, MacCracken would go into space, he said.
"But it turns out I'm terrible at astrophysics, and I'm also not a billionaire," he said. "I don't see that happening anytime soon."
You can reach this staff writer at landerson@theeagleonline.com.
(SIDEBAR)
More About Andy
Major: 5-year B.A./M.A. program in Political Science concentrating in public policy
Hometown: Aspen, Colo.
Activities outside of SG: AU's all-male a cappella group On a Sensual Note
What he does for fun: "I like to go to baseball games. It's convenient having the Nationals as the hometown team because the tickets are always cheap!"
Odd habits: "I sing under my breath a lot. Usually it's the same line of a song over and over because I'm bad at remembering lyrics. It drives people crazy."
His anytime food: "Pasta's always a winner, but it's really more of a dinner food. I'd eat a bagel with lox and cream cheese anytime for any meal" 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If you're an incoming freshman, you've probably already maxed out your credit card at Bed, Bath and Beyond to buy a new bedspread, alarm clock, trendy-looking lamp - and anything else you could have sworn you needed to go away to college. Your grandmother probably bought you a "how-to-navigate-D.C." travel book, equipped with Metro maps and tips on where the popular tourist spots are. But leave the fanny pack at home, dear newcomer - you're not a tourist here. D.C. is your new home for the next four years, but don't let that intimidate you. The Eagle's annual guide issue makes a great cheat sheet; we're here to prove that there is life outside of the National Mall.
Once you're settled in your dorm room, grab some of your new friends and do some exploring. Your options are certainly not limited to campus events (though those can be pretty cool). The Eagle has mapped some of the coolest spots in D.C. - for everyone from political activists to arts enthusiasts and all those in between. We've got places for you to study, museums to visit, restaurants and sports events, on campus and across D.C. 
So please, explore neighborhoods outside of Tenleytown. Places like Columbia Heights, Petworth, Bethesda and Cleveland Park have some cool things to do. Find a coffee shop to call your own, hang out at a park - and let The Eagle tell you how. 
Of course, by the end of this semester, you'll be an old pro at navigating the Metro. Come parents' weekend, you'll be able to give mom and dad the most ultimate tour of the monuments. But everyone has to start somewhere. D.C. may seem like a big, confusing place at first. A few things to remember though, stand to the right and walk on the left of the Metro escalator, there is no J Street and take note of which airport your flight leaves from (yes, that actually happens). And buses aren't scary.
Oh, and make sure you go to your classes amidst all the excitement that the city provides. Those can be interesting, too. I swear.
Welcome to AU and good luck!
Jen Calantone
Editor-in-Chief
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For newcomers to AU and to D.C., this list is a guide to some of the neighborhoods often frequented by AU students throughout the year.  From dining and shopping, to bars and clubs, these locations throughout the city include venues enjoyed by many. 
ADAMS MORGAN
Adams Morgan, accessible by Metro, and is only three stops down the red line. The neighborhood includes a wide variety of attractions, including shops, restaurants and bars.
The Metro stop is called Woodley Park-Zoo/Adams Morgan, and the entrance to the Smithsonian National Zoo is a short walk up Connecticut Avenue. Like many other Smithsonian museums, admission to the National Zoo is free of charge.
A walk in the other direction from the Metro stop and down Calvert Street will get you to the heart of Adams Morgan.
Adams Morgan is known as one of the hippest, most happening spots in town. Hookah bars, regular bars, restaurants and other attractions make this area a weekend hot spot for AU students.
Dan Raby, a junior in the School of Communication, said he enjoys the dynamic of the restaurants and nightlife of the neighborhood.
"I like Adams Morgan because if you want to do something, you can always find it in Adams Morgan ... If you want to find any restaurant, from something fancy to little holes-in-the-wall, it's in Adams Morgan."
One example is Tryst Coffeehouse, a favorite coffee shop of Florence Lumsden, a junior in the School of International Studies. The Diner is a restaurant adjacent to Tryst that Lumsden said she also enjoys. 
"It is open really late, pretty much all night, and they have nice food and nice dessert," said Lumsden.
Lumsden also said that there are many popular bars in Adams Morgan, but that most of them only admit those who are 21 and up.
Another quirk of Adams Morgan is the annual "Crafty Bastards Arts & Crafts Fair" put on by the Washington City Paper. Raby said he goes every year. 
"They have clothes, jewelry, and all sorts of things," he said.  This year's fair is scheduled for Saturday, Oct. 3, according to the City Paper Web site. 
DOWNTOWN 
Downtown D.C., which includes Chinatown, Penn Quarter and the National Mall, has many attractions including national buildings such as the White House, the Capitol Building, the Supreme Court, the Library of Congress and many others. 
In addition, Smithsonian museums, such as the Air and Space Museum and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, line the National Mall.
"The Mall's always great. Even if you don't want to see a museum or art gallery, it's nice to go down there and find a green spot to rest," Raby said.
Many AU students tour the national monuments around the mall multiple times.
In addition, the National Gallery of Art's Sculpture Garden is open all week and includes a fountain area with seating. The National Gallery of Art also opens an outdoor ice skating rink November through March, according to its Web site.
Downtown also has a bustling nightlife. Ultrabar, Lotus Lounge and Avenue Night Club are all in that area. 
"Ultrabar is a cool place because it has really awesome lights and cool music, but if you go on weekends and on Saturdays, it's really packed and really hard to get in," Lumsden said.
DUPONT CIRCLE
Dupont Circle, only four Metro stops from Tenleytown on the red line, comes alive at night with its many bars and restaurants.
"Dupont Circle is a really good location to meet up with friends," said Eric Elliot, a junior in the Kogod School of Business.
A favorite spot in Dupont Circle for AU students is Kramer's Books & Afterwords Cafe, a combination bookshop and restaurant, appreciated for its late hours. It is open 7:30 a.m. through 1 a.m. daily and 24 hours on Fridays and Saturdays, according to its Web site. "It's kind of a pricey place to eat, but a wonderful place to go at night to get a fabulous dessert," Lumsden said.
Student's looking for international cuisine will find plenty to eat in Dupont Circle. 
 "Name a country, it's probably there," Raby said.
You can find Greek at the famous Zorba's Café on Connecticut Avenue, Italian at Pizzeria Paradiso on P street and sushi at Uni A Sushi, also on P Street. 
The nightlife of Dupont Circle includes many bars, clubs and lounges open only to those of drinking age most nights, such as 18th Street Lounge, Omega DC and Gazuza.
Cafe Japonais, however, is a sushi bar and karaoke lounge open to people of eighteen years and older. 
GEORGETOWN
Georgetown is an area for shopping and dining accessible from Tenleytown by the 31 Bus towards Potomac Park and the 32 Bus towards Southern Avenue station.
"If you want clothes, Georgetown is the place to go," Raby said.  Shops in the area include American Apparel, Anthropologie, Urban Outfitters, J. Crew and designer boutiques including BCBG, Kate Spade and many others, according to the Georgetown Business Improvement District Web site.
"Georgetown has a lot of good places for dinner," Elliot said. "There are a lot of cafes.  One is Tu-O-Tu with nice sandwiches."
Georgetown also includes hookah bars and lounges. Elliot enjoys a hookah bar named Zenobia, he said.
"It's nice to walk around. Definitely, the Georgetown area is the nicest," he said.
Georgetown also features an AMC movie theatre. 
TENLEYTOWN 
Tenleytown, AU's home base, located on the red line of the Metro, includes many establishments that AU students patronize.
At places like Best Buy and The Container Store you can find must-have dorm room accoutrements, as well as technological marvels that will keep you entertained in between (or during) class. 
Those looking to get away from Terrace Dining Room fare will find plenty of good eats as well. 
You can find Italian at Armands and Angelico. Thai at Neisha. Tex-Mex at Chipotle and plenty other good quick, relatively affordable eats.  
 "I've been to Angelico for a pasta or salad," said Lumsden.  "Armand's has good pizza and pasta too," she said.
"Of course, Whole Foods is an awesome thing to have," Lumsden said.  In addition, a CVS and Safeway are only a short walk down Wisconsin Avenue from the Tenleytown Metro stop.
AU's Greenberg Theatre is also located at Tenleytown on Wisconsin Avenue. 
U STREET-CARDOZO
U Street is a very busy neighborhood with a vibrant nightlife and many restaurants, according to Lumsden.
The Love Cafe, or Cake Love, is a bakery with popular cupcakes. In addition, Busboys and Poets is a restaurant and bookstore with poetry readings and other events.  Every Tuesday at 9 p.m. is open microphone night, according to the Busboys and Poets Web site.
Ben's Chili Bowl is a historic restaurant on U Street established in 1958. 
"[It] is ... a must-visit for great chili, fun times and sometimes a free tour," Lumsden said.
U Street is also known for its music scene.
"It has the Black Cat and other music-focused bars, including the Velvet Lounge," she said.  "The Black Cat has '80s nights sometimes. People get dressed up and have a really good time dancing." 
The Shins and Santigold have both played at the 9:30 club, according to Lumsden.  "It's a smaller venue ... It's a great place to see alternative groups and some mainstream groups too."
You can reach this staff writer at mfowler@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Fall semester is finally here and the Washington, D.C. area is overflowing with opportunities, activities and exciting attractions to welcome students back. 
Whether you're aching to hit the clubs, craving a weekend getaway, ready to discover a new part of the city or just looking for a way to pass a rainy Saturday, D.C. has something intriguing for you. Use some of these ideas as a starting place for exploring everything the D.C. Metro area has to offer: 
Bethesda, Md.
Bethesda has nearly 200 restaurants, 50 clothing stores, 20 art galleries and two movie theaters, according to DowntownBethesda.com.  The abundance of eateries, shops and galleries makes Bethesda a one-stop shop for Saturday adventures - rain or shine. Discover unique clothing at Mustard Seed or Montgomery County Thrift Shop, then settle down for soup and salad at La Madeleine French Bakery and Café.
"Bethesda has everything, and it's only two metro stops away," Julia Lewis, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, said. "I can't even begin to count how many times we went there for dinner, movies, thrifting, shopping, coffee, cell phone repairs, school projects, everything."
How to get there: Take the Metrorail red line north to the Bethesda stop
Alexandria, Va.
Originally founded in 1749, this city is now a revitalized historic district with 18th and 19th century architecture, brick-lined streets, restaurants, shops, old-style candy and ghost tours, according to the Web site VisitAlexandriaVa.com.
"[Alexandria] is such a great place to eat, shop and visit historic sites like George Washington's church," Chris Dychala, a sophomore in the School of International Service, said. "It's a bit of a walk from the metro stop, but definitely worth the hike."
How to get there: Take the Metrorail blue or yellow Line south to the King Street stop, then walk 10 blocks east.
Rock Creek Park, Washington, D.C. and Md.
Rock Creek Park offers trails for hiking, bicycling, physical fitness, rollerblading and horseback riding in addition to 30 picnic areas, an amphitheater for outdoor concerts, playgrounds, tennis courts and even a planetarium, according to the National Park Services Web site. But don't forget your cell phone! This park also offers cell phone tours through its "Dial and Discover" program.
How to get there: Walk or bike northwest on Nebraska Avenue
Merriweather Post Pavilion
This outdoor music venue in Columbia, Md., offers a diverse selection of music, artists and events. Upcoming shows include The Flaming Lips (August 28), Blink-182, The Bravery, Franz Ferdinand and Girl Talk (August 30), The Killers (August 31) and Counting Crows (September 5).
How to get there: Drive north on I-95 towards Baltimore
Baltimore
Visit Edgar Allan Poe's grave, shop on Antique Row, tour the first metropolitan cathedral in America and take in a panoramic view of the Inner Harbor at the historic Federal Hill Park. Often overshadowed by D.C., Baltimore offers a unique history and unique experience.
How to get there: Take the Maryland Area Rapid Commuter (MARC) train or Amtrak train north to Baltimore
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If Ronald Reagan could see AU's campus today, he would surely say, "It's morning again at American." As always, the start of a new school year has AU students feeling renewed, reinvigorated and reengaged. You can see it in our faces. You can feel it in the air. The positive energy on campus is palpable. And we are going to need it, fellow Eagles, because, starting today, we have a mission. We begin a quest to reclaim our rightful place atop Princeton Review's list of America's "most politically active" campuses. We have been there before. We can be there again.
Princeton Review may have ranked us second this year, behind George Washington University, but we know better. And because we know better, it is imperative that we remind Princeton Review why they ranked us first last year, and why we have received this distinction in the past. We can do that. We can write our own destiny. Together. But we need all hands on deck. 	
Students of every political stripe must band together to make our student body more politically aware and active than ever before, because this is bigger than political parties and ideologies. Just as we all put country first, so too must we put campus first in this effort. We must, to use an Obamaism, "come together around a common purpose." In the end, this is about who we are as  a university, and this could be a defining moment in our history. Our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor may be at stake. Not to be grandiose.
So how do we begin our quest? First and foremost, we must remember that there is nothing wrong with American that cannot be cured by what is right with American. We can build on the political passion that already exists on campus by raising awareness about on-campus outlets for that passion and expanding these outlets. 
Academics
AU programs in public affairs and international relations are among American's best. The university provides an excellent education for aspiring leaders, in part by engaging expert professors, many of whom work with political leaders in Washington and around the world. Class discussion is lively and students often talk about political issues at dinner and in the dorms. In fact, students often stay up late together, discussing passionately into the wee hours of the morning. There is diversity of opinion on campus, but students relish the opportunity for discussion, debate and a shared sense of civic-mindedness. It sounds trite, but they truly learn from each other as much as from professors.
Student Groups
Many of AU's politically engaged embrace the university's mantra of "ideas into action," participating in political clubs and organizations on campus. These groups work on campaigns, bring a stunning selection of speakers to campus, hold events, and sometimes stage protests. They include...
AU Students For Liberty
AU Bull Moose Party 
College Democrats
College Republicans
Collegiate Society of America
Foreign Policy Association
Objectivist Society at AU
Patriots For Peace
Radical Feminist and Gender Club
Students For A Democratic Society
Students For Choice
Students For Life
Students For Israel
Students For Justice in Palestine 
Students For The Preservation of the Second Amendment 
Youth For Western Civilization
Notably absent from the above list is the Kennedy Political Union, arguably AU's most popular and high profile student group. It deserves special distinction. As its Web site describes, "[KPU] is AU's student-run, student-funded, on-campus political speakers' bureau. As one of the premier student-run lecture series in the United States, KPU has brought such speakers as Madeleine Albright, Bob Dole, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., the 14th Dalai Lama and Mikhail Gorbachev to campus, among hundreds of others." Students love KPU events, which are always extremely well attended.
AU students weigh in on the pros and cons of a politically charged campus:
"I think it's inspiring. There's nothing like walking around AU and being able to talk to anyone about politics. You're able to receive opinions and have your own opinions respected in return, no matter your political affiliation."
- Kaitlyn MacMannis, sophomore, SIS
"AU is a place where students are more interested in who represents them in Congress than how their hometown sports team is doing."
- Will Hubbard, junior, SPA
"Politics on AU's campus is like an ideological contact sport of constant but enjoyable debate."
- Michael Monrroy, sophomore, SPA
"AU has certainly had political cooperation with the different groups on campus, but I feel that the rivalry and conflict are far more present. We are all capable of having positive debates on issues, but these debates can often turn into quarrels rather than two groups searching for a resolution. Sometimes social groups transcend their actual political beliefs, which may sound stereotypical on my part. When we view a political situation at times, it's not always liberal versus conservative, but a type of social group versus another."
- Joseph Brewer, junior, SIS
"I often describe AU to friends and family as a place where it's considered quite odd to have no interest in politics whatsoever. I can't even imagine AU without some sort of political event or conversation going on at any given moment. But hey -- that's why so many of us chose this school in the first place, no?"
- Alex Knepper, sophomore, SPA, Columnist for The Eagle
"I would say that the political climate on the AU campus is pretty outstanding; it represents all opinions from the political spectrum. Additionally, opinions and arguments are well thought-through and earnest, something that I believe stems from the fact that AU students do so much work in politics, and not just study. Members of the community are always abreast to recent developments in the news (not just politics, but everything). All of it just makes the classroom and campus more interesting and lively."
-Caitlin Reed, sophomore, SPA
The Eagle's Editorial Page
Among the political chattering class in Washington, D.C., the editorial pages of papers like The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal are viewed as invaluable forums for discussion of national issues. Likewise, The Eagle editorial page will continue to be a place where students challenge each other on campus issues as well as local, national and international topics. But things will only get interesting if the campus gets engaged. We need you. So please, read our editorials and letters to the editor in print and online. Send us your own opinion pieces (about 500-800 words) and letters to the editor (about 300 words) by e-mailing edpage@theeagleonline.com. If you've got issues, we want to hear about them.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
There are only so many times that you can visit the Smithsonian museums. Sure, the Apollo spacecrafts are cool, and who doesn't want to see the Hope Diamond? But after a while you get tired of fighting the tourists and seeing the same old exhibits. 
Check out a few of these museums that are not part of the Smithsonian. You'll have to pay to get into these museums, unlike the free Smithsonian museums, but they are well worth the price of admission.
The Newseum
This is the ultimate museum for news junkies. The Newseum has exhibits on the history of news and freedom of the press as well as a Pulitzer Prize photograph gallery. Be sure to visit the Today's Top Pages Gallery, which shows the front pages of over 700 newspapers from around the world. The Berlin Wall Gallery and the 9/11 exhibit are also must-sees. 
Sarah Stahlberg, a junior in the School of Communication, said that as an SOC student she felt right at home at the Newseum. "The first time I went to the Newseum, I felt like a complete news junkie and communications nerd," Stahlberg said, "Even though it isn't free like other museums in the district, it is well worth the money, because there are so many cool things to see there."
Non-news junkies should also be able to enjoy the museums many interactive exhibits and historical artifacts. Also don't miss the beautiful outside veranda looking out towards the Capitol building. 
Hours: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. daily
Tickets: Adults, $20; Students, $18 
555 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. 
Metro: Archives/Navy Memorial-Penn Quarter Station (Green/Yellow Line)
The Spy Museum
Don't let the small exterior of this museum fool you - the Spy Museum is one of the largest and most interesting museums in D.C. This huge museum covers spy history from the Greek and Roman Empires to the present day. When you first enter the museum you are given a "spy profile" and a "fake identity" to assume, and you can test your memory about this fake identity at different interactive kiosks throughout the museum. For $10 extra dollars, you can also participate in "Operation Spy," which is a one-hour interactive experience that leads you through a day in the life of the average spy. 
"The exhibits are really cool and showcase espionage over the past few centuries. It is well worth it for a day trip," said Michael Kelly, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences . 
Hours: 9:30 a.m.-7 p.m. daily
Tickets: Adult general admission ticket, $18; Adult general admission ticket and adult ticket to Operation Spy: $32
800 F Street N.W.
Metro: Gallery Place/ Chinatown (Red, Yellow and Green Lines)
National Museum of Women in the Arts
This is the only museum in America dedicated entirely to women in the arts, according to the museum's Web site. The museum has over 3,000 works of art from many famous women artists including Frida Kahlo, Georgia O'Keefe and Mary Cassatt. Be sure to check out the museum's newest exhibit, "Hard Copy: Books as Sculpture," a collection of sculptures made out of book pages which will run until January 2010. The museum also has one of the best gift shops of any museum in D.C. with many handmade gifts from all over the world. 
Hours: 10:00 a.m.- 5 p.m. daily 
Tickets: $10 for adults, $8 for students
1250 New York Avenue, N.W.
Metro: Metro Center (Red, Blue or Orange Line) or McPherson Square (Blue or Orange Line)
The Corcoran Gallery of Art
If traditional, classic paintings are too boring for you, head over to the Corcoran Gallery of Art. This gallery, which focuses heavily on photography, has an edgy, modern feel. The gallery has hosted exhibits from well-known photographers such as Anne Liebovitz, Ansel Adams and Andy Warhol. The Corcoran Gallery also showcases student work from the Corcoran College of Art and Design, so visitors can see the latest developments in the art and photography world. 
Hours: Closed on Monday and Tuesday; Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. - 5 p.m.; Thursday, 10 a.m.- 9 p.m.
Tickets: $10
500 17th Street N.W.
Metro: Farragut North (Red Line)
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Welcome Week is a time for freshmen to get to know each other. For many, that means attending frat parties. They can be a great place to meet new people, but there are risks involved with the newly acquired freedom that freshman finally find in college, according to Lieutenant Rima Sifri, Crime Prevention and RAD Coordinator at AU.
Sifri listed a number of things to watch out for when attending parties. Car-stuffing is one of her main concerns. Students pile as many people into a car as they can fit to get to or from a party.
"Everyone piles in one car, and I actually pulled someone out of the car and asked, 'Do you know who the driver is?' And they said no," Sifri said. "If you don't have a vehicle, take the Metro to the place or don't go to the party. Or maybe go with some friends so all of you are in the same car together."
Sarah Brown, a member of Women's Initiative thinks it is most important for students to do what feels right.
"We tell students to trust their instincts," she said, explaining that if they are uncomfortable or unsafe, they need to get out of the situation.
Brown advises students to watch their drinks at a party, if they do choose to drink. Students should avoid setting their cups down and coming back to drink them because they may have been spiked while they were gone.
"Choose not to drink if you don't know the people you're with too well," Brown said.
Tommie Leon, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences and member of Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity, thinks it is important to plan ahead before a party so that students don't end up alone at the end of the night.
"If [you] are going to go out be sure you are in a group and everyone knows when to meet up again at the end of the night to make sure no one gets left behind," he said.
If a student is walking home at night or feels unsafe, Brown suggests taking advantage of the Public Safety Escort Service. Anywhere on campus, students can call Public Safety and they will walk with them anywhere they need to go on AU grounds. Now that there's AU housing in the Berkshire Apartments, Women's Initiative is working with the student government to expand the escort service.
The blue lights are another safety option at AU. The safety lights are the "fastest way to get help if you're in trouble," according to Brown. The blue poles are available all over campus for students to contact Public Safety in the event of an emergency. Students can press a call button on the pole and are immediately in contact with Public Safety, should they need any help.
Sifri also believes theft to be one of the biggest problems on campus. Laptops are frequently stolen when students leave them unattended in the library. Sometimes dorm rooms will be entered when left unlocked, and things are taken.
"Lock your doors," Sifri said. "We've had instances where we've arrested people, testing door handles and going, 'Oh sorry I thought it was Jane's room.' If no one is in there they take [the valuables]. They're going to go in there, snatch what they can and leave." 
In 2007, there were 30 burglaries on AU's main campus, according to the AU Annual Security Reports.
Overall, Sifri believes students just need to be reasonable and use common sense to stay out of trouble. 
"This is a great campus; it's very safe, but the [freshmen] don't have their parents anymore," Sifri said. "They just have to practice some common sense and that's really what it comes down to."
You can reach this staff writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
