Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A week after the first impeachment proceedings in the Student Government's history, President Andy MacCracken said he's looking forward to moving the SG past the episode.
In an executive order signed Wednesday by MacCracken, when Handverger leaves office, SG Vice President Alex Prescott assumes control of the SG's financial accounts and MacCracken assumes control of the Comptroller's cabinet -- which includes AUTO.
"I'm just very happy that we can move on from this and move forward with the year in a big way," he said.
MacCracken hopes to hear student input on issues like the university's new shuttle bus routes and its H1N1 policy, he said.
"Overall, this didn't stop progress on those issues," he said. 
 While the proceedings ended early Friday after the impeachment charges against SG Comptroller Matt Handverger were dropped and he agreed to resign, MacCracken said the impeachment process should be revised.
"I would give more structure to the impeachment process," he said. "I have to commend [Speaker of the Undergraduate Senate] Anthony Dunham, for spending the time that he did in trying to create as fair a trial as possible."
Dunham called it "a little bit daunting" to be thrust into the impeachment trial since he just became speaker in late July.
"It's a good experience to have to step out there and do something that's unprecedented," he said. "Hopefully it's something we won't ever have to do again."
MacCracken likened the impeachment proceedings to regular infighting that occurs each year in the SG.
"It seems every year that there is some conflict -- some drama to arise within Student Government," he said. "This year it fell to the office of the comptroller."
Class of 2010 Sen. Josh Rothman, one of the complainants during the trial, dismissed allegations that the impeachment proceedings were a witch hunt against Handverger. 
"We weren't looking to nail somebody in the executive," he said. "Evidence was brought to us that suggested some major misconduct and we wanted to deal with that."
The impeachment process could be reformed in a matter of weeks, Rothman said. A bylaws omnibus bill could be brought through before the adjournment of the fourth Undergraduate Senate, which has four remaining sessions.
The bill could possibly contain provisions that spell out the entire impeachment process -- a process that was not completely clear last week.
Handverger's resignation is effective 5 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 10. 
While MacCracken has power to appoint Handverger's replacement, he opted for an open application process that includes a two-page questionnaire. Details on how to apply to be the next SG comptroller will be available in the next day or two, MacCracken said.
In the future, Dunham hopes the Senate worries more about issues facing the student body instead of internal issues.
"There's so many issues out there," he said, "that if we continue to turn ourselves inward and nitpick at every little thing that we find wrong with ourselves, we could spend the entirety of our undergraduate career fixing what's wrong with the student government and not giving two cents about what the students want and what the students need."
However, Dunham added, "these things happen." 
You can reach this staff writer at eklapper@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As of tomorrow, Matt Handverger has some extra time on his hands. The embattled Student Government comptroller is slated to resign his post tonight at 5 p.m., in the wake of a grandiose impeachment process, which consumed the SG's time and attention for almost two weeks. Many in that body will be sad to see him go. But some student senators will delight in his departure. They will say justice has been served. They may be right, although as usual, things appear more nuanced outside the SG bubble.
Matt Handverger makes an obvious but valid point when he claims the SG looks ridiculous in the wake of this ordeal. The impeachment process was prolonged, petty and nakedly political from its inception. Handverger should never have faced impeachment charges without warning. Certainly, someone should have spoken to him this summer and given him a metaphorical slap on the wrist. But the rush to impeachment was inappropriate, especially given the consequences of this whole saga.
Handverger's resignation leaves AU with no SG comptroller for at least two weeks. When the position is finally filled, the new comptroller will be behind. He or she will need to find a new AUTO commissioner. In the interim, our campus will have to do without. One may wonder whether Handverger's actions were worth the damage his impeachment hearings caused? 
A skeptic might argue that, in the long run, this episode does more harm than good. It took too much time. It created a series of new logistical problems. Most importantly, though, it affirmed a damning public perception of the SG as a body more concerned with sorting out its own soap opera than serving this campus. Some may argue that Handverger's opponents had personal as well as professional motives, and given the general tone of the impeachment process, this seems at least plausible. There was clearly an organized effort to bring the comptroller down, and this fact reveals the most troubling part of this whole thing.
Students can make mistakes and exercise poor judgment. And when they mess up, there should be consequences. Still, it seems reasonable to cut someone a little slack. It seems reasonable to suggest that some of us might take ourselves a bit too seriously. So as the SG emerges from Handverger-gate, perhaps all parties involved ought to do some reflection. How can this group of leaders more forward with their work? Well, for one thing, they should start by making sure nothing like the past two weeks ever happens again.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sept. 11, 2001 set the tone of our generation. That morning eight years ago is indelibly imprinted on our collective consciousness. As we wage two wars and confront the complexities of the Middle East, we are still haunted by the horrors of that day. But all of this begs the question: What better way to rebuild our American spirit than to rebuild the World Trade Center? 
As it turns out, this task is easier said than done -- but not because people aren't interested. Many started thinking about rebuilding the towers even as the piles of rubble still smoldered. The problem is, in the eight years since the attacks, issue after issue has bogged down the project. 
Architect Daniel Libeskind was chosen to engineer the effort, but his original proposition featuring an asymmetrical tower that recalled the Statue of Liberty has been scrapped in favor of the current realization, the centerpiece of which is a shimmering tower that begins with a square base, morphs into an octagon halfway up, and is once more a square at the top. It will rise to the exact height of the original North Tower, but the addition of an antenna brings the total height to 1,776 feet.  
On one hand, this seems a little corny. It feels as if the designers are picking the low-hanging fruit as far as symbolic numbers go, and the effort to incorporate the year of American independence feels somewhat forced. But on the other hand, some of the spirit of America lies in its willingness to enjoy a kitschy inside reference, even in the midst of rebuilding after a tragedy.  
This main building was originally given the name "Freedom Tower" by former New York Gov. George Pataki. It has since been re-designated 1 World Trade Center, the address of the original North Tower. While the official address is clunky and a good nickname is a fine thing,  the moniker "Freedom Tower" could make a person a little nervous. The concept of freedom is a wonderful thing, and it's good to live in a country where we have it. But the word "freedom" has, in the context of 9/11, taken on a buzzword status, ever since the explanation of "They hate our freedoms" began cropping up as an easy-to-process substitute for a full exposition of the web of complex international relations and conflicting ideologies that led up to this tragedy and then colored our response to it. The dignity of a new World Trade Center needs not be sullied by something that reminds us of "freedom fries." 
The design of the centerpiece tower itself involves a reflecting facade that is airy and ethereal and a sculpted antenna with a round base. But no design can please everybody. New York Times architecture critic Nicolai Ouroussoff pronounced it "brooding" and "obelisk-like," while others look at it and see something resembling a hypodermic needle which is whimsically reminiscent of the last paragraph of Lincoln's inaugural speech, where he exhorts his nation to "bind up the nation's wounds ... to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations."  
That's what this project is about -- binding up the nation's wounds and continuing forward, despite the sadness of that morning eight years ago and the many trials and divisions we have faced since then. Progress has been slow and often difficult, but work on the new World Trade Center has begun, ensuring that even as we rebuild and recover, those who lost their lives will not be forgotten.  
Casey Petroff is a freshman in the School of International Service and a moderate liberal columnist for the Eagle. You can reach her at edpage @theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Comptroller Matt Handverger's impeachment trial finally came to an end last week after Senator at Large Jared Alves dropped the charges in the early hours of the Friday morning. That announcement was followed closely by word that Handverger would resign, effective 5 p.m. Thursday. 
Handverger, who planned to work the 15 hours per week mandated by the SG Bylaws, now faces something he didn't anticipate when the semester started -- time off. 
"I get three full days off," Handverger said in an exclusive interview with The Eagle. "[I'm] trying to get an internship, I had an interview last week, I have an interview this week. [I'll] relax, be a normal student, write to my SG senators and tell them what I want as a student."
The impeachment proceedings began Friday, Aug. 28, when Alves charged Handverger with having failed to complete his duties over the summer and with negligence. Handverger was watching the Student Union Board sponsored Broken Lizard comedy show when he found out. 
"[Speaker Anthony Dunham] sent me the e-mail at 4:33 p.m. I had left the office at 4:15ish, on Friday. I was going to enjoy my Friday. I went to Broken Lizard and wasn't going to check my e-mail 'till that night or Saturday morning."
An Eagle reporter alerted to the impeachment charges by an SG press release, asked the comptroller for comment. Handverger said that he would have expected a phone call from people he considered friends.
"Over the summer I mentioned day in and day out, 'we're going to be really close friends.' [It's] kind of like, to use a frat thing, we're pledging together, we're going through this whole thing. I expected a phone call," he said. "We joked all the time, my last name is Handverger ... Hamburglar and they would go 'nom nom nom'... We joke[d]. I thought we were friends." 
Immediately after hearing the news, Handverger went to his friend Tommy Fijacko's apartment to discuss options, and plan for the proceedings. Fijacko served as Handverger's special counsel during the impeachment. 
"I read the two bylaws that I broke," he said. "My understanding is that I didn't complete 20 hours one week, and that because I didn't complete 20 hours one week ... I didn't abide by the oath, so it's a catch-22."
Handverger argued that his tenure as comptroller was not marked by incompetence and willful neglect as some had characterized it. 
"The bylaws for comptroller are the most bull things ever. It's like two lines," he said. "I don't understand how you can be negligent for two lines if you're doing both lines."
The SG bylaws require the comptroller to track the SG budget and run the AUTO program. 
Over the summer, Handverger had trouble attempting to procure a new van for the AUTO program. Trouble, he said, that is the result of lack of personal experience in buying cars and more "bureaucracy [in the SG and AU administration] than the federal government." 
"All I did was just try to get a new van," he said. "It's a lot harder than it looks."
Whatever the problems, the comptroller maintains that simple communication could have prevented the impeachment proceedings. 
"This whole thing could have been prevented with a simple conversation, saying 'Hey, we'll go to the Senate if you don't clean up your act,'" he said. "It was a miscommunication somewhere between me and everyone and everyone back to me."
Handverger, who went home to Massachusetts over the Labor Day weekend for a break, says that the SG set back their summer goals by focusing on his perceived shortcomings. 
"One of [the SG's] goals was increase the legitimacy of SG this summer and for the rest of the year -- this just tarnished that," he said. "That's just like saying 'Ah, legitimacy? Pish! We want to get rid of Matt first." 
Handverger had said earlier in the impeachment proceedings that he doesn't hold grudges, and that "they kill work and they kill work ethics." Despite this, the comptroller isn't sure if he can ever forgive those responsible for bringing the charges against him.
"[The anger] is still there. I try not to hold grudges; it's a goal of mine. But someone tried to ruin my income and reputation, it's not cool in my book."
After The Eagle broke the story that senators and certain executives discussed impeaching Handverger before the summer, he realized that it would be impossible to continue working for the SG.  
"If they were out to get me the whole time, I mean they just needed the senate and a reason," he said. "They made up a bull reason and they finally had the senate in town to get rid of me. I don't know what they gained from it, in fact they lose more from having me out."
Stefanie Dazio contributed to this report.
You can reach this staff writer at cszold@theeagleonline.com.
Click here to read a letter from Handverger to the student body.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Trench investigations for dangerous materials are scheduled to start next week at three locations within AU, in order to investigate the whereabouts of chemicals from World War I, the project manager of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers military response program said during a meeting of the Spring Valley Restoration Advisory Board Tuesday, Sept. 8.  
The Corps determined the location of these "ground scars" using aerial photographs from 1922. The Corps hopes to establish whether or not the disturbances came from the disposal of chemical munitions or laboratory glassware during World War I. In 1917, the Bureau of Mines and the Army's Chemical Warfare Service developed and tested approximately 600 gases at AU they intended to use overseas, The Eagle previously reported. 
"We're going to dig into those ground disturbances and see if there is anything there related to the [AU Experiment Station]," Project Manager Todd Beckwith said.
Three approximately 3-by-40 foot trenches will be dug in the Nebraska Ave. parking lot, while four other 2-by-8 foot trenches are to be excavated beside the campus radio tower, near the Beeghly Chemistry Building. 
"Some people thought [the ground scars] might have been from horses training for equestrian, but don't know exactly why they were there."
Beckwith said he could not speculate as to how many parking spaces would be affected by the parking lot's scheduled excavation. 
The digging will be a "low probability" investigation, meaning the Army Corps will perform it without an air-filtering structure in place.
Meanwhile, the Corps expects further "high probability" digging at the Pit 3 location at 4825 Glenbrook Rd. to recommence in late October at the earliest, according to Dan Noble, the Military Response Program manager.
The Corps temporarily suspended its investigations of Pit 3 on Aug. 12 after workers uncovered an open laboratory flask containing traces of the chemical agent mustard.
 "The Army Corps suspended work [Aug. 12] and moved to an emergency response mode to secure the property. They sent workers to the site with additional protections (hazmat suits and respirators) to close the hole, remove affected soil to sealed drums, and close the site until further notice. A guard has been stationed at the site 24 hours a day," according to a memorandum from Assistant Vice President of Facilities Jorge Abud and President Kerwin's Chief of Staff David Taylor.
Switching back to high-probability procedures at Pit 3 will require additional precautionary measures, like setting up vapor containment tents, Noble said.
"We will be putting up [two] protective structures again at the property. Our workers will be upgrading to a level B personal protective equipment, working off supplied air, complete skin protection and things like that," he said.
"So basically where we're at right now is we have to essentially plan for high-probability situation, get it through all the approvals we need to get it through, bring back the high-probability crews and get them trained up."
The Aug. 12 discovery was not the first time that glassware items had been recovered from test pit investigations on that property. It was, however, the first glassware item found there that contained a World War I chemical agent, Noble said.
The Corps also located a container with so-called mustard agent breakdown products in a separate test pit in front of the house a week earlier. Breakdown products of chemical agents are less severe than the actual chemical agents themselves.
"So, basically a find of mustard in the test pit in the back yard, and then a find of the intact item with agent breakdown products in a different test pit," Noble said. 
At the meeting, Kent Slowinski, a former Spring Valley resident and member of the Restoration Advisory Board, asked whether Army Corps engineers would be investigating 20 further potential burial sites in the Spring Valley area. 
"We still have the [American University Experimental Station] inventory with either 2,000 or 4,000 munitions that remained at AUES at the end of the war," Slowinski said.
"And there's no documentation that they were shipped from AUES or that they were received at [the Army Corps' Chemical Materials Agency in Edgewood, Maryland]. So the logical conclusion is that they're somewhere in the area."
Slowinski told The Eagle after the meeting that he raised the concern about the burial pits on behalf of the safety of workers and residents.
"If [the Corps] doesn't investigate and clean them up, in the future more unsuspecting workers and residents will find these burial pits and either become ill or injured or worse," he said.
In response, Noble replied, "We're out in the woods looking ... right now, and we'll let you know what we find."
 
You can reach this staff writer as ccottrell@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As I watched Ted Kennedy laid to rest at the end of August, I found myself thinking about 1987. That was the year Kennedy castigated Reagan Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork. During Bork's hearings, Kennedy said, "Robert Bork's America is a land in which women would be forced into back-alley abortions, blacks would sit at segregated lunch counters, rogue police could break down citizens' doors in midnight raids, schoolchildren could not be taught about evolution, writers and artists could be censored at the whim of the government." In retrospect, many people think Kennedy's speech was the beginning of the end for Bork. Critics also charge that the harshness of his words caused of our current culture war. Maybe so. As recently as Aug. 28 of this year, The New York Times ran an editorial stating as much.
Whether or not he caused it, Kennedy certainly was on the right side of the culture war. Like all good progressives, he battled social conservatives who seek to suppress anything they personally find un-Christian, immoral or inconsistent with traditional American values. It is a struggle that still rages today.
The current Virginia gubernatorial race is rife with culture clash. The Washington Post recently reported on Republican candidate Bob McDonnell's college thesis for Regent University (Pat Robertson's school). In said thesis, McDonnell writes that working women are "detrimental" to families. He argues that government should prefer married couples to "cohabitators, homosexuals or fornicators."  He also calls a 1972 Supreme Court decision legalizing contraception for unmarried couples "illogical." He wrote that at age 34. McDonnell is starting to look like George Allen, a Virginia Republican whose 2006 Senate re-election campaign was eventually derailed when he was caught using an ethnic slur.
The Democratic National Committee has released a statement on this issue and its wording sounds familiar. It makes reference to "Bob McDonnell's preferred Virginia," and pundits are already describing Democratic attacks on the thesis as "Borking" McDonnell. "Borking" is the term Republicans created for when Democrats show their backwards-looking nominees and candidates for what they really are. This entire episode illustrates why despite Democratic struggles, the Republican Party is far away from returning to power. And why? Perhaps because the GOP is a party made up of white men looking out for the interest of white men.
The problem for Republicans is that the number of white men in America continues to decline. Women outnumber them today, and in just a few decades there will be no racial majority in America. The election of a black man who campaigned on the change undercuts the decades-old GOP strategy of appealing to certain white, male fears. There are still plenty of scared white men. They are the armed nuts you see at town halls, and they would love to live in Robert Bork's America. But let us always remember Ted Kennedy. As we look around at our country as it exists now, not in a Republican fantasy of yesteryear, let us realize something. We don't live in Robert Bork's America. We live, mostly, in the America of Ted Kennedy's dreams.
Nick Field is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and a liberal  columnist for the Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
United, We Must Serve Our Nation
President Obama kicked off United We Serve, a 12-week summer service initiative, in June by calling on all Americans to "make volunteerism and community service part of your daily life and the life of this nation." 
This call to service is particularly relevant to those of us who came of age in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, eight years ago this week. The memory of 9/11 inspired us to become involved in our communities and give back in order to build a stronger country. National challenges like Hurricane Katrina and the ongoing economic recession have only affirmed this belief among members of our generation.  
Young people are responding to this new era of service in record numbers. The volunteer rate for Millennials has doubled over the last five years and applications to AmeriCorps are up over 300 percent.  
At AU, the ideals embodied within the national service movement are present in the motto of our Community Service Center, "Ideas into Action. Action into Service." At its core, this statement promotes the exchange of ideas and problem-solving strategies developed by engaged citizens in response to problems they identify within their communities.  
AU is right to understand the critical distinction between what service was formerly considered to be: charity, and what it is: a civic responsibility. David Eisner, who served as CEO of the Corporation for National & Community Service during the Bush Administration, said before his departure, "it's time for American political, policy, business and education leaders to stop thinking of volunteering as a nice way to engage people to help others, and instead place a crucial bet on the ability of American citizens to tackle and make progress against some of our really difficult challenges." 
There remains much work to do to advance this principle understanding. Last month, the 19th annual Freshman Service Experience introduced 650 AU freshmen to Washington, DC through three intense days of community service. FSE partnered with my start-up organization, myImpact.org to share stories of the participant's service using multimedia and Web 2.0. Proving that demonstrating the impact of service and showing it in a greater context is a critical need, we found students at their service sites indicating during interviews a general lack of understanding of how their work, often involving mundane and clerical tasks, was actually making a difference.  
The United We Serve initiative and the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, passed by Congress earlier this year, provide new volunteer opportunities and a renewed commitment to engage all Americans, especially young people, in service. The Act also designated that this year, for the first time, Sept. 11 be a National Day of Service and Remembrance. 
There could not be a more appropriate moment to remember the tragedy of 9/11 by reflecting on the challenges facing our generation and how we can unite to overcome them through service.
Chris Golden
Junior, School of Public Affairs   
AUSC responds to sex column
The "Sex-perimentation" article that has raised so much controversy and debate on this campus was deeply concerning to some members of AU Students for Choice's E-Board. As sexual and reproductive health advocates, we celebrate the existence of a sex column in our student newspaper due to the educational and sexually empowering discussions it can facilitate. Columns that misrepresent sexual assault and responsible sexual choices can be much more harmful than helpful.  
The opening scenario presented in your Aug. 31 column did in fact constitute sexual assault. It was especially troubling since this kind of ambiguous assault is experienced by many AU students. Sexual assault is not always about force; it is about consent. Consent cannot be given for sexual activities when any person involved is under the influence of alcohol and/or other drugs, such as a "drunken haze."  
We realize that the intended topics of this column were "hooking-up" and providing advice for building heterosexual relationships in college, but these were also presented in highly problematic ways. While drunken sexual activity is a common occurrence and part of campus culture, it is one that is not necessarily responsible, healthy, empowering or safe. 
What is positive about this column is that it has started important conversations on our campus about sex, sexual assault, sexism, heterosexism, dating and relationships that unfortunately do not happen enough. We hope that sex columns in the future further explore these and other issues with an increased level of sensitivity, factual research, and explanations of sexual health resources (or the lack thereof) on this campus and D.C.
AUSC E-Board Members including Jenny Burke (2010 CAS), K. Travis Ballie (2010 Kogod, SIS), Amanda Pelletier (2012 CAS), Kathleen McKenna (2012 CAS), Sophia Bernstein (2012 CAS), Alexandra Morgan (2010 CAS)
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In response to student protests over a proposed doubling of tuition for the University of the District of Columbia, the school's administration has enacted a new plan meant as a compromise. 
The tuition increase is now being spread over two years instead of one, according to Alan Etter, UDC director of public relations. 
D.C. residents attending UDC this year now pay $5,370, compared to the $3,770 they paid last year, according to the Washington Post. Next year, this will rise again to $7,000. Students from the Maryland and Virginia suburbs pay $6,300 this year and $8,000 next year.  
The original tuition proposal was passed last February and indicated the same price increase over a period of only one year, The Eagle previously reported. Students are much more content with the new, two-year plan, Etter said. 
"We were able to impress upon them, that in order to grow this university, we have got to raise tuition," he said. "I mean, you look at any public university across the country. $3,800 is almost laughable."
Rishad General, a sophomore in the four-year UDC university, said that she did not mind the tuition raise because the out-of-state rate she pays is less than at many other colleges.
"When I was going to [a school in Md.] it was $9,000 a year," General said. "Here the tuition isn't even that much, so I don't see why people are complaining."
UDC has also opened the new community college that came from the Board of Trustees' January vote. Because of this addition, UDC's four-year university has also abandoned its open admission policy, according to the Post. Now, students with a 2.0 grade-point average, for example, will need a composite SAT score of at least 2,400. 
The two-year community college is separate from UDC's four-year flagship, but the two currently reside on the same campus. Plans are in the works for a separate headquarters building and several satellite classrooms throughout the city, according to Etter. 
"Community college has really been the missing educational link in the city for many, many years," he said.
An associate degree program is especially important in a city like D.C. where many students graduate high school without knowing what they want to do next, Etter said. Community college helps bridge the gap, he said. 
Some of the courses UDC's new community college now offers include remedial classes and trade classes that were previously taught at the UDC flagship. Among the most respected programs taught are aviation science and mortuary science, Etter said. 
Ideally, students will graduate from the community college with their Associate's Degree and then continue on to the four-year university, Etter said. 
Along with the new community college, UDC is using its tuition dollars to upgrade buildings that have not been changed in thirty years, Etter said. So far, the school has painted the insides of its classrooms and installed flat-screen monitors in the library.
"There's a greater energy on campus these days because of these changes," Etter said. 
However, some students are still resistant to the school's tuition raise. 
Leyli Santos, a second year student in UDC's two-year mortuary science program, said the tuition increase is negatively affecting her and many of her friends.
"For example, right now I don't even have the money to buy the books that I need for my classes, so I don't think it's good," Santos said. 
Aaron Cohen, a freshman in the School of International Service, said he had no idea of the changes occurring on UDC's campus. 
"Sometimes, AU students - myself included - can have our heads so far up in what's happening around the world, what's happening in Germany, what's happening in the Middle East, that we don't stop to think about what's happening in our own neighborhood," Cohen said.
Kate Mills, a freshman in the School of Communication, said she opposed the UDC tuition raise.
"It shouldn't be doubled because obviously people who are going there are used to paying this certain, fixed amount, and if by doubling that, you're asking them to double what they can afford to put out," Mills said. 
Despite some complaints regarding UDC's recent changes, the number of applicants to the school had increased as of the beginning of August, according to the Post. Current enrollment for the community college, university and law school is now up to about $5,200, Etter said.  
"This is just part of the larger goal to really make UDC a university that [represents] the nation's capital," Etter said. "Thirty years of neglect has gotten it to where it is. What we're trying to do now is to upgrade the facility, upgrade the image, raise the profile of the university and make it really a world-class institution."  
Meg Fowler contributed to this story.
You can reach this staff writer at mkendall@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
When AU's Terrace Dining Room re-opened its doors to AU students this August it was still teeming with hungry students foraging for food, but since the beginning of this year, they will have to do it without trays.
JoDe Nowland, director of Auxiliary Services, spearheaded the removal of trays from TDR. The university is always looking for a way to cut down on its carbon footprint, Nowland said, and the removal of trays from the cafeteria will reduce food waste by 37 percent.
Over the summer, Auxiliary Services experimented with the concept of a tray-less cafeteria. It yielded high results, and so the campaign to make AU a green college by reducing wastes continues this semester, according to Nowland.
Reducing food waste is not the only result of eradicating trays from TDR. The amount of water and electricity used to clean trays is also reduced.  
"People tend to fill up their trays and not eat the food," Nowland said. "The food winds up in landfills and nothing positive comes of it."
Georgetown University and George Washington University have already removed trays from their cafeteria, according to Nowland.
Eco-Sense, AU's environmental sustainability club, supported the removal of trays from TDR after a report was published by Dr. Kim, the environmental studies advisor, that showed a significant reduction in waste at the university.
Eco-Sense completely supports Bon Appetit's removal of trays from the cafeteria. 
"There is no reasonable argument for putting the trays back into TDR," said Drew Veysey, president of Eco-Sense. "The reasons for being tray-less are numerous and logical."
Students have taken the missing trays in stride, according to Nowland. 
"This is not a serious issue," Veysey said, "Having a tray does not improve a student's quality of life, but a higher cost of living does decrease quality of life."
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development is currently reaching out to college students to educate them about housing inequality under the Fair Housing Act and to assist those who may have been victimized. 
John Trasviña, the assistant secretary of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, part of the HUD department, said it is important for college students to know about the Fair Housing Act. It can protect them from potential housing inequity which can occur due to the "partying" stereotype attached to students, he said. 
"If there is a house rule for noise of partying, that rule has to be applied across the board; to every resident of that apartment unit, it cannot be applied against just the students," said Pamela D. Walsh, director of policy legislation initiatives and outreach. "If there is a rule and it's only applied against students, that would be something that we need to look at." 
The Fair Housing Act, enacted in 1968, has evolved over the years to protect individuals against discrimination regarding race, gender, the disabled and families with children, according to Trasviña. Although the Act does not specifically identify college students for protection, Trasviña said they can still seek help with HUD. Additionally, the law will continue to evolve and safeguard more individuals as the country evolves, Trasviña said.
"Fair housing and the housing issues are important to not only just the individual, but to families, to neighbors, to communities," Trasviña said. "And is something that is of critical importance in the 21st century as we look to reshape communities -- sustainable, inclusive communities -- that fair housing and equality and opportunity must be a part of that."
Students are typically renting or buying housing for the first time when they enter college and may not know their rights, Trasviña said. When college students do not get the apartment or house they were looking at, they probably do not know it was because of discrimination, which is more difficult to discern than an actual event, such as sexual harassment, Trasviña said. 
Matthew Lebowitz, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, said while looking for off-campus housing, he felt he was being interviewed about his lifestyle as a college student, particularly how often he engaged in social gatherings. 
"You get the sense that people aren't looking to rent to college students," he said. "The biggest problem is that if there are students looking at the same house as people who aren't, the students aren't going to get the house."  
HUD is reaching out to educate students because it believes they will be the ones to help educate others in their communities. This is why it is important for them to know their rights, according to Trasviña. 
Students should use HUD's resources to inform and protect themselves, Trasviña said. Consultation and help from the Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Office are free, and if a student has a case, the office will attempt to conciliate the situation. If necessary, the office will take the case to court, Trasviña said. The ultimate goal is to get the victimized individuals housing, collect possible punitive damages and then publicize the case as a way of preventing further housing discrimination. 
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Tuesday, Sept. 1
A resident assistant in Letts Hall saw a large amount of flyers being thrown out of a 6th floor sky lounge window. When she responded to the area, no one was there. A bent window screen was discovered. The flyers promoted a party at a D.C. night club.
Wednesday, Sept. 2
Fecal matter was spread on four sinks and the floor of a women's restroom in the Ward Circle Building. 
A cab transported a sick student to the hospital from Leonard Hall.
Thursday, Sept. 3
A bicycle was taken from a bike rack outside Hurst Hall. The bicycle had been secured to the rack with a cable and lock.
There was a dispute in the Mary Graydon Center.
Friday, Sept. 4
Public Safety and Facilities Management responded to a report of smoke on the 4th floor of Leonard. No smoke or fire was detected upon arrival. FM examined the lint traps on both dryers in the room and discovered both filled beyond capacity. One dryer vent hose was disconnected. FM repaired the hose and traps.
A vehicle struck a DPS vehicle. No injuries were reported. There was no damage to the DPS vehicle. The striking vehicle sustained a small scratch to the driver's side panel near the wheel.
Near midnight, DPS responded to a sick student on a bench in front of Centennial Garage. DCFD transported the student to the hospital.
Saturday, Sept. 5
DCFD transported a sick student, accompanied by a witness, to the hospital.
An AU vehicle struck a parked vehicle. No injuries were reported. The AU vehicle was not damaged, but the left rear bumper of the struck vehicle was. The owner of the struck vehicle was notified.
DCFD transported a sick employee to the hospital.
Sunday, Sept. 6
DCFD transported an injured student to a hospital.
Tuesday, Sept. 7
DCFD freed a student from a stuck elevator and shut down its power. No injuries were reported.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
My fellow students,
Last week the charges against me were dropped by the SG Senate. While I have never doubted that my innocence would be declared, I was worried throughout the trial that my role as SG comptroller would be taken away, something I never wanted to happen. Sadly, after a weekend of reflection, I have come to realize it is too late. I am now faced with the facts that I cannot continue in my position the way I hoped to when I took the position. It is with great regret that I must resign my post as SG comptroller, and write this letter with the intention of explaining the facts of the past few weeks that led me to my decision.
The trial revealed much more than just my innocence to this campus. The facts here are saddening but the support and information from fellow students throughout the trial gave me the hope I needed to keep fighting for my job last week. That same help from fellow students highlighted a more depressing reality though, that certain members of the Student Government were on a witch hunt against me. The unfortunate truths here are why I believe that there is no way I can perform my duties any longer in this poisonous environment.
When I look back on my time in this position I know that if I made errors as comptroller and had been made aware of them then I assure you I would have corrected those faults going forward into the year. If I have one regret as I walk away from this position, it is that I leave the AUTO program unmanned without a commissioner or a single certified executive to run the program. I hope my replacement works to fill these voids as soon as possible as it is a vital part of our student life.
I'd like to thank the SG Senate who had to deal with the petty grievances of a few leaders night after night ... after night last week. I wish instead we all had been working cohesively to further the causes of our student body. I hope that going forward some of my fellow SG executives take on that challenge once again and do the jobs they were elected to from here on out.
I cannot say yet if I will return to Student Government in my two years left here at
American. I believe that the SG is a great organization but certain members of it either need to change their ways or leave the organization. If those people remain in office, I, now as a constituent, will definitely think lower of the SG.
I believe in this Student Government. I believe that all of its leaders have much better things to do with their time as representatives of our amazing student body than get in the middle of some Executive Board members' inability to communicate their issues to one another. I know that President MacCracken will work with his other executives to fix this issue going forward. I can just hope that they follow his focused and strong leadership.
It is an honor to hold a position in the Student Government and I valued my time as a leader in the body. But it is that same honor that I take from this job that says I must resign at 5:00 p.m. on Sept. 10, 2009, so as to better my peers all across our campus.
Sincerely,
Matthew Edward Handverger
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Before the SG Senate failed to override President Andy MacCracken's veto on a proposed oversight bill in a special session Tuesday, the senators sang "Happy Birthday" to Sen. Josh Rothman.
Sen. Nate Bronstein for the School of Public Affairs began the meeting by objecting to the proposed agenda. The meeting was called to consider overriding MacCracken's veto, but Bronstein requested adding the "Happy Birthday" song to the agenda. Sen. Josh Rothman, previously part of the prosecution team charged with presenting a case against Comptroller Matt Handverger, turned 21 Tuesday. 
Speaker Anthony Dunham ordered the senators to rise and sing. They did.
The meeting was the fifth special session in the last two weeks, following the impeachment proceedings against Handverger.
Like every previous special session, the meeting commenced at 11:15 p.m. in Ward 5, but instead of discussing the minutia of timesheets, the senators began by discussing birthdays, puppies and swine flu.
The senators chatted excitedly when Vice President Alex Prescott said his office was bringing dogs to the Main Quad during midterms or finals week.
After animatedly discussing puppies, the senators turned to the oversight legislation. The bill, affectionately nicknamed the "Ballast Bill," would allow senators to request and review SG nominee's applications who were up for confirmation by the Senate. 
[Editors Note: ballast -- n -- something that gives mental, moral or political stability, according to dictionary.com.]
Class of 2010 Sen. Steve Dalton, who authored the bill, encouraged the senators to pass the legislation immediately, before the Senate confirmation hearings for SG comptroller and AUTO commissioner commenced.
MacCracken said the senators could take their time with oversight legislation since the nominees for the position will not be heard for at least two weeks.
He and some senators expressed concerns that the bill had a solid foundation but that the Senate needed to take time to address its cracks. 
But Dalton urged the senators to write another more comprehensive bill later and pass this one now.
Bronstein encouraged the Senate to consider the possible effects the bill could have on the relationship between the legislative and executive branches.
"We are not the legislative students, the executive students, the judicial students," he said. "We are the united students of AU."
Dalton said MacCracken chose to start the adversarial relationship by vetoing a bill that had passed 10-2 in the Senate's fourth special session.
"I don't understand why the Senate has to always be holding hands with the president of SG," he said.
After bonding over puppies and happy birthdays, the Senate was again divided by issues with the executive branch.
Dunham then told the Senate MacCracken's incumbent administration might not have to comply with the bill since it states every "new" administration must allow access to the applications.
For a moment, the Senate considered suspending the body's rules to amend the legislation. Then, a senator pointed out that the meaning of the bill would change by removing "new."
Since the meaning would change, MacCracken would have vetoed an entirely different bill. Thus, the Senate would be overriding a veto to a bill that no longer existed. 
Since the senators wanted a piece of oversight legislation passed immediately and since the administration might not even have to comply with the proposed legislation, they decided to ignore the "new" momentarily and continue debating.
If the Senate wanted access to applications for the comptroller and AUTO commissioner positions, MacCracken told the Senate he would sign an executive order asking SG nominees to submit information relevant to the confirmation hearings to the senators.
In the meantime, the Senate could work on passing a bill that would affect the non-"new" administration.
The Senate voted, and Dunham announced that the veto had been overridden by a vote of 11-6-1.
The executives, who had been calculating the needed percentage of votes in their heads, raised their hands. The vote had only garnered 64.7 percent in favor of overriding the veto, less than the two-thirds vote needed, they said.
Dunham apologized, announcing that the veto had failed by a vote of 11-6-1.
At the end of the meeting, Dalton expressed his dissatisfaction with the result.
"The students out there that don't give a rat's behind about what this body does trusted in us to thoroughly review what the executive does," Dalton said. "Unfortunately, we haven't lived up to that expectation."
No legislation was discussed to wish "happy birthday" to all other September babies. No word yet on whether that bill would have passed, or whether MacCracken would have vetoed it.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With a new television season comes another medical drama hitting the airwaves. This month it's "Mercy," a show centering on nurse Veronica Callahan (Taylor Schilling), who has just returned to Mercy Hospital following a tour of duty in Iraq. Also part of the nursing staff are Veronica's best friend, Sonia Jimenez (Jamie Lee Kirchner) and Chloe Payne (Michelle Trachtenberg), a naïve newcomer fresh out of nursing school.
Now back home, Veronica must deal with her crumbling marriage, an affair and the countless patients who need her help at the hospital. Meanwhile, Sonia has hopes and aspirations of moving to Manhattan to start fresh, and Chloe finds herself struggling with her new job. In an interview with The Eagle, Liz Heldens, creator and executive producer of the series, describes "Mercy" as a medical drama "less about science and more about characters. Hopefully people will hook into these characters and recognize themselves a little bit."
Little-known Taylor Schilling, who plays Veronica, worked as a nanny prior to landing her role on "Mercy."
"I feel like I am living my dream right now," Schilling told The Eagle. "I am so happy and so thrilled to be at work. This is a remarkable experience for me." 
According to Heldens, she wouldn't have cast anyone else.
"[Schilling] just blew the doors off the audition," she said. "That's what you want. You want someone to come in and own the part." 
The time Veronica spent in Iraq is at the heart of the show and could help set it apart from other medical dramas such as "Grey's Anatomy." 
"It gives her a different way of looking at the world," Shilling said. "It would be really exciting for me in this time in my life as a woman to see someone [on TV] who is strong and honestly trying to do the right thing, but not a hero." 
Also linked to her time in Iraq is her affair with Dr. Chris Sands (James Tupper), who she met while overseas and is now also part of the staff at Mercy Hospital. Schilling describes their relationship as human and forgivable. 
"To look for comfort in another human being -- someone who understands her and supports her and makes her feel safe -- that felt very honest to me," Schilling said.
However, this does not rule out Veronica's current husband, who is also committed to trying to rebuild their marriage. 
Whether "Mercy" can hold its own against the rest of the competition will remain uncertain until it premieres on NBC, Wednesday, Sept. 23 at 8 p.m. EST. 
You can reach this writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
To a film critic, the idea of a perfect movie is an alien concept. There is and always will be a naysayer or an audience to whom a film does not appeal. A hiccup in action, plot or some inscrutable detail always leaves even the best films with a 99 percent rating. Although they are rare enough to be placed on the endangered species list, there is such a thing as a perfectly done film, for what it is. Everything, from the action to visuals to the special effects, is done just right; even those who did not like the film cannot deny it is as close to perfect as they come. "9" is such a film. 
Director Shane Acker has accomplished something not easily done: he has made a world of six-inch tall puppets engaging and terrifying, turning furniture into mountains and rooms into chasms. Visually and audibly, "9" is nothing short of magnificent. Television advertisements cannot grasp the level of detail and surprising realism that the spot-on computer animation manifests throughout the entire film. 
Even without 3-D technology, the characters and their environment appear as if one could simply reach out and touch them. One feels shrunk down to their size as they navigate a world where anything above 12 inches is a monstrous beast. It becomes easy to feel legitimately threatened in a world far smaller but seemingly no less real than our own. Completing the effect are incredible sound effects that fully immerse our senses in every sprint, dive and gasp for breath in this desperate fight for survival. 
An incredible cast brings a soul to all nine of the already visually real puppets, led by Elijah Wood as the titular character 9. The film also includes the likes of Christopher Plummer, Jennifer Connelly and Martin Landau. Awaking to a decimated world that towers above him, 9 quickly discovers eight others just like him, struggling to survive in a world where they are hunted by mysterious and malevolent robots. Their journey across a devastated cityscape takes on a feeling of epic scale as audiences are entranced by what are certainly the most resourceful puppets in existence. 
At face value, a film about puppets may seem childish, but there is nothing juvenile or immature about "9." One explores the nature of technology ­-- of what it means to be alive and what constitutes the soul in an adventure that never gets bogged down. The film always manages to excite and root our attention firmly on the towering and viscerally real world that becomes our reality for 79 minutes.
You can reach this writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Butterfly Boucher stormed the District Sept. 3 with her Fender Telecaster and signature racing stripe (that she taped on herself) and opened up for the Grammy Award-winning Wallflowers at the 9:30 club. Promoting her sophomore release, "Scary Fragile" -- released digitally in early June and in stores Sept. 15 -- Boucher played an enjoyable set, to say the least. 
For the most part, her set was composed of newer songs from "Scary Fragile," but she gave the audience a few tracks from her first album, "Flutterby," including "I Can't Make Me" and "Another White Dash." These songs and others were put to the tune of just her guitar and voice, and when deemed necessary, she called in backup that took the shape of a pedal with pre-recorded bass and drums -- tracks she laid down herself. 
Her latest single, "Gun for a Tongue," is a perfect example of Boucher's tendency to use a simple beat, light piano and a bass line under her live guitar. Using her pedal, Boucher prevents her songs from falling into the same pattern, keeping the audience engaged.
Her eclectic style is unique for several reasons, which she explained to the audience during the set. Her Australian upbringing was followed by her move to London and her current residence in Nashville, Tenn. In her MySpace biography, Boucher also describes the musical household in which she was raised, where she learned to play many instruments, including the bass, piano and guitar.
Alone on stage, Boucher created a full tone by tuning her guitar a bit differently than most, dropping the sixth string to a D and bringing the fourth string up two steps to an E. This can especially be heard in songs like the title track, "Scary Fragile" and results in the ability to play the bass line and the melody together despite only having one instrument. 
Boucher's performance of "Scary Fragile" was exceptional; it showed her depth as a musician who could write a ballad. With a morose tone as an opening, the melody carried the recurring lyrics of "It's scary to be fragile in this turning world/this world, it turns me upside down." She then quickly uplifted the crowd with "To Feel Loved," showing her alt-rock side with a strong, clean strumming pattern and an added string arrangement in the middle. 
Boucher keeps her spirits high, even after the record industry has left her tumbled and bruised over the last three years. Her label claimed her first album was "too indie for pop and too pop for the indie scene," according to her MySpace page. She encountered similar problems with "Scary Fragile" and had to re-record all 12 songs, as her British distributor insisted that she was too "American-sounding" for British listeners. Boucher ended up getting the full rights to her songs and is now releasing the original recordings. Today, the scars have made her tougher and gave her a sense of humor, too. One would expect her to come out of these situations bitter, but it is clear that she has bested the music industry, playing with joy and displaying her love for the music she plays. 
Now without the help of Nettwerk Records, Boucher has self-released "Scary Fragile" and is stronger than ever, joking about how "well-behaved" her band-in-a-box is. She recognizes how much work she needs to put into her career now that she is free from a label, and after the show she spent quality time with anyone who wanted a CD signed. Right in the middle of her set, she handed out mailing lists from the stage herself, passing them around the crowd hoping for people to sign and follow her along her travels. 
All in all, Boucher came to the District with only a few fans in the crowd. But as the set went along, so grew the applause and respect from the audience. She avoided overusing the pre-recorded instruments and put herself out to the crowd. She was ready for any misfires and casualties, but she came out of the show with a victory and a troop of people supporting her. 
Have no fear if you missed Boucher's show this past week; she is coming back to the District, playing at the Rock and Roll Hotel along side Erin McCarley and KS Rhoads on Oct. 20. 
You can reach this writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Daniel Shannon led the AU men's soccer team to a 2-1 win over No. 19 George Mason University Sept. 5. The win, coupled with the Eagles' 2-0 win over George Washington on Wednesday, gave them their 5th D.C. College Cup Championship in the events nine-year history.
"The team played outstanding and we created several scoring opportunities," AU Head Coach Todd West told AU Athletics. "I'm very proud of my team's performance in the D.C. College Cup."
Shannon, a junior at AU, had the team's first goal in the 23rd minute. Sophomore Jack Scott assisted it; he slipped a shot past GMU's keeper. The goal was Shannon's first of the season and seventh of his career.
The Eagles controlled the ball through the remainder of the first half and well into the second. After an initial shot by AU's David Menzie, Shannon knocked another goal in rebound past Mason's goalkeeper Sean Kelley to make it 2-0.
George Mason, ranked 19th in the country, got on the board shortly after AU's second goal. GMU forward Draymond Washington responded in the 87th minute with their first goal of the match. Though their lead had been halved, the Eagles were able to close out the final minutes and earn a 2-1 victory.
AU and George Mason fired off 15 shots each in the match, though the Eagles held a 7-6 advantage in shots on goal. One goal aside, AU goalie Matt Makowski had a strong showing with five saves. Junior Nick Kapus and senior Luis Martinez also played well, each with a game-high four shots.
Shannon was named the Most Valuable Player of the D.C. College Cup with two goals against George Mason and was named to the All-Tournament Team, along with seniors Cooper Bryant, Martinez and Menzie.
AU plays their home opener against Princeton on Sept. 11 at 3 p.m.
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
