Student Government Vice President Maia Tagami hopes to promote the SG’s new focus on community service during the seventh annual CIVITAS week, starting today.
Early every school year, the SG puts on events during CIVITAS week that are meant to foster a sense of community among AU students, according to Tagami.
The SG has coordinated with the Office of Campus Life each year to have events for students such as movie screenings, workshops and prominent speakers.
Tagami said she and SG President Nate Bronstein made planning for CIVITAS week one of their top priorities this summer in order to make it new and exciting for students.
This year’s CIVITAS week theme is “It Starts Here.” Tagami explained that the theme is supposed to encourage students to bring about change at AU.
“We want to create this idea of community on campus,” she said. “We want to promote civility and responsibility. We’re trying to set the pace for the rest of the school year with this new theme of service.”
Tagami said she is particularly excited about the blood drive on Friday, Sept. 10.
“It’s an easy way that we can give something of ourselves, and we can donate our time and our blood to a great cause,” she said.
Tagami said the National Day of Service and Remembrance on Sept. 11 should also be an interesting event. The SG will be working with the Community Service Coalition to carry out various service projects on campus and in the D.C. area.
Tagami said she hopes students can enjoy themselves during CIVITAS week and that they will look forward to this week in years to come at AU.
“I look forward to informing students about what CIVITAS week is and how they can build on this week’s theme of civility throughout the rest of the school year,” she said.
CIVITAS Week Schedule
Tuesday, Sept. 7
Time Management Workshop, MGC 245, 5:50-7:30 p.m. — Discover ways to make time work for you. The Academic Support Center will offer a workshop on Time Management as part of a series on academic and writing skills during the fall semester.
KPU Speaker Chris Matthews, Bender Arena, 8 p.m. — Chris Matthews, the host of Hardball with Chris Matthews on MSNBC and the syndicated weekly news program, The Chris Matthews Show, will come to AU to speak about his experiences in journalism.
Wednesday, Sept. 8
From Hookups to Relationships, McDowell Formal Lounge, 7:30 p.m. — Women’s Initiative will host a workshop on consent and alcohol.
Thursday September 9
2010 NFL Kickoff Game, The Tavern, 7:30 p.m. — A screening of the first NFL game of the year will show the Minnesota Vikings take on the New Orleans Saints. Refreshments will be provided.
Friday, Sept. 10
Blood Drive, McDowell Formal Lounge, 10 a.m.-2 p.m. — Blood will be donated to the American Red Cross. Schedule your blood donation appointment at https://www.membersforlife.org/rccm/bdc/login.php.
SUB Movie, The Tavern, 10 p.m.-12 a.m. — Toy Story 3 will be played. Refreshments will be provided.
Saturday, Sept. 11
National Day of Service and Remembrance — To sign up for community service opportunities, contact the Center for Community Engagement and Service by September 8th at 202-885-7378 or visit the Community Service Coalition’s Facebook group at http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=328141373038&v=info.
jryan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
