Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Just after shaking off their first loss of the season to Princeton University last week, AU fell to No. 7 Monmouth University Sunday 3-1.
“We basically took it the same way as we did against Princeton, we’re not trying to make any game bigger than the next — we obviously scheduled some big games,” Head Coach Todd West said. 
The Hawks struck early, scoring in the second minute. 
AU tried to find the equalizer but could not find the back of the net, despite numerous scoring chances in the first half. In the 17th minute junior Jack Scott’s shot to the near post was denied by Monmouth goalie Bryan Merdith. 
The Eagles awarded a free kick in the 55th minute after senior Mike Worden was fouled 25 yards out. The ensuing free kick, taken by Jamie Davin, was headed out of bounds, but when Monmouth’s Meredith tried to jump up and save the ball, the official rewarded the Eagles with a corner kick. 
Freshman Eli Dennis then headed Davin’s pass into the back of the net to give AU its first goal of the game.
“I’ve been told my whole life that half the battle of scoring on a corner is the cross,” Dennis said. “And Jamie Davin, he just put a great cross in and I was lucky enough to get on the end of one.”
After the goal, Monmouth went on the offensive attack and the Hawks were rewarded a corner kick of their own just 10 minutes later. The Monmouth players rushed the goal when the ball was kicked, and after several saves and attempted clearances by AU goalie Matt Makowski and the Eagle’s defense, Monmouth scored its second goal with 20 minutes left. 
“We let the second goal kind of take our momentum away,” West said. “We were on top of them and moving the ball and creating chances, and that goal just kind of sucked the life out of us a little bit.”
The Eagles could not find the second equalizer, and in the 81st minute Monmouth scored again, leading to a final tally of 3-1. 
AU’s record now stands at 2-2, as the team looks to bounce back next Saturday against Syracuse University at Reeves Field before facing defending national champions University of Virginia. 
West said the team needs to move forward and shake off the loss to prepare for Patriot League play.
“Right now it’s about recovery because Friday, Sunday [is] a pretty tough turnaround, so it’s about recovery and getting guys healthy,” West said. “We’ve got [four] days before Syracuse comes to town so it will be about recovery and cleaning a few things up.”
The game against Monmouth showed that the Eagles can compete against nationally ranked opponents, Dennis said.
“It’s clear that we can hang with some of the best teams in the country,” Dennis said. “We’re just going to go in with the same mindset and try and do our best in everyone.”
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As usual, I’m as excited as ever for the first NFL Sunday of the season. But instead of penning an NFL preview column, I decided to celebrate my 10-year relationship with fantasy football by listing the reasons why I’ll be forever hooked on the game.
The Draft
Some may argue this is the best part of the fantasy football season, even though it just kicks off the year. I like to think of the fantasy draft, usually held in August, as the unofficial start of the NFL season.
It also shows which owners have absolutely no idea what they’re doing. This year, someone took the New York Jets defense in the third round. Truly a draft day blunder for the ages. You should never take a defense that early in the draft — even a defensive unit as good as the Jets. And there’s always that one person who takes the full 90 seconds to make their pick, immediately turning the league angrily against them on the first day. Fantasy fanatics should have a good idea of who they’re going to pick and remember this is not the real NFL draft — you should not take all day with your choice. 
Being a general manager
If Isiah Thomas and Matt Millen are the answers, the question is usually, “Who are the worst two general managers in recent history?” For years while Thomas was in charge of the Knicks and Millen ran the Lions, I would marvel at the new and innovative ways they ran their respective franchises into the ground. Like many others, I thought to myself, “How exactly did these guys get the keys to run a professional sports franchise?”
Now running a fantasy football team is the very watered-down version of being a GM, but I still enjoy it. You can drop players who aren’t performing well, add free agents to boost your squad and, best of all, make sketchy trades throughout the season with your friends. In one league, someone traded Rashard Mendenhall, Derrick Mason and Mike Williams for Adrian Peterson and Lee Evans. Trades do not get more one-sided than that.
Every Game Matters
While growing up as a kid in northern New Jersey, I would watch the New York Giants every Sunday. But after their game was over, I’d waste away the remaining slate of NFL games. Fifteen contests would go by each weekend that had no real meaning to me.
However, this all changed with the creation of fantasy football. For example, the San Diego Chargers play the Kansas City Chiefs in the second game of Monday’s doubleheader. I have the San Diego Chargers defense and my opponent has San Diego running back Ryan Matthews in our matchup. If it’s a close game between us, you can guarantee I’ll be forgoing my homework and staying up late Monday night to see who comes out victorious — in fantasy, of course.
Trash Talking
There’s nothing better than going into work or school on Tuesday morning and talking smack to your friends or co-workers, especially after a tough defeat. With the newly added “Smack Talk” option in the Yahoo! Sports fantasy game, nothing is off limits when it comes to taking shots at your opponents.
One year against the Dallas Cowboys, Philadelphia Eagles running back Brian Westbrook decided to take a knee and win the real game  rather than take the clear path to the endzone for six (fantasy) points.
The moment after this happened my inbox was flooded with text messages from angry Westbrook owners. “Westbrook is a (expletive)!” and “Screw him” were the gist of the messages I received that night. A friend who owned Westbrook that season still gets ripped on to this day at the way his fantasy season ended, and I’m not even sure he’s fully recovered yet. 
After months of waiting the fantasy season is finally upon us, and all is right with the world.
ttomea@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU volleyball team defeated Siena College on Saturday night, as the Eagles smoked the Saints in straight sets by scores of 25-14, 25-8 and 25-17.
Sophomore Bianca Richardson had a great all-around game for the Eagles, as she registered nine kills to go along with six service aces and six block assists. Magdalena Tekiel added eight kills for AU, while Krysta Cicala ignited the offense with 33 assists and led the defense with seven digs. In the loss, freshman Taylor Akana had a team-high eight kills for the Saints.
The Eagles scored seven of the first nine points in the opening set, thanks in part to two kills by Cassandra Ricketts. Siena fought back early, and an error by Angelina Waterman made the score 9-6 AU. But then the Eagles scored seven straight points to take a 16-6 lead and gain total control of the first set. Cicala registered two of her four service aces during the key spurt and Ricketts added another kill, as AU would cruise to a 25-14 victory.
Ricketts, Richardson and Waterman would each record kills in the early portion of the second set as AU raced out to a 9-1 advantage. The lead ballooned to 16-3 in favor of the Eagles after outside hitter Katerina Cinkova notched a kill. With the score at 21-6, Richardson came through with two consecutive kills before freshman Juliana Crum ended the set with a kill of her own. The Eagles ended up defeating the Saints 25-8 in a dominating second set performance that saw no ties or lead changes.
The third set was more competitive than the first two, as the teams were tied at eight in the opening moments. However, AU would score the next four points as an attack error by Akana put the Eagles in front 12-8. Tekiel and Fitch notched kills for The Eagles during that run. Later in the set, the score was 18-14 in favor of AU when two more Siena errors gave the Eagles a comfortable six-point advantage. With the score at 23-17, Crum followed a kill with a service ace to give AU a three set victory.
With the win, the Eagles improved to 7-2 on the season and have now won five of their past six contests. Meanwhile, the loss dropped Siena to 1-6.
AU will continue their road trip and take on the Howard University Bison (1-7) on Wednesday, Sept. 15. The Eagles come into the match as favorites as Howard is coming off back-to-back losses against UMBC and Towson. AU returns to Bender Arena to play the Towson Tigers (10-3) who have lost three straight on Friday, Sept. 17.
ttomea@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU women’s field hockey team soared past Rutgers University and the University of New Hampshire over the weekend, picking up its first two wins of the season in College Park, Md. The team defeated the Rutgers’ Scarlet Knights 3-1 and the UNH Wildcats 5-2 at the Terrapin Invitational tournament.
Sound defense and aggressive on-the-ball pressure characterized the Eagle’s play in both matches, pulling AU’s overall record to 3-2 for the season. 
Rutgers
 The Eagles held on to an early lead against Rutgers on Saturday, starting the weekend off with a 3-1 win.
“We wanted to jump on them from the beginning and get on the attack and we were able to convert some of our early chances to get the early lead,” Head Coach Steve Jennings told AU Athletics.
Three AU athletes found the back of the cage before the half.
Less than three minutes into the first half, AU sophomore Gina Hoffman converted on a penalty corner play orchestrated by teammates Natalie Ellenberger and Kristin Gebhart. The goal gave AU an early 1-0 advantage in the match and was Hoffman’s second goal of the season.
AU struck again in the 12th minute of play, leaving Rutgers no time to regain their footing after Hoffman’s one-timer. 
Senior Christine Fingerhuth took matters into her own hands to extend AU’s lead to 2-0. Fingerhuth stole the ball from Rutgers at midfield and drove into the circle, where she slipped by two defensemen and planted the ball in the top left corner of the cage.  
The final goal of the half was also in AU’s favor. Eagle midfielder Natalie Ellenberger recorded her first goal of the season off a pass from Hoffman. Ellenberger situated herself to the left of the cage and was able to deflect a wide shot from Hoffman past the Scarlet Knight goalkeeper. The goal marked the end of a dominating half for the Eagles. 
AU demonstrated sound defense throughout the second half. The Eagles held Rutgers to only one shot in the half, which connected with the back of the AU net to cut Rutgers’ deficit to 3-1. 
The team’s corner margin in the match, 8-2, reflected much of the work the Eagles had put in during practice leading up to the invitational.
“We did a lot of work this week on [our corners] and I think the players got a sharper mindset,” Jennings told AU Athletics.
University of New Hampshire
AU carried over its momentum from Saturday’s game into Sunday to win 5-1 against the New Hampshire Wildcats. The Eagles saw increased offensive pressure in Sunday’s match, but AU goalkeeper, senior Hannah Weitzman, knocked down the Wildcat’s with four saves.
The Eagles were again successful early in the match. Junior Melissa Casale opened the floodgates in the eighth minute of play when she deflected a pass from teammate Anne Van Erp into the right corner of the cage. 
New Hampshire responded immediately with a goal of its own 43 seconds later to tie the match at 1-1. 
The scoring frenzy died down for a short period as the two teams continued to battle. 
AU came out on top 10 minutes before the end of the half when senior Kristin Gebhart connected with the back of the cage, lifting the score to 2-1. Gebhart recorded her first goal of the year from the center of the circle, rocketing the ball into the cage off a penalty corner inserted by Natalie Ellenberger. 
Despite outshooting the Eagles 7-4 in the half, the Wildcats entered the intermission with a 1-goal deficit.
Eagle play in the second half was a return to the aggressive defensive pressure the team exhibited on Saturday. AU held the Wildcats to two penalty corners and three shots on game in the final 35 minutes of play.
With the Wildcat’s tamed, the Eagles further flooded the scoreboard, knocking down three goals in 4 minutes and 43 seconds. 
Freshman Constanza Palma started the rampage, converting AU’s second penalty corner of the match. One minute and 14 seconds later, Lotte van de Mierop deflected a pass from freshman Alex McMackin into the Wildcat’s cage to bring the score to 4-1. Jaclyn Anspach picked up the Eagle’s final goal of the game shortly after, slapping a pass from Christine Fingerhuth past the New Hampshire goalie. 
The Wildcats tried to crawl their way back into the game with a goal late in the second half, cutting their deficit to 5-2.The weekend’s victories reflect the hard work AU has put into practice since early losses this season.
“It was nice to get two wins this weekend and see the application of themes from our past week of training,” Jennings said. 
 AU field hockey hopes to continue its two game winning streak this weekend, with two games at Jacobs Field. The Eagles will play host to the University of Massachusetts-Amherst Saturday, Sept 18 at noon, followed by a match against James Madison University on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
kgreubel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If you’ve been paying attention to the Redskins this offseason, you might have heard about a guy named Albert Haynesworth.   
You might have heard that he didn’t show up for voluntary workouts during the offseason because he had a problem with playing in a 3-4 defense.
You might have heard about the big guy not being able to complete a workout that ESPN’s Mike Golic completed, a former defensive tackle who last appeared in a game in 1993.
You might have heard that after a preseason game in which he did not start, that as a result of his not starting, he told reporters he would not be coming to voluntary workouts next year either.
Have you heard that he’s guaranteed $41 million?  He could almost feed Latrell Sprewell’s family three times with that kind of money.
The Redskins would love nothing more than to stop hearing about him soon.  
The most mindboggling aspect of his behavior is that he isn’t upset over his contract, obviously.  He’s upset that his style of play does not fit the new Redskins’ 3-4 defense.  Usually in a 3-4, the defensive tackle is about 400 lbs. and his job is to take up blockers in order for the defensive ends and linebackers to make plays.  
This offseason, numerous players such as Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis and Chargers wide receiver Vincent Jackson missed some, and in Jackson’s case, all of training camp because they were unhappy with their contracts.  In the past we saw T.O. throw a hissy fit and start doing situps in his driveway because he didn’t feel he was getting the money he deserved from the Eagles.  But this is different.  Haynesworth is throwing a tantrum because there’s a chance his statistics will be negatively affected.
 Haynesworth’s behavior would be at least tolerable to the Redskins if he had even a somewhat productive season in 2009.  If he had put up the kind of numbers that won him the Defensive Player of the Year award for the Titans in 2008, the Redskins wouldn’t care if he showed up for offseason workouts or even training camp for that matter. Just look at Brett Favre. Instead, in 2009 the Redskins got an out of shape, high priced defensive tackle who spent more time at the oxygen tank on the sideline then dominating opposing offensive linemen.
This wasn’t a surprising turn of events. What was Haynesworth’s motivation to be a dominant player? He’s already guaranteed tens of millions of dollars, so money isn’t a motivation. And his motivation certainly is not to help the team win the Super Bowl, because players who wish to win the Super Bowl do not sign with the Washington Redskins. They’re the football equivalent of the L.A. Clippers.
At this point it’s clear that he’s not going to change.  The Redskins would be better off to part ways with him any way they can.  They need to just admit they made a mistake, eat the contract and move on. Not just because he’s a prima donna. The Redskins should get rid of him because he doesn’t help the team.  
An argument could be made to keep a talented player like Brandon Marshall or Chad Ochocinco on your team because with all the problems they create with their mouths, they produce. Albert Haynesworth is productive on a part-time basis and yet he talks like he’s still the best defensive player in the NFL. 
The Redskins are far from being a Super Bowl contender. Yet, as with every team, reaching the big game is the ultimate goal. That goal cannot and will not be reached with Albert Haynesworth on the team.  If someone calls Redskins General Manager Bruce Allen and offers him a backup kicker for Haynesworth, he needs to make that deal. 
blasky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
