Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
First came WONK. Then came Gen Ed program changes. Now, to complete the trifecta of transition, AU has made major changes to the academic calendar and schedule. For those students returning to campus next fall (sorry, seniors, you’ll be in the real world then), you should prepare for some major transitions that will forever change your world. Or, in reality, change your daily schedule and slightly affect your summer and winter breaks.
Many of us believe that we go back to school too early in the year. Our friends at state schools often don’t start until after Labor Day, and it would be nice to enjoy a few more days of the warm, humid August weather before resigning ourselves to sitting in warm, humid classrooms. This will change next fall as the academic calendar is shifted forward by a full week. Fall term will start Aug. 29 and spring term will start Jan. 17. In addition, a winter term offering special programs would be created, running from Dec. 23rd until Jan. 13.
Also, that 7:30 a.m. class time on your potential future schedule won’t be a mix-up due to Daylight Savings Time. Under the changes, all current class time slots will be shifted forward (or backward, depending on your sensibilities) 25 minutes — so that dreaded 8:30 a.m. class becomes a slightly more reasonable 8:55 a.m. — and a new 7:30 a.m. time slot will be added. The epically early time slot will have classes for both grads and undergrads but will ostensibly mostly benefit grad students trying to hustle downtown to a job or internship.
While we acknowledge that change is good, we hope that AU has a good reason making such dramatic changes to our system. 
The early start to winter break allows those of us wanting to pick up some part-time work over the holiday season to get some hours at our former summer employers. Most employers won’t take on students coming back much closer to Christmas, as they will have already filled the extra season staff positions they need. In addition, transportation costs skyrocket closer to the holiday season, so that plane ticket home may run you a few more (hundred) dollars on Dec. 19 instead of Dec. 12. While a later start and a winter term might be nice, is it really worth all the extra costs we may endure as a result?
Although we feel that the changes to the class time schedule may be necessary to accommodate an ever-growing student population, we would like to include a caveat. As students that have struggled many a time to make it to that 8:30 a.m. class on a rainy, cold day in the middle of winter, we implore the university to keep that 7:30 a.m. time slot reserved for graduate classes or elective courses, and not required undergraduate classes. 
Those of us that have sat through a Gen Ed class at that early hour know that attendance and participation levels in such classes are typically low. Maybe it’s the hour, maybe we just haven’t had a chance to grab our morning coffee yet — either way, unless it’s a class we really, really, really want to take, we’re less likely to get something out of a course scheduled for that early.
The bottom line is that we hope the University considers the full ramifications of these decisions before implementing them across the board. Soliciting student input will be essential in ensuring that our concerns are fully addressed — in other words, that we won’t be out of work over the break and trekking to ECON-100 twice a week at 7:30 a.m.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU field hockey team won their eighth-straight Patriot League title with a League tournament record of 14 goals. 
The Eagles defeated Colgate University in the semifinal round 8-1, and Lafayette College in the final 6-2.
AU secured home field advantage on Oct. 30 in a game also against Lafayette, winning 3-1, the Eagles were confident heading into the tournament this weekend.
“The playoffs are a totally new second season and we were happy we were hosting,” Head Coach Steve Jennings said. “But we’re going to have to go out and defend our home turf and we were really determined and focused to come out and get the job done.” 
Colgate
The Eagles opened the tournament on Nov. 5, taking on Colgate University and systematically broke its opponent down. After a second-minute goal scored by senior Christine Fingerhuth, the Eagle offense caught and fire and didn’t let up. 
AU dominated the pace of play, knocking 21 shots to Colgate’s one in the first half and hitting five goals into the box by the end of the first half. 
The second half was no different, with AU continuing to string passes together, led by Anne van Erp, who scored three more goals. The Eagles outshot Colgate 44 to 3 for the game. 
“We just got in really good scoring positions,” Jennings said. “We were aggressive and we just really wanted to make a statement and really get everybody on the back foot right away.” 
Lafayette
In the final, the Eagles still laid the attack on early against the Leopards. AU got an early boost when junior Melissa Casale scored off a pass from Fingerhuth in the seventh minute of play.
“We really wanted to make a statement in the first few minutes, so it was great that we immediately got a goal,” Casale said. “I think it was definitely a thing we built off of for the rest of the game.” 
Fingerhuth got her own goal minutes later, scoring on a deflection into the top shelf from a rocket of a shot from senior Kirstin Gebhart. 
While the offensive production waned for the remainder of the first half, the team knew that it needed to score again to get a safe lead. 
“We knew that 2-0 is the most dangerous score in field hockey,” Fingerhuth said. “So we knew we had to score another goal.” 
Freshman Lotte van de Mierop slipped a deflection off a Gina Hofmann shot past the goalkeeper, Kelsey Andersen, just over a minute into the second half. 
Lafayette’s Haley Keenan swept a shot past goalkeeper Hannah Weitzman to draw within two goals again until AU started to pound goals in. Natalie Ellenberger started the rally in the 45th minute poking a loose ball in. 
Jenn Bradley drove down the baseline and snuck a shot past Andersen, and Hofmann slammed a shot in the net to round out AU’s scoring. 
 “The goals were scored by multiple people,” Fingerhuth said. “So that shows that we were passing the ball really well and we gave everyone a chance.” 
AU outshot Lafayette, 19-8, and Fingerhuth was given the MVP honors of the tournament. Casale was the leading goal-scorer on the team with three in the tournament. 
The Eagles will play a NCAA play-in game against Kent State University at 1 p.m. on Tuesday Nov. 9th. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Class times will move forward 25 minutes for the 2011-2012 academic year, and a 7:30 a.m. class will be added, according to Phyllis Peres, the vice provost and interim dean for Academic Affairs.
A new 7:30 a.m. class will run until 8:45 a.m. and will be available on the Monday/Thursday, Tuesday/Friday schedule.
The Office of the Provost announced the proposed changes at a Faculty Senate meeting Sept. 29. They hope these changes will encourage students to take morning classes and will better accommodate graduate students.
The new schedule will have classes at the following times for M/TH, T/F classes:
• 7:30 - 8:45 a.m.
• 8:55 - 10:10 a.m.
• 10:20 - 11:35 a.m.
• 11:45 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
• 1:10 - 2:25 p.m.
• 2:35 - 3:50 p.m.
• 4:00 - 5:15 p.m.
• 5:30 - 8:00 p.m.
• 8:10 - 10:40 p.m.
Wednesday classes will run from:
• 8:55 - 11:35 a.m.
• 11:45 a.m. - 2:25 p.m.
• 2:35 - 5:15 p.m.
• 5:20 - 6:35 p.m.
• 6:45 - 8:00 p.m.
• 8:10 - 10:40 p.m.
“One of the issues has been that the current schedule of classes has a first slot that is considered by many undergraduates to be too early, and therefore it did not ensure full utilization,” Peres said in an e-mail. “By creating opportunities for scheduling at 7:30 a.m. that may fit the needs of some graduate and professional programs as well as those of some undergraduates, the result is a second slot that begins at 8:55 a.m.”
Peres said the Office of the Provost does not anticipate the 7:30 a.m. class to be very popular with undergraduates.
“We are not expecting it to have heavy usage, but we are expecting that it will increase the usage and the desirability of the 8:55 [a.m. class],” she said. “So we will have six time slots during the day that will now have more usage around the clock.”
Classes after 5 p.m. will remain at their original time, with the exception of some graduate level courses, which can last two or two and a half hours, according to Eric Goldstein, the Student Government director of Academic Affairs.
These changes will get rid of the 40-minute gap that currently exists between 3:35 classes ending at 4:50 p.m. and classes starting at 5:30 p.m., allowing for a more efficient use of the school day, Goldstein said.
The time adjustments were made as a solution to the lack of classroom space on campus during the middle of the day. 
“This new schedule of undergraduate class options, including a more viable morning time slot for undergraduates (8:55 a.m.) provides a wider array of class offerings across the entire day through more robust classroom availability,” Peres said in the e-mail. 
By pushing forward class times, the Office of the Provost also hopes more students will be willing to take morning classes.
“What this does is it makes that 8:30 [a.m.] block a little more tolerable,” Goldstein said. “The hope is more students will take classes then.”
An announcement to the campus community is expected this week, according to Peres.
amooney@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

"I Never Saw Another Butterfly"
DIRECTOR: Gail Humphries Mardirosian
MUSIC DIRECTOR: Jonathan Tuzman
Katzen Studio Theatre, Nov. 11-14

"I Never Saw Another Butterfly"
DIRECTOR: Gail Humphries Mardirosian
MUSIC DIRECTOR: Jonathan Tuzman
Katzen Studio Theatre, Nov. 11-14
“I Never Saw Another Butterfly” is one of the most heartbreaking pieces of literature to emerge from the Holocaust. It’s comprised of stories and poems written by Jewish children in the Theresienstadt (or Terezin) concentration camp, few of who survived to see their works published. 
Gail Humphries Mardirosian, a professor in AU’s College of Arts and Sciences,  has now re-imagined that work at a multimedia show to be performed at the Katzen Arts Center.
“I Never Saw Another Butterfly” incorporates several elements, including music, puppets and other cast-created art, as well as several languages added to the English translation of the show. 
Audiences will be exposed not only to Czech and Hebrew, but to American Sign Language as well. 
Ben Gibson, an AU alumnus and recent Helen Hayes Award Nominee, is the show’s choreographer and visual theater specialist. 
”[ASL] really transcends the spoken word and blends text and movement in theatre, which is part of my goal for this show — to represent another voice that was not only heard, but could be seen.” 
Mardirosian chose to incorporate ASL because of the intensely physical nature of Czech theatre and how important the physical expression of words is.
Mardirosian is not new to the surviving artworks found at the Terezin Concentration Camp in the Czech Republic. After returning from her study as a Fulbright Senior Scholar in the Czech Republic from 2008 to 2009, Mardirosian staged “The Voices of Terezin.”
Inspired to reach out to the children of the D.C. community, she decided to extend the Terezin project.
However, “Butterfly” is a show entirely separate from “The Voices of Terezin” and was in fact written as a children’s show. The musical, inspired by a collection of poetry and artwork done by children and found at the Terezin camp, tells the stories of those within the Terezin camp and their struggles.  
Mardirosian used a favored phrase to describe the project, “‘Works of art as both a sword and a balm,’ because it’s a way of expressing and fighting … and also as a possibility to heal.”
The cast members all spoke about the different aspects of the show and about performing a show rooted in heavy subject material aimed at a younger audience. “[Children’s theatre] just adds another layer of selflessness,” said cast member Laura Aristovulos, a senior in CAS, “because you’re doing it for the children. And I find that [in] children’s theatre, more than any other theatre the show becomes more about giving to the audience.” 
In addition to the production itself, the “Butterfly” project has an educational outreach aspect. Members of the project traveled to various D.C. schools to speak with children about the issues of the Holocaust and Terezin and taught them portions of ASL. 
Mardirosian’s eyes sparkled when she spoke about the educational outreach workshops. 
“We were doing the workshops for children [aged] 12 and 13. The children in these stories were mostly 12 to 15.”
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Halloween Weekend
2009: 4
2010: 4
August - Nov. 4
2009: 21
2010: 26
Biggest Month
August 2009: 9
August 2010: 5
Total
2008-2009: 44
2009-2010: 46

Halloween is one of the biggest weekends for AU students to be transported to the hospital for intoxication, according to Dean of Students Rob Hradsky.
Halloween Weekend
2009: 4
2010: 4
August - Nov. 4
2009: 21
2010: 26
Biggest Month
August 2009: 9
August 2010: 5
Total
2008-2009: 44
2009-2010: 46
Four students were transported from AU to Sibley Memorial Hospital this Halloween weekend for intoxication, the same number as last Halloween.
Hradsky said Halloween is a big time for parties that often encourage overconsumption of alcohol.
“People take on a different persona,” Hradsky said.
The first few weeks of school also have a high number of transports. In August 2009, nine students were taken to Sibley. This August, five students were transported.
The beginning of the year usually brings more freshmen to the emergency room, according to Dr. Jennifer Abele, Sibley’s director of emergency services. However, over the rest of the year she sees students from a  more even spread of classes.
“I don’t think that students always realize that people can die from drinking too much alcohol,” Abele said. “We can always tell when there’s a big party on campus.”
Hradsky said there were fewer transports at the beginning of this year than previous years, but the numbers are starting to increase in recent weeks.
There have been 26 students transported this semester, as of Nov. 4. There were 21 transports within the same time period last year.
However, these numbers only show students transported from AU. Abele said other students come from off campus and are not reflected in Hradsky’s numbers.
Students who are transported must meet with Kate DiEmidio, AU’s health educator on alcohol and other drugs, to discuss what led them to drink so much.
Abele said that once students wake up in the hospital, removed from the party environment, they realize how much it has impacted them — especially if they don’t remember what happened.
The first time students are transported, the incident will not go on their disciplinary record. If they are transported a second time, however, they are in violation of the Student Conduct Code and must meet with a hearing officer.
Hradsky said he only remembers two cases last year when a student was transported more than once.
Students are encouraged to tell their parents first, Hradsky said. However, if the student is a minor, Hradsky must call the parents in the middle of the night, which he had to do over Halloween weekend.
Abele said that the students coming to the emergency room need the medical attention.
“We don’t want people to be afraid of coming to the emergency department,” she said. “When people are calling and they’re coming in, they’re coming in appropriately.”
Last year, Hradsky’s office implemented a new online program called AlcoholEdu for College that all new undergraduates must complete. The program features videos, quizzes and questionnaires about students’ alcohol consumption and knowledge.
Hradsky said that two-thirds of students that had completed the program reported they changed their behavior as a result.
AU isn’t preaching a “don’t drink” message to students, Hradsky said.
“If you choose to drink, do so responsibly,” he said.
sdazio@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Next year’s academic calendar will shift a week later, according to Phyllis Peres, vice provost for undergraduate studies and interim dean of academic affairs.
AU will implement a “special programs” period from Dec. 23, 2011 to Jan. 13, 2012, according to Peres.

She said that the special programs most likely will not involve for-credit classes, but rather events like two-week trips that supplement honors programs or professional programs on the Tenley Campus.
“We don’t envision having face-to-face classes during this term,” she said.
Peres said that any specific programming will be up to the individual colleges and schools of AU.
Peres said some of the new special programs could help the local community.
“There are also programs meant to help the larger community, and Dec. 23 was logistically the earliest we could start it,” Peres said.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It took many years before I came to grips with my disability. I shunned it, stubbornly tried to compensate for it.  But as it worsened, it became increasingly difficult to ignore. Coworkers perceived me as arrogant and aloof.  Friends would approach and ask why I ignored them. When? I’d inquire. Just a few minutes ago, you walked right passed — didn’t you hear me call your name?  
Actually no, I didn’t. 
Eventually I was forced to action. For two years I delivered speeches on behalf of my employer in large auditoriums. On most occasions, I’d provide a disclaimer I wouldn’t be entertaining follow-up questions due to time constraints. But the time I forgot is the time I’ll never forget. After finishing my spiel, a few hands rose. Oh no, I sighed. One woman stood up in the back and asked something. I couldn’t discern anything she said. I asked her to repeat the question. Nothing. My face became flushed as the audience murmured amongst themselves, impatiently waiting my reply. I asked someone in front for clarity, but I couldn’t hear their response either. 
Ashamed, I abruptly apologized and walked out of the room humiliated. 
The following week I made an appointment with an audiologist and confirmed what I long knew. I have significant hearing loss. If normal people hear at a 60 decibels level, I hear closer to a baker’s dozen. 
Fortunately, AU is home to an excellent Disability Support Services, directed by Joanne Benica. Before I enrolled, I was reticent to schedule an appointment, I had numerous inhibitions. I needed accommodations, but I didn’t want to feel patronized. I didn’t want an automatic advantage over my peers. I wanted privacy. I didn’t want classmates to know and/or treat me differently. Thankfully, Joanne quelled my fears — “The purpose of disability accommodations is to equal the playing field, not to provide special services or unfair advantage.  The accommodation is meant to provide equal access,” Joanne told me.
I heard that loud and clear. 
Another concern was pacified when Joanne said my disability information would be kept confidential. An anonymous announcement would be made in class and that would be the extent of public notification. Students meet with professors during office hours to distribute and explain the relevant information — ideally, professors will act accordingly.   
In a survey conducted in 2008-2009, students with disabilities rated AU departments, faculty and staff, as 61 percent responsive to their concerns. Not too shabby, although not exemplary either. In my own experience, professors are amenable to the requests, but tend to forget unless reminded.     
For students with documented disabilities, utilize the resources on campus. As an undergraduate, I didn’t have the courage to accept my deficiency. I saw it as a weakness, unwilling to submit to its command. At times, I’m still self-conscious (especially when I’m sporting hearing aids), but I’ve slowly learned to accept it as a part of who I am. 
I recommend AU students without disabilities make a concerted effort for flexibility and understanding. Be cognizant that many around you (about 450 documented at AU) struggle each day with their unique problem. Many classmates may be annoyed to have their views partially obstructed by the 6’2” giant head (me) constantly occupying the front seat of class. I don’t do it to be a brown-noser, I do it because I need to. 
We can’t expect anyone to predict who has disabilities (if not apparent), but as a rule, acquiesce (if asked to move or speak up) out of consideration because it may be more of a necessity than a request. Since we don’t know the intricate details about strangers, it’s best just to cut them some slack. If you notice an odd proclivity of a classmate, they may be compensating for something you’re not privy to. They may have a disability. And even if they don’t, you could do worse than obliging out of courtesy. 
Conor Shapiro is a graduate student in the School of International Service and a liberal columnist.
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Every other week The Eagle goes about asking the assistant music directors and DJs at WVAU what they’re currently listening to. Here’s what they’re recommending. Check out WVAU.org to listen. 
Sufjan Stevens — The Age of Adz
(Asthmatic Kitty)
Sufjan Stevens, a ‘prophet’ of modern folk, has suddenly embraced drum machines, synths, and…auto tune? “The Age of Adz” (pronounced “Odds”) is a mix of wild electronica and epic orchestration. It’s whirling, disjointed and rambling, but grotesquely lovely. Stevens has stripped away the pretentious lengthy song titles, stories, settings and grand biographies in favor of first-person non-fiction. 
Lyrically, “Adz” is closest to his album “Seven Swans” — straightforward, honest, and immediate. Themes of depression, religious-zeal, death, and love run throughout. “Sufjan/the panic inside/the murdering ghost/that you cannot ignore,” he sings to himself on “Vesuvias” with full choir, woodwinds, and spiraling synths. He sings with reckless abandon on “I Want to Be Well” with lyrics like “Did I go at it wrong?/Did I go intentionally to destroy me?”
Recommended if you like: Radiohead’s Kid A, Brian Eno, The Dirty Projectors 
Recommended tracks: 1, 3, 5, 6, 9, 11
– Emily White
Small Black — New Chain
(Jagjaguwar)
Nostalgic vintage synths, samples and loops? Distorted, fuzzy vocals about wishing you could stay wherever you are or go back to wherever you were last summer? Piano melodies that could have been on a Lionel Ritchie album? Simple, 4/4 drum machine beats? Super short running time? A check to all of these! 
Small Black has made great chill-out music for your chillwave party. Whether or not you should choose to ride that wave is your own business, but bringing you back to a simpler time is Small Black’s business. The recommendations for this may as well say “the concept of chillwave.”
Recommended if you like: Washed Out, Neon Indian, Toro Y Moi
Recommended tracks: 3, 6, 8
– Alex Rudolph
Brian Eno with Jon Hopkins & Leo Abrahams – Small Craft on a Milk Sea
(Warp)
Brian Eno’s newest album is split pretty evenly between ambient music (which he invented) and dark, synthesizer and drum machine-driven music (which he perfected). Though he’s spent the last few decades producing middle of the road U2 and James albums, Eno has retained his experimental sensibilities — these songs have movements in the sense that dramatic tone shifts pop up every once in a while and they have structure in the sense that they all have beginnings and ends. 
There’s an anger to the non-ambient tracks that Eno doesn’t usually express. Everything is faster and more crowded than the work he’s produced in the past, but when the harder-edged songs end, the gorgeous ambient tracks are there to clean the slate.
Recommended if you like: Talking Heads, Flying Lotus, Roxy Music, everything on Warp
Recommended tracks: 3, 6, 9
- Alex Rudolph
The Extra Lens — Undercard
(Merge)
“I hate this town, and there’s a whole long list of things that I hate. I had to starve myself all week to make way. Cleveland Ohio, 1985.” Does it get any more John Darnielle than that? The singular force behind The Mountain Goats has been writing songs like “Cruiserweights” for eons, elegizing small town failure and toil the way Belle & Sebastian do with shyness and photography. That’s not to say “Undercard” is a rehash of Goats’ material, as Darnielle takes us into more pop-y territory with a less sparse sound and some quality harmonies with frequent collaborator Franklin Bruno. But the straight-up acoustic sound, diary-esque lyrics, and Darnielle’s iconic “heart on sleeve” delivery puts this album firmly into his stylistic canon. And for the countless, rabid Mountain Goats fans out there, that’s really not a bad thing.
Recommended if you like: The Mountain Goats, The Tallest Man on Earth, Neutral Milk Hotel
Recommended tracks: 2, 3, 6, 12
– Brad Barbour
Bad Books — Bad Book
(Favorite Gentlemen)
Bad Book’s self-titled debut album does not disappoint. As a side project of Kevin Devine and Manchester Orchestra’s Andy Hull, this album melds the two groups’ styles perfectly by seamlessly combining the soft folk sound of Kevin Devine with the darker sound of Manchester Orchestra. But never fear, Bad Books isn’t simply a regurgitation of the two artists’ previous work; this album has a distinct sound. It is dark yet delicate, and the vocal combination of Devine’s adolescent-esque voice combined with the strained and rough voice of Hull creates a very interesting medley.
Recommended if you like: Manchester Orchestra, Kevin Devine, Azure Ray
Recommended tracks: 1, 5, 6, 8
– Nick Florko
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU volleyball team defeated both the College of the Holy Cross and Army this weekend to improve to 12-0 in Patriot League play, extending their win streak to 19 games and clinching the top seed in the Patriot League Tournament.
Holy Cross
Magdalena Tekiel had 15 kills and Angelina Waterman added 14 as the Eagles defeated the Crusaders on Friday by scores of 25-17, 29-27 and 25-20. The victory increased AU’s streak of straight set victories to 11. 
AU had no trouble taking the first set, as the Eagles raced out to leads of 16-6 and 21-10. Back-to-back kills by Waterman and Tekiel ended a set in which the Crusaders never led at 25-17.
In the second set, Holy Cross scored seven of the first eight points to jump out to a 7-1 lead. After the Eagles clawed back, a kill by Callie Black put Holy Cross ahead 20-17. The Crusaders had a chance to put AU away with a 25-24 lead, but two straight AU kills kept the Eagles alive. With the score knotted at 27 apiece, two consecutive Tekiel kills gave AU the 29-27 victory. 
The third set was also competitive, with the score tied at 12-12, 16-16 and 18-18. But then the Eagles broke away, scoring seven of the next nine points for the 25-20 third set victory.
While Tekiel and Waterman spearheaded the offensive attack, Deborah Frantz, Katerina Cinkova and Bianca Richardson paced the defense. Frantz registered 12 digs, while Cinkova and Richardson both added four block assists.
Army
Tekiel had a game-high 21 kills while Cassandra Ricketts added 17 as AU defeated second-place Army on Saturday by scores of 25-23, 18-25, 25-20, 22-25 and 15-13 to clinch the Patriot League regular-season title. 
After trailing 10-4 in the opening set, AU scored the next six points, with a Tekiel service ace knotting the game at 10 apiece. With the score later tied 23-23, AU would notch the next two points for the 25-23 victory.
The second set would have seven ties and three lead changes as the Black Knights tried to prevent a 2-0 deficit. With the game tied at 12, Army went on a key 5-0 run, as an ace from Kristina Keltner put the Black Knights ahead 17-12. Army would subsequently coast to a 25-18 victory.
AU responded to its first set loss in 11 games by controlling the third set. After jumping out to a 10-7 lead, the Eagles would not trail for the remainder of the set. After Army had pulled to within one at 14-13, the Black Knights would get no closer than two during the Eagles’ 25-20 win.
Facing defeat, Army responded with a fourth set victory. With the Black Knights trailing 17-16, one of Fabiola Castro’s team-high 20 kills spurred Army to the set victory. Margaux Jarka registered two kills down the stretch as the Black Knights forced a fifth set with the 25-22 victory.
The Eagles led 10-5 in the decisive fifth frame, but Army would continue to battle. The Black Knights would fight off three match points before eventually falling 15-13 to AU.
Krysta Cicala paced the AU offense all weekend, as her 61 assists against Army gave her 90 for the weekend. With Tekiel and Ricketts leading the offense Saturday, Frantz led the defense with 18 digs while Juliana Crum and Ricketts added 15.
Along with remaining undefeated in the Patriot League, the two wins improved AU’s overall record to 25-2. 
The Eagles will conclude their regular season with matches at Lehigh University on Friday, Nov. 12 and at Lafayette College on Saturday, Nov. 13. The Patriot League Tournament starts Saturday, Nov. 20.
ttomea@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After weeks of practice, the men’s basketball team took the court Thursday night and started their 2010-11 campaign by defeating the Randolph-Macon College Yellow Jackets 61-55 in the team’s lone exhibition game.
“I don’t think we approached it in a different way,” Head Coach Jeff Jones said. “We knew it was a quality opponent, as you can see we wanted to win the game.”
Junior Stephen Lumpkins helped establish the Eagles’ inside game in the early stages of the first half, scoring half of the Eagles’ points by the 10-minute mark.
Randolph-Macon, who entered the game ranked second in the nation for Division III schools according to D3hoops.com, attempted multiple jump shots to counter AU’s inside game. The Yellow Jackets were able to fight back once AU’s Vlad Moldoveanu was substituted for midway through the first half. Brandon Braxton carried the load for Randolph-Macon as he shot 50 percent from the floor, scored eight points and kept the score close at 31-26 at the half. 
During halftime, Jones emphasized driving the ball and getting it down low against the Yellow Jacket man-to-man defense, but despite shooting 34.6 percent in the first half, Randolph-Macon capitalized on eleven second half turnovers by the Eagles. The Yellow Jackets continued to keep the game close at 38-37, with 9:41 remaining in the game. On the next two trips for the Eagles, back-to-back turnovers led to two dunks and Randolph-Macon capped a 7-0 run by taking a one-point lead.
“They’re a very good team; they were in the [Division III] Final Four last year,” Moldoveanu said. “It’s not like they’re a bad team. They made a run and I think we responded really well; last year would have been a different story.”
Lumpkins, who had been stuck at seven points since hitting a free throw to start the second half, helped spark a second half run for the Eagles. Troy Brewer hit a three-pointer, Moldoveanu made a jumper and Lumpkins added four points for a key 9-2 run that extended the Eagles’ lead to 53-45 with over three minutes remaining.
“I think in the second half, we played better defense,” Jones said. “We were able to get more stops and we were able to play against more man-to-man defense. A combination of being better defensively and not settling for three’s, allowed us to shoot more free throws in the second half.”
After the lead was cut to nine, the Yellow Jackets switched to a full court press and forced multiple turnovers. Randolph-Macon would convert on the offensive end, narrowing AU’s lead to 57-53 with less than two minutes remaining. With 56 seconds left, the Yellow Jackets were looking to make it either a one or two point game, but Lumpkins came up with a big defensive steal for the Eagles. Steve Luptak made all four free throws down the stretch to secure AU’s 61-55 victory.
Lumpkins and Moldoveanu ended the game with 16 points apiece and combined for 17 of the team’s 37 total rebounds. Moldoveanu also chipped in five assists.
The Eagles will open regular season play Friday, Nov. 12, in Bender Arena against Saint Francis University. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
SCENE SAYS: Top Chef Alum turns American classics into delicious delicacies.
As a restaurant that boasts farm-fresh ingredients and commitment to “freshness, fellowship and friendliness”, D.C.’s Good Stuff Eatery is poised to become one of the city’s best burger joints. 
Launched in July 2008 by Spike Mendelsohn, fifth runner-up on season four of “Top Chef,” the Good Stuff Eatery offers original handcrafted burgers, wedge salads, hand-cut french fries and handspun milkshakes. 
Nestled on a trendy block on Capitol Hill (its neighbors include Hawk ‘n’ Dove and Eastern Market), the Good Stuff Eatery and its fedora-clad owner seamlessly fit in with the hipster community. The crowded sidewalk in front of the restaurant almost always hosts a long line of young food enthusiasts, hoping to catch a glimpse of Mendelsohn flipping a few burgers on the grill and taste some of the best milkshakes in town. 
The burgers are the obvious stars of the menu, with 14 varieties to choose from. Mendelsohn uses only natural farm-raised beef for his burger patties, which are a yummy blend of short ribs and brisket cuts, and the vegetable toppings are as fresh and crisp.
Must try menu items include:
• The classic farmhouse burger is topped with the above ingredients and Good Stuff special sauce, but definitely try one of the Original Burgers. 
• Colletti’s Smokehouse, the eatery’s most popular pick,  is topped with mouth-watering Applewood-smoked bacon, sharp Vermont cheddar, fried Vidalia onion petals and chipotle BBQ sauce. 
• The Prez Obama, is topped with red onion marmalade and horseradish mayo 
• Michelle’s Melt is piled high with red tomatoes and fresh herb mayonnaise, an homage to her White House vegetable garden. 
Other mouthwatering menu items include Spike’s Sunny Side. Highly recommended for breakfast lovers, the dish has fresh American cheese, crispy bacon and a fried egg sandwiched between two sweet potato buns. It’s pure burger heaven, albeit with a lot of napkins. Not a beef eater?  Any one of Good Stuff’s burgers can be substituted for a farm-raised chicken breast. 
While french fries are usually considered to be second fiddle to the burger, the fries at Good Stuff are in a different league. They’re small, crispy nuggets of double-fried deliciousness, and are even better when drenched in one of the mayo dipping sauces.  The chipotle and Sriracha hot chili sauce mayos are the best, and pair perfectly with a burger too. If you’re in the mood for something on the lighter side, try one of Mendelsohn’s wedges. The classic is topped with fried onion straws and blue cheese, while the ensalada features Manzanilla olives and roasted corn. 
But it’s really all about the milkshakes. Like an Oreo needs a tall glass of milk, a burger and fries meal doesn’t feel complete without a delicious milkshake. Try the best and most popular one on the menu, the Toasted Marshmallow. It’s thick and sweet and might send you into a diabetic coma, but its enough to bring back memories of toasting ‘mallows around the campfire. 
The D-Lechable Leche is saved from sweetness-overload by a dollop of Greek yogurt, and the Soursop Hop Strawberry is pucker-inducing. 
Be prepared to wait in line, which is usually wrapped around the block, and see the occasional Congressmen or celebrity (this writer was lucky enough to catch a glimpse of First Lady Michelle Obama and the First Daughters next door at We the Pizza, Mendelsohn’s latest culinary endeavor). Ultimately, the Good Stuff won’t leave your wallet full, but the slightly overpriced menu is way worth the wait and cost.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
