Gloria Steinem, former leader of the Women’s Liberation Movement and current feminist and social activist will speak on campus for this year’s Breastival, according to Women’s Initiative Director Quinn Pregliasco.
The Breastival is a yearly event held to raise awareness about breast cancer and other health issues. The event will take place from noon until 5 p.m. on the quad Oct. 5, according to Pregliasco.
Steinem will speak at 8:15 p.m. in Ward 1 following the outdoor festivities.
Pregliasco said Steinem’s role as a “posterchild for feminism in the 70s” made her a great speaker for this event.
Steinem has been a figurehead in the media for years; she co-founded Ms. Magazine in the 1970s and has written for such publications as Esquire and The New York Times Magazine, according to her website. Among other accolades, she has received the National Gay Rights Advocates Award and the Bill of Rights Award from the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.
Steinem is also a breast cancer survivor, which Pregliasco said helped to tie her in well with the event.
Pregliasco predicted that Steinem’s wit and charm would give her a universal appeal to the student body and that she would not alienate any segments of the population.
“She also really thinks that everyone’s futures depend upon each other, and so it’s really the support of both men and women that will bring us to equality,” Pregliasco said.
Steinem’s speech will be co-sponsored by Kennedy Political Union and Women’s Initiative, according to KPU Director Josh Levitt.
Levitt said the two organizations worked throughout the summer to bring Steinem to campus.
“As soon as I was confirmed into the position [of director], I reached out to Women’s Initiative, and I told them that I wanted to work with them on this event,” Levitt said. “It’s a cause that I believe strongly in, and I felt that it’s one that we can pull our resources together and get a really great event and a great speaker.”
Pregliasco said that the annual Breastival has grown over the past five years that it has been put on.
“Last year it incorporated about 2,000 students who walked through it throughout the day, so it’s about one-third of the undergraduate population,” she said.
sparnass@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU Student Government’s Community Service Coalition is the pilot collegiate organization to use the website myImpact.org, a platform that volunteers can use to log, track and share their community service, or “impact.”
Users can submit — either through the myImpact site or through Twitter — the quantity of hours volunteered, meals served, dollars raised or donated, trees planted or people mentored to their “myImpact journal,” according to co-founder and executive director Chris Golden, a 2010 School of Public Affairs alumnus.
Golden said that that the site has three major purposes: to engage young Americans in service, to demonstrate that service programs are effective in creating change and to advance the notion of “service as a solution” to local and national problems.
“We’re promoting the idea that online activity can drive offline action and vice versa, to get people engaged beyond just clicking ‘like’ to a Facebook page or signing a petition,” Golden said.
The site is currently in beta, meaning that Golden plans to make changes to it in the near future, including enabling users to submit service work through text messaging, and eventually, directly through their organizations’ official sites.
So far, 169 individuals and six organizations — including the CSC — have registered and posted, but the CSC is the first collegiate organization.
Stephen Bronskill, CSC director and a sophomore in SPA, said a benefit of the site is that users can quantify service in ways other than hours volunteered.
“Harnessing the tools of our generation is important,” Bronskill said. “We’re not so much into listening to the radio anymore. We’re online, we’re wired, we’re on Twitter and Facebook all the time. If we can use these tools for more than just Facebook gossip, thinking about helping and doing something that matters, that’s amazing.” 
Though the site was officially launched in June, myImpact has been a long-term project for Golden and his co-founder Nick Troiano, a current Georgetown University student who previously attended AU. 
The two met as college freshmen in 2008 at the ServiceNation Summit on Sept. 11 — the National Day of Service for young people. They then spent a year meeting with people in the service field and talking to them about their needs.
Two major themes emerged from these discussions, Golden said: the potential of social media in helping organizations reach their goals and the need for people to share their service experiences with others.
“It’s really important to provide some sort of greater context, a larger story to what it is that a volunteer is doing,” Golden said. “One of the things we came across was volunteers saying, ‘I’m volunteering every Saturday, but I don’t think this is making a difference. I don’t see how the work that I’m doing in this small organization is actually helping to solve that problem.’”
In October, Golden raised $800 in 24 hours of fundraising on Facebook, and the organization won $4,000 from a Chicago-based grant competition. 
In February, myImpact received a $25,000 grant through the Pepsi Refresh Project, an online vote-based competition for people, businesses and non-profits that need funding for new ideas.
Today, Mobilize.org, a non-profit youth advocacy organization, provides fiscal support for myImpact. Golden works full-time as the myImpact executive director from their office on K Street NW. The myImpact staff includes three part-time interns, an independent Web developer based in New York and a board of directors.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This year’s version of the Election Policy Handbook was approved by a vote of 12-2-0 during the Undergraduate Senate meeting on Sunday.
The new handbook included amendments that changed the spending limits of campaigns, the status of write-in candidates and the severity of penalties for regulation violations.
Anthony Dunham, the chairman of the Board of Elections, presented the new Handbook at the Senate meeting and said he hoped the revised handbook would prevent the confusion and controversy of the spring 2010 elections from happening again.
“I hope to build on whatever successes there have been in the Board of Elections and the multitude of mistakes that have happened,” Dunham said in the meeting. “I will not shirk away from the fact there have been many mistakes in the past.”

Amendments
• AMENDMENT 1: The Board of Elections no longer needs to submit a budget request to the Undergraduate Senate every year. Instead, the BOE Chair can choose whether they want to submit a request or not. 
• AMENDMENT 2: Write-in candidates are no longer required to have at least 15 percent of the vote for to be announced during election results.
• AMENDMENT 3: This amendment protects candidates from the actions of those they cannot control — for example, if someone sent out a message about a campaign en masse online. Restrictions now apply to messages from the campaign to the public.
• AMENDMENT 4: Language against the use of “undeclared campaign staff” will no longer be enforced and was removed until a clearer definition of “undeclared campaign staff” can be determined.
• AMENDMENT 5: The appeal process in election regulation will have a shorter turnover time. The amount of time to return a decision on an appeal has decreased from 48 hours to 24.
• AMENDMENT 6: Breaches of endorsement are categorized as a lesser violation to protect candidates from the actions of people outside of their control.

Adam Daniel Wayman, senator of the class of 2012 and member of the Election Oversight Committee, said that the amendments were made to improve the system and avoid confusion in future elections.
Amendments
• AMENDMENT 1: The Board of Elections no longer needs to submit a budget request to the Undergraduate Senate every year. Instead, the BOE Chair can choose whether they want to submit a request or not. 
• AMENDMENT 2: Write-in candidates are no longer required to have at least 15 percent of the vote for to be announced during election results.
• AMENDMENT 3: This amendment protects candidates from the actions of those they cannot control — for example, if someone sent out a message about a campaign en masse online. Restrictions now apply to messages from the campaign to the public.
• AMENDMENT 4: Language against the use of “undeclared campaign staff” will no longer be enforced and was removed until a clearer definition of “undeclared campaign staff” can be determined.
• AMENDMENT 5: The appeal process in election regulation will have a shorter turnover time. The amount of time to return a decision on an appeal has decreased from 48 hours to 24.
• AMENDMENT 6: Breaches of endorsement are categorized as a lesser violation to protect candidates from the actions of people outside of their control.
“The biggest lesson we got from the spring was that it was important to lay out in writing the options the board had for punishment other than removing candidates from the ballot,” Wayman said in an e-mail. “The goal was to do more paperwork now so we have to do less during the election.”
Last spring election, SG presidential candidate Nirvana Habash was kicked off the ballot twice by the Board of Elections when her friends e-mailed members of the School of Public Affairs’ Leadership Program listserv and encouraged them to vote for Habash, The Eagle previously reported. Habash declined to comment on the changes to the election handbook.
An amendment takes into consideration the potentially damaging actions of people beyond candidates’ control. Breaches of endorsement procedures, such as sending a promotional e-mail on a private listserv, have been moved down from a Class III violation to Class II.
Class II violations are correctable offenses while Class III violations are classified as “major offenses,” according to the handbook.
Dunham views this amendment as a means to keep elections fair.
“I’ve seen elections kind of go from bad to worse, topping out last year,“ Dunham said. “There are lesser sanctions you can use to keep elections free and fair but not just disqualifying everyone, which was the problem last year.”
Another amendment guarantees write-in candidates who receive at least 15 percent of the vote to be announced along with election results. The previous language stated if a write-in candidate receives 15 percent of the vote and  did not win, they would not be announced.
One amendment that stirred debate at the Senate meeting gave candidates running for SG positions higher spending limits. The new limits were $60, up from $50, for senators and class council members, and $300, up from $250, for executive positions.
The increase in spending limits reflects an 18.87 percent rise of inflation since the handbook limits were last set, according to Dunham.
These limits have not been adjusted for some time, with the most recent record available from 2003, according to Wayman.
Dunham said the prices of supplies needed for campaigning continue to rise.
“I don’t believe we need to make it into a race for money,” he said. “I do believe it is crucial that the Board of Elections try to free up as much possibility for creativity as possible.”
Taylor Yeates, newly appointed senator for the Class of 2013, was concerned that raising the spending limit would create a barrier to entry for some potential candidates.
“I don’t like the increase in spending in executive races ... We want to keep this so people can run.” Yeates said. “I don’t want to see people fundraising to run for Student Government. I want to see people running based on the merits of who they are.”
Chief of Staff Phil Cardarella worked as campaign manager for SG President Nate Bronstein’s campaign last year and said it could be difficult to stay on budget for campaigns.
“If you don’t get lucky sometimes, you’re going to run out of money,” Cardarella said about executive spending limits. “I like the idea of being able to be more creative. I think that’s what’s going to bring voters.”
The BOE meets to change the handbook every summer, and the Senate can amend the handbook once it has been presented, Wayman said. The Senate can amend the handbook until two months prior to elections.
“We don’t want to control with a type of ‘iron-curtain’ type of election,” Dunham
said in the meeting. “We want to have an election in which people are free to
be creative, free to be the emerging politicians they want to be.”
amooney@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
