Grade: A-
It has been way, way too long since Hollywood released an amazing chick flick worthy of our time. Producers have been rolling out tons of female-targeted films over the past few years, but few of these movies have captured our hearts and landed spots on our DVD shelves. Never fear, ladies. You can stop settling for subpar acting and horrible endings. All of your needs for classic love stories and good looking men will at last be fulfilled. “Remember Me,” starring Robert Pattinson and Emilie de Ravin, is the cure-all for a streak of mediocre chick flicks.
The film follows the relationship of Tyler Hawkins, (Pattinson), and Ally Craig (de Ravin), an unlikely pair who help one another through a continuous string of family hardships. Tyler first asks out Ally because he wants to get revenge on her father (Chris Cooper), a cop who arrested him and did some damage to his face. But after a few dates and charming gestures, Tyler realizes he’s falling for this girl (who practically moves in with him after date number two, when daddy cop busts up her face, too). 
Although he’s the film’s star, Pattinson’s acting skills are not above his performance in “Twilight.” “Remember Me” is memorable and captivating, but would have been even better if Pattinson had left his awkward stutters, smiles and movements with the vampires. Despite his second-rate acting, Pattinson’s character is still enchanting because of his internal struggles over his older brother’s suicide, his negligent father and his nerdy, artistic sister.  
The best parts about the film are the surprising plot twists that will stun viewers and leave them wanting more. (Spoiler alert: the surprise ending will actually absolutely shock you.) Acts of kindness or malice that weren’t expected will draw you into the film and bring you closer to its characters. Make sure to pay close attention to subtle details (such as tattoos and chalkboard dates) that will help you appreciate the film’s plot to its fullest potential.  
A memorable feature of “Remember Me” is its clever humor. Hawkins’ roommate, Aidan (Tate Wellington), is probably the funniest and most belligerent character. His favorite line is, “Just one drink. Just one drink,” which inevitably results in him and Tyler locked behind bars and Ally’s head planted in the toilet. He also talks about his idea for a marketing device called the “S.L.U.T.” (“Single Lady Utility Tote”), for feisty ladies who constantly find themselves in random male’s beds without a toothbrush.  
One character not to be overlooked is Tyler’s father, played by Pierce Brosnan. His father is a workaholic who pays no attention to his little sister and only talks when he has something critical to say. Unlike his “Mission Impossible” and “Mamma Mia” roles, Brosnan portrays a New York hard ass who doesn’t smile or care about anything but Wall Street. His character is a powerful force that goes through a terrific transformation during the course of the film.  
The movie’s plot and impressive supporting characters are the glue that successfully holds it together. The main characters played by Pattinson and de Ravin are interesting alone, but lack a certain necessary chemistry that a romantic couple needs. But regardless of the questionable romance, “Remember Me” still delivers. Viewers won’t be disappointed with this inspiring chick-flick.  
You can reach this writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
