The AU field hockey team squeaked into the NCAA tournament Wednesday with a 2-1 play-in game win over Kent State University. 
Riding an eight-game winning streak, Kent State, from the MAC conference, showed American a completely different style of play. Featuring four defensive players in the back instead of the three AU was used to facing, Kent State was able to successfully parry the Eagle attack for most of the game.
“We were doing a different press and trying to intercept a little more,” senior Kirstin Gebhart said. 
The Eagles offense is used to scoring early. But they struggled in the first half to put together successful passes. With no penalty corners given up by the Golden Flashes defense, the Eagles had to continue to regroup after being shut down by Kent State.
Adding to team frustrations, American committed more fouls than normal. They struggled to adapt to the new style of play from the Golden Flashes. 
The first break in the Kent State defense came in the 14th minute when a shot from senior Anne van Erp was blocked away by the opposing goalkeeper, Caroline Suitch, and volleyed back to the right side of the net by freshman Lotte van de Mierop.
Play continued back and forth for the next 14 minutes until junior Melissa Casale put the Eagles up 2-0. With the lead, American went into halftime knowing that its defense needed to be lights-out and its offense needed to click into rhythm again. 
“We had to pull together in a strong defensive structure instead of the attacking mindset,” Gebhart said. “Everyone had a lot stronger tackles than we have in previous games, so we need to continue that.” 
Coming out in the second half looking almost flat-footed, AU struggled to control the ball as Kent State continued to apply pressure and just three minutes in, Golden Flashes’ Amy Wimsatt deflected a Rachel Miller shot into the back of the net, drawing Kent State back to within one.
“We gave up some shots that were too open,” head coach Steve Jennings said. “But given that the last scouting report we could get on them was from early October, we had to play things by ear. To their credit, they put together some quality shots.” 
AU continued to struggle controlling the ball and keeping the opposing attack out of its half of the field. With the shot count ending in favor of AU, 9-6, the Eagles played their closest game since before the Patriot League Championships. 
The Eagles will now be moving on to the first round of the NCAA tournament, where they hope to secure a second-seed for the round of sixteen. With the season on the line, American will need to return to top form for the tournament to continue its hopes of making it to the Final Four. 
“The team’s objective has been to have a deep postseason run and it all starts Saturday,” Jennings said. “We’d love to have a rematch at Maryland at the Final Four. That’d be fantastic.”
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction Appended 
Approximately 800 members of the AU community and beyond came together to commemorate the life of Professor Sue Marcum in Bender Arena Tuesday night.
Marcum died unexpectedly in her home Monday, Oct. 25. Police are investigating her death as a homicide. 
On the evening of Nov. 9, students and staff mixed with Marcum’s family and friends to form a stream of grief and support, signing a remembrance book and sharing stories of the beloved professor.
Taylor Saia, eMarketing assistant for Kogod’s Marketing and Communications Department and a sophomore in Kogod, helped to plan the memorial, though he never knew Marcum personally.
“It’s really touching to see how the entire campus community came together under such unexpected circumstances,” Saia said. “The amount of support and the willingness of everybody to help the family and donate to the scholarship fund [which Marcum established in her name] and write in the memorial book and everything – I think it says a lot about AU as a campus and as a community.”
Saia emphasized the number of people he has witnessed speaking about Marcum through social media and other forums in the past couple of weeks.
“Everybody wants to show their personal condolences, and I think it just goes to show the level of compassion [at] AU,” Saia said.
Attendants came from beyond the AU community. Kogod alumnus Joel Croft said he knew a student who came in from New York for the memorial. Helen Maleady and her husband of Frederick, Md., traveled to the service with a group of women from the American Society of Women Accountants, of which Marcum was a member.
Sue Marcum’s brother, Alan Marcum, lives in California, but he came to campus to speak at the event. 
He said his sister left behind a legacy of being a great teacher.
“Sue did much more than simply appreciate and care about what she was teaching. She cared about what her students were learning,” Alan Marcum said. “That more than the circus examples, more than the experience that she was able to draw upon from being a CPA, that is the lesson that she can leave for all of us who teach: that we care about what our students learn. And that matters whether we are parents teaching our children, professors in college or even kindergarten teachers.”
He said in coming to the school he had seen “grief, respect, admiration and a lot of people grateful for how their lives had been affected.”
“[Sue] would be both very proud and very humbled by [the reactions],” Alan said. 
Other speakers included President Neil Kerwin, Kogod Professor Donald Williamson, Master's student in Kogod Jeff Wilson and Marcum’s personal friends, Lisa Colten and Larry March. Rabbi Kenneth Cohen opened and closed the ceremony.
As each individual stood behind the podium, each told stories of Marcum’s intelligence, perfectionism, enthusiasm and deep passion for life.
The stories also revealed sides of Marcum that students could not have gleaned from classroom interactions.
Her brother remembered paying his sister to make his bed as children and joked that this may have launched her career as an accountant.
Colten and March recounted stories of traveling the world with Marcum. They also told of her love of clothing, cooking and her two cats, which are now under the care of March.
Williamson called Marcum “a sparkplug” as well as “my student, my colleague and my trusted friend.”
Williamson related an incident that he said summed up his feelings about Marcum. Williamson and Marcum had prepared a presentation on a Kogod graduate program. When only two students attended the information session, Williamson felt as if their work had been a waste.
“‘Well Don,’” Williamson remembered Marcum saying, “‘we helped two.’”
With that, Williamson encouraged those in the audience to “help two” in memory of Marcum.
sparnass@theeagleonline.com
Correction: This article previously named Tyler Saia, a junior in Kogod, as eMarketing assistant for Kogod’s Marketing and Communications Department. Saia's first name is, in fact, Taylor, and he is a sophomore. Jeff Wilson was also identified as a senior in Kogod when he, is in fact, in pursuit of a Master's. The Eagle regrets these errors.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Martha Holland of Rockwood Parkway ran as a write-in candidate for the same Advisory Neighborhood Commission seat as freshman Deon Jones.
Holland, a 15-year resident of this area, ran to fill the seat for Single Member District 3D 07. The seat has been vacant for years.
“[Jones’] running was not a factor in my running,” Holland said. “I ran to fill the seat because there’s some important things coming before the ANC district,” Holland said.
A total of 23 write-in votes were cast at the Metropolitan Memorial United Methodist Church (Precinct 9) polling station.
Electronic ballot results report two votes for Holland and one vote for Jones. 
Holland said Jones came to her door to campaign. She called him a “high achiever” and said he seemed very willing to listen.
“He may do a wonderful job,” she said. “I don’t think he has any understanding of what it’s like to live here though.”
Holland said her main concerns include AU’s Campus Plan, the number of deer in the neighborhood and local burglaries.
She said she realizes AU needs more dorms, but not necessarily large buildings on the edge of campus. She believes a compromise can be worked out.
Holland said she would work with students to find out what concerns they have. 
She said she has never had any problems with the AU community. 
“I’ve never had any interaction that was negative with either the school itself or the students individually.”
Both Jones and Holland said they would work with each other, regardless of the election’s outcome.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
