Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Deon Jones may have just won a seat on an Advisory Neighborhood Commission, but that’s not enough for him. The freshman has his sights set on the Oval Office next.  
As a write-in candidate, Jones will fill the vacant ANC 3D 07 seat, which represents the South side of campus. Jones received 17 write-in votes. 
Jones said one of his dreams is to be president, so that he can help reform the public education system in places like his hometown of Atlanta. 
But for now, he has to settle for reading zoning laws as part of his homework.
Freshman Tyler Sadonis, also a write-in candidate, lost against incumbent Commissioner Tom Smith for the ANC 3D 02 seat, which represents the North side. Smith received 228 votes. 
Sadonis and Smith are planning an AU town hall meeting for next semester. 
Community relations
AV4U’s campaign strategy “mirrored the worst of the current American political system,” Smith said. 
The elections’ effect on the neighborhood will take a long time to heal, he said. 
But AV4U members and the candidates said the election improved AU’s neighborhood relations. 
“There was no intention with this campaign to divide the community,” said Sadonis, who will become the Student Government’s Director of Community Relations next semester. “The number one priority was to unite it.”
This is the first step toward building a better relationship between AU and local residents, said AV4U Finance Director Ed Levandoski.
“It’s not just a one-time thing,” he said. 
But Campaign Manager Bharat Krishnan said the fact that the election was so local, showed him “just how nasty city politics” could be.
“The smaller a campaign gets, the more personal it gets and so the opportunity for personal vendettas grows bigger and bigger,” he said. 
Finance complaint against Sadonis, AV4U dismissed
Smith filed two formal complaints against Sadonis, the A Voice 4 U campaign and its public relations firm, Eagle Communications. 
One complaint claimed campaign finance laws were violated. 
D.C.’s Office of Campaign Finance held a hearing and found that several violations had occurred, but all charges were ultimately dismissed. 
All candidates must file financial statements with the Office of Campaign Finance by Jan. 31. 
There is some money leftover in AV4U’s account, according to Levandoski. He is not sure what will happen with it in the future, but all debts have been paid off. 
Board of Elections and Ethics changes
As a result of Sadonis and Jones’ campaigns, the D.C. Board of Elections and Ethics changed some paperwork before this election, according to spokeswoman Alysoun McLaughlin. 
The Board expected students’ voter registrations to be challenged, and changed the documents to make the challenge process clearer. 
In the past 10 years, there have not been any ballots challenged at the Metropolitan Memorial United Methodist Church polls on Nebraska Avenue, according to Precinct 9 Captain Lawrence Williams, The Eagle previously reported.
But this year, about 35 votes, mostly from students, were challenged, Williams said.
This race was the first time D.C. residents were allowed to register at the polls on Election Day for ANC races. Same-day registration was implemented for the first time during the Sept. 14 primary election, but there were no ANC elections then.
AU lawyers unable to further pursue voter intimidation claims
AU lawyers said they heard “unsubstantiated” rumors of complaints concerning possible student voter intimidation on Election Day, but will not do anything further because there is not enough evidence. 
The two signed statements they received did not detail first-hand intimidation, according to Bethany Bridgham, an AU attorney. 
One statement described two incidents where the author believed voter intimidation had occurred, but not to them. The other statement described a general feeling of hostility, but did not have an actual allegation of intimidation.
sdazio@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Rat is clearly more evolved than us. While we huddle in our dorm rooms next to whatever bottle of liquor we still have stored for winter, desperately trying to avoid stepping out into the frozen tundra, they will somehow survive and thrive, coming out to meet us next spring with a hope that this season will bring a bountiful harvest of garbage.
Now is the time to stamp them out, before they consolidate power. Our best weapon against them? The Nutcracker, the famous ballet that I assume is the first musical based on a tool we use to feed ourselves (“Mac the Knife” of course is the second). Here are the recommendations:
Eliminate the Monarchy
Apparently the leader of the mice in the ballet is the Mouse King. Honestly, I don’t know why the mice resorted to an autocratic regime. I’m not even sure how a mouse would justify his dominion. Perhaps he is the divine providence of the Mouse God, who I assume looks like Mickey. But that’s not important. What is important is taking down a king, and history has taught us many ways to accomplish this. We could read them the Constitution — I’m sure the College Republicans would chomp at the bit for the chance — or possibly construct a tiny mouse Magna Carta. Admit it, you’re thinking about it and it’s adorable.
Do NOT use Edible Soldiers
They tried to fight rats with gingerbread soldiers. That’s a worse strategy than the Surge. Unless the gingerbread has rat poison in it, in which case it’s genius. Why didn’t the Nutcracker think of that? This ballet is full of plot holes.
Know when to retreat
After the Nutcracker defeats the Mouse King, the soldiers retreat to their own castle, which is apparently filled with candy and sweet tea and a boat pulled by dolphins. Honestly, you probably won’t find that on campus. The closest thing would be to go back to huddling in your dorm room with the bottle of liquor. For dolphins, I suggest Animal Planet.
mrichardson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The men’s basketball team fell 67-48 to the University of Florida Gators in the BB&T Classic at Verizon Center Sunday.
It was the team’s third straight loss. 
“It’s hard to have a chance against a very good Florida team when you make many mental errors, as we did,” Coach Jeff Jones said. “For us to have any chance we have to beat a team like Florida, we have to be near perfect.” 
Eagles Guard Troy Brewer led the Eagles in scoring with 17 points. Vlad Moldoveanu also contributed 14 points and one block. Stephen Lumpkins scored eight. Nick Hendra scored all nine of his points in the second half. 
“Vlad is obviously a very difficult guy to guard,” Florida Head Coach Billy Donovan said. “I like Lumpkins at the center spot. I think Brewer gives them some scoring and perimeter play.”
The Gators shot 49 percent from the field and 84.6 percent from the free throw line. 
“We leave this game frustrated,” Jones said.  “We can be better and we should be better.”
The Gators extended their lead to 37-21 early in the second half. The Gators continued to dominate the Eagles inside, even though the Eagles were only out-rebounded 29-28 overall.  The Eagles pulled within 8 points with about seven minutes left in the game. However Florida pulled away and finished the game with a 14-4 run and won by 19.
“I thought one of the things,” said Donovan. “I thought American had to face some adversity when they were down by 16 early in the second half and give them credit they got it all the way to eight.”
The Eagles could not get anything going offensively. The Eagles spent most of the game trying to escape the Gators full court press which accounted for 17 Eagle turnovers. This combined with the Eagles shooting 19-44 for the game made it very difficult to catch up with Florida. 
The Eagles' last three losses have been to top national teams. In the last three games the Eagles have lost to two teams that have made the Final Four in the last four years. West Virginia played in the semifinals of the most recent NCAA championship, while Florida won back-to-back national championships in 2006 and 2007. The other loss came on a buzzer beater against Columbia University.
Despite the losing streak, the Eagles were still leading the Patriot League standings entering the game against Florida.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
• To rant or not to rant, that is the question. Whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous college fortune, or to take arms against the sling of troubles, and by ranting, end them. To die, to rant, no more. And by a rant to say we end the heartache and the thousand natural shocks that freshman are heir to, ‘tis a consummation devoutly to be wished. To rant, to sleep, to rant perchance to dream. Aye, there’s the rant.
• To the person who has had sex in the library, you are a pig.  Go back to whereever you come from and have sex in your own goddam library.
• To whoever found my wallet on the bus and actually turned it in without stealing my cash, I love you.
• Ok, I get adding new things to the Tavern menu but why take away some of the more popular items? There are no more chicken quesadillas, bacon cheese burgers, or southwest sauce. SHAME AU. SHAME.
• Yo, Eagle Ranters, I’m real happy for you and I’ma let you finish, but…wait a minute.  Are we still doing this?  It’s been, like, a year.  Isn’t that the limit?
• I’m falling hard for you. I’m too scared to tell you how I feel. And I know that I’m eventually going to spill the beans about my secret whilst drunk. So bye bye alcohol, forever…
• If one more Rat runs across my path while walking around campus… I’m going to stab it in the face, rip its head off, and eat the little bastard. Then I’m going to put its head on a stake in the middle the quad to serve as an example for all those other little S.O.B’s.
• We need more nudity!
• I found an entire rat in my TDR cobb salad.
• Dear Provost Bass:?Are you crazy? 7:30 a.m.?  I need time to sober up before I go to class.
• Nice try calling me from a blocked number so that I would pick up. Stalker. I’m not that stupid. And I ignore you for a reason.
• Dear pre-frat friend,?I miss the old you?sincerely,?a fan of the non-sucky you
• Dear Person I Met at a Frat Party,?Let’s not make this awkward by avoiding eye contact when we walk through TDR. We met. We conversed. Let’s be actual friends.?Sincerely,?Tired of having to pretend like I smiled at the person behind you.
• People who whisper in the second floor of the library: it is a SILENT FLOOR, not a whispering floor, not a lower voice floor, but SILENT! That means I only want to hear the typing of keyboard and my own thoughts. So please, if you’re in a group or just feel a need to talk and laugh while studying just go to the third floor and let me study in peace.?
• Annoyed second floor loner
• Maybe it’s just me, or the fact that I’ve been out of AU for three years, but the students at AU seem to complain a lot more about trivial shit.  When I was at AU, we bitched about real problems, like the president embezzling a money and then having AU jack up tuition rates to pay off his golden parachute.
• To the AU Alum hating on Phonathon:?Why are you on Eagle Rants?!? Do you really have that much free time on your hands that you can find the time to complain about the phone calls you’re getting?  Get a real job and stop complaining about ours ... at least we’re making money!?Best wishes, your student caller from AU
• I sick of these mother@#$!$$# rats, on this mother@#%#@#% campus!
• There is a deeper circle of hell for the alumni who hang up on Phonathon callers
• As I was sitting in my room one lovely Tuesday evening, I heard a familiar sound erupting from the street. It was a transport! Then it dawned on me ... “wonk” is the exact sound the ambulances make. And boy, does AU have tons of transport wonks.
• Ok, I know we just had a big rally for reasonable political discourse but I’m still PRETTY DAMN SURE that Tom Smith is Hitler.
• Sometimes I search my own name on CollegeACB. There’s always a mixture of disappointment and relief when it yields no results.
• Maybe I would stop playing Dolphin Olympics if I weren’t SO FREAKING GOOD AT IT
• I demand fancier toilet paper!
• If you and your harem block the goddamn sidewalk one more goddamn time, I'm pushing you aside so that (somewhat) polite people can use it.?
• EAGLE RAVES 4EVA!!!?except its a lot easier to think of things I want to complain about than things I'm happy about but I'm willing to give it a shot:??I'm a huge fan of ...... nope I got nothing!! Sorry.
• If you're going to try to pick up a girl at the library, at least make it cute and help her pick out a book from a particularly tall shelf. Not while everyone is sitting around trying to do homework.?
• Come on rude boy can you get up?
Cause I wonk wonk wonk?
What you wonk wonk wonk
• You have broken my heart. I am numb inside and can only stare blankly at the sea of faces I come across. I am dead inside now thanks to you. Save me!
• When did all the Eagle rants get so emo? Write that stuff in your diaries everyone, seriously.
• Eagle rants is not an advice column. Eagle rants is not a relationship column. EAGLE RANTS IS NOT FOR SOLACE, IT’S HERE TO PUNCH YOU IN THE FACE.
• Students who vomit on the shuttle or any other form of public transportation should have to stay until they clean it up and deodorize it themselves.  Keep your chunks to yourself.
• Due to aptitude testing, my likely career will be serial killer bait.
• REALLY?!?! You’re going to spam the entire SIS Listserv to say you have a crockpot for sale?  Like we don’t get enough junk in our inbox daily. So not cool.
• Dear Hot guy that drove me to the frat party Saturday night,?The way you handled your car was so sexy it gave me the shivers. We had such a great conversation about our mutual secret love for watching iCarly. When will you finally get the nerve to accept my iCarly date request?
• I never thought I would be another person complaining in the library but this is ridiculous.  Girl sits next to me on the quiet floor, and chews LOUDER than I can think.  I’ve never wanted a bagel to be out of my life so quickly.  I’m pretty sure this girl has an unnatural amount of saliva in her mouth cause I can hear EVERYTHING going on in there.  FML
• Do you remember that time I got drunk, and wrestled a panda bear, and made out with you, and skydived, and dressed in drag?
Yeah. Me neither.
• Reading over the lengthy E.R. column from 11/12 I noticed that about 60% of all the rants could have been solved at the time of occurrence. Please people, stop being passive-aggressive and let others know if they are?-a terrible roommate?-making too much noise in the library?-a slow mover in food lines, etc.?What may be so blindingly obvious to you may never have crossed their minds! Stop grinding your teeth in frustration and just talk it out
• I like that the Tavern workers are mean to me. I am a white male with an unnecessarily large scholarship, great family and great friends, life has given me every opportunity. Being yelled at when asking for dressing for my 10 dollar salad makes me feel like I am finally feeling just a little bit of injustice.?Thank you Tavern, you make me feel alive.
• I miss my boyfriend. Is there a such thing as cuddle-porn I can watch??
• I AM FREAKING OUT HENCE THE INORDINATE USE OF CAPITAL LETTERS AND THE UNNESSECARY RUN ON OF MY SPELLING AND THE REDICULOUSLY STRANGELY SADLY HORRIBOLE SPEELLING ERRORS AND ALSOE, FURTHERMORE, HENCEFORTH THE USE OF ADVERBS AND EQUALLY ODD WORDS THAT MOREOVER DON'T BELONG IN.?
• No, roomie, I will NOT have a threesome with you and your creepy BF.
• MAKE ME A SANDWICH, NEIL KERWIN.
• I want candy corn all day everyday
• Seriously, the AU contingency in Prague is furious with the recent developments at the Tavern. No cheese or chicken quesadillas? No Southwestern sauce? No Bacon Cheeseburgers? Explanations and changes need to be delivered by Spring semester.
• Out of all the gay boys at AU, I fall for a straight one ... with a girlfriend. WTF?!? Fail sauce.
• Because I had just a little JD left over from thirsty Thursday, I decided to attempt the famed Ke$ha ‘before I leave brush my teeth with a bottle of Jack’.... now my mouth feels kinda dirty and I smell like an alcoholic in my 9:55.
• Dear Pasty White Ass,?Please refrain from having sex in the study rooms with the doors unlocked.?Many thanks!
• Oh hey, thanks for vomiting in a McDonalds bag. And thanks for not chewing your pasta at all. And extra thanks for dropping your McDonalds bag of un-chewed vomit-pasta right outside my room.
• I could have sworn that WONK was a sexual position ... If not, I’m making it one.
• To the boy who said “You’re welcome” when I thanked you for showing me your ID at the front desk this morning, you made my day! I may have acted like it was no big deal, but nobody ever replies!
 

Rant here!
 Type your rant here!  



Never miss a story
        Get our weekly newsletter delivered right to your inbox.
        

Email Address 






 






More from The Eagle






Opinion: AU’s response to what happened in Kerwin Hall will not keep us safe 







Opinion: The US is designed for cars — not people







Opinion: What it’s like being an immunocompromised student at AU





Rant here!
 Type your rant here!  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU Women’s basketball team defeated the Youngstown State Penguins on Saturday 57-41 after an exceptional defensive effort by the Eagles.  
The Eagles defense in Saturday’s game held Youngstown State’s Brandi Brown to zero points and only allowed one player to score in double figures.  
“I think that’s pretty awesome to hold somebody well under their average or to not give them any points,” Head Coach Matt Corkery said. “I think our kids did a nice job of kind of understanding what she wanted to do when she caught the ball and they did a nice job of taking that away.” 
 Alexis Dobbs’ offense stood out among the rest of the team, scoring 14 points total and four for eight from deep. Nicole Ryan was right behind her with nine points. 
“She’s a good three-point shooter and when the ball found her in those kind of situations she didn’t hesitate,” Corkery said.  
The Eagles had a rough start in the first half, unable to maintain the lead until free throws by Lisa Strack and Stephanie Anya put AU ahead 18-17. Jump shots by Anya and Ashley Yencho further extended the lead to a more comfortable margin.  
AU led 27-22 at the half. 
The Eagle offense came alive in the second half with a three-pointer by Strack within the first three minutes of play. Another three from Ryan and a layup by the freshman, Geleisa George followed this. It was the first time George had ever scored in a college game.    
“Coach told us at halftime that it’s really a game of working inside and out so we stepped up the guards in the perimeter,” Dobbs said. “So once we started shooting and some of them started falling it was able to open up the middle for our post players.”  
AU ended the game ahead 57-41.  
Liz Leer, who is usually a team leader in scoring, struggled in the game. She scored four points throughout the game, but she did have six rebounds, a team high for the game.  Players off the bench made up for Leer’s lack of offense.   
“Liz Leer’s a great player but if its not her night other people need to step up and that’s what we did coming off the bench,” Dobbs said.   
Corkery also emphasized the importance of coming back home after playing on the road for the past few games. Although the team is now over .500, he is still looking for more improvement as the season progresses.  
“I think we’re a team that’s still figuring some things out and we’re still trying to exactly figure out what our roles are,” Coach Corkery said.  “I think we’re still a work in progress but hopefully we’ll get our stride come January.” 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Question: How’s school?
The Correct Answer: Runs the gamut from “fine” to “good.” If they push it further, it’s a trap. Don’t play into their devious game, just change the conversation. Compliment their lovely decorations, or if not applicable, pretend to choke. People rarely make idle conversation with choking victims.
?
The Question: What do you major in again?
The Correct Answer: A major that will not immediately result in the follow up, “What are you going to do with that?” Good: Business, Chemistry. Bad: Art History, Journalism. In a pinch, say you’re undecided. You can make this work until two months into your last semester, if you’re dedicated and sell your story.
?
The Question: Do you have a boyfriend/girlfriend?
The Correct Answer: Don’t use the word “F***-buddy.” The correct phrasing is,?“I do, but I forget his or her last name.” 
?
The Question: What do you want to do after you graduate? (For freshmen and sophomores)
The Correct Answer: You may say that you haven’t quite figured it out. Perhaps charity work for the Peace Corps or Teach for America. The world is your oyster, and hopefully there’s a pearl inside.
?
The Question: What do you want to do after you graduate? (For seniors)
The Correct Answer: Just don’t cry.
mrichardson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Winter in D.C. always brings the promise of crisp air, fluffy snow and frosted windows.  
But don’t let the chilly Washington weather get you down, the best comfort food is just around the corner. If you’re hanging around town this December or January, be sure to check out these cozy comfort food stars and the best cup of hot chocolate in the city.  
Bistro Du Coin
Where: 1738 Connecticut Ave. NW
Metro: Dupont Circle (red line)
Price:  $8 for a steaming cup of French onion soup and $17 for a large portion of steamed mussels
The traditional French fare includes Coq au Vin, steak and frites and Moules Provençales (steamed mussels with white wine, tomato and Provençal herbs).  Be sure to try the boeuf bourguignon, a beef stew with red wine and mushrooms, and the tartine Parisienne, a delicious open-faced sandwich with French ham, melted Gruyère cheese and a creamy Béchamel sauce.  
The Diner
Where: 2453 18th St. NW
Metro: Woodley Park–Zoo/Adams Morgan (red line)
Price: $5 for an original grilled cheese sandwich and $6 for a stack of three fluffy pancakes 
While The Eagle has sung the praises of this Adams Morgan gem before, The Diner has to be mentioned when it comes to comfort food. Open 24 hours, seven days a week, The Diner offers the best breakfast, burgers and milkshakes in town. Cozy up to a breakfast sampler like the Diner Royale or the Original Deluxe grilled cheese sandwich, with cheddar, tomato and crispy bacon. 
Loeb’s Deli 
Where: 1712 I St. NW 
Metro: Farragut West (blue and orange lines) 
Price: Between $6 and $9 for a classic New York deli sandwich 
For a sandwich and soup lover, Loeb’s Deli is a prime lunch spot on a windy day. When it opens again in its new location in late December, be sure to try a steaming cup of Matzo ball soup and the Madison Avenue sandwich, piled high with roast beef, Munster cheese, coleslaw and Russian dressing.  
Ooh’s and Aah’s
Where: 1005 U St. NW
Metro: U St/African-American Civil War Memorial/Cardozo (green and yellow lines)
Price: $5 for a large portion of macaroni and cheese and $4 for a slice of homemade peach cobbler. 
While Georgia Browns may be better known for their upscale take on soul food, Ooh’s and Aah’s offers the cheapest and best southern comfort food in DC.  Much like Ben’s Chili Bowl, Ooh’s and Aah’s is the epitome of a dive. Don’t let that hold you back, though, and order a catfish sandwich with a side of collard greens and macaroni and cheese. 
Churreria Madrid
Where: 2505 Champlain St. NW
Metro: Woodley Park–Zoo/Adams Morgan (red line)
Price: $3 for a dozen churros and one great cup of hot chocolate 
It was particularly difficult for this writer to narrow down to just one pick for the best hot chocolate in D.C., but Churreria Madrid takes home the prize for its incredible churros and hot chocolate. The churros are piping hot, covered in sugar and cinnamon, and pair perfectly with the cup of rich, molten hot chocolate. Trust us, this is one calorie-fest that you must have while living in Washington. 
kholliday@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU Eagles lost a 2-1 lead to the UCLA Bruins on Friday night, falling 3-2 to the Bruins in the first round of the NCAA tournament at the Gregory Gymnasium in Austin, Texas. The Eagles fell 26-28, 26-24, 23-25, 25-19, 15-11 in a thrilling loss to the Bruins. 
Senior Angelina Waterman had a stellar game, notching 22 kills and nine digs, while fellow senior Magdalena Tekiel had 17 kills and 10 digs. 
The Eagles opened the first set with an early 3-2 lead, but the Bruins’ attack systematically pulled ahead of the Eagle defense, up as much as 19-14, until AU squeezed past on an 8-2 run to take a 22-21 lead. A back and forth battle ensued, with each team taking the lead back from the other until AU was finally able to top the Bruins 28-26.  
The second set proved to be dangerously close for both teams, with neither pulling more than three points ahead of the other. Behind some strong defense from Katerina Cinkova (eight blocking assists in the game), AU kept it close, but eventually lost the set, 26-24 after some heavy hits from UCLA’s Rachel Kidder and Sara Sage. 
UCLA came into the third set with a fire ready to put away the Eagles for good, opening with a 5-2 lead, but AU’s Waterman, Tekiel and sophomore Bianca Richardson combined to pull the Eagles on top to an 11-8 lead, where a steady stream of points threw AU up to a 16-11 lead. The Bruins fought back, managing a 23-22 lead before finally losing to the Eagles, 25-23. 
An early 11-6 lead in the fourth set gave AU hope to put the game away, but two huge runs, capped by a 7-0 advantage from the Bruins put the Eagles away 25-19 and forced a fifth and deciding set.  
Coach Barry Goldberg began subbing freshman Juliana Crum into the game late in the fourth set for Cassandra Ricketts, who seemed to be having a tough time handling the UCLA powerhouse. Crum’s attack didn’t give the team the spark Goldberg was looking for, but the fresh legs were much needed on the floor.  
The Bruins were still riding momentum in the fifth set, taking the first three points, but help from the Waterman attack put the Eagles on top, 8-5, before the teams switched sides at the halfway point.  
A steady attack from UCLA’s Lauren van Orden vaulted the Bruins into the lead, 10-8. AU fought back, evening the score at 10 apiece, but UCLA’s late-game dominance showed through and the Bruins took the final set, 15-11.  
UCLA attacked at 59 percent to AU’s 55 percent, while American outshot its opponent, .231 to .220. Richardson and Waterman sported the team’s top hitting percentage, hitting .429 and .271 respectively. 
Dicey McGraw was UCLA’s best attack with 22 kills, while van Orden sported a double double (61 assists and 12 digs). 
 AU’s Alexandra Hammer had a season-high 52 assists and six blocking assists. AU also got defensive help from labero Deborah Frantz, totaling 11 digs in the match. AU’s 13 blocks were all well-placed, giving the team some much-needed momentum.  
The loss ended a program-best 23-match win streak and 35 consecutive set wins. 
The Bruins lost Saturday to ninth-ranked Texas, 3-1, ending their run in the tournament as well.  
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
‘Tis the season for re-gifting! In a few weeks the holidays will be over, and all that will remain of your Hanukkah candles and meticulously decorated Christmas tree will be melted wax and a pile of sticky pine needles. 
The carefully wrapped presents with their satin bows will fade into memory as you kick through a mountain of wrapping paper confetti. Inevitably, some of that paper decorated at least one gift you didn’t want. 
So what do you do with that heinous reindeer sweater from Great-Aunt Mildred? Assuming none of your hipster friends want it, you can either bury it in the back of your closet or give it to someone who will wear it. 
Goodwill and the Salvation Army accept clothing donations. 
If your aunt ever asks why you don’t wear the sweater, just say it was stolen from your dorm’s laundry room.
Jewelry-making kits, Star Wars action figures — which are totally dolls, despite what defensive collectors say — and K’nex make excellent gifts for kids but not for college students. 
If your relatives perpetually mistake you for an 8 year old, you can expect unwanted children’s gifts. If you stopped being a Toys ‘R’ Us kid when Clinton was president, you probably don’t want those G.I. Joe walkie-talkies or iCarly electronic diary. Rather than stashing those unwanted toys in the basement, donate them to Toys for Tots, which distributes Christmas presents to underprivileged children in the community. 
This holiday season, remember that one student’s trash is another person’s treasure. Don’t throw away your unwanted gifts or banish them to the back of the closet ­— donate them! You’ll be happy to get rid of those presents, and somewhere a needy child or adult will be thankful to receive them — even if that sweater really is atrocious. 
llandau@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
LeBron James made his return to Cleveland on Thursday night to hear deafening boos and a lot of not-so-nice chants. While he was deserving of what he got, the constant criticism he has received since joining the Miami Heat cannot be justified. 
Recently, Q Score Company, which frequently conducts polls in order to gauge the popularity of various athletes, released a poll of the most hated athletes in the U.S.  The top five, starting with the most hated were Michael Vick, Tiger Woods, Terrell Owens, Chad Ochocinco, Kobe Bryant and LeBron James. What this list displays is the race issues that are still prevalent in sports. 
James has constantly been told how great he is since the day he stepped foot in St. Vincent-St. Mary’s High School in Akron, Ohio. How can anyone expect him not to be egotistical? His cockiness does not make him a bad person, and it certainly should not make him one of the most disliked athletes in the country. 
What James did when made his “decision” was arrogant and it shows that he thinks he is bigger than the NBA. He should have simply left Cleveland and not announced on a televised ESPN special that he was going to Miami. That point has been beaten into the ground. But hasn’t Brett Favre acted like he is bigger than the NFL the last three years? He retires. He comes back. He does the same thing every offseason. He attracts constant media attention and forces coaches and players to take a plane to Mississippi in order to convince him to play, when we all know that he’s coming back anyway. Yet, the narrative is how gutsy he is. How everybody loves him because he’s a “gunslinger”. Seldom do you see hated and the name Brett Favre in the same sentence when talking to the average sports fan. 
The situation is different because Favre actually wanted to return to the Green Bay Packers shortly after the first of many one-month retirements and was denied the opportunity, while LeBron left Cleveland in an embarrassing fashion. I have no problem with Cavs fans hating LeBron. In fact, they should. But what reason does the average fan have to hate LeBron James? 
Absent from the Q Score list is Ben Roethlisberger, who has been accused of sexual assault twice. Roethlisberger was so arrogant that he was accused of sexual assault once and then put himself in a position to be accused again. Yet it’s no longer talked about. After serving his four-game suspension earlier this season, the story has essentially vanished and sports personalities are back to talking about what a big game performer he is. If Donovan McNabb or Vince Young were accused of the same thing, would it be an afterthought so quickly? I think not. 
Say what you will about LeBron James. He has never been arrested. He has never been suspended. He has never even been ejected from a game. From all indications he has been a good teammate throughout his career and has been known to look for open teammates before taking his own shot. He is charismatic and has done well as the face of the NBA. Yet he’s more hated than the Steelers’ quarterback. 
It’s perfectly fine not to like LeBron James. We all have players we don’t like for one reason or another. But to dislike him as a person over other athletes who have done far worse strikes me as a little strange and in some cases, subtly racist. 
blasky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Aug. 23
Graffiti of a sexual nature was discovered on a dry erase board in a study lounge in Anderson Hall. The board was erased.
Aug. 25
Public Safety observed an individual urinating at the corner of Congressional Hall by Nebraska Avenue. The individual fled as the officer approached. 
Sept. 7
As a shuttle bus was being refueled at a gas station in the 4800 block of Massachusetts Avenue, another vehicle entered the station and struck the rear bumper of the bus. There were no passengers on the bus. No injuries were reported.
Sept. 17
Public Safety responded to a report of an altercation and met two students outside of the Ward Circle building. The female was very irate and crying. Reportedly, she became upset at the male, “her boyfriend,” when he spoke of another female being invited to a party. She threw books around, struck herself on the arms and legs, scratched her neck and face, and scratched him on the hand. He did not wish to pursue the matter.   
Sept. 18
During routine patrol, Public Safety discovered two students sitting on the grass outside of Katzen Arts Center surrounded with drug paraphernalia, alcohol and suspected marijuana. Student #1 indicated he and Student #2 were smoking marijuana. The following was recovered:  One 50 mL bottle of JB, one 50 mL bottle of Jack Daniels, suspected marijuana (tested positive for marijuana), vaporizer, grinder, rolling papers, pipe and plastic tubing.
Sept. 19
Reportedly, at approximately 6 a.m., a student walked into Public Safety and spoke with a dispatcher. The student was locked out of his room. The dispatcher told the student to stand by while necessary information was gathered. The student appeared agitated and paced in the main lobby. The student walked into the vending area and struck a computer monitor, damaging it. Later, a resident director and Public Safety questioned him about the damage. Public Safety detected an odor of an alcoholic beverage on the student’s breath. The student stated he punched the computer because he was intoxicated and frustrated about being locked out of the room. The incident will be referred to the Office of Student Conduct.
Sept. 23
Facilities Management reported discovering damage to the floor of the School of International Service building at the main entrance.?A student reported an unidentified contractor drove a cherry picker through the main entrance to conduct work inside the building at approximately 10 p.m.
Oct. 23
A resident assistant saw two suspects near a vending machine in Capital Hall. He did not recognize the suspects. The resident assistant continued to his destination. Upon his return to the area, the resident assistant noticed the suspects had left, and the vending machine door was open. Snacks were still in the machine and 73 cents were on the floor. The coin container was still intact. The area of the machine that appeared to house the container for dollar bills was missing. It appeared a pry tool was used to open the machine. Public Safety took custody of the coin container and snacks.
Oct. 31
Two resident assistants reported smelling a strong odor of marijuana coming from a room in McDowell Hall while conducting their rounds. Two resident directors arrived and contacted three occupants of the room. When a resident director mentioned taking administrative action, student #1 produced a bag containing a green leafy substance and swallowed it. The resident directors noticed a plastic bag had been placed over the smoke detector and a towel had been placed at the bottom of the door. A bottle of Febreze was nearby. Student #1 denied smoking or eating marijuana. Student #2 denied anyone smoked in her room. A resident director searched the room and recovered some drug paraphernalia, including a pipe. Confiscated residue tested positive for marijuana. Occupant #3’s father was notified.
Nov. 15
A resident reported Nov. 15 an unidentified suspect entered her locked room on Nov. 6 at 5:30 a.m. while she was sleeping.?Reportedly, the suspect crawled on the floor towards her laptop. She screamed and the suspect ran from her room.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Every Jan. 1, Americans type up, write down or simply make a mental note of the changes they want to make in their lives for the coming year. 
For college students, it usually goes something like this: go to the gym more and get wasted less, spend more time on homework and less time on Facebook, invest in a more professional wardrobe and get rid of the unnecessary crap filling up the drawers of your parents’ house.  
These resolutions last approximately 10 to 72 hours, according to The Eagle’s completely unscientific calculations. For 2011, try these more realistic resolutions — and maybe you’ll actually keep them going into February.
Take the long way
It’s hardly probable that you’ll get your bum into Bender after the first snowflake hits the ground, but that doesn’t mean you can’t work towards a healthier, less blob-like body this semester. Just by adding some distance to your normal walk to campus or class, you can burn extra calories and get your metabolism going. 
If you normally take the shuttle to or from Tenley, try walking. It might mean getting up 15 minutes earlier, but the walk will give you an extra boost of energy with every gust of wind. Substituting stairs for elevators and walking up the escalator — rather than huddling on the right — will also get your blood pumping. Increased cardio will help your waistline in the short term and keep your heart healthier in the long run.
Stay on schedule
Keeping a running monthly, weekly or even daily to-do list will help you stay focused during the downtime between classes. During that hour you would normally spend flipping between Facebook and Texts from Last Night, go to your list instead, and try to get something accomplished. 
You can be as detailed as you like; sometimes checking off things like “shower” or “eat lunch” can empower you to get through the rest of the day. Keep your list in a prominent place — say your desk or computer desktop (the Stickies application is great for Mac users) — so that it doesn’t get lost in the shuffle.
Avoid the Tavern, Salsa, Z-Burger, etc.
Though TDR takes longer than grabbing ‘tenders,’ their salad and sandwich bars offer some infinitely healthier options. If you have Eaglebucks, even a veggie sub from Subway will be kinder to your gut than a beef burrito loaded with rice, black beans, cheese and sour cream. Still looking to save time? Buy prepackaged salad and a low-fat dressing from Whole Foods the next time you’re in Tenley and bring your own lunch in a bag. It’s fine to splurge every once in a while, but for late night cram sessions, greasy food will just slow you down.
sparnass@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Something wicked this way comes — it lurks in our skies, awaiting the return of innocent college students from winter break. It will drop around the beginning of February, wreaking havoc not only upon Washington, but the rest of the East Coast as well. 
People will rush to the grocery stores and Terrace Dining Room, which will run out of food within a week. The Metro system will shut down and cars will be inoperable, making the only viable mode of transportation cross-country skiing. Classes will be canceled day after day, while a civil war breaks out at Dupont Circle. 
Civilization as we know it will cease to exist and D.C. will descend into chaos, buried under a thick blanket of fluffy, white snow. 
Snowpocalypse 2011 is coming — are you prepared? Heed The Eagle’s warning and use this guide to start a survival kit before it’s too late.
Powdered milk
Since the Eagle’s Nest and local stores will face a milk shortage, be sure to pick up at least five industrial-size boxes of powdered milk. Even if the pipes freeze, use the abundance of snow outside to your advantage and mix it in for a truly ice-cold drink.
Hot Pockets
Stockpile as many frozen entrees as will fit in your freezer. Hot Pockets are the best bet because of their nutritional superiority and tendency to make you too nauseous to eat more. Not only will you have enough food to last through the crisis, but you’ll gain some extra padding against the bitterness of winter as well.
10-layer cake
Celebrate the impending end of the world by eating one layer of cake for each day of being trapped on campus. For more creative types, you can decorate each layer with the circles of Hell as you descend further into cabin fever.
Alaskan dog sled
Though snowshoes and cross-country skis will work for a while, save your legs and invest in an Alaskan dog sled with a few strong Huskies. It’s fast, fun and furry — and you’ll look that much cooler arriving at the 2,000-person Dupont Circle snowball fight on a wintry chariot.
Well-stocked entertainment system
Nothing fends off boredom like a five-day Mario Kart tournament. Pit Democrats against Republicans, East Coast natives against West Coast natives, School of International Service majors against School of Public Affairs majors — you get the idea — for the title of Snowpocalypse King. If holding such an event off campus, don’t hesitate to include alcohol to make each game truly warm, fuzzy and much more memorable.
Remember that Snowpocalypse 2011 is deadly in many ways — do not, under any circumstances, walk under campus buildings that seem to be in danger of collapsing. And please, enjoy battling the Snowpocalypse responsibly.
rkaras@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This will be my final column as an opinion writer for The Eagle. In this space, I’ve argued for drug liberalization, urban renewal projects, and a greater focus on our long-term fiscal health. I discussed the importance of living within one’s means, lamented our dysfunctional political system, and criticized our incoherent foreign policy. 
What I never wrote much about was American University, and for that, I’m sorry. I know that I wasn’t your first, second, or even third destination when you wanted to read a view of the political scene. 
I also apologize to those who were looking for more partisanship and found my writing muddled in the middle. Actually, I take that back. I can’t stand fringe politics, Left or Right. Ideological polarization is tearing this country apart. Regardless, if you ever stumbled across my column, I do hope that you found my thoughts insightful, temperate, and, above all, reasonable. 
However, I want to devote my parting words not to opinion or policy, but to everyone and everything that made American University special during my years here. When I submit my senior thesis next week, I will conclude a journey that began in August 2007. Less than three and a half years later, I can proudly say that I wouldn’t trade any of it for the world. 
So here’s to you, AU:
To the Letts third floor of 2007-2008, where I spent countless nights in the South side lounge and started friendships that will last a lifetime. 
To Letts’ sixth floor sky lounge, where residents know not to enter if the lights are off and the two couches are pushed together. Trust me, stay away.  
To Centennial Hall, where sophomores go to pretend that they are moving up in the world and where I fell in love. 
To the four knuckleheads that I chose as roommates for the last few years, thanks for all the nonsense and the endless laughter. 
To the Terrace Dining Room, where I’m an endangered species: a senior in a sea of freshmen and sophomores. To the most underrated cafeteria on campus, thank you for feeding me.   
To the men’s basketball team, for winning back-to-back Patriot League crowns in 2008 and 2009. Facing the fourth-seeded Villanova Wildcats in the opening round of the 2009 NCAA tournament, the 13-seeded Eagles played unconscious basketball for more than half of the game. AU led by as many as 14 and held a 10-point lead with under 13 minutes to play. It was some of most inspired basketball I’ve ever seen. Somewhere, Garrison Carr is still knocking down 25-foot jumpers. 
To the now-defunct School of International Service pit, I miss your character and sheer depth. In all seriousness, it’s been exciting to watch this campus develop since 2007. The new SIS building and the Kogod School of Business addition are helping to put this university on the map. It will be interesting to see how the administration transforms the Nebraska Parking Lot in the coming decade.   
To Professor Cynthia Bair Van Dam, whose College Writing Seminar on the Politics of Education drove me to be a better writer. 
To Professor Robert Johnson, who showed me the distressing reality of our prison system and altered my stance on the death penalty.  
To Professor Alan Kraut, whose masterful lectures on the Civil War made me want to put down my pen and just listen. His oratory skills were that powerful. 
To three School of Communication professors, Rick Horowitz, Lynne Perri, and Rodger Streitmatter, who deepened my passion for journalism and media studies.
To Professor Leonard Steinhorn, my Honors Capstone advisor, whose tremendous insight and guidance have proven invaluable. 
To everyone at the American University Career Center, from Elaine Salisbury to Bridget O’Connell to Lara Ferraiolo to Chris Hughes to Susan Gordon—you’ve all been integral parts of my professional growth and career exploration process. It’s going to be hard to let go. 
To The Eagle, thank you for giving me a voice and granting me a platform. 
Farewell, AU. I couldn’t have asked for anything more.
Michael Stubel is a senior in the School of Public Affairs and the School of Communication and a moderate Republican columnist. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Scene offers up our favorite albums, films, television shows and gadgets from this past year. If a non-denominational gift-bringer delivers one of these to you this holiday season, thank us. We told them.
Amazon Kindle
Even at this point in the school year where reading has turned from a fun leisure activity to a Sisyphean struggle, I’m still impressed by the Amazon Kindle and the ramifications it has for readers. I’ll admit I was skeptical at first — “There’s nothing more portable than a book already!” I raved to uninterested friends — but after having some time to play around with one, I am willing to hand myself over the to e-reader.

It may not have the functionality of the iPad, but the Kindle is perfect if you want to get something done rather than be endlessly distracted. New improvements this year means that pages turn more smoothly, notes and texts can be shared more easily between reader and computer and reading the newspaper doesn’t require ink-stained hands or a password I can never remember. And when I can fit magazines, biographies, textbooks and novels into one light machine, it makes for easier travel and easier enjoyment. You win this time, technology.
— Michael W. Richardson
As a student, I find the newest Kindle to be of indispensable convenience. It’s sleek, extremely portable and can store all of my files and favorite books. It has an incredible capacity for battery power, and can access all of my favorite online periodicals at once. I invariably receive some menacing looks from a number of self-professed bookworms when I say I use an e-reader. But it’s something I just can’t do without if I’m expected to be away from home for a while and can’t lug all of my books with me at once.
— Stephan Cho
Canon S95 Camera

Not all cameras are created equal and Canon just happens to be a cut above the rest. It seems like every time you turn around, Canon has a new digital camera on the market. The new S95 is a step above the average point-and-shoot camera. It’s sleek and slim, and promises blur-free pictures and a professional-style control ring for maximum manual control. It’s great for those who want to take quality pictures, without having to lug around their chunky DSLR cameras everywhere. Since the holidays are so close, you might want to go ahead and put this at the top of your wish list.
— Yohana Desta
Apple iPhone 4

Apple is known for creating revolutionary hardware, so it should come as no surprise that the company has created perhaps the most innovative and game-changing phone ever with their newest gadget, the iPhone 4. With a sleeker design, longer battery life and better coverage, the iPhone 4 is a cell phone that puts all other smart phones to shame (ahem, Droid).
While the device has flaws, the newest features make up for them: the screen now has a “Retina Display,” with higher resolution and pixel density than the 3G model, and the built in HD camera lets you make video calls and talk face-to-face with a new feature, FaceTime. You can now upload and edit videos on the phone with iMovie, plus read the latest bestseller with iBooks, making the iPhone 4 the smallest e-reader in the world.
— Kelly Holliday
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
