Based on proposed changes to Metro service, night owls and party animals may need to start rethinking their plans for Friday and Saturday night excursions. Among the proposals in Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s 2011 budget is the reduction of weekend night service, with the termination of bus and rail service by 2 a.m., instead of the current 3 a.m. Although this move stands to save Metro $8 million and reduce its budget gap by 4 percent, it creates a whole host of other issues that makes us want to cry “party foul.”
Many AU students rely on the Metro’s late weekend service to get back to their homes inexpensively. With the proposed cuts, students would be forced to either head home earlier or fork over money for expensive cab fares. While the latter option may not pose a problem to those preferring the convenience of a cab, the former has those of us who like to stay out past 1 a.m. annoyed.
If you’re a fan of late night CVS trips, you might also be out of luck. Students heading back to campus late at night would be at a greater disadvantage as AU shuttle service, which traditionally ends at the same time as the Metro closes, would most likely also shut down an hour earlier. Aside from any inconvenience should you desire ice cream after the Eagle’s Nest closes at 2 a.m., the lack of shuttle service presents a danger to those walking back to campus from Tenleytown late at night.
With the departure of Metro-riding students at an earlier hour, bars stand to lose valuable business. Finding alternative modes of transportation could also pose safety hazards to student venturing out. Wandering around downtown late at night looking for a cab isn’t always the safest activity, and those wanting to avoid cabs altogether by driving present the risk of increasing drunken driving incidents. 
Metro has shown lately that they want to work with students to increase use within our demographic, and yet they want to reduce service during key weekend travel time. In general, it seems there are more calls for fare increase rather than reduced service. We would personally rather suck it up and pay a bit more to use the Metro or Metrobus than spend a half an hour flagging down a cab at 2:30 a.m. on a Friday night. 
We realize that as just a student newspaper, what we alone have to say about the reduction in service isn’t going to sway the Metro’s Board of Directors. However, they will listen to the collegiate demographic, should we choose to speak up. If you don’t want to leave the bar an hour earlier than you’re used to now, Metro has several venues for voicing your concerns. Metro’s Riders’ Advisory Council meetings are open to the public, or for those of you unable to make it downtown to Metro headquarters, you can always submit a Customer Comment Form available on their Web site. If, like us, you aren’t a fan of cutting your night short, speak up and ask Metro to keep its doors open until 3 a.m.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Individual rights are too important to let partisanship cloud our judgment. Strangely, this is a hard lesson to teach on our nation’s college campuses.
While the Supreme Court considers whether belief-based student organizations deserve equal rights on campus, two more universities have been facing this very issue. Georgetown University is facing it over a pro-choice group, the University of Arizona over a pro-life group. 
At Arizona, Students for Life’s application for official recognition was initially denied because the group requires that its members share beliefs “that life is sacred and that the intentional killing of human beings through abortion, euthanasia, and murder, and that all forms of eugenics are morally reprehensible.”
Yet, a public university bound by the First Amendment may not deny the basic right to freedom of association, and the university quickly reversed its decision. Universities don’t like to be shown up as hypocritical when it comes to freedom of speech or freedom of association.
The shoe is on the other foot at Georgetown University, which has prevented a pro-choice group from receiving fair treatment on campus. Georgetown is a private university not bound by the First Amendment, but it is bound, morally and contractually, by its own promises. Georgetown entices students by telling them, “A university is many things but central to its being is discourse, discussion, debate: the untrammeled expression of ideas and information.” Georgetown adds that “Catholic and Jesuit tradition, far from limiting or compromising the ideal of free discourse, requires that we live up to that ideal.”
Georgetown is failing to do so. Just ask H*yas for Choice Vice President Erica Slates. She says that her group has about 100 active members with a mailing list of 1,000. They want to be allowed to be an official student organization and get that asterisk out of their name. Georgetown has been saying no.
According to Georgetown’s Vice President for Student Affairs Todd A. Olson, “As a Catholic and Jesuit university, our policies must reflect our identity and our values,” but H*yas for Choice promotes ideas “inconsistent with Roman Catholic moral tradition” and must remain off of the list.
At Georgetown, College Democrats is on the list. Students for Justice in Palestine is, too, and of course, so is Right to Life. Not H*yas for Choice.
What about the great Catholic and Jesuit moral tradition of permitting untrammeled expression, as Georgetown promised?
Besides, the Muslim Students Association and the Jewish Students Association are on the list. Someone should ask Olson how these groups — in both their expression and their conduct — square with the university’s Catholic and Jesuit identity.
According to Georgetown’s Director of Student Programs, Erika L. Cohen-Derr, “Our goals and yours are the same: to provide high quality programs that reflect Georgetown’s diverse community.” Nevertheless, H*yas for Choice is apparently too far beyond the pale to deserve any official university support. So much for reflecting the actual diversity of views at Georgetown.
Wouldn’t a great university want to give students even greater protection to “think the unthinkable, mention the unmentionable,” as Yale University promises, than even the First Amendment offers citizens at large? Why should a university restrict rather than expand the right to free speech?
 H*yas for Choice isn’t even asking for such a noble educational environment as that. It just wants equal treatment under Georgetown’s actual policies.
However you feel about abortion, if you think free speech principles and promises mean anything substantial, you should be protecting the equal rights of pro-life students at Arizona and pro-choice students at Georgetown. How can one group expect equal treatment if it refuses to advocate equal treatment for all, despite fundamental disagreements?
This is a good question for Georgetown and all citizens to take to heart.
Adam Kissel is Director of the Individual Rights Defense Program at the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education in Philadelphia.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Bang! — the shutting screen door was once a familiar sound of America’s summers. Children would venture out from under the watchful eye of their parents and spend the day on the streets, playgrounds and parks that surrounded their homes. There was stickball in the vacant corner lot and hopscotch on the blacktop. 
As the years passed, however, the streets and open spaces grew quiet, their former visitors few and far between. The harmless age of Nickelodeon had given way to an excessive saturation dominated by SpongeBob and PlayStation and online fantasy worlds. Gym class became a corny relic of the past for teenagers obsessing over Advanced Placement tests and college planning. Adults worked longer hours at jobs further from home and have little time for the outside air.
Yet rediscovering the wonders of physical activity will do more to lower long-term medical costs and improve the lives of millions of Americans than would any health care plan.
Along the way to our epidemic of inactivity, exercise has become an ugly word that everyone avoids. It’s the mysterious vegetable your aunt makes for a holiday dinner. No one wants to touch it. Studies show that approximately 60 percent of American adults don’t get the recommended amount of physical activity. More shocking is that more than 25 percent of adults are not active at all. Our nation’s youngsters are overweight at an earlier age and the risk of diabetes is spreading into their ranks. These troubling patterns will only add to the growing number of visits to the doctor’s office and the emergency room.
Inciting an exercise revolution begins by reminding people of the endless benefits of physical activity. Regular exercise builds healthy bones, muscles and joints. It can prevent or improve common illnesses through a stronger immune system. On a separate level, exercise also has mental rewards, including reducing anxiety and boosting self-esteem.
Many hear of the suggested 30-minutes-per-day exercise guideline and snicker. There’s simply not enough time, they insist. Admittedly, the strains associated with school, work and family no doubt restrict one’s options for exercise. But, then again, 30 minutes is the equivalent of most nightly television shows. It’s shorter than the average dinner time or the time it takes to read the newspaper. Go for a walk on your lunch break. Take the stairs to your office, instead of the elevator. On pleasant days, leave early and bike to school or work. A gym membership is not required to be active and stay fit. For whatever reason, working out is now linked to elaborate exercise machines and expensive running gear. Erasing the perception that physical activity entails a grueling routine suited for a marathon runner is essential. There are plenty of free and fun alternatives that have nothing to do with achieving the body type of models on the latest magazine covers.
No matter its flaws, the health care legislation does succeed in at least one regard: its emphasis on reinvesting in public recreation. Grants for walking paths and jungle gyms can’t be counted among the ridiculous earmarks that ooze from Washington these days. A spokeswoman for the late Senator from Massachusetts Edward Kennedy, the father of the health care bill, wisely asserted that, “...these are not public works grants; they are community transformation grants.” State and local governments across the country must do more to expand access to bike paths, green spaces, playgrounds, after-school programs and youth sports leagues. In an era of commercialization and multitasking lifestyles, I urge people to remember the glorious spirit of childhood in the sun — the scenic jog, the catch with your dad, a walk in the park with the family dog — anything that gets you up, out and on your feet.
Michael Stubel is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the School of Communication and a moderate Republican columnist for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s latest proposal to close the agency’s budget gap includes ending weekend service at 2 a.m. instead of 3 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights, according to spokesperson Lisa Farbstein.
Service adjustments like this to Metrorail and Metrobus are expected to account for $8 million — 4 percent — of the budget gap reduction.
Metro’s Interim General Manager Richard Sarles also proposed fare and parking fee increases, bus and rail service adjustments, capital fund reallocations, departmental reductions, layoffs and increased contributions from local jurisdictions to close the $189 million budget gap for fiscal year 2011, according to a statement from Metro.
Fare adjustments account for $87.9 million of the budget. Changes to parking, bicycle locker and other fees are expected to bring in $13.8 million more in revenue, according to the statement.
The Board of Directors is scheduled to meet Thursday, but there is no way to predict if they will pass these changes, Farbstein said.
In January, the Board voted to increase Metro fares by 10 cents through June 30 in order to generate $9.6 million to help close the agency’s $40 million budget gap.
Other proposed fare changes include raising peak-hour rail fares from $1.65 to $1.90. A 10-cent surcharge would be added to fares during peak morning and evening periods, according to the press release.
These changes will not affect the proposed AU student discount because it would be subsidized through a private entity and not Metro’s budget, Student Government President Andy MacCracken said in an e-mail.
Alef Worku, the manager of transportation and maintenance, said he can’t conclusively say how this will affect the AU shuttle service, which usually stops running with the Metro. Worku said he believes it will end with the Metro schedule, unless there is a great need for shuttle service during that extra hour.
In the past, changes to Metro service hours have been followed by changes to shuttle services as well, Worku said. 
One student said the Metro service changes to weekend hours will be an inconvenience to her weekend plans.
Nikia Wilkins, a junior in the Kogod School of Business, said this would cause her to come back earlier because of the cost of a cab.
However, sophomore in the School of Public Affairs Graham Brookie said he normally takes a cab home at that hour anyway because it is easier.
Although the change is inconvenient, it won’t make a huge impact on him, he said.
You can reach this staff writer at sdazio@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For the first time in 24 years, Algeria will play for the FIFA World Cup title in June. Its road in getting there, however, shall remain one of the most uproarious yet sobering international affairs tales to date.
In order to qualify, Algeria needed to contend last year with its longtime rival and nearby neighbor, Egypt. To put it simply, when these two countries meet on the football (soccer) field, they make Ohio State and Michigan look tame. The first qualifying match was set in the middle of November in Cairo, and Egypt shut out Algeria 2-0. This left both teams tied for first place in FIFA’s C Group, demanding another qualifying match be played — in a neutral country.
Well, before that could happen, the festivities began. Sure, you might expect violence resulting and a few people getting injured, throngs in the streets, some rioting, maybe even looting. Even in 21st century that’s what we civilized human beings seem to enjoy without fail. And all that happened, right on schedule. 
But then in Algiers, the capital city of Algeria, the situation reached a new level of incivility. Egyptian-owned businesses were slapped with a higher tax rate, and some were torched. This was in response to allegations of mistreatment of Algerians in Cairo. Indeed, Algerian fans recounted how one fanatic died from injuries suffered at the hands of Egyptian hooligans; another had his spine broken, and the team itself was stoned by Egyptian fans while traveling in Cairo. 
Even worse, the Egyptian government played two-face, issuing pleas for calm and restraint before and after the matches, but then communicating with its (football, not political) rival with harsh words. Cairo summoned its ambassador in Algiers after the initial wave of violence for a consultation, then slapped Algiers with litigation seeking compensation for the private businesses vandalized there. The ambassador wouldn’t return for months — fickle politics at its worst.
There was some football yet to be played, alas. Neutral Sudan was chosen for the deciding match a few days later. 15,000 policemen were dispatched, schools and businesses closed early.
Algerians struck first, stoning Egypt’s team bus in retaliation for Cairo. After Algeria won, 1-0, and secured itself a spot in the 2010 World Cup, “someone” destroyed the buses reserved to transport Egypt’s fans to Omdurman Airport. Egyptian news media then widely and quickly circulated a video of several hundred riotous Algerian fans brandishing knives. This had indeed occurred, but several years earlier, and during an intra-Algerian match.
So, what is the moral of the story? Our shortsightedness of whatever greater goal we have ascribed for ourselves cannot come at the expense of our humanity. You and I are evolved humans, but ask yourself, “When was the last time I worked contrary to my nature and my goals? Did I hurt anyone in the process?”
It is disgusting that humans — especially our leaders — can’t even be civil when it comes to a game. It is more disappointing if we find this same behavior in ourselves.
Parvez Khan is a graduate student in the School of Public Affairs and the religion and international affairs columnist for The Eagle.  You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Clarification and Correction Appended
Josh Levitt, a newcomer to the Student Government, was appointed director of the Kennedy Political Union in a vote of 14-5-3 during Sunday’s Senate meeting.
The process of appointing Levitt caused an extended debate in the Senate. Vice President Maia Tagami said in an interview that some controversy arose after an application from the current deputy director of KPU, Greg Martin, was turned in to Student Activities six days after the application deadline.
The applications for director of KPU were accepted until April 8 at 5 p.m. Tagami received Martin’s application at 9 p.m. on April 13 after she and her fellow executives had already conducted interviews with the two on-time applicants.
“I went to Student Activities to see the status of the application [and] if it could be accepted or not,” Tagami said. “Later that week Andrew Toczydlowski [program adviser of Student Activities] said because the applicant didn’t give any sort of indication [that] his application would be late, I was only to consider the two applicants that had turned it in on time.”
The panel of SG executives decided to recommend Levitt for appointment to the position. Levitt then went before the Committee of Rules and Privileges, where he was approved, and was then presented for consideration to the entire Senate.
Levitt was deemed qualified for the position largely due to his experience as director of speakers for the College Democrats. The club notably brought Ted Sorensen, speechwriter for John F. Kennedy, and Senator Arlen Specter, D-Pa., to campus this year.
Current KPU Director Will Hubbard expressed concern for Levitt’s lack of training and experience with KPU directly, such as volunteering for events during the year.
“Are you willing to put thousands of dollars of funds into the hands of someone who has had no training in KPU?” Hubbard asked the Senate.
However, Tagami said she thought Levitt’s past experience made him “unquestionably qualified.”
“He has a certain sense of duty that he carries for any of his responsibilities and [he has] undoubtedly showed us he was going to be dedicated to the office of KPU,” Tagami said.
Other senators vouched for Levitt’s motivation, including Class of 2012 Senator Seth Rosenstein.
“He is one of the finest gentlemen I’ve had the privilege to know,” Rosenstein said. “He’s an extremely hard worker, and when he sets his mind to something, he will get it done. While some [of the] concerns might be valid, I don’t think they are hurdles that can’t be overcome.”
Levitt plans to embrace quality over quantity in choosing speakers for next year by bringing in the people AU students want to see.
“I’d love to go big, in general,” Levitt said. “I’d like to do events that would make the campus community proud.”
Levitt also plans to reach out to the campus community to determine exactly whom students want to see on campus. 
Levitt said AU can look forward to some big KPU events next year that will be relevant and exciting.
“I offer the idea that this campus community deserves to hear the best speakers possible that will not only give them a universal perspective but bring a large amount of energy to the campus,” Levitt said.
You can reach this staff writer at amooney@theeagleonline.com.
Clarification: Student Activities supports the decision of the SG to not accept late applications, however they did not instruct the SG to deny or allow the applications. That decision was made solely by members of the SG.
Correction: Deputy Director of KPU Greg Martin turned his application into Student Activities April 13th, not April 15th as originally reported. Vice President Maia Tagami received the application the following day.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU track team returned to Philadelphia and ran in the Penn Relays, the oldest and largest track competition in the United States. And once again the team returned to campus with pride after a successful outing.
In the 116th running of the relays, AU won its section and placed ninth overall in the college men’s distance medley relay with a time of 9:54.93. The time was good enough for ninth place overall, a mere .02 showing — seconds behind eighth place Louisiana State University. Junior Colin Eustis also competed at the meet, finishing 17th in the 5000 meter championship.
The team of Jeff Brannigan, Matt Farrow, Connor Sullivan and Craig Brown beat out the University of Maryland, as well as Patriot League rivals Bucknell University and the U.S. Military Academy, en route to their ninth place finish. Brannigan got the Eagles off to a quick start and finished the 1200 meter leg in just over three minutes before passing the baton to Farrow. The freshman grabbed the baton in fourth place and managed to gain ground on the field with a 48.3 lap. When it was time to hand off for the 800 meter leg, AU was right in the mix.
Junior Sullivan, a New York native, received Farrow’s exchange and pushed the Eagles to the front of the pack with a stellar time of 1:53:35. This left it up to Brown to protect their B section lead in the final mile. The sophomore strategically watched a few competitors pass him until the final lap, when he surged ahead and captured the victory. The team finished nearly three seconds ahead of the second place B section team and only two seconds behind the hometown team from the University of Pennsylvania.
Eustis also had a great showing in the college men’s 5000 meter championship. After recording the ninth-fastest time in AU history two weeks ago, the junior from Delhi, New York finished with a time of 14:22.65. Despite finishing in the middle of the field, Eustis was only .11 away from his personal best that he set earlier in the season.
With the Penn Relays in the books, the track and field program will now turn its attention to the Patriot League Outdoor Track and Field Championships. The meet will take place on the final weekend in April at Bucknell’s Christy Mathewson-Memorial Stadium.
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students and local residents learned at a panel discussion Wednesday evening about the history of the AU Experimental Station and where the Army Corps of Engineers’ dig for World War I-era munitions is headed in the future.
The discussion, titled “The Toxins beneath American University,” aimed to inform the AU community and Spring Valley residents about the future of remediation efforts and potential health issues, according to Michael Ginsberg, a senior in the School of International Service who is doing his capstone project on the issue and organized the panel.
Some topics addressed were arsenic-contaminated soil at and around AU, a 2007 public health study conducted by the Bloomberg School of Health at the Johns Hopkins University and potential health effects of the dig for AU students.
Panelists included representatives from the Spring Valley community, area Advisory Neighborhood Commissioners, Johns Hopkins, the AU Chemistry Department and the Environmental Protection Agency.
No one from the Army Corps or the AU administration was present at the meeting, and the future of the dig was not addressed, except to say that the Army Corps’ operations are scheduled to begin winding down in the next two years because no more funding is set to be allocated to the project after fiscal year 2012.
David Taylor, President Neil Kerwin’s chief of staff, said he chose not to attend because his schedule did not leave that evening available for him, and that his absence was not representative of the administration’s stance on the issue.
Taylor also noted that the event was a project by one student, not a forum requested by student leadership or a campus organization.
“Aside from Michael’s own research project, there did not seem to be an outcry for this,” Taylor said in an e-mail. “The Board of Trustees Chairman and President Kerwin held a campus forum/open microphone event on April 12, and not one question arose about Army Corps activity.”
You can reach this staff writer at ccottrell@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Undergraduate tuition, housing and meal plan costs for the school year starting in the fall of 2010 will be higher than they were this year, according to AU’s 2010-2011 budget report.
Tuition costs for a full-time undergraduate student are $17,228 for the 2009-2010 academic year, but that price will increase by five percent to $18,090 for the 2010-2011 academic year. The price of on-campus housing will increase by 4.5 percent.
The price of tuition usually changes every year to reflect AU’s growing budget costs and upward nationwide trends in tuition levels. Most private universities in the United States raised their undergraduate tuition for the 2009-2010 school year by 3 to 6 percent, according to a College Board report.
Tuition is calculated every two years as part of AU’s budget and is approved by the Board of Trustees, according to Executive Director of Budget and Payroll Nana An.
The calculation takes many factors into consideration, including the Private University Index reported by College Board, which measures inflation and its effect on college tuition rates across the nation. AU also considers student needs, financial aid and institutional priorities, she said.
When determining the cost of tuition, AU increases rates “very modestly,” An said. AU’s tuition and mandatory fees are still “well below the mid-point of our market competitors,” despite the recent rise in price, she said.
“It’s not just a cost increase from the student perspective. By the time you graduate, your degree will be worth more than when you enrolled,” An said.
The 5 percent hike for undergraduates amounts to about $1,700 per year in additional tuition costs, according to AU’s 2010-2011 Budget Report.
Tuition rates for summer classes have increased as well, from $973 last year to $1,022 per credit hour this year for an undergraduate student, according to the budget report. The price of online summer courses has not recently changed and will still be $800 next year.
Tuition for graduate students pursuing an MBA will only increase by 3 percent.
Increasing Costs of Room and Board
Housing and meal plan rates will also increase next year. On-campus housing for all students — singles, doubles and triples on the main campus, including Nebraska and Centennial Hall — will cost 4.5 percent more, moving the price of a double to $4,315 per semester, according to AU’s 2010-2011 Budget Report. A double occupancy room on main campus currently costs about $4,129 per semester.
Meal plans will increase in price by 4 percent. For a student currently on the 150 Block Plan, which costs $2,150 per semester, the same plan will cost about $90 more.
“The cost of maintaining residence hall facilities increases annually due to inflation,” said Executive Director of Housing and Dining Chris Moody.
Costs for housing and meal plans are determined similarly to tuition and are set every two years, according to Moody.
For the 2008-2009 academic year, AU raised residence hall room rates by a greater percentage than the George Washington University and Georgetown University, but AU still consistently has lower housing costs than the two local universities.
How tuition money is used
Tuition, room and board make up 95 percent of American University’s revenue. Out of AU’s total revenue, which is about $450 million, almost 50 percent pays for salaries and compensation for faculty and staff. The rest goes to financial aid, new technology and services on campus, according to AU’s Budget Report.
GWU spends 53 percent of its budget on salaries, according to their 2010 Operating and Capital Budget. Georgetown University, which depends on gifts and endowments for half its revenue, also spends about 50 percent of its budget on salaries, as listed in its 2009-2012 Financial Plan.
The rest of AU’s revenue comes from investments, gifts and public radio station WAMU’s earnings. Unlike most universities, AU does not depend on gifts to survive financially.
Although tuition may increase yearly at universities across the nation, students rarely pay the full sticker price.
A recent study from the National Association of College and University Business Officers found that, on average, undergraduate students are paying 58 percent of full tuition costs at private universities nationwide.
At AU, the average financial aid package accounts for 29 percent of the full costs, according to An. Although that package varies from student to student, the average AU undergraduate pays 71 percent of the full cost of tuition, she said.
You can reach this staff writer at scarignan@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
