In Saturday night’s loss the Nationals snapped a dubious streak of allowing a run to the opposition in the first inning. However they started a new streak on Sunday afternoon as Livan Hernandez gave up two runs in the first and put the offense in a hole before they even had a chance to hit.
“It’s never good, you obviously want to be able to jump out to an early lead,” Ryan Zimmerman said. “But sometimes you’ve got to battle from behind.” 
Back to back walks really hurt Hernandez in the first as that allowed Travis Ishikawa to step up to the plate with the bases loaded. He knocked a two run single right field to give the Giants the lead. They would not relinquish it the rest of the way.
Hernandez would give up an additional three runs in the third inning to put the Nats even farther behind. This was just what young lefty Madison Bumgarner needed as he went six innings, giving up just an earned run.
Hernandez’s analysis of his start was fairly to the point in terms of where things went wrong.
“It was bad, I did not pitch good,” he said. “Two bad innings.”
In the first half of the game, the Nationals were able to get runners on base but double play balls killed them early going. In the first and second innings San Francisco turned two to take the wind out of Washington’s sails.
A late inning rally came up short as the bases were loaded for Ivan Rodriguez and Josh Willingham in the seventh but neither was able to come through for the big hit.
“They made the necessary pitches, they rallied on us early twice, took a nice lead on us,” Manager Jim Riggleman said. “Our guys got after it…we just came up short each time.”
The Nationals did pick up two runs in the seventh but the bullpen gave one back up right away. 
In the ninth inning, Matt Capps came to the mound in a non-save situation to get a bit of work in before he makes his first ever appearance at the All-Star Game in Anaheim. Capps shut down the Giants but it meant little as the Nationals were down four runs.
A loss was probably not how Washington wanted to finish the first half of the season. But with the offense kept off balance by a good pitcher and their starting pitcher knocked around early, it should not come as much of a surprise.
“It should leave a sour taste, when you lose it should be a sour taste” Riggleman said. “The upside is that we played another clean game, had a lot of good at bats...there were a lot of subtle things that say we played good baseball.”
You can reach this staff writer at slindauer@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Despite heading into the final third of the game with the lead in Saturday night’s game, the Nationals’ bullpen allowed the Giants to come back and eventually get on top to win 10-5
Tyler Clippard was charged with four runs in the seventh which represented the game tying and go-ahead runs. Clippard only managed to get one out in the seventh on a strikeout to Pat Burrell. A home run by Aaron Rowand and an RBI single from Buster Posey pegged the loss squarely on the shoulders of Clippard.
“Tyler was just struggling,” Manager Jim Riggleman said. “I don’t know what else to say.” 
After Clippard’s departure from the game, a two RBI double from Juan Uribe all but sealed the deal for San Francisco. Clippard had an uncharacteristic ugly pitching line upon his exit from the game. He just pitched a third of an inning and was charged with four earned runs.
Pitching Coach Steve McCatty pointed out after the game some of the differences in Tyler Clippard from earlier this year and now since he has been struggling of late.
“The changeup’s not consistently down. He’s just not making pitches,” he said. “He might be in a little bit of a rut right now. It looks to me he may be over-throwing a little bit.”
The Nationals closed out the seventh inning with “Lets Go Giants!” chants smattered throughout the crowd.
A contested ninth inning home run from Buster Posey was just icing on the cake as the Giants had finished their offensive barrage at ten runs for the game. The home run was reviewed by the umpires after it appeared that a fan had reached over and grabbed the ball. 
The call stood, but in the end it hardly mattered since the Giants’ bullpen finished off its five inning scoreless streak.
 The Nationals had finished their scoring when they took a 5-3 lead in the fourth inning. After that the San Francisco bullpen shut them down the rest of the way.
The Nationals had a great start to the game, particularly the first inning. In the top of the inning, starter Craig Stammen shut out the Giants. This is only impressive because it was the first time in 10 games that they had not allowed a run to the opposition in the first.
In the bottom half, they got off to a quick start putting two runs on the board-a lead that Stammen quickly relinquished the next inning. Perhaps it was a sign of things to come for Washington as they jumped out to a two run lead in the fourth only for that to disappear too.
“The second inning killed me,” Stammen said. “It kind of killed the game a little bit. That resulted in me getting out of the game sooner and the bullpen has to pitch more innings and getting worn out.”
The Giants had the opposite problem as their starter, Jonathan Sanchez, was knocked out of the game early on. The San Francisco bullpen stepped up and went five and a third innings without giving up an earned run. 
You can reach this staff writer at slindauer@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
