Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU will be making changes to the shuttle routes next Monday, including an increased number of shuttle runs between the Tenleytown-AU Metro stop and main campus on weekends and an almost complete elimination of the Super Loop. 
AU shuttle buses will run directly between main campus and the Metro after 8 p.m. on weeknights and weekends, according to Mark Feist, assistant director of Facilities Management. The Super Loop will now only run after 6:30 p.m. on holidays and when school is not in session.
Only one bus will run directly to and from the Washington College of Law and the Metro after 10:30 p.m. on night and weekends. Two buses will run directly from the Washington College of Law to main campus until 10:30 p.m. during the week, according to Feist.
These changes to the AU shuttle system were implemented in response to student feedback about the shuttle system and the Super Loop in particular, he said.
“We heard from students that the Super Loop was an inconvenience late in the evening when they were trying to get to main campus — the shuttle bus would drop them off in front of Katzen,” Feist said. “The Super Loop is really most useful when ridership is at its lowest.”
Student Government President Andy MacCracken held town hall-style meetings last October to address student concerns about the shuttle changes implemented at the beginning of last semester.
MacCracken told The Eagle he is pleased with the new AU shuttle route changes, but he would have liked to have seen these changes sooner.
“I wish this would have been able to happen sooner — and that was the plan — but obviously there were complications with the snowstorm that Facilities Management had to deal with,” MacCracken said. “But [these changes] address the concerns that we brought up during the town hall meetings last October. Better late than never.”
There are many more projects being developed to make improvements to the shuttle system. In the near future the AU shuttles will be outfitted with a GPS system to help students locate shuttle buses, Feist said.
Students will be able to log on to a Web site to see where AU shuttles are and see estimates of what times shuttles will be arriving at each stop. 
The GPS project is still in its beginning stages, and Facilities Management has not yet determined when the system would be in place, Feist said.
Facilities Management will also be working to make more visible signs to designate every shuttle stop along the shuttle routes, MacCracken said. These signs would not only benefit the AU community but also prospective AU students, he said.
“I have talked to prospective students and parents, and they have had difficulty with getting off the Metro and knowing where the shuttle stop is,” MacCracken said. “They know it’s supposed to be there but unless the shuttle is sitting there with the AU logo on it, they’re not going to know that it picks up right there because there’s no sign there.”
Facilities Management will be working with the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority and the D.C. city government in the coming months to address the signage issues and implement new changes, MacCracken said. 
You can reach this staff writer at jryan@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Razor-thin voting majorities, rejected referenda and student petitions: the debate over the adoption of funding measures for AU’s Clean Energy Revolving Fund has again dominated the activities of Student Government. Unfortunately, our student representatives initially missed a valuable opportunity to clarify student views on this issue that has caused such controversy. Nevertheless, the door for student input remains tentatively open, thanks to last-minute efforts of a particular SG Senator.
Last Sunday, the Undergraduate Senate failed to assemble the two-thirds majority needed to place a referendum on the next election ballot. This would have asked students to answer the following question: “Do you support increasing annual student fees by $10.00 to fund the Clean Energy Revolving Fund?” Despite its rejection in a 10-9 vote, several senators remained committed to obtaining the opinion of the students they represent. 
Within days, Senator Brett Atanasio produced a petition aimed at securing the referendum’s place on the ballot. In less than four days, he managed to collect the needed 700 signatures ­— totaling 761 at press time. His efforts and dedication should be commended. If the funding of CERF was to be solved in a truly undisputed manner, this student referendum needed to be on the upcoming SG ballot.
At the most basic level, the referendum embodies the SG’s intended purpose as an organization: to identify student input and act upon it. The question at hand is whether activity fees from all AU students should be used to jumpstart CERF, or if donations to the fund would be voluntary only. If any policy requires student input before it is made, it is a policy that affects our own money.
Moreover, there is a serious need for student input in regards to CERF. Many proponents of a universal raise in student activities point to a 2006 referendum in which 72 percent of AU students said they would be in favor of raising student fees $10 to support green energy initiatives. Certainly, these results are impressive. Yet every student polled in this 2006 referendum has since graduated or moved on from AU. Thus far, senators on both sides of the issue have purported their views based on assumptions and estimates of AU’s collective opinion on CERF. An updated and accurate representation of student views is needed, hence the new referendum.
At the same time, The Eagle understands the motives of the senators who voted down the referendum. These dissenting votes were inspired by an aversion to the university-wide increase in the student activities fee. Echoing the sentiments of these senators, The Eagle has previously editorialized that student should not be compelled to donate to CERF through a further increase in fees.
This paper’s views aside, the importance of student input must be recognized in this issue. With more than enough signatures collected, one must assume that Atanasio’s efforts will give the referendum a place on the ballot. Regardless of its outcome, this is the only way the SG can handle CERF’s funding in a completely legitimate manner. If student representatives want to truly live up to their namesake, the results of the referendum must guide SG’s CERF policy.
So contact a senator, research the details of CERF and make an informed decision on the referendum. The process is there for us, so let’s use it.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Thanks to a legendary performance by AU’s Stephen Lumpkins, the Eagles sunk the Navy Midshipmen and advanced to the Patriot League semifinals with a score of 62-60.
Lumpkins finished with a career-high 29 points and tied his career high of 15 rebounds en route to his eighth double-double of the season. Junior Nick Hendra also came up huge with 12 points and seven boards. In his last game with Navy, Chris Harris led the Midshipmen with 20 points in 39 minutes. The Eagles improved to 9-0 in the Patriot League Quarterfinals with the win.  
“I told the guys that winning ugly is still winning,” Head Coach Jeff Jones said. “Obviously we kind of limped down the stretch, but we were able to make enough free throws and get enough stops [to win].” 
The atmosphere inside Bender Arena was as electric as ever, but play on the court was sloppy early on. Both teams shot less than 30 percent from the field in the first 10 minutes, and only 15 total points were scored in that span. Given the poor shooting, AU’s six offensive rebounds in the first half were pivotal.
“The big key to our success tonight was that we played outstanding defense,” Jones said. “Then we finished those defensive possessions by owning the defensive boards.”
Both teams attacked the rim in the first half, as Danny Munoz had a pair of athletic layups, and Navy junior O.J. Avworo had a nice reverse layup of his own. The momentum shifting play in the first half came with 12:37 remaining, as Lumpkins and Vlad Moldoveanu tipped the ball at least three times in a row before Lumpkins finally finished. The sophomore from California later made a beautiful touch pass to senior Matthew Wilson, who laid it in to give AU a 13-7 lead.
Junior Steve Luptak took a charge on Harris with 6:14 remaining in the half, but Navy returned the favor by immediately drawing a charge on Moldoveanu. Blocks and jump balls were prevalent and those who came to see tournament basketball were not disappointed by the energy in the first half. A late Harris three put a small dent in the AU lead, but the Eagles still went to the locker room up 26-21.
The second half started off with a bang—or, a Lumpkins dunk to be more precise. Navy’s Romeo Garcia and Avworo kept it close with a pair of layups before Hendra took the ball coast to coast and finished with an acrobatic lay in. Harris and sophomore Jordan Sugars each drained a three pointer and things began to heat up. 
“It was a great game, [Navy] is a very good team,” Moldoveanu said. “They score a lot of points and their role players are very good also, so it was a tough game for us.”
The story of the game continued to be Lumpkins, who scored 20 points and eight rebounds in the second half alone. Lumpkins had multiple emphatic dunks in the period and a strong put back off his own miss which gave the Eagles a 44-40 lead. AU regained the momentum and Bender Arena went into a frenzy.
Chants of “Steve-en Lump-kins” echoed throughout the arena as another tip in gave the sophomore a new career-high. Four free throws with five minutes remaining extended the AU lead to double-digits, and a trip to the semifinals seemed all but secure. 
Slowly but surely, the Midshipmen pulled themselves back into the game. AU had a 59-51 lead with 1:11 left in the game, but a combination of missed free throws and Navy threes cut the lead to one with nine seconds left. Danny Munoz hit one free throw to double the AU lead and Garcia missed  a half-court shot.
“It was pretty nerve-wracking,” Lumpkins said after the game. “But we defended well even though we were missing free throws. A win is a win, and at this time of year you just have to do anything you can to win and move on.” 
The Eagles held Navy to 37 percent shooting on the night and held the rebounding advantage 41-28. They also tripled Navy’s second chance points and scored twice as many points in the paint. However, Moldoveanu only made two layups in the game and finished with eight points.
Lehigh, Holy Cross and Lafayette also won Wednesday night to qualify for the semi-finals. Next up for American is a tough road game at top-seeded Lehigh Sunday night. 
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This week’s column was difficult to write. Not because of the content, of course - but because of what I had to leave out. I could have written this column about the Women’s Initiative’s new venture, the “Vagina Men” campaign (can I start a “Penis Women” counter-campaign?). But alas, I’ve spilled too much ink whining about feminist follies; this column, instead, will address something of actual consequence.
Twice a week, campus ROTC recruits have to wake up early in the morning to engage in physical training, which will prepare them for their eventual deployment. This task would normally be performed on campus, but our esteemed student government has exiled them to Georgetown. The explanation is thus: AU’s official code prohibits funding to any discriminatory organization. And with the military’s official “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy still in place, alas, what are we to do but ban the presence of the U.S. military?
Leaving aside the fact that the U.S. military has done more to make the world safe for gay people than any do-gooder college activist, let me state emphatically that yes, the military’s policy is asinine. Every civilized country on Earth allows for openly gay soldiers, and it’s a shame that our own military has been slow on the uptake. But it makes little sense to punish our perfectly honorable campus recruits for a policy they have nothing to do with. The only people punished by the student government’s policy are our recruits—most of whom oppose “don’t ask, don’t tell,” anyway.
Really, it is a perfect testament to the fact that the student government is filled with kids playing politician that they think that they’re “sending a message to Washington” this way. Washington’s not listening. Those of you in the Student Government ought to figure out what everyone else on campus knows: you’re not important. Leave our recruits alone and get back to doing what you’re supposed to be doing. Some of you, with your inflated egos, might actually get to be members of Congress one day. Right now, you’re just college kids in a student government. Stop trying to send the Defense Department a statement.
Fascinatingly enough, there actually is something that the SG could do about anti-gay campus culture that falls within their proper purview. If it really wants to cut off funding to campus organizations that promote anti-gay policies, I’ve found one that objectively violates this policy: Students for Justice In Palestine.
This week has been “Israel Apartheid Week” on campuses across the country. Groups such as AU’s own Students for Justice In Palestine have taken part in smear campaigns against the—well, I guess I’m supposed to call it the “Zionist entity” this week—instead standing up for a government that is about as friendly to gays as your humble columnist is to feminists. But I have yet to hear a senator propose cutting off funding to Students for Justice In Palestine, despite the fact that there is only one country in the Middle East where gay men can serve openly: Israel. Try holding a gay pride parade in “Palestine” and see if you can get two feet before your life is endangered. There is simply no comparison between the policies of the two governments toward gays.
I’m not saying that the U.S. military’s policy is fair. I’m just saying that if the student government is going to banish the army from campus, we ought to banish Students for Justice In Palestine, too.
Also Women’s Initiative.
Alex Knepper is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and a classical liberal columnist for The Eagle.  You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction Appended
The Undergraduate Senate failed to put a referendum on the ballot that would have asked students if they supported increasing student activity fees to support the Clean Energy Revolving Fund. 
The proposed referendum would appear on the spring 2010 ballot and would ask: “Do you support increasing student fees by $10.00 for one academic year to the Clean Energy Revolving Fund?”
CERF is a program created by the SG in an effort to make AU more carbon-neutral. Under the program, donations would be made to purchase renewable energy products such as solar panels or wind turbines. The energy costs saved by the renewable energy would be put back into CERF to support further projects, The Eagle previously reported. 
Click for full graphic.
The referendum would help the SG gain a better idea of the campus-wide willingness to raise student activity fees in support of clean energy. However, if the referendum received over 50 percent of the vote, it would not guarantee that fees would be raised.
Brett Atanasio, senator for the class of 2013, wrote and proposed the bill with the purpose to “re-gauge the students’ feelings on funding for green energy and especially CERF,” he said. “We should find out how students felt about it. I didn’t think it was appropriate to make any decisions like that without asking them personally.” 
In the wake of the failed referendum, Antanasio and supporters are trying to petition the referendum onto the ballot. 
There are two ways to get a referendum onto a ballot: two-thirds of the Senate can vote for it to be placed, or 10 percent of the undergraduate population can petition for the referendum.
Antanasio’s petition garnered  761 signatures. The petition must be submitted to Student Activities for the names to be checked for legitimacy.
Forrest Young, senator of the class of 2012, opposes the referendum.
“[The] referendum [is] about  raising a $10 fee on top of the student activity fees that students currently pay,” he said. “Activity fees are for programming and for clubs and organizations. It’s not to support free initiatives.”
Some senators hope CERF will become more independent of the SG in the future. 
“We’ve done enough,” Young said. “We’ve said that we support CERF. We’ve done as much as we can for them. I’m wondering when is it their turn to do what they told us they would do.”
SG President Andy MacCracken supports putting the question on the ballot.
“There are issues that are too big for the Undergraduate Senate to decide,” he said. “I would like to see what the students say before anyone potentially raises their student activity fees.”
Steve Dalton, senator of the class of 2010, also opposes the referendum.
“People should be able to donate to CERF if they want to,” he said. “Should all students be forced to contribute to CERF? I say no. I say it should be voluntary. “
The CERF legislation says all funds are to be voluntary donations. However, CERF needs to raise at least 100,00 dollars to become self-sufficient, according to MacCracken. 
CERF, though created by the SG, is a separate entity from the organization.  
Young believes it should be treated and funded separately from SG.
“Clubs are under-funded right now,” he said. “So, if we start raising fees for other organizations that aren’t SG-related, I think all the clubs that are SG-related are going to be like, ‘Hey, you’ll raise a 10 dollar fee for a club that isn’t SG-related but you won’t raise fees for us?’”
The largest obstacle facing the CERF debate and the referendum is the administration itself, Atanasio said. Both Atanasio and Young cited a similar referendum in 2006 that found 71 percent of AU’s student body supported increased fees to support green energy. No policies or additional fees were ever adopted from the referendum. 
Young said that despite the debate, the administration is free to act however it sees fit.
“When it comes right down to it, [the SG advocates] for policy,” he said. “For the policy to change, it has to be an administration decision to do this.”
Atanasio agreed on this subject. 
“Only time can tell what is going to happen with CERF,” he said. “Quite honestly the SG can yell and scream until we’re blue in the face about raising student fees. Even if 100 percent of the student body said they wanted activity fees raised for CERF ... the administration can still say no. There are no guarantees. Only time will tell.”
You can reach this writer at news@theeagleonline.com.
Correction: In this article, The Eagle incorrectly stated that Steve Dalton is a senator from the class of 2012. In fact, Dalton represents the class of 2010. This version has been corrected.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
March has arrived, and now it’s time for basketball teams across the country to lay it all on the line in the hopes of competing for national fame. For the AU women’s basketball team, the NCAA tournament is just three games away. This year’s team has more potential than ever before to clinch AU’s first women’s Patriot League Championship after finishing 13-1 in conference play, the best in school history.
Let’s take a look at a few of the many reasons the Eagles could soar through the Patriot League tournament and why AU should pay attention.
10: The Eagles earned an A+ in chemistry this season
Both on and off the court, the Eagles have fun together. Although this might appear to be a trivial strength compared to statistical achievements, Assistant Coach Latonya Watson sees a change in team dynamics between last season and this one. She said it has helped generate wins this season.
The team’s bond will play a large factor in tournament games at the College of Holy Cross, because there will be a lack of red, white and blue in the stands. Watson said the team will persevere because of its unity, and the fact that they are each others’ biggest supporters.
9: Everything gets better with age
The thriving AU women’s basketball program effectively hides the fact that all five coaching staff members have only been together for two seasons.
Watson said the coaching staff is trying to build a strong foundation for the program and that it is a major reason for their success this year.
The benefits of growing together last season have been enormous. One notable achievements is Head Coach Matt Corkery earning the title of Patriot League Coach of the Year after leading his team to a 13-1 conference record, tied for best in the league. 
Along side their coaches, Watson said the players learned and matured because of last year’s fresh start.
“We are more veteran than we are young because our juniors and sophomores got a lot of playing experience last year,” Watson said. “They understand the system a lot more this year.”
One can only envision the future strength of the team after seeing the results of two seasons together.
8: The best offense is a good defense
Despite the phrase being cliché, Corkery cannot stress enough that defense wins games. Luckily, his team has the one of the best defenses in the conference. 
This season the Eagles led the Patriot League in blocked shots per game and ranked second in defensive rebounds per game, steals and a host of other statistics.
Corkery said defensive strength should never be overlooked and will play a dominant role in the tournament.
“We take pride in our defense,” Corkery said. “Late in the year if you can defend and if you can rebound I think you can win games.” 
7: Stepping up to the line
One thing often overlooked is the fact that free throws decide ball games.
Hanging on to win close games is not a problem for AU. The women are ranked 24th in the nation and lead the conference in free throw percentage with 75.1 percent.
When AU players get to the line, Corkery said they are confident and comfortable.
Stand out free throw shooters include junior Liz Leer, with a career 82.5 percent and Kirk with 79.4 percent.
6: Nobody has swagger like AU
A winning conference record transformed the women’s team in one way that Corkery says cannot be taught: it has given his players confidence.
“I think we have a confident team, and when we step on the floor, we expect to do well,” Corkery said. “I don’t think you can place too high of value on that.”
Kirk believes the team’s confidence should not be confused with arrogance. Rather, the women are prepared for their opponents.
“We are not overconfident,” Kirk said. “We are just ready to play.”
5: The deeper down the bench you go, the better it gets
The Eagles unanimously agree that their depth sets them apart from competition. 
“I think we have a number of people that can step up and be that third option,” Corkery said. “If we can get three players in double figures on any night, then I think we are tough to guard.”
Watson said players who come off the bench contribute at both ends of the court.
As starters pick up fouls in heated tournament contests, the team is confident that its bench will deliver its share of support. 
4: Return of the masters
Showing their teammates the ropes this season are seniors Ohema Nyanin and Nicole Ryan. The two athletes faced unique situations this season, with Nyanin returning from gap year and Ryan sitting out most of the season because of a torn Achilles tendon during non-conference play.  
However, Corkery is quick to point to the leadership of the seniors both on and off the court.
Corkery said Nyanin acts as “kind of a mother goose for the team.” Despite taking a year off, Corkery said she returned strong.
Ryan has also exceeded expectations. Corkery and Watson have been impressed by her wisdom as a leader and her ability to relay information to teammates.
Although they play different roles on the team, Nyanin and Ryan’s contributions have not gone unnoticed on the scoreboard and in the hearts of their teammates. With one last shot at the Patriot League title, it is unlikely these two seniors will lose speed now.
3: AU’s personal Wonder Woman
Standing tall at 6-foot-2, junior Liz Leer has proven to be double the trouble for AU opponents. On both the offensive and defensive ends, Leer has established herself as a threat.
Leer leads the Patriot League in blocked shots per game, and she holds the most blocked shots in AU history at 164. Leer’s teammates can count on her to deliver at the line and she is less than 100 buckets away from joining teammate Michelle Kirk in the 1000-point club.
Along with Kirk, Leer was named to the All-Patriot League First Team. The honors mark the first time in program history that two student-athletes have been named to the Patriot League First Team. 
2: She grabs nothing but net
Junior Michelle Kirk is the driving force behind her team’s offense.
She was named the Patriot League Player of the Year and is part of AU’s elite list of female players who have scored over 1000 career points. On top of that, she leads the Patriot League with an average of 18.1 points per game. 
Bouncing back from a self-professed disappointing freshman season, Kirk spent this year breaking school and Patriot League records. She is now the most sought-after guard in the league and is sure to face extra defensive pressure during the tournament. Even with all of that, fans should still expect to see her name leading the team in points per game.
1: The great protectors
The team only plays better as time goes on, especially when it is steadily ticking away in the second half.
AU is 15-1 when leading at halftime and has won all its games when they lead with five minutes left in the contest.
However, Corkery and Watson are quick to caution that tournament play is like starting a new season.
“It is more physical; it is more competitive, and there is a lot more on the line,” Corkery said. “It’s a whole different ball game.”
Season statistics reveal that the Eagles are effective at protecting their lead, and it is unlikely that the women will let their guard down in the tournament. 
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Democrats aren’t doing half bad right now. So far 2010 actually isn’t looking nearly as dire as it was just after pseudo-Republican Scott Brown won the Kennedy seat in Massachusetts.
If Democrats keep up the hard work and continue to ignore tea partiers—radical conservatives and ultra-liberals like they have been—they might just survive this year. Nevertheless, here’s a little advice.
Dear Democratic Strategists,
You’re doing alright. Behind all the tea party crazy talk and “Washington is broken” nonsense, the news cycle seems to be trending your way.
Predicting the news cycle is a difficult thing to do. Sometimes it’s rough for Democrats, sometimes it hits the GOP where it really hurts. 
This is supposed to be a rough year for Democrats. President Barack Obama’s policies haven’t sailed through as smoothly as we hoped. Hardly anyone’s happy with Congress, and it consists mostly of Democrats. So it’s all bad news for the Democratic Party, right?
I’m not so sure. Look at the news from Tuesday just this week, for example.
The leading headline in the Wall Street Journal was “Deal Near on Banking Rules,” one of the Democrats’ key policy items. Point for us.
Let’s look at others. “Tea Party Holds Risks for GOP.” Minus one for Republicans.
“Fed Void Clears Path for Obama,” “Manufacturing Shows Strength,” “Bailout Update: AIG’s repayment means U.S. is close to getting back half of its IOUs.” Point, point, point for Democrats.
And then there’s darling Sen. Jim Bunning, R-Ky., holding up unemployment benefits for millions of Americans.
“One Senator Holds Up Bill, in New Level of Gridlock,” proclaims the WSJ. And then Tuesday evening: “Deal Reached to End Senator’s Holdout.” Point.
“Well that’s just one paper!” conservatives might protest (never mind the fact that the Wall Street Journal typically leans right). Sure, but The Washington Post’s headlines tell the same story.
Oh, and see that cover story in the Metro section? It exposes Republican Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia as the hypocrite he is, lobbying for education funding from the Recovery Act he’s been lobbying against since last year. Point.
So the media momentum has shifted left a bit. But we can’t just sit back and be passive, can we? “We can’t let Republicans control the agenda and the message!” say paranoid political strategists on the left.
Well, maybe not completely. But lately they’ve done a good job digging themselves into a hole without your help, Democrats.
So, let ‘em talk.
The Tea Party is a joke. Every time Sarah Palin, Rush Limbaugh or Glenn Beck opens their mouth, people ridicule them across the political spectrum. Ron Paul? Not much of a threat when the Republican establishment still loathes him. Let them talk.
The “Party of No” is still just saying “no,” as evidenced by Bunning’s ignorant protest of the unemployment bill. If all the public hears is “no,” let ‘em talk.
Finally, the stimulus bill is working, the economy continues to improve and Obama is working hard to find solutions to our debt problem.
Meanwhile, Republicans continue to pan his economic proposals, as if they weren’t going home to hypocritically take credit for the stimulus. Let ‘em talk; it’s only hurting them. 
So Democrats, for now I think you should just ride the wave. Let the Republicans screw up their own messaging—you just focus on getting things done. The people will notice. You act, let them talk.
Alex Priest is a junior in the School of Communication and Kogod School of Business and a liberal columnist for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s 8 a.m. on a bone-chilling late January day and a cluster of student interns hug the platform of the Tenleytown-AU Metro station. It is here where AU’s Capitol Hill interns start their day, with a copy of The Washington Post in hand and red intern badge, dubbed “the scarlet letter” by many smug locals, dangling from their neck. As the train approaches, they settle in for the hour-long journey to Capitol Hill for another day of answering phone calls and responding to constituent mail. 
“[Interning on Capitol Hill] is something that’s emblematic of the internship experience that the general public has about being in Washington, D.C.,” says Christopher Hughes, an internship adviser for students at the School of Public Affairs. 
Every season, students flood D.C. for mostly unpaid internships with their congressmen and senators. The blog “Spotted: D.C. [Summer] Interns,” said it best when it defined the “dreaded” summer intern season as a time when “interns swarm in like the eighth plague of Egypt (or the cicadas of 2004).” 
With a high turnover rate, a relative abundance of positions and often times menial assigned tasks, what makes Capitol Hill internships special in a city where its seems like every other student majors in political science and harbors the same desire to work in government?  
In the book he co-wrote, “Congress and Its Members,” Walter Oleszek, an AU adjunct professor and Congressional Research Service specialist, writes that the average House representative has about 15 full-time staff members and a budget of $1.2 million to pay their salaries. However, as the expectations for congressmen constantly grow, members need as much help as they can get and unpaid interns are sometimes the perfect solution. 
Congressional intern duties vary by office, but generally the position includes some degree of clerical work. Reading and drafting letters to constituents, answering calls, running materials to different offices and giving tours of the Capitol building are all standard tasks.
Susey Davis, an AU sophomore double-majoring in political science and economics, is over a month into her internship with Rep. Mike Coffman, R-Colo. She says she was initially surprised by the amount of “grunt work” she was expected to complete.  
“You kind of first expect to be a major part of it [the legislative process], but you’re not” Davis says. “You’re doing the small things, which do help in the long run. You’re making sure the congressman is using his time in more appropriate matters, but it’s stuff that can be done by a secretary.”
Hughes, who himself interned with Sen. Arlen Specter, D-Pa., while in college, says it is a misconception that all Capitol Hill interns do is lick envelopes and staple papers together. He argues they are substantive since many students get to work on policy issues and attend hearings, which can become stepping stones to a future in government and policymaking. 
“It’s pretty safe to say that you pretty much do need to have at least one Hill internship if you want to work on [Capitol Hill] because it is such a competitive thing to get a job there,” Hughes says.
Montgomery College student Raquel Halsey was interning for former Rep. Albert Wynn, D-Md., for two months when she was promoted to the position of staff assistant. Despite her 12-hour workdays, she recommends students work on Capitol Hill. 
“Just making the connections that I made have continued to help me grow professionally,” says Halsey, 23, who is now employed at a non-profit that works with foster children. 
“Even though there were long hours and some days were really hard, it was one of the best experiences I’ve ever had professionally,” she says. 
While Hughes has no concrete figures about how many AU students have previously or are currently interning on Capitol Hill, it is one of the most popular types of internships, especially among political science majors, according to Hughes. 
Jackie Frederick, a senior political science major at AU, is part of that statistic. She has been making the long trek to the Rayburn House Office Building for more than three years, first as an intern then as fellow for Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla. Since she started working for Ros-Lehtinen on and off as a high school sophomore in her home district of Miami, Frederick says her experience has been invaluable. In the unique position of openly being a Democrat in a Republican office, she says one of the most important lessons she has learned is respecting other people’s views. 
“What you try to do is take away your personal opinions and just do the job,” Frederick says. 
Halsey says dealing with constituents taught her a similar lesson. 
“It’s not your job to agree or disagree,” she says. “It’s your job to just listen.”
Ultimately, Davis says she understands the value of her work since she eventually wants to become an elected official. 
“It’s all part of the political process,” she says. “I do realize that’s necessary if I ever wanted to campaign.” 
Until she was promoted to the position of fellow two years ago, Frederick performed typical intern duties. The transition was a big step, Frederick explains, because it both deepened her research skills and policy knowledge while cementing her desire to work on Capitol Hill as a staffer after she graduates in the spring. Fellows, while not on the payroll, follow a legislative aide and help research a specific legislative area — in Frederick’s case, medical care issues.
Frederick says she would love to work for Ros-Lehtinen after she graduates.
“[Interning on Capitol Hill] is your one step into the door,” she says. “Once you’re inside, the Hill is very loyal.”
You can reach this staff writer at thallerman@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Rivalries in sports are developed overtime, with close, physical games and often-embarrassing blowouts. That is, unless the two teams have played each other tough all year and meet in the postseason, like AU and Navy did this year.
After a double overtime thriller in Annapolis, Md., the Midshipmen and AU met just seven days later. It was no regular season tilt this time, as it was a win-or-go-home situation. In the end, AU ran into the night victorious, while Navy snuck away, anxiously anticipating their next shot at AU.
Watching the game, it was clear that both teams were not fond of each other. Elbows were thrown on almost every play, and players were often on the floor. Physicality is never a bad thing, but often it is an indicator of the extra emotion a game has. 
Navy Head Coach Billy Lange best described history of the teams’ relationship when he said, “last years games literally came down to who had the ball last.”
AU Head Coach Jeff Jones did not necessarily agree with the statement, but he did say it has been a hard-fought rivalry. His team has won six straight over its conference rival and, as a result, he may see things differently than Lange. When a coach is looking at a situation from the winning end, it often looks like the rivalry is not as close as it actually is. 
Perhaps more important than the rivalry itself, is what it means for the athletic community. Since AU made their miracle run to the NCAA Tournament two season ago, the attendance at games has slowly increased. Still, there has never been a game in Bender that is standing room only, but a solid rivalry could change that.
There are few things fans enjoy more in sports than hating another team and fan base. Currently at AU, there is really no feeling of hatred towards another school. That is, until now.
Last night’s game featured its fair share of Navy fans trying to drown out AU students, and the Navy band trying to outplay the AU band. Moments like that are what make college sports fun and can make a basketball game a can’t-miss event. Not only does it often provide spirited play on the court, but also it provides an atmosphere that cannot be recreated.
Earlier in the year, AU Athletic Director Keith Gill said one of his goals was to create more spirit and a better sense of camaraderie among students. One of the ways he said that can happen is through the building of rivalries between schools. After last night’s game, Gill thinks the department is moving in the right direction.
“I think we have got proximity [to Navy],” Gill said about the rivalry between AU and Navy. “I think that there is certainly a rivalry and I think it is good and positive and brings out the best in both teams and institutions.”
Gill said that last night’s atmosphere was important to AU’s play.
“I think the crowd gave us good energy,” Gill said. “I think they clearly were the sixth man and probably the seventh and eighth man as well.”
That’s what rivalries and fan bases come down to: helping their team win. A loud and intimidating fan base can sometimes push a home team over the edge and discourage a visiting one.
After AU’s game against Navy, it looks as if the school could be headed in the direction of having a solid fan base. Creating one of those happens when fans band together against a dreaded rival.
You can reach this writer at atomlinson@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The harms of a university-subsidized student Metro discount
I am disappointed to see that in the March 1 staff editorial, “This Metro trip: Courtesy of AU?” the staff of The Eagle wishes to obtain a desired WMATA transit discount through the means of a subsidy from the university’s funds. 
As we all should know, money just doesn’t come out of thin air. If a subsidy were to come from WMATA, they would just be offering a lower rate, cutting into their profits but not actually supplying more than a meager amount of money to apply the subsidy. I understand that WMATA cannot do this though, given their trouble finances, among other things. But should AU ever decide to subsidize student transit, the school would need the money to come from somewhere in order to provide the funds—real money. Where would the money come from and how would AU work to make up that lost cost? The same way any business would: raising prices somewhere. So, in theory, we can all pay $100 less a year to ride the Metro, but we can make up for it in paying an extra $100 a year in tuition. 
Of course those who travel the most would benefit from this, but those who don’t travel daily would lose money. The vast majority of students would be losers. I’m very pro-student discount—but not from AU.
Justin Bloodgood
Class of 2013
Interfaith Council calls for campus-wide tolerance
AU’s Interfaith Council has noticed a disturbing trend lately. Various student organizations have been targeted for their worldviews or social action, we assume by individuals or by other groups.
Most recently, AU Rationalists and Atheists put up posters for their first general meeting, and within a day or two, most if not all the posters were torn down from dorm announcement boards and other sites. It’s our understanding that AURA has been forced to put up with this intolerance on several occasions. And while AURA is not a faith group, they are a student group based on a well-defined worldview, which I believe is something to be respected.
A member of Students for Justice in Palestine has recently informed me that they have had similar experiences with disappearing posters.
This is not so different from the stories we’ve heard of an individual following another student from a faith group and challenging his beliefs endlessly with derogatory terms and accusations. It’s not so different from disrespectful messages and swastikas drawn in spaces shortly before a sacred service is set to take place.
I believe there is a hidden tension on this campus, a weed of disrespect. I like to think that most people are respectful here, and yet repeatedly I see grown adults being intolerant, self-righteous or downright obnoxious. I do not think that we all have to get along or agree, but there is absolutely no good reason for the level of mutual disrespect that we witness, whether it’s between individuals or groups with different worldviews or political beliefs.
Interfaith Council plans to continue to help students, staff and faculty bridge their differences to reach mutual respect and appreciation. We have already informed AU’s chaplains of our concerns, and we are ready to help mediate any conflicts between individuals or groups. I can be contacted personally at al3281a@student.american.edu.
Anne K Lynch
Class of 2012
SOC and CAS
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Despite projections that there would be a serious lack of on-campus housing for people who desired it, everyone who participated in the lottery Wednesday through Friday last week was able to get housing.
This was partly because not everyone who signed up for the lottery actually participated, according to Chris Moody, executive director of Housing and Dining Programs.
A total of 540 rising juniors and seniors completed the online housing application by the Feb. 12 deadline, Moody said. All of these students received a random lottery number and were able to participate in the housing lottery last week.
“Every student who attended the housing lottery or who designated Housing and Dining Programs as their proxy was able to secure a space for next fall,” Moody said.
Results of the process are still being recorded, and once sophomores have completed the online room selection process, data will be available about the process, according to Moody.
Stephanie Eichmann, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, had number 370 in the lottery, which was in the “red zone” — the most unlikely category to get on-campus housing. In an e-mail, Housing and Dining told students with lottery numbers over 200 they may not receive housing unless they were intending to room with someone in the green or yellow zone.
Eichmann said she was discouraged and did not plan to attend the lottery because of her number. A friend convinced her to go and she managed to secure a space in the AU-rented Berkshire Apartments.
“I think the biggest problem with the lottery was they made it sound like no one was going to get a room,” Eichmann said. “They claimed that anyone over number 200 was in the red zone, but when I went with my ticket I had the   opportunity to move anywhere but Nebraska Hall.”
Eichmann said she thinks everyone who participated in the lottery may have secured a room because many discouraged students did not attend. 
“I think a lot of people who wanted a room assumed they weren’t going to get one and never showed up to the lottery,” she said.
Most students were able to secure housing in the groups they wanted to be in. Some groups of four students who wanted to be in Nebraska Hall together were not able to secure a room there, Moody said. Instead, they may have chosen to split into groups of two and live in the Berkshire Apartments, he said.
Dan Lincoln, a sophomore in the School of International Service and creator of the Facebook group “Loyal Opposition to American University’s New Stance on Student Housing,” is going abroad in the fall but applied for a housing lottery number in case he were to change his mind. He got ticket number 180, but he did not attend the lottery.
“I feel as if the university is trying to do the best it can under extenuating [housing] circumstances,” Lincoln said. “Since deciding on going abroad, I feel removed from the process since I found out that the university is going to guarantee housing and give preference to returning abroad students in spring 2011.”
You can reach this staff writer at nglass@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Dunya Mikhail, a recipient of the UN Human Rights Award for Freedom of Writing, spoke at an event at AU Wednesday night.
The event was co-sponsored by the Kennedy Political Union, Women’s Initiative, the Women and Politics Institute, The Eagle and the Student Government. Mikhail is now living in exile in the U.S. after fleeing her native country of Iraq for fear of censorship for her book of poetry, “Diary of the Wave Outside the Sea.” In an exclusive interview, she spoke with Eagle Staff Writer Meg Fowler about her writing and experiences.
MF: What is the greatest inspiration for your work?  How has your writing changed since coming to America?
Dunya Mikhail: I remember, one day somebody asked me while I was reading, and somebody from the audience said that he started to write, and what was my advice about how to get inspired? As a writer do you have to live and have special experiences in order to write? I said, “Do you need experiences?  Yes.  But, do those experiences need to be yours? No. You don’t have to live those experiences in order to be inspired.”
My very recent poem I wrote, the title of it is “Earthquake” because of what is happening not necessarily in my country but anywhere in the world. We are influenced by what is happening in the world.
I’m not one of those writers that have certain goals or certain intentions.  As a poet, my intention is not anything beyond a bird’s intention – to sing.  I don’t think the bird thinks of changing the world, for example.  It just enjoys singing, and that’s how I am.  I enjoy working with words, and it’s true that it beautifies our world.
MF: What made you first want to start writing poetry?
Mikhail: Maybe I had nothing else to do. There is a saying that says, “A human being is valued by what they do when they have nothing to do.” I started very early ... Poetry gave me a similar feeling to when you are in love.  You feel like you have a secret, and you smile for no reason.
MF: What were some of the first topics that you wrote about in your poetry?
Mikhail: In Iraq, I opened my eyes to the war.  I was a teenager when the Iraq-Iran war started, so I don’t know if it’s a huge war for this age to write about these crises, but that’s how I really started writing about that ... My first book that I published when I was at the university, it was mostly war poems.
MF: How did poetry impact your life and cause you to have to leave Iraq?
Mikhail: Poetry saved my life ... What happened is that I really needed to leave the country because when my book, “Diary of a Wave Outside the Sea” was published in Baghdad in 1995, there were a lot of question marks ... The book was an anti-war document. It was a humanitarian document. It did not take sides...But even that was not acceptable for the regime because they expect from you to praise their side. Even if you don’t take sides, that’s a bad thing. You should take sides – their side.
A friend warned me that there was some negative report. The case in Iraq is that people can write reports about you, and there could be a big investigation, you could get in big trouble, in prison, even killed. They were telling me, “you need to leave as soon as possible.”
How poetry saved my life is that it is hard to leave Iraq quickly because first ... as a journalist for the Baghdad Observer, you need a leave of absence, and that takes a very complicated procedure, a long time. But a friend of mine ... knew people in the passport office – and used his influence.  They changed my profession from “journalist” to “poet” so that I didn’t need a leave of absence ... So I could leave fast because of poetry. Although, I also had to leave because of my poetry ... but it was like poetry paid me back.
I left in the summer of 1995 in July. I stayed in Jordan about 9 months until the day of my birthday, when left for America. I’ve been in the U.S. ever since.
MF: How did it affect you when the U.S. invaded Iraq, and how do you think that has changed your country?
Mikhail: It’s hard to see it positively ... The saying in English, the “ends justifies the means,” I don’t believe in this ... I know what the war is.  Whatever goal you have, I am against it ... For me, the end does not justify the means ... Like many other Iraqis, I was dreaming of a change in Iraq, I was dreaming of a democratic Iraq, of having normal life.  But that’s not the means that I dreamed of.
MF: What do you write about now?
Mikhail: The difference is not only what [I write] about, but the difference is even in the way of writing. Before I was using more war images, more metaphors, more levels of meaning ... Now, it’s more realistic.  I don’t feel the need to always hide behind those meanings. There’s no censorship here.
MF: What is the importance of poetry, writing and literary expression to you in today’s society in the Arab world?
Mikhail: In the Arab world, the published word, in general, has a leading role. It has an importance in the life of people ... In Arab world ... you see them talking, listening – listening to songs, listening to poetry. They gather around for poetry readings. They expect poetry to be tarab – pleasing to the ear.
That is why you see leaders, especially dictators pay big prizes to those who praise them and even kill those who don’t ... That’s why censorship is important in the Arab world ... A word there may cost one’s life. If you don’t say the right thing, you may pay your life as a prize. I was not ready yet, so you find other ways.
MF: How did you come to receive the UN Human Rights Award for Freedom of Writing?
Mikhail: It seems I just got lucky.  Many Iraqis deserve this award. Some deserve it more than me. Some ended up in prison. I was not in prison. Freedom of writing was essential in my life.  It was essential for me. In Jordan, I wrote. I had a column in the newspaper. But I think some people nominated me, and I got lucky with that.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
