Though it becomes dangerous to depend on the home run, it certainly helps when a team’s hitters are hitting them regularly. Last night the Nationals did not mind leaning on the long ball for help as they completed the sweep of the Pittsburgh Pirates.
The Nationals’ first baseman, Adam Dunn, has gone deep three games in a row counting last night’s absolute bomb to give Washington an early 1-0 lead. It is hard to ignore the recent tear Dunn has been on over the course of the last few games.
“We’re still continuing to get good pitching,” Dunn said regarding the team’s recent success. “We had the long ball working for this series.”
All but one of the Nats’ runs in last night’s 4-2 victory came off of home runs. In the same inning as Dunn’s, Josh Willingham hit a solo home run to the red seats in left-center field. It was his 12th of the season and gave starter Livan Hernandez some room to work. 
Manager Jim Riggleman has been seeing improved production out of the middle of the lineup where the power hitters reside.
“They’re good hitters, that’s why they’re in the middle of the lineup,” Riggleman said. “We’re fortunate to have them and lined up together like that we’ve got a chance to put some pressure on the other club.”
The last home run of the night was more of a surprise because it did not come from one of the Nationals’ big bashers, but from Michael Morse. A utility player, Morse does not get much playing time but because Roger Bernadina was filling in at centerfield for Nyjer Morgan, he got an opportunity to start-and he impressed.
“This last home-stand was pretty good with Strasburg coming,” he said. “It gave us a little jump and we’re feeling good.”
Morse reached base in every at-bat of the night. He walked once and got three hits, one of those was a ninth inning bomb to centerfield. It provided an insurance run for Tyler Clippard who performed as interim closer while Matt Capps got the night off after pitching three days straight.
“Whatever inning I pitch, I’m having fun out there,” Clippard said after notching his first save of his career. “Tonight I got the save which is great.”
Besides Clippard’s first career save, the Nats also had help from lefty, Sean Burnett. The left hander went two innings without giving up an earned run. His outing contributed to an excellent string of games from the bullpen where the Washington relievers have gone nine and a third scoreless innings in the last three games.
“It seems like every day a new guy out of our pen steps up,” Clippard said of the recent success of the bullpen. “We got a lot of options out there.”
Riggleman decided to go with Clippard and Burnett tonight in order to give his other relievers some rest before heading on the road.
“I really wanted to give Matt [Capps] at least a night off,” he said. “[Drew] Storen has been up a lot. Storen felt great tonight but I needed him for tomorrow.”
If the Nationals can keep hitting home runs like they have against the Pirates, the bullpen is going to be able to get plenty of rest.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
