All good things must come to an end eventually, and the Washington Capitals franchise record 14-game win streak ended in a 6-5 overtime loss to the Montreal Canadiens last night.
The loss may be a tough pill to swallow, seeing as the team was only three wins short of tying the NHL record of 17-straight victories. Even though they did not break the record, what this team did cannot be overlooked. It is one of the longest win streaks in recent history and is tied for the third longest in history.
Perhaps more important than the team's feat were the individual performances. Tom Poti, Jose Theodore, Michal Neuvirth, Alexander Semin, Nicklas Backstrom and Alex Ovechkin all turned in magnificent stats over the last 15 games. All of them not only helped the team over the whole streak, but each one of them stepped up when their team needed them most.
It is no secret that the Capitals are an offense-oriented team, but they certainly wouldn't be as good as they are without the efforts of Neuvirth and Theodore in goal. While Neuvirth had been a stud through most of December, he ended up getting pulled in the first win of the streak in a 5-4 shootout win over Florida on Jan. 13. He set the stage for a bruised hero to make a valiant return to the battlefield. 
Theodore stepped in, got the team a win and went on perhaps one of the greatest hot streaks of his life. After Theodore stopped 44 of 46 shots against the Detroit Red Wings, Boudreau said the net-minder looked like the goalie that won the Vezina Trophy so many years ago. 
Though Theodore turned in 10 of the teams 14 straight wins, Neuvirth’s appearances were still spectacular. In fact, in all but one of those four starts, he was the team's top performer. His spectacular play was capped off by a 48-save effort against the Anaheim Ducks Jan. 27. Despite the fact that he was not the horse the Caps rode for the entire streak, when he was called upon he stepped up. The young rookie was able to take the bad start against Florida and forget about it, something the best in the game struggle to do.
Tom Poti may be one of the most overlooked heroes of the win streak. He was one of Washington's best defender, with the exception of the last night’s game, Sunday's game against Pittsburgh and the game against Detroit. Those were the only three games where Poti ended up negative in +/-. His best game was a +4 night against the Boston Bruins where he set up two of the team’s four goals. Not only did Poti get hot offensively, but he made several key defensive plays. There was question about whether or not he was nearing the end of his career, but after his last month of play he seems far from it.
Last night's loss may have ended the Caps streak but Backstrom's point streak is alive and well. Over those eight games he totaled four goals, 13 assists and a +/- rating of +12. The Swedish Olympian dominated the play in certain games and often looked like he was the team’s best player. In fact, in the Capitals 6-5 victory over the New York Rangers, he had a hand in all but one of the goals. Backstrom has emerged into one of the premiere centers for the simple fact that he is able to quarterback the first line. It is not easy to sit between Ovechkin and Knuble on a line, but he makes it easy as he chooses the player to set up for a goal. Backstrom helps his line live literally by the phrase, “pass, shoot, score.”
The final pieces of Washington's success are the two men named Alex. Semin and Ovechkin are the heart and soul of this team's offense. Semin would probably be fighting Ovechkin for MVP honors if they were not on the same team. 
Their offensive contributions are not entirely what has helped the team. Sure, Ovechkin's hat trick that spurred the Capitals to an OT win over Pittsburgh on Sunday was impressive, but it is his leadership abilities that are important. It is no coincidence that the team has only lost two games since he was named captain on Jan. 5. He clearly took the reins as team leader and was able to keep the team focused and on the winning track. Not only that though, he was able to get his best friend Semin, back on the track.
Semin is a frustrating player to watch sometimes; he has tremendous talent but tends to fall in to ruts he cannot get out of. Through most of December, he was unable to score. Five games after Ovie was given the “C,” Semin went on a 10-game point streak, where he often carried the team. No one will know if Ovechkin said anything to Semin, but it cannot be looked at as merely a coincidence. If in fact Ovechkin did help get Semin going, then Washington will have one of the game's best captains for years to come.
Washington will not go down in the record books for what they just accomplished, but in reality it is unimportant. What is more important is what the team learned about itself on the ice and inside the locker room. It was a great run, but in the end the only run the Caps want to make is a run to the Stanley Cup in April. As of right now, it looks as if they will be able to sprint through the marathon that is the playoffs.
You can reach this writer at atomlinson@theeagleonline.com.
Updated 2/11/10 12:00 pm
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The British playwright Sarah Kane was only 28 years old when she decided to take her own life after a lasting bout with clinical depression. In a final utterance to a seemingly uncaring world, she channeled all of her frustrations into the wildly unnerving "4.48 Psychosis," a caustic work that many critics view as her extended suicide note. The play has undergone a wide variety of iterations in its posthumous tribute to an especially troubled soul. 
A single word to describe the recent adaptation of the piece by the AU Players is jarring. Director Caroline Mahoney wanted to add an element of familiarity to the antihero, so she incorporated the cast of "The Wizard of Oz."
In this disturbing display of unlikely characterization, Dorothy (played by Kate Nolen) is on her final dregs of mental stability, a far cry from the innocent, rosy-cheeked girl looking for Kansas. She is supported — and that word is used loosely — by a jittery scarecrow (David Landstrom), a devious lion (Brittany Clark) and an apathetic tin man (Elizabeth Salamon) — each representing an extreme emotional persona, given flesh through Dorothy's madness. 
The play is told in split segments of heavy, impassioned monologues by Dorothy and therapy sessions by a worrisome, if not reticent, doctor. This doctor is said to represent The Wizard, a man whose authoritative and bookish nature precedes him in the eyes of Dorothy, making her crave his comfort while she is unflinching to the idea that he is just as human as everybody else. The doctor's intentions are somewhat muddled in that one doesn't know if he genuinely feels for Dorothy's plight or is simply doing his job. 
Mahoney makes the play a real treat with her use of dialogue, some of which may seem off-center at first to a skeptical few, but will gradually build up to become progressively haunting and eerie. There's a definite poetic rhythm — terse but profound — that is only bolstered with Nolen's pitch-perfect ability to convey snapshot emotions. This is juxtaposed with the shivering scarecrow, the tin man with the blank stare and the sneering lion, all of which never once detract from analyzing Dorothy's psyche. 
As we start to see different sides of Dorothy, we develop a kind of gluttonously sick enjoyment in her misery. Through the constant interjections by the scarecrow, tin man and lion, the mania is personified and hard to maintain as Dorothy herself has trouble maintaining her own emotions. Peeling away the depths of anguish with each new act, some of us can barely grasp what it is she's looking for and why she's so insecure. Then, all at once, for a split second, we understand her self-destructive tendencies and her inescapable grief — we are in communion and our feelings of empathetic sorrow are punctuated by relief. 
Dorothy's proverbial yellow brick road is her ascent to sanity or her plummet to dementia, depending on how you look at it. The play builds up such a steady rhythm that it almost feels likes a daydream or an old memory when it's over. While it offers little in terms of direct comfort for those who can relate, it shows that people like Dorothy aren't suffering alone. When all inner hope for self-betterment becomes as empty as a bottle of pills, there's a cry for help that falls on deaf ears, and this play conveys just that. If nothing else, it's a very human production.
You can reach this writer at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With record snowfalls this week, typical students might find it easy to bundle up inside comfy dorm rooms with some hot chocolate and a movie. 
Alaska native and sophomore in the School of International Service Tamara Teller sees it differently. 
"Ice skating, snow shoeing, snow machining, cross-country skiing, downhill skiing, snowboarding and dog mushing," she said.
For Teller and countless other outdoor enthusiasts, winter sports provide athletes with a way to stay competitive and prevent their chiseled six-packs from turning into the midsection of a snowman during hibernation season. 
As the days off and inches of snow start to pile up around D.C., it might be time for AU students to grab their snowcaps, pull on a pair of long underwear and work up some courage. Snow sports are in season. 
Snowboarding / Skiing:
Snowboarding and skiing are not just for professionals. In fact, you'll find 75-year-old senior snowboarders riding up the mountain on the same chairlift as 13-year-old snowboarders. Riders of every age and skill level are welcomed at most resorts. 
However, don't expect to be weaving through moguls or hitting the half pipe on your first run. 
"When you first start to learn, it takes about an hour to get down the first run," said Tobin Krieg-Huntley, a Kogod sophomore, Vermont native and avid snowboarder. "You'll be falling about every five feet."
Fortunately, according to Krieg-Huntley, there is a pretty quick learning curve, and once riders learn to balance they'll be headed from the bunny hill to black diamonds in no time. 
"It's relaxing on the mountain," Krieg-Huntley said. "Just let your muscle memory take over."
D.C. skiers and snowboarders go to great lengths for a day on the mountain, since the closest resorts are about an hour to three hours away in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. In Pennsylvania, Ski Liberty Mountain Resort in Fairfield and Whitetail Resort in Mercersburg are each just over an hour and a half away. In Virginia, Massanutten Resort, Wintergreen Resort and Bryce Mountain Resort are each over two hours away. In Maryland, Wisp Resort in McHenry is almost three hours away. 
The other obstacle is the cost. Equipment rentals can cost upwards of $75 and lift tickets typically range somewhere between $25 and $50, depending on the resort. But, according to Krieg-Huntley, the benefits far outweigh the expense. 
Ice Skating:
With venues right in Washington, D.C., both the toothless hockey bruiser and the sensitive figure skater should agree on a weekend trip to the skating rink.
At the Sculpture Gardens on the National Mall, skaters can slide around the rink surrounded by sculptures from contemporary and modern artists. The organic experience of open-air skating is as close as it gets to pond skating in Washington. The Sculpture Gardens offer two-hour sessions at the price of $7 for adults and $3 for skate rentals. The venue is open from now until mid-March, seven days a week. 
"The thing about skating is, you can be at all different levels and still have fun," Teller said. "But if you're a beginner, just go slow and stay by the wall."
Sled Riding:
For a winter thrill right in your backyard, "all you need is a sled and a good hill," said Graham Brookie, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs from Durango, Colo.
In some instances, the former isn't necessary a requirement. Some creative adventurers have improvised with trashcan lids, plastic bags and lunch trays. 
However, without lunch trays and fearful of Public Safety, a more conventional approach would be to take a couple runs down the small hill behind Katzen or the seminary on Massachusetts Avenue. 
Even a beginner should catch on after a run or two. Brookie's only advice is this: "keep your feet up and hold on tight."
Snowball Fights:
Whether between runs down the hill, laps on the ice or class, there's always time to pack a quick snowball and hurl it at an unsuspecting target. In some cases, the snow battles can turn into all-out wars.
This past Saturday, more than 2,000 people showed up in Dupont Circle to take part in one of the largest fights in Washington history. The participants responded to tweets and Facebook messages sent out earlier that day and the event received national media attention. 
As the fights escalate, everyone has his or her own strategy when it comes to waging a "cold war."
"Always pack more ammo than you think you'll need," Brookie said. 
According to Teller, you need to make it like a battle: you need teams and fortresses to hide behind. 
"More importantly, you need good snow," Teller added. "You can't have a snowball fight without good snow." 
Krieg-Huntley said the most important thing of all is the war cry, "snowball fight!"
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU hosted the nation-wide launch of the first system specifically made to evaluate the sustainability of colleges and universities this semester.
The program, called the Sustainability Tracking and Assessments Rating System, was launched in a conference of panelists recorded and streamed online from campus.
Director of Sustainability Chris O’Brien signed AU up as the first participant from the D.C. region in October, when the program was in a pre-launch “sneak peak” period, he said.
STARS assesses three main components of university life: education and research, administration and engagement and operations. 
It calculates a university’s overall sustainability with a formula of point systems, according to O’Brien, who was involved in the development of STARS since its early stages and is now on the STARS steering committee.
“It’s unique because it’s the first of its kind because it was developed by ... hundreds of experts from dozens of schools over three years ... and it’s specifically meant for universities,” O’Brien said.
The education component involves course curricula, research and co-curricular activities. One thing STARS rates in this category is the number of courses on sustainability available at a university.
The same day of the STARS launch, the Kogod Council voted to create a new degree called the Master of Science in Sustainability Management, The Eagle previously reported. The availability of this degree counts towards AU’s ranking in the educational component of STARS, according to O’Brien.
EcoSense President Jennifer Jones, a sophomore in the School of International Service, said the existence and activities of the club itself, count towards AU’s STARS ranking in the education category.
“We are working on a lot of things that have to do with student education and professors teaching sustainability,” Jones said.
EcoSense was also involved with promoting sustainability in the STARS category of administration and engagement, according to Jones, by pushing for AU to purchase more renewable energy and encouraging AU President Neil Kerwin to sign the Presidents’ Climate Commitment in 2008.
The third category of STARS ranks the sustainability of AU’s operations, including buildings, dining services, waste management and the vehicle fleet on campus. One change being made on campus operations is that kitchen waste from the Terrace Dining Room will now go to a compost in Maryland instead of a landfill, according to O’Brien.
The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education created and administered STARS, according to O’Brien.
The AASHE Executive Director Paul Rowland was present at AU for the launch.
STARS is effective because it evaluates many aspects of a university’s campus and community when it gives that school a sustainability ranking, according to Rowland.
“From providing sustainability coursework, to dorm cleaning products, to energy efficiency in campus buildings, there are lots of opportunities for a school to identify and track its sustainability progress,” Rowland said in a press release.
AU remains the only D.C. participant in the program.
The George Washington University is one school in D.C. that did not sign onto STARS, according to Sophie Waskow, stakeholder engagement coordinator of the GWU Office of Sustainability.
“GW Office of Sustainability is currently focusing the resources and time of staff and faculty at GW on actions to address climate change,” Waskow said in an e-mail. “We are thrilled to see the roll out and are cheering on the participants in this first year of activity.”
Over one hundred participants nationwide are now signed up for STARS, and even more are expected to join, according to O’Brien.
“I fully expect that it will become the default higher education sustainability system,” he said.
You can reach this staff writer at mfowler@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With just days until pitchers and catchers report, it is time to check out the 2010 Major League Baseball landscape for this upcoming season, starting with the American League East.
New York Yankees:
Everything went right for the Yankees last season as they went on to win their 27th World Championship. This was all thanks to spending a couple of truckloads of dollars on free agents Mark Teixiera, CC Sabathia and AJ Burnett. With these additions and a roster that managed to stay relatively healthy, they were able to take the crown. This off-season, the Yankees were a bit quieter but still managed to improve their team.
The Yankees traded Austin Jackson and other prospects in a three team deal to Detroit in exchange for center fielder Curtis Granderson. The 28-year-old outfielder can provide the team with some power from the left side of the plate and some solid speed. The downside to Granderson is that he has not hit well for average and his strike out totals are astronomical. The Yankees lost Hideki Matsui, who signed with the Los Angeles Angels. Left fielder Johnny Damon appears to be finished with the team, although he has yet to sign with anyone. The Yankees traded Melky Cabrera to Atlanta for starter Javier Vazquez who, in his return to the Bronx, should be a strong number three starter. Despite the team’s losses, this is still an incredibly strong ball club with tons of power and strong pitching. As of now the New York Yankees are the team to beat.
Boston Red Sox:
Despite the Yankees’ success, the Red Sox will be right in the mix in the upcoming season. Last season the Sox suffered due to David Ortiz’s decline at the plate. This season the team looks less focused on the big swinging Big Papi and more on the small ball and good defense. The two skills are embodied by infielders Kevin Youkilis and Dustin Pedroia. Boston’s offseason acquisitions were reflective of this approach.
Focusing on pitching, the Red Sox made a big splash signing former Angels ace, John Lackey. The big right-hander has struggled at times recently, but the talent is definitely there. With this acquisition, the top of their rotation has Josh Beckett, Jon Lester and John Lackey. That top three would make just about anyone shake in their cleats. Along with the improvements in the starting rotation, the Sox signed journeyman center fielder Mike Cameron who is known for his defensive prowess and his ability to swing and miss more than just about anyone. Adrian Beltre also latched onto the team and should provide an excellent glove at third. No longer living and dieing by the mighty swings of Ortiz, the new look Red Sox should give the Yankees a run for their money.
Tampa Bay Rays:
After making a surprising run in the 2008 season, the Rays suffered from raised expectations in their ’09 run. With a number of injuries, the Rays were not able to return to the World Series. In spite of last year, the Rays are still a very talented young team. Regardless of where this team finishes, they will be a lot of fun to watch.
Third baseman Evan Longoria has established himself already as a superstar. He has incredible power and is an excellent defensive player. Second baseman Ben Zobrist was probably the biggest breakout player Tampa had last year, as he put up fantastic power numbers. He belted 27 home runs and drove in 91 RBIs last season. The Rays will also depend on the power of first baseman Carlos Pena, who is a major part of the team’s success.
The Rays also have a good stockpile of young starters returning to the mound next season. Matt Garza has become one of the most intimidating forces on the mound and the young lefty David Price will only get better after a strong showing in his first full season. In all likelihood, the Rays will not finish atop the division this season simply because the Sox and Yankees are too strong. But if the 2008 squad showed anything, it’s that these young guns should not be overlooked.
Baltimore Orioles:
No, the Baltimore Orioles do not have any shot at taking the East this season. But O’s fans should take solace in the fact that they have a core of young players who will make this team a contender in the near future. In fact, the main thing keeping the Orioles from being a carbon copy of the 2008 Rays is pitching. 
The Orioles have done an excellent job developing their young players for the majors. Outfielders Adam Jones, Nick Markakis and catcher Matt Wieters are close to becoming household names. It is true that Jones and Markakis had much better years than Wieters, but the young catcher comes with such hype that it would be a shock to many around baseball if he were not to become one of the league’s elite catchers. The Orioles will also have a strong veteran presence on the club, with the always-consistent Brian Roberts and the returning Miguel Tejada.
While the offense is heading in the right direction, the pitching on Baltimore looks bleak. Kevin Milwood has joined the starting rotation and his experience should rub off on some of the younger players. Along with Milwood, the rotation will have Jeremy Guthrie who managed to lose 17 games last season. Youngster David Hernandez did not set the world aflame with his rookie season, as he went just 4-10 with an ERA over five. O’s fans should sit tight, for when they get some real starting pitching they will have a shot at the playoffs.
Toronto Blue Jays:
The Toronto Blue Jays have fallen on some hard luck lately. They have a center fielder in Vernon Wells who has not lived up to his monstrous contract, they traded powerful Alex Rios to the White Sox and most recently they traded pitching ace Roy Halladay. To be fair to the Jays, the trade was inevitable — it made no sense to keep a player on a losing team. Why not get some value for him while he’s still around? The Jays got a nice batch of prospects, but fans never like hearing about how the team will be good in five years. Jays fans better get set for the wait.
The big offensive weapons the Jays have at their disposal are minimal. Outfielder Adam Lind and second baseman Aaron Hill established themselves as the offensive leaders of the ball club last season. Vernon Wells is still patrolling the outfield, but is no longer the threat he once was. Last season he hit just 15 home runs and drove in just 66 RBIs.
The Jays will have to depend on a very young group of starters next season, including Ricky Romero who won an impressive 13 games in is rookie campaign. Coming over from Seattle in the Halladay trade is Brandon Marrow who is a prospect held in fairly high regard and is someone the Jays will look to for an effective season. It may be a while though until the Jays have a team that can compete in the strong AL East.
Predictions
AL East Winner: New York Yankees — Have to go with the defending World Champs to take the division again.
Wild Card Winner: Boston Red Sox — Red Sox will be one of the better teams in the American League, it’s just unfortunate that the best team is in their own division.
You can reach this writer at slindauer@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
First off, let me apologize to all the single ladies, guys who made dinner reservations and people who think that Valentine's Day is an overly commercialized holiday that makes singles feel bad about themselves and guys in relationships feel obligated to be romantic for purely social reasons. 
Personally, I count myself in the latter category: I think that the best time to send someone flowers is on a random week day, the best reason to get someone a gift is "just because" and that the best way to celebrate a holiday for lovers is to spend the day in bed. 
That being said, I do understand the pressures of society and I don't want to leave my male readers high and dry. So, I'm presenting you gentlemen (and progressive-minded ladies) with a romantic dinner for two, complete with mushy symbolism and melted chocolate. 
First Course: Bibb Lettuce and Watercress Salad with Roasted Pears and Dried Cherries 
Ingredients: 
2 pears 
1 tbsp. melted Butter 
1/4 c. brown sugar or maple syrup 
1/4 c. white wine or cider vinegar 
1/2 c. vegetable oil 
1 tsp. dijon mustard 
1 head bibb lettuce 
1 bunch watercress 
1/4 c. pecans 
1/4 c. dried cherries 
Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Cut the pears in half and remove the cores. Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with brown sugar or syrup. Roast for 30-45 minutes until the cut sides are golden brown and they pierce easily with a fork. Select the two nicest looking halves and set aside. Puree the other two halves in a blender with the vinegar and mustard. With the blender running, gradually add the oil. Season with salt and pepper. Let cool. 
Toss the lettuce and watercress with 1/4 c. of the dressing and arrange it on two plates with the bibb lettuce on the bottom and the watercress nested inside. Make about eight slices in each pear halve without cutting all the way through and spread it out like a fan. Place delicately on top of the watercress. Sprinkle the salad with cherries and pecans.  
Second Course: Cod en Papillote (pronounced Papil-YOTE) 
1 leek 
2-3 carrots 
2 6-oz. filets of cod or other mild, white, flaky fish 
1 tbsp. butter 
Salt and pepper 
2 18" by 18" pieces of parchment paper or aluminum foil 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Cut the green part off of the leek and discard. Cut the rest of it in half and rinse the hell out of it under cold running water. This is important: leeks are grown in sand and no one likes eating sand. Make two horizontal cuts in each halve and a bunch of vertical cuts and then chop it like you would any other onion. You want the dice to be as small as possible. Peel the carrots and dice them finely as well. Fold both sheets of parchment or foil in half and cut them into heart shapes (you remember how to do this from elementary school, don't you?). Melt the butter in a small sauté pan and sauté the carrots and leeks over medium heat for five minutes or so until the carrots start to soften. Spoon the vegetables into the middle of one half of each heart and place the filet on top. Season with salt and pepper, then fold each half-heart closed and fold over the edges to seal them. Bake for 15 minutes. 
3rd Course: Chocolate Ganache with Fresh Fruit
1 c. heavy cream 
8 oz. chocolate 
Fresh strawberries, raspberries, etc. for dipping 
Break the chocolate into small pieces and place in a bowl. Bring the cream to a boil and pour it over the chocolate. Cover the bowl and let stand for five minutes. Stir the cream until the chocolate is melted. Use your imagination. 
Note: 
While none of these dishes are especially difficult, some of them are fairly time consuming. Unless you want to spend all of Valentine's Day in the kitchen, I would recommend doing the pears and the vinaigrette a few days before and then preparing the vegetables and wrapping the fish either the day before or the morning of. That way, half way into the salad course you can pop the fish into the oven and set the timer. If you do this, keep the fish in the fridge until it's time to cook it and then add two to four minutes to the cooking time.
You can reach this columnist at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Last year, the Louisiana-based band Givers made their first trip to D.C. to open for Dirty Projectors. The young band won over a crowd that was not there to see them. Tuesday night they returned to Black Cat, now filling the role of the headliner.
Opening for Givers were District-locals Deutschmarks, a trio that served their function of warming up the crowd but offered little else. Led by guitarist Chris DeWitt, the band competently made their way through about a half dozen tunes that left the audience about as happy as one would expect with an opening act. DeWitt displayed some strong vocals, but Deutschmarks are by no means setting the music world ablaze. 
After Deutschmarks gave way to Givers, it became clear just how much energy was in the Louisiana band’s arsenal. The three musicians from Deutschmarks gave it their head-banging all but looked downright sleepy next to Givers’ liveliness. The opening song, “Up, Up, Up,” was off the band’s self-titled EP and worked as a great way to get the audience into the style of the group. The song represented what would be seen for the rest of night. Like many of the other songs from the band, “Up, Up, Up” leaned heavy on percussion and the back-and-forth vocals between Tif Lamsom and Taylor Guarisco.
The group continued playing songs off their EP with “Meantime,” a song that showed off the versatility of Lamsom. Besides sharing vocals duty with Guarisco, Lamsom played guitar, ukulele and percussion. “Meantime” also let Guarisco show the crowd that he has fantastic guitar skills. While jamming, he looked like a man possessed as his eyes rolled back into his head above his big grin. In fact, just about every member of Givers had a smile plastered to their face as long as they were playing.
Drummer Kirby Campbell provided most of the percussion for the band. His shining moment came with “Sneaky Wajoo,” a song that started with him and Lamsom bashing the drums with tribal-like intensity. For most of the show, the pair of percussionists would hit the drums as if they had somehow wronged them. Lamsom was hitting the hi-hat cymbals so ferociously that bits of wood from her drumstick went flying.
While there was a ton of loud percussion, the vocals did not suffer. Both Lamsom and Guarisco were very smooth despite the fact that their songs require a fairly wide range. Lamsom took a solo song on the ukulele, showing off her incredible talent of moving back and forth between booming rock vocals and toned-down, jazzy sultriness.
In between songs, banter was mostly limited to the typical "thank you's" to the city, fans and every other rock band cliché. Lamsom did note that they had never seen this much snow before since they do not get any back home in Louisiana. But what they lacked in banter with the audience they more than made up for the rest of the concert.
They would go on to play “Saw You First” — another song off of their EP. The song’s chorus has one of the strongest hooks in their arsenal. This was one of the more popular songs of the night, most likely because it is one of the few songs that has been released. Later in the set, Lamsom and Guarisco continued their call-and-response type singing with “Wanna Want It.” The song was driven by bassist Josh LeBlanc, providing an interesting change of pace for an otherwise percussion-heavy show.
The night ended with an encore where the band played “Ceiling of Plankton,” a catchy tune that is probably the closest thing to a single found on their EP. For really only the second time, the audience was able to sing along with the band since most of the other songs were virtually unknown to the crowd. But this much is known about Givers: they radiate fun. It is difficult to stand still while listening to this band live. Everyone on stage seemed to have a great time and the audience at Black Cat could not help but join in on the festivities of this small party from Louisiana. 
You can reach this staff writer at slindauer@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Cartoonist Rights Network International, an organization that supports political cartoonists around the world who are at risk because of their work, established its first collegiate chapter at AU on Feb. 3 during a Kennedy Political Union event. 
Anna Sczepanski, a sophomore in the School of Communication who is interning with CRNI this year, is the acting president of AU’s CRNI chapter. The chapter is aiming to help CRNI educate people about how limitations on freedom of speech are affecting political cartoonists and about what people can do to help.
A conversation with Joel Pett and Robert Russell





HOWIE PERLMAN / THE EAGLE
“I think that it offers a unique perspective about freedom of speech and expression and highlights an aspect of journalism that I think is often overlooked,” Sczepanski said. “I don’t think a lot of people understand how much political cartoons affect the world. I think people should join to advocate for cartoonists at risk and help support them financially through fundraising.”
Robert Russell, CRNI’s executive director, showcased the political cartoons of Jonathan Shapiro, also known as “Zapiro,” who works in South Africa. Russell said he feels Shapiro’s cartoons of Jacob Zuma, the president of both the Republic of South Africa and the country’s majority political party, the African National Congress, have been influential in shaping public opinion of Zuma.  
Russell focused on cartoons Shapiro made during Zuma’s rape trial in 2006, which took place before he became president of the ANC in December 2007 and president of South Africa in May 2009. The cartoons often depicted Zuma with a showerhead on his scalp, poking fun at Zuma’s testimony during his trial that he took a shower after having sexual intercourse without a condom with the alleged rape victim to avoid contracting HIV.
Joel Pett, who earned the 2000 Pulitzer Prize for editorial cartooning and is the president of CRNI’s board of directors, talked with the KPU event’s audience about a Cameroonian cartoonist’s reaction to one of his works. After Pett showed him a piece in which he characterized retired General Norman Schwarzkopf as “war profiteering” from an autobiography he wrote after the 1991 Gulf War, Pett said the Cameroonian cartoonist asked him about what the U.S. military’s reaction to this was.
Pett told the KPU audience this question indicated how mindsets in countries with significant impediments to press freedoms differ from those in the U.S., where First Amendment freedoms of speech are highly regarded and authorities are not expected to lash out over cartoons.
“We have a tradition of [political satire] and it’s a tradition that is not going to die, it can’t be killed and it’s so deeply ingrained here that, in fact, you dare not protest against it,” Pett said in an interview with The Eagle before the KPU event. 
Visit http://www.theeagleonline.com to check out the Eagle’s full exclusive interview with Pett and Russell.
You can reach this staff writer at hperlman@theeagleonline.com.
The Eagle co-sponsored this event with KPU.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
"The Wolfman"
Grade: B
"The Wolfman" tries to excite you into howling at the moon with it. To some extent, it succeeds. Modern computer imaging technology and a solid cast make for a period fantasy thriller that is an energetic remake of one of the classic tellings of the werewolf story. 
Interestingly enough, it actually takes "Wolfman" a full hour before it utters the word “werewolf,” and then he only says it twice. It comes out once a month at the full moon. It leaves its victims mutilated beyond anything a man or animal would do. It howls at the moon. People stock up on silver bullets in an attempt to kill it. And yet it takes a full 60 minutes before they actually name the creature what the audience knew it was before they even set foot in the theater. Instead, for some reason the film prefers to refer to it as the beast or creature. One wonders if director Joe Johnston thinks people don't know what exactly a wolfman is.
"The Wolfman" tells the story of Lawrence Talbot, played by Benicio Del Toro. He returns to his ancestral home after several years when his brother goes missing. Chaos, bloodshed, clawing and howling at the moon ensue when Talbot is bitten by the werewolf and cursed to transform each full moon. Appealing to his humanity is Gwen Conliffe (Emily Blunt); hunting him down is Inspector Abberline (Hugo Weaving); somewhere in between is Talbot's enigmatic father Sir John (Anthony Hopkins) in one of his creepiest portrayals in years. 
Interestingly enough, in a movie where two of the three male leads (Del Toro and Hopkins) have an Academy Award to their name, it is the least important and only non-Oscar winner of those leads who actually puts out the best performance. While Del Toro and especially Hopkins give strong performances, they and Blunt at times feel out of place. Weaving, on the other hand, seems right at home. Always a pleasure on screen, in "Wolfman" he is thoroughly convincing and entertaining as a detective in late 19th century Britain, rocking a mutton chop beard to boot. 
"Wolfman" works with a pretty straightforward story with few, if any, surprises to those versed in the werewolf or even horror genre. One of the elements it seems most intent on conveying is moody fear-in-waiting. The atmosphere of the film is full of mist and moonlight and creepy candles. In fact, at times it's nearly overdone in its moodiness to the point of being camp, although it never completely breaks the audience's interest in the movie.     
"Wolfman" also seems to have a deliberate portrayal of incompetence in its characters. This is very much a movie where you wish you could reach through the screen and cry out to the characters to look out behind them. The characters cower when they should hide and talk when they should shoot. 
One of "Wolfman's" greatest strengths is in its visuals, particularly that of the titular character. Modern CGI makes for captivating and fully realized transformation sequences that leave viewers in anticipation of the howling to come. There is a real energy to how the CGI captures the werewolf's lightning-fast dashes through the forests as well as the streets of London. 
Please note that "Wolfman" is not a horror flick — horror films are scary and "The Wolfman" is not. It works best when treated as a moody period piece with a thriller plot revolving around a fantasy creature. In that regards, the film is good but not great. The film is never painful although the near-camp nature of its atmosphere can be trying. Instead, "Wolfman" is entertaining and energetic, but rarely do the supposed scares end up achieving anything more than surprise that fades as quickly as it starts. When it howls at the moon, so do you, but when the sun rises and the blood-drenched fur disappears, so does the film.  
You can reach this staff writer at bkoenig@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
• Neither rain, nor snow, nor sleet, nor hail will keep blow jobs from being given in the arboretum. Definitely heard some noises in there on Tuesday night.
• I've noticed there are a ton of skateboarders on campus this year? Anyone want to teach me to long board? I'm serious
• The girls on the AU gymnastics team are pretty hot.
• It would be cool if disgusting couples would stop hooking up in the lounge and the north side bridge.
• Just because you can make out/dry hump your girlfriend in the lounge doesn't mean you should.
• I was walking the arboretum today. I think I saw an imprint of where some guy was kneeling in the snow.  Was this a sign of the mysterious BJ guy?  I think so!
• I think to solve the housing crisis we should all move to the arboretum with the guy who gives blowies.
• Dear annoying dramatic girls at AU,
We all see right through your vague Facebook status and know you just want attention. Work your shit out in private. I don't want to hear it.
• Dear Eagle:
IF AU cared about Haiti (which I'm convinced we don't) why aren't we allowed to donate our library and parking fines to relief?
CASJ member.
• SG needs to update its Web site more than once in a blue moon. My friend being the head of Club Council (and me trying to organize a club trip) is how I found out AUTO was back online. So much wasted time looking for alternate transportation and arguments!!!
• RE: the evolution rant last time:
New rule.  If you don't believe in evolution, you become a monkey again.  Any takers?
• I really don't understand the complaints about the housing plans for next year. Many people are complaining about their inability to finance off campus housing. I know the economy is bad now. However, some blame also rests with students. Students at AU attend a school that costs around 47k a year. If you really can't afford 47k a year or are unwilling to take out a loan (or two), then you are much better suited to attending a public in state college. If you already have tons of loans and still can't afford AU then this school isn't for you. Save your money and your sanity by attending a college within your financial means. Otherwise you are following the same irresponsible financial spending pattern that led to the recession in the first place.
• I normally can't stand Alex Knepper, but the radical postmodern Marxist queer Chicano feminists of color comment on last week's Eagle Rants made me lol
• Why is it that ugly people always have the most obnoxious sex? It’s 2 a.m. and I can hear my neighbors bed shaking, her moaning, and him asking what about me.  Really guys? is the necessary?  I’m gonna go with no.  So much for living on the quiet side.
• Person on L7 making loud, obnoxious, angry sexual threats when playing Mario Kart...that is NOT ATTRACTIVE. I doubt any drunk man or lesbian would want to hook up with you making that much noise. So please...do us all a favor and SHUT THE FUCK UP!
• Snowstorm + no channels except for ATV=the Shining
• okay, listen up all you "south of the mason-dixon" people, snow is not reason enough to stay balled up in your room all day. those of us from up north have no problem trekking through the snow to go out/eat/not go crazy. man the hell up.
• I am being kicked off campus next year despite the fact that I will be a senior and pay 100 percent full tuition for everything.  WTF.  Housing and Dining did not inform me of this until a few months ago.  Fuck housing and dining.
• So apparently if you move off campus for a semester due to personal reasons, housing and dining does not let you move back onto campus the following year.
SCREW YOU HOUSING AND DINING!
• Why does housing and dining not offer room selection by credit hours anymore? Grrrr
• Dear sorority girl in my group project group:
I have always thought that sorority girls were vapid, shallow, dumb, fake, conformists who only enjoy drinking and gossiping.  But you have completely changed my perception of sorority girls at AU.  You are friendly in a sincere way, conscientious, polite to even the dumbest of our group members, and you really work hard in a collaborative manner.
You don't seem trashy or slutty and you don't wear disgusting amounts of make-up or jewelry.  Congratulations on joining greek like and not becoming a stereotype.  If only there were more like you.  You are probably the nicest girl I have met at AU.
Sincerely,
Non-sorority girl
• Whenever I bring up marriage to my boyfriend of one year, he never says anything.  (It's not like I want to get married anytime soon, not until I'm at least 28.) I always try to bring up our future together, but he never wants to talk about it.  Does this mean that he doesn't see a future with me and he just doesn't want to tell me that so that he can continue to get sex?  Why else would he always avoid talking about marriage?
-worried girlfriend
• Is it cheating to flirt with other guys on Facebook chat and not tell my boyfriend?  It's not like I do anything with them.  Most of them don't even live in the same city.  What do guys think about that?
• Is there a club on campus for pregnant girls?
• I am a female and I do not understand what all the feminists are complaining about.  Women have the choice in their lives to go work, stay home with their kids, or do some of both.  Men don't have that choice.  Men are severely socially stigmatized if they decide to stay home with their kids while the wife works.  Men do not have the options women do.  So why are females the ones complaining?  If I were a man, I would be pissed off at the injustice.
• If I have sex with a girl, my boyfriend doesn't need to know, right?
• How dumb do you have to be to suspend Nick Hendra? Jeff Jones you need to reinstate him, now!
• Nick Hendra is like Michael Jordan. Without him our eagles are an endangered species.
• Yo, Jeff Jones, I'll let you finish in a few, but that's got to be the biggest boneheaded decision of all time.
Is Jeff Jones getting paid off by other schools to bench our best players? If not why did he bench Hendra? Putz.
• Dear Charlie:
Can you fix something about the headlines "Mets Among Losers in MLB Offseason" Mets is synonymous with losers. It's like calling someone Fat Obese, or Skinny Thin.
EDITOR’S NOTE: As a Met fan I agree completely. 
• The fact that I have been subjected to ATV for the entire weekend has been PURE TORTURE. PUREEEEEEEEEEEEEEE TORTUREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE I WANT TO GOUGE MY EYES OUT
• ATV being the only channel available during snowpocolypse has led me to my downfall...goodbye cruel world!
• Jeff Jones liked Nick Hendra when he needed a 300th win. Now that Jeffy has it, he doesn't care.
• Can't afford housing?  Chances are you can still afford a blow job in the arboretum.
• Famous words before a disaster:
"Indians, what Indians?"-General Custer
"Iceberg alert, full speed ahead"- Captain Smith
"Lets go to the theater"-Lincoln
"Lets suspend Nick Hendra"-Jeff Jones.
• I feel like the upperclassmen complaining about housing are a vocal minority. I can't imagine anyone actually wanting to live in the dorms.
• Sad fact: I haven't met anyone at AU who'd be worth claiming my virginity. Maybe I should just hook up with the AU threesome and get this over with.
• I don't like you romantically, but I don't think you quite get it
• OMG, Mother Nature should have snowgasms more often =)
Radical postmodern Marxist queer Chicano feminist of color say: Alex Knepper can suck it.
• Today I complained about the disproportion of single women to single men on campus. MLIAU.
• I don't think snow days are anything new for the staff at the school newspaper. Everyday seems to be a snow day for "The Eagle" in terms of journalistic talent.
• College ACB you are awful

Rant here!

Type your rant here!


Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students seeking a side job will have one more option in their employment search with the launch of the Web site, mycubi.com. 
Mycubi.com enables self-employed, home-based entrepreneurs to advertise their skills and allows employers to post requests for specific jobs, according to the site’s founder, Danielle McCormick.
Student users can create profiles called “Cubis” to advertise their skills. Each Cubi contains a unique heading similar to the name of a business. On the Cubi, users have the option of displaying details about their business including pictures, services they offer, pricing, availability and a map showing where they are located.
A user can also see how many times each of his or her Cubis has been viewed.
Cubis can span a wide range of services.
“You can literally create a Cubi for any skill you have,” McCormick said in a press release.
User Mike Townsend of Camp Springs, Md., called his Cubi “Allin1mike.” He offers “everything from personal cooks, auto detailing, lawn service and home cleaning,” according to his profile.
McCormick said she had also seen Cubis made by pet grievance therapists and psychotherapists specializing in artists.
The idea for mycubi.com came to McCormick after she saw the difficulties her friends had in marketing their small businesses in their communities, McCormick said. 
“The time is right for the self-employed person to use the Internet to market at a local level,” McCormick said.
In the AU community, there is a site with a similar purpose to mycubi.com. In 2001, the AU Student Government — then called Student Confederation — created the JobCorps Web site. The site is now called AUSG Job Board. It aims to “connect AU students with neighborhood employers,” according to the site.
In 2008, the Washington Post suggested JobCorps as one way for D.C. locals to find a sitter in the city. Job Board offers its services at no cost to the clients seeking a student, according to the site.
One different feature of mycubi.com is the ability for users to hold an online video call with potential employers or employees. McCormick said this feature is not yet running but will launch soon, helping to add an element of safety to the job-seeking and hiring process.
Instant messaging will also be available via mycubi.com shortly, according to McCormick. 
Like the AUSG Job Board, mycubi.com offers its basic services for free. However, it will soon offer text message alerts for a fee and take commissions on services like therapy sessions conducted over the Web site’s video chat, according to McCormick.
Unlike mycubi.com, Job Board is limited to positions in the D.C. area. Students can create profiles, but they do not include photographs or maps.
You can reach this staff writer at sparnass@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I've always loved music movies. Maybe it's the union of two of my favorite forms of media, but even the most asinine music film will probably make a break for the top of my list. 
Recently, it's been hipster fare and music biopics that have dominated the music movie scene. With Jeff Bridges likely about to win the Oscar in the Best Actor category for his role in "Crazy Heart," however, maybe studios will sit up and take notice of the possibility for success in movies that take original music as their subject.
A Johnny Cash film or a film whose soundtrack revolves entirely around minor label bands has a built-in audience. It will make money, but it isn't giving us anything new to listen to. Certainly, there is a charm to the soundtrack album and it's a great way to get into new music that you might otherwise miss.
On the other hand, though, a movie like "Crazy Heart" or "Once" provides us with all new music to love. Yet, movies in this vein are a gamble. Think of many of the great music films that hinge on original music. Most of them, like "Crazy Heart," turn on premises that, at least on paper, don't sound like money-makers. But if the filmmakers can get that music right (and "Crazy Heart" goes a long way by including the venerable T-Bone Burnett in the process), they can transform that film from an experience that is primarily visual to one which continues to be powerfully aural long after the audience has left the theater.
Certainly, the success of "Crazy Heart," like other music movies before it, will drive sales of the soundtrack album and that the Oscar for best actor will drive sales of the DVD. However, probably like most soundtracks of its kind, it will probably never escape the position of soundtrack to become a really popular album.
"The Weary Kind," which is also nominated for best original song at the Oscars (but which I predict will be defeated by the ever-bland Randy Newman and his "Princess and the Frog" music) is a truly great song. Jeff Bridges's unique vocal style is wonderfully suited to the piece (probably because the actor was involved in the writing process from the beginning) and reviewers have harped on the song as one of the sources of the film's success.
In fact, even Bridges has often emphasized in interviews the importance of that song to the film. He even went so far as to insist in Rolling Stone magazine that "Crazy Heart" wouldn't be a movie without the song.
Yet even given all that, the Academy probably won't give the Oscar to "The Weary Kind" and sadly the listening public will probably never give it much credit outside the context of the film and its soundtrack. Why is that?
One prime reason is probably that, no matter how you slice it, it is sung by Jeff Bridges. All other horrific Hollywood music aside (think William Shatner or Bruce Willis), it's still just strange to consider that you are listening to "the Dude" croon these songs. It is hard to consider them as songs in their own right when Bridges performs them in character.
But if we can't get past that fact, we're missing the boat. The soundtrack to "Crazy Heart" is simply made up of some damn good music. Before you run and see the movie given all of its Oscar buzz, do yourself a favor and listen to the soundtrack first. Try to consider these as some great songs that just happen to be from the movie.
Maybe, given "Crazy Heart's" success, we'll get the chance to do the same with a lot more original music movies in the future. Here's hoping.
You can reach this columnist at thescene@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Braving blizzards, snowball fights and cancelled classes, AU students have been pelted with unseasonably cold weather that only Vancouver, British Columbia, the site of the 2010 Winter Olympic Games, could learn to envy.
Tomorrow, thousands of athletes, fans and audiences will watch as the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics attempts to mask the problems facing this year’s games. While many of them are minor and expected, there are the problems of a lack of snow and unusually warm weather.
According to Environment Canada weather data, the British Columbia region experienced its warmest January in history last month. The average temperature was 44.9 degrees. This number is well above D.C.'s January 2010 average temperature, recorded at 35.3 degrees by Weather.com.
Blame for the uncharacteristically warm weather has be placed on the shoulders of El Niño, an abnormal warming of surface waters in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean. Occurring every three to seven years along the coasts of Peru and Ecuador, El Niño spread north to effect weather patterns in North America.
The last time the Winter Olympics faced a no-snow scare were the 1988 in Nagano, Japan. The chances of snow looked slim. However, with the opening ceremony came more snow than Nagano could handle, forcing organizers to cancel events and leaving spectators stranded.
Especially hurt by the warm temperatures in Vancouver has been Cypress Mountain, the location of two of the games’ most popular events: freestyle skiing and snowboarding. 
Rather than pleading for Mother Nature to shed a frozen tear on Cypress, the Vancouver Organizing Committee for the 2010 Olympic and Paralympics Winter Games has responded the only way it knows how: by starting dump trucks, snowcats and helicopter engines.
The extensive effort to “make it snow” on Cypress Mountain began mid-January. Since then, over 300 truckloads of snow have made the trip from the top of Mount Strachan, where snow is being collected. Snowcats have been working around the clock, pushing dumped snow to create snowboarding and skiing course features on top of more than 1,000 bales of straw that will serve as the courses’ foundations. 
The amount of snow flown in by air-crane helicopter is equally impressive. The helicopter’s bucket, capable of holding 13,000 to 15,000 pounds, has dumped an average of 780 tons of snow per day onto Cypress Mountain since Feb. 3, according to USAToday.
Despite the continuous activity on the mountain, the VANOC and International Olympic Committee will most likely field anxious questions about the conditions of the Cypress Mountain throughout the Winter Games. 
Tim Gayda, vice president of sports for the VANOC, told USAToday in January that the manpower being used to prepare Cypress Mountain will not go to waste.
“We are running these events in Cypress,” Gayda said. “We have no intention of moving from that venue. We have enough people and enough snow to get the job done.”
President of IOC Jacques Rogge reaffirmed Gayda’s statement in a press conference Feb. 8.
“There is no concern, and there is no ‘Plan B,’” Rogge said.
In order to protect the snow on Cypress Mountain, the VANOC closed a nearby ski resort and cancelled training. Freestyle skiers were allowed their first runs down the mountain Monday, just five days before the first women’s moguls qualifiers on Saturday. Two of five halfpipe training days were canceled
In an interview with USAToday, 2006 women’s halfpipe gold medalist for the USA Hanna Teter said weather has a large impact on the quality of the halfpipe.
“It really depends on the air temperature and the humidity," Teter said. "If it’s really warm and humid, that makes for a sloppy pipe and that will really affect everybody. You’ve just got to buck up and try to ride it the best you can.”
Whatever the conditions on the slopes when the Vancouver Games begin on Feb. 12, United States women’s freestyle skier Shannon Bahrke told USAToday the athletes will not shy away from the chance to win Olympic gold.
“We’ve worked our whole lives for this,” Bahrke said. “It’s not going to be, ‘Nope, I’m not going to do it.’”
The forecast for Vancouver heading into the Olympics does not predict much help from Mother Nature, with temperatures in the low 40s and rain on the way, according to Weather.com. VANOC has chemicals they can use to harden the snow on courses, specifically the halfpipe, but hope to avoid using them until the last possible moment. 
With the snow appearing to have worked its way through D.C.’s system, AU students will now have to tune into the 2010 Winter Olympics for a reminder of what campus looked like for a week, even though the snow they will see on Cypress Mountain did not fall from the sky.
You can reach this writer at sports@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Democrats officially ceded the seat of their fallen hero — a seat they had held since the late Ted Kennedy’s brother occupied the White House — when Vice President Biden administered the oath of office to Republican Scott Brown last week. Brown’s arrival in Washington sounds the death knell for the dreamlike demands of President Barack Obama’s liberal base. Gone are the days of health care optimism and cap and trade consensus. Silence reigns where there were once cries for a second stimulus and righteous calls for a New York City civilian trial for Sept. 11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. 
At least Obama had fair warning. Fragmentation of Democratic majorities began last November in New Jersey and Virginia. At the time, I described the gubernatorial victories of Republicans Chris Christie and Bob McDonnell as needed boosts for a desperate Republican Party, not direct repudiations of Obama’s policies. For the GOP to continue such success, it would have to court Independents and field “the right candidate … trumpeting a tailored message.” Three months later, despite doomsday predictions of the Tea Party's rise, Republicans have utilized this game plan to perfection. The American public has indeed rejected the Democratic mantra of more: more spending, more debt and more centralization of power in Washington. Judging by history, however, Obama should be quietly cheering his party’s fall from grace this coming November. Yes, you heard me correctly — root for the Republicans, Mr. President. 
As a man who grounded his 2008 campaign in centrist rhetoric, Obama has been willing to punt the liberal agenda to Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Capitol Hill. On top of the criticism that boxes him in from his left and right, the president has watched the center slip from his fingers. Therefore, Obama cannot tie his legacy to Democrats in Congress if he has any hope of turning his fortunes. In fact, working with a resurgent opposition party after 2010 would insulate the president from warring factions in search of his head. Then-candidate Obama enraged many Democrats when he claimed that Ronald Reagan had altered the trajectory of the political landscape in a way Bill Clinton had not. He did not mention that, as Jonathan Rauch of the National Journal reminds us, both Reagan and Clinton, the most popular and successful recent chief executives, shared power for significant portions of their terms. Detractors to the divided government theory may argue that George W. Bush benefited from Republican majorities in Congress throughout most of his presidency. How did that go for him in the end?
Data derived from the American Presidency Project demonstrates the counterintuitive notion that a Congress run by the rival party need not cripple a sitting president. The combined concurrence percentage of combined House and Senate votes to the expressed wishes of President Eisenhower (an underrated president) was roughly 70 percent. This statistic is relatively high until you consider that less successful presidents like Jimmy Carter (77 percent) and G. W. Bush (81 percent) witnessed better levels of concurrence. Reagan left office with a 62 percent concurrence mark and a 63 percent approval rating. Clinton’s Congress voted for his policy proposals only 57 percent of the time, but he exited the White House with support from two-thirds of the nation.  
Christie, McDonnell and Brown are just the first wave. Voters are frustrated with the priorities of Democrats in Washington. The economy is slowly recovering, but it will be a long march out of the woods. Republicans are priming viable, jobs-focused candidates in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. Shift to the center and Obama could enjoy a Clintonesque revival after the midterm elections. Embrace arrogance and partisanship, and Obama’s legacy will follow the path blazed by Carter and Bush. 
Michael Stubel is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the School of Communication and a moderate libertarian columnist for The Eagle. You can reach him at edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
