Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction Appended
The Undergraduate Senate allocated more than $619,920 to student government departments and organizations for the next school year.
The Student Government distributed $594,400 in last year’s budget. The raise is due to increased enrollment, according to current SG Comptroller Ed Levandoski.
Student Activities decided to allocate more money to the SG, Media Board and the AU Club Council, according to an e-mail from Andrew Toczydlowski, the Student Activities coordinator of governance and leadership.
Of the $73.50 collected from each undergraduate each semester, $52.92 is given to the SG, according to Toczydlowski. 
The College of Arts and Sciences School Council and the Arts Council were not given any funds for next year because they didn’t request any, according to Senator for the Class of 2012 Bart Thompson, a member of the Budget Committee.
“The councils don’t operate,” Thompson said. 
The Class of 2012 also received less than half of what was given to last year’s junior class, which “reflects a change in the philosophy for the budget,” Thompson said, adding that the budget committee felt it was inappropriate to bail out rising senior councils when they had not adequately fundraised throughout previous years.
“None of the class councils do anything until they become seniors,” he said. “We didn’t want to reward that.” 
The Class of 2012 hopes to build a statue of suffragist Alice Paul, a Washington College of Law and AU graduate, to dedicate the 100th anniversary of her arrival to D.C. The statue will cost about $45,000, according to the class’s budget proposal. 
Kennedy Political Union received $8,700 more than last year. Speaker fees and general events costs rise every year, according to KPU Director Josh Levitt. 
“You need to have a budget that reflects that,” Levitt said.
KPU spent 92 percent of this year’s funds on speaker fees, according to KPU’s budget proposal for the next fiscal year. 
The Student Union Board was given $5,000 more for the same reasons, according to Special Committee on the Budget Chairman and Class of 2013 Senator Taylor Yeates. Yeates is also the comptroller-elect for next year.
Women’s Initiative was given $7,000 more this year, and the American University Transportation Organization (AUTO) received about the same amount as last year.
In future years, AUTO will not require as much money because it won’t need to buy additional vans, according to AUTO Commissioner Dave Paddock’s budget proposal. AUTO plans to buy two vans with this year’s funds.
The next fiscal year begins May 1, Levandoski said.
Fees paid by graduate students do not go toward the undergraduate Student Government.
The Budget
KPU: $183,200
SUB: $180,000
Student Government Payroll: $75,250
Founders’ Week: $49,200
Women’s Initiative: $29,000
Department of Outreach, Publicity and Recruitment: $17,000
SG General: $15,320
Department of Events: $14,500
AUTO: $14,000
Capital Maintenance: $9,000
Vice President General: $8,300
Travel Subsidy: $6,000
Class of 2012: $5,000
School of International Service Class Council: $2,600
Bike Lending: $2,500
Undergraduate Business Association: $2,450
Student Advocacy Center: $2,000
Community Service Coalition: $1,200
School of Communication Class Council: $900
School of Public Affairs Class Council: $750
Class of 2015: $500
Class of 2014: $500
Class of 2013: $500
Senate Discretionary Fund: $250
College of Arts and Sciences Class Council: $0
Arts Council: $0
Staff writer Marie Zoglo contributed to this report.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU saw a 10 percent increase in applicants this year with a record number of 18,719 freshman applications, the most in University history, according to University officials.
About 41 percent of applicants were admitted for the class of 2015, according to Director of Admissions Greg Grauman. There were 17,325 applicants for the fall 2011 semester, 400 more students than in fall 2010, according to Grauman. 
AU’s class of 2015 target enrollment is 1,550 students, according to Grauman.
Last year, 43.5 percent of AU's 16,925 applicants were admitted — a total of 7,357 students.
Grauman added that the increase in the number of applications to nearly 19,000 allowed for a more competitive pool. 
“We also were able to be more selective because we believe a higher percentage of students admitted will accept our offer,” Grauman said in an e-mail. “When an institution increases its yield rate, they are then also able to lower their admit rate as fewer admitted students are needed to ensure the enrollment target is met.” 
A yield rate is the percentage of admitted students who choose to attend a university. 
More students are also saying that AU is their first choice, according to Karen Froslid-Jones, director of Institutional Research and Development.   
Grauman said AU looks for students who put the University as their number one choice, are intellectually curious and are "wonks" who can handle the rigor of academics. However, the University's admissions process involves more than numbers on an application.   
"In the past, we might have admitted a student who academically hit the bar … a student that we know could do the work," he said. "We might get that same student now and realize from what we see in their application, from what we understand about them, we’re not seeing the fit for American University."  
$92 million: in financial aid
The class of 2015 was offered over $92 million in financial aid, an increase from last year, Grauman said. AU Central officials said numbers for that increase in aid are not yet available. 
35.5: percent of admitted students who identify as multicultural
About 33.5 percent of the class of 2015 reported they were multicultural — defined as permanent U.S. citizens who identify as non-white — compared to 29.5 percent of the class of 2014. 
There was also a 24 percent increase in the number of admitted African-Americans and 33 percent in admitted Hispanics for the class of 2015. 
The Office of Admissions is working to make each incoming class more diverse by including more domestic minorities and plans to visit high schools with significant multicultural populations and strong academic achievement, according to Grauman. 
69: days AU spent recruiting in 14 countries
The University defines some of its campus diversity by its international student base and has continued to recruit globally, Grauman said. AU spent 69 days recruiting in 14 countries, visiting 78 different schools.  
AU Admissions has also made efforts to recruit local students by participating in area college fairs and inviting D.C. public school counselors to campus for a professional development day, according to Grauman. 
20.5: percent increase in D.C. students admitted to AU
There was a 38.5 percent increase in the number of D.C. students that applied to AU, and a 20.5 increase in the number of D.C. students admitted to AU, Grauman said. 
3.9: GPA average for class of 2015
The average student in the class of 2015 has a 3.9 GPA and scored a 1300 on the SAT. The average class of 2014 student had a 3.87 GPA and scored a 1300 on the SAT. The incoming freshman class will be the strongest academically in AU history, Grauman said.
lgiangreco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Undergraduate Senate passed a resolution April 10 expressing support for a mandatory online sexual assault education course. 
AU officials oppose such mandatory education, which would create a “stop” on student accounts and possibly delay their class registration. This was a contentious point of debate between the University and some students when AU refused to submit a Department of Justice grant proposal that would give AU $300,000 over three years toward sexual assault programs and education on campus.
The grant proposal was ultimately not submitted.
The Senate also passed a bill that directed the Student Government president and Women’s Initiative officials to advocate for a confidentiality agreement for the Wellness Center’s sexual assault health educator and a confidential victim advocate.
The Senate also passed a resolution in favor of the 2011 Campus Plan, saying the “benefits that the Campus Plan brings to the University would not impose objectionable burdens on the broader community of the neighborhood and the city.”
mzoglo@theagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Student Government resolution recommending AU invest in U.S. companies that are based in or invest in Israel failed after contentious debate April 10.
Even after several revisions, the resolution failed with a vote of 10 senators for, 11 against and seven abstentions. 
Students who supported the resolution said it wasn’t political but rather made financial sense. They felt Israel was a good place to invest because of its strong economic performance during the recession and status as a world creditor, not debtor.
“This is not foreign policy. This is us using our investment money in businesses in Israel,” said College of Arts and Sciences Senator Amy Leazes, the resolution’s sponsor.  
But senators who opposed the resolution felt it was too political.
“It’s wrong for us as the student government body to support such a resolution,” said Class of 2012 Senator Roger Deming. “You can say all you want: ‘This [resolution] to me is just a business transaction.’ But I’m sorry, the Confederate flag is more than a flag.”
Students who are not in the SG voiced their opinions on the resolution during the meeting’s public comment period, before the debate on the legislation.
Former SG President Andy MacCracken, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, said he believes investing in U.S. companies that invest in Israel is a sound financial decision. 
“We [AU] have made poor financial decisions in the past. Looking forward, students need to be engaged in how we’re investing our dollars and looking at trends of where it’s most sensible to invest money,” MacCracken said. “Coming out of the financial recession that the world is just recovering from now, Israel is a nation that was least affected.”
Other students disagreed, saying that the economics and politics could not be separated on this issue and that AU support for Israel would be wrong because of Israel’s actions in Palestine.
“I am not interested in AU making financial or institutional profit. I am, on the other hand, very interested in ensuring that the investments that AU does make are in line with socially just and equal principles,” said School of International Service senior Sepideah Mohsenian. “By investing in innovation from Israel, AU is de facto supporting Israeli foreign policy.”
AU spokeswoman Maralee Csellar said AU’s finance office would need to research all funds to determine if the University invests in any companies that invest in Israel.
In 2006, AU’s Board of Trustees passed a resolution saying AU “will not invest directly in companies doing business in the oil and gas sector in Sudan.” The University also notified its investment managers to end any investments in companies doing business in the oil and gas sector.
This resolution is still in effect. 
mzoglo@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Tucked away in the far right corner of the Jacobs Fitness Center are two doors that led to the matted wrestling room. On the right side of the room lies an office that houses AU Athletics’ best kept secret: wrestling Head Coach Mark Cody. 
In his eight years with AU, Cody has rebuilt a program on the brink of elimination into a powerhouse national competitor. On March 19, AU wrestling fans, alumni and the rest of the nation watched as the team placed fifth in the 2011 NCAA Championships, a new program best.
The story behind this major feat begins and ends with Cody, who personally took center stage at this year’s championships where he received the 2011 National Wrestling Coaches Association National Coach of the Year award. 
Cody’s start in the sport can best be described as tardy. After being cut from a youth basketball team two years in a row, he decided to give wrestling a shot. 
“I kind of fell in love with wrestling as an eighth grader,” Cody said. “That was a very late start. Most kids start wrestling by the time they are 6 or 7 years old.”
Cody made up for lost time quickly and went on to wrestle in college at the State University of New York at Delhi and later at the University of Missouri. Upon graduation, Cody took up coaching as a source of income while he trained for the Olympics. He has been coaching ever since.
When Cody arrived on campus in 2002, he came with a goal and coaching style he knew would jumpstart AU’s weak wrestling program. The goal for his program was to be No. 1 in the country in academics and wrestling. It was also time to make AU wrestling a 12-month sport. 
“I like my wrestlers to be aggressive, in great shape and technically superior to their opponents,” Cody said.  “I think to obtain that, wrestling has to be a year-round commitment from your student athletes.”
Cody’s handcrafted recipe for success has had a visible impact on the student athletes who have gone through AU’s wrestling program. 
Each season, Cody’s athletes set new records on the mat. Just last month, the program sent a record six student athletes to the 2011 NCAA Championships in Philadelphia, and came away with their highest ever finish. In addition, junior Ryan Flores became AU wrestling’s second NCAA finalist, placing second in the 285 pound weight class. 
The team is also receiving recognition for their hard work in the classroom. Cody expects his team to have the highest combined GPA in Division I wrestling this season. For the first time in program history, all six wrestlers who qualified for the NCAA Championship are expected to be named Academic All-Americans, which would also be a record number of Academic All-Americans for AU wrestling. 
“We have the highest GPA we have ever had, and I am proud of that,” Cody said. “At American University, it is just as important that your kids are well-rounded as how they compete.”
Arguably the most profound impact of Cody’s coaching style has been on his student athletes post-graduation. Program alumni say that challenges in the real world are easy compared to Cody’s grueling daily practices, lifting and conditioning. 
“Alumni attribute a lot of their success to wrestling,” Cody said. “I have two guys that went through this program that are both Navy Seals, and it was tough, in a different way, but it was nothing like what we did here.”
It is this life-long impact that draws program alumni — many who did not wrestle with Cody — back to Bender Arena and on the road with the team each season. Alumni and boosters attended the NCAA Championships last month and shared in celebrating the program’s success and Cody’s award.
“They were so fired-up about what had happened throughout the weekend,” Cody said. “They give their heart and soul to the program.” 
One such alumnus is Loren Danielson, who was AU’s first ever NCAA Championship qualifier in 1979. 
“To see American University in fifth place on the scoreboard at the Championships was a monumental feat that Cody deserves the credit for,” Danielson said. “He came and took a program that was nothing and built it into a national contender with a lot of hard work.”
Cody is happy with his team’s performance at the championships but not satisfied. He is still in the hunt to be number one is the nation in wrestling and academics, and his goal is to achieve both in the same year.
Currently, Cody’s 2011 NWCA National Coach of Year plaque hangs in his 6-year-old son George’s room. George doesn’t understand that its one of a kind. Lucky for him, his father has everything it takes to bring home a similar one next year. 
kgreubel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU students did not receive text message and e-mail alerts about a “dangerous chemical spill” in the Beeghly Building for more than an hour after the building was evacuated April 7. 
A handwarmer in boiling water in Beeghly 105 set off a smoke alarm and caused the evacuation of the entire building for nearly an hour while the D.C. Fire Department’s Hazardous Materials Unit (Hazmat) responded to the incident. Beeghly was evacuated at 11:54 a.m. due to vapors of sodium acetate, a crystallized compound commonly found in handwarmers.
More than an hour later, a 1:10 p.m. campus text message and e-mail alert warned students: “Dangerous chemical spilled at Beeghley Building. Evacuate building immediately and stay away until further notice.”
Department of Public Safety Chief Michael McNair said the alert wasn’t sent out until then because Public Safety officials still weren’t exactly sure of what had happened and that they needed to wait for DCFD to investigate before sending the alert out.
 “When you have a working incident, it’s not always easy to figure out what happened and what’s going on, and you don’t want to give people erroneous information,” McNair said of the delay between the evacuation and campus-wide alert. “The problem was, it took [Public Safety officials] awhile to figure out that’s what was going on.”
McNair said Public Safety and chemistry department officials were not communicating initially to determine what exactly happened, as they were trying to evacuate the building first.
“There was a lot of milling about because nobody was providing information to the officer as to what truly had occurred,” McNair said. “Had they done that, it might have been a little bit different. They did later on, but not right away.”
McNair said there wasn’t any real danger since the building had been evacuated so there was no danger of students getting hurt.
“Really the Rave Alerts were more for students who might have had a class at two o’clock,” he said.
McNair also said the alert’s wording may have been too strong with “dangerous,”
 but the alert system is based off of templates. This template has since been revised. 
“Sometimes when you’re putting these things out you don’t realize what impact they’ll have on people,” he said. “We still scared the bejesus out of people. Maybe if we’d waited a little longer we might not have said ‘dangerous chemical.’”
Chemistry Laboratory Director Jane Ferguson said she was preparing a demonstration in the lab with the handwarmer — which contains sodium acetate, commonly found in heating pads — and water when the smoke alarm sounded.
McNair said the fume hood was not properly opened, so the room filled with smoke, setting off the alarm.
Ferguson was not in the room when the alarm went off and neither were students, she said.
Sodium acetate is non-flammable and is “kind of like burning table salt,” Ferguson said while standing outside Beeghly in her white lab coat during the evacuation.
An automated alarm reacted to a vapor in the lab, according to Public Information Officer Pete Piringer of the D.C. Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department.
Four fire trucks, an ambulance, the Hazmat truck and various DCFD SUVs and trucks responded to the call at 12:37 p.m. Piringer said the building was evacuated smoothly, and no one was sick or exposed to the compound.
The Hazmat Unit, dressed in encapsulated suits with air tanks, opened windows and blew fans to ventilate the building, Piringer said.
“It’s all precautionary,” he said.
Post-baccalaureate student Mary Smith said she was on the fourth floor of Beeghly when the alarm sounded. She and freshman Mary May Kozlik grabbed their coats and evacuated the building.
“Everything was pretty relaxed. We thought it was a fire alarm, a practice alarm,” Smith said during the evacuation, still wearing her medical gloves. “But because it’s the chemistry department, everyone was worried.”
Smith and Kozlik said the fire department’s response was “not very urgent at all.” Students were allowed to collect their belongings from Beeghly only on the first floor.
McNair said allowing students back into the first floor, where the incident occurred, was a mistake. He said officials needed to have secured a better perimeter, keeping students farther away from the building.
He also said officials should work to set up a command post, where all officials should meet to exchange information, in the event of a future incident. 
AU sent out another text and e-mail alert at 1:38 p.m., notifying students that an all clear had been given for the building. The building was re-opened at 2:03 p.m.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Dance is generally stereotyped as a cold, feminine and old-fashioned art form. However, in the classrooms of the Katzen Arts Center, the AU Department of Performing Arts is blooming with youth, energy and talent, all showcased in last weekend’s Spring Dance Concert, “VHF: Very High Frequency.”
“We’re a quiet program in Katzen where students do exceptional work,” Artistic Director Melanie George said. “Every day we do hard work and pour our blood, sweat and tears into it. Our job is just to make everything look easier than it is.”
The April 9 dance concert featured eight pieces, including four student-choreographed dances and two guest works, all ranging from ballet to jazz to modern dance. CityDance Ensemble’s Christopher K. Morgan, who also teaches a course in modern dance at AU, choreographed one of the guest works.
“In my creation of a piece, I try to feature and challenge the dancer,” Morgan said. “Whether it’s professional or AU dancers, I try to challenge myself to find connections in movement.”
Morgan’s piece, titled “Currency Exchange,” was influenced by his experiences abroad while traveling with CityDance. The modern dance is comprised of abstract images set to an Arabian-sounding score composed by Egyptian composer Hamza El Din.
“Modern dance has a lot of potential,” Morgan said. “I’m mystified by the structure and story in ballet, but modern has a much more expressive movement.”
Modern was prominently featured on the concert, with four of the eight pieces in the style of modern dance. The best of these was that of the other guest choreographer Kim Karpanty, “(Meta)Morphoses,” an original, inspired and wonderfully performed dance that turned primal Tarzan-like movements into graceful poses. 
That is not to say the students’ work should be devalued. Rachel Hoopes’ modern dance “The Forms of Women” was ethereal, emotional and delightfully minimalist. Samantha Schreier’s jazz piece “The Tourists” was cute and quirky, providing a much-needed does of hilarity in an otherwise somber dance concert. And Ellie van Bever’s ballet “To Move Forward” was a wonder to watch, featuring dancers in orange jumpsuits pirouetting to Bach’s “Concerto for Two Violins in D Minor.”
“The four wonderful student works really showed their growth as choreographers,” George said. “That investment is something you can’t manufacture.”
But the success of the concert wasn’t just the product of a few talented individuals. It was the hard work and commitment of dozens of talented dancers, teachers and staff.
“Because we’re such a small program, my agenda as head of the program is to encourage the growth of the community,” George said. “We’re always working with people, always in the moment. Nothing exists twice. My teaching and choreography is all about people dealing with people.”
This sense of community was also a deciding factor in George and Morgan’s audition process. Morgan described watching what happens on the sides of the room rather than just focusing on the people onstage. George said that most people such as herself spend very little time onstage, so community is very important.
“Willingness to work together is as important as strong techniques,” said Morgan. “We’re responsible to the creative process and to the art.”
hbui@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
When a crisis, incident or accident occurs, there’s usually a system in place that helps inform citizens of the danger. Our city has Alert D.C. AU has RAVE alerts. These alerts are designed to, well, alert students of the goings-on in a situation so students know what to do in the event of an emergency. Last Wednesday, students who were signed up for RAVE alerts received three messages within a span of half an hour describing an incident that sounded like the next Three Mile Island. In reality, the incident was akin to a minor laboratory goof-up with a chemical as harmless as “table salt,” according Chemistry Laboratory Director Jane Ferguson. Also note that the alert was sent more than an hour after the incident.
Was it necessary to send out such an alert, especially after it was sent an hour after the building was evacuated? Though Public Safety’s (one of the two departments authorized to send the alerts) policy is to wait for all the details of the incident before sending out an alert, it took them almost an hour after the alarm went off to ascertain the situation. In emergency situations, time is of the utmost importance, and any delays can be costly. Though this situation posed no threat to the campus community, if a dangerous situation were to occur, we would hope for a much faster response time.
Was the wording of this alert necessary? Not at all — the “dangerous chemical spill” was a minor chemical vapor that set off an alarm and posed no viable threat to students and faculty in the building. RAVE alerts are based off templates, which can be useful in sending out an alert quickly, but harmful if they misstate or overstate a situation. In this case, the template system did more harm than good — heaven forbid you knew anyone in Beeghly at that time and had a minor heart attack over a text message.
After the incident, Public Safety revised its alert system to better reflect individual situations. But the fact remains that Chemistry Department officials and Public Safety officials were not effectively communicating. 
Yes, their main goal was to evacuate the building, but other universities have been criticized (and even fined) for not effectively implementing an emergency message system in a time of crisis. Though last week’s incident hardly qualifies as a crisis, if AU wants to have an effective emergency message system in place, it needs to revise its system so as to get out an accurate message quickly.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Dear frat boy down the hall,
You suck. That is all.
I really dread the days when it gets warm out and there are frat guys throwing a football out on the quad. Some of the guys were never taught to throw and throw like girls. I am a girl and I was properly taught how to throw a football. I am honestly embarrassed for them. It is also a huge turn off.
Phonathon: where dreams go to die.
Hey Nate Bronstein, Ima let you finish, but that's a freaking truckload of e-mail addresses, man.
Dear McDowell 6: Look, I don’t care if you guys are slightly (very) revelrous. Be young! Carpe diem! Gesundheit! But stomping around and yelling at 2 in the morning? Pretty dickish, and it’s a lot louder than you think. So just cool it and respect quiet hours, please? I don’t want to start a thing. Cheers, a McDowell resident
JUST BECAUSE YOU HAVE ISSUES IS NO REASON FOR YOU TO BE A COMPLETE JERK FOR ME.
I'm pretty sure having this many flowers on campus is essential to my mental well being. The AU Grounds Crew rocks!
I am NOT a WONK. I am NOT a narrow-minded technocrat who specializes in one field. I am a broad-minded liberal arts major who enjoys learning about all sorts of subjects and takes pride in being well-rounded and NOT married to just ONE subject.
Dear Eagle,
Can you please actually cover all the interesting events that Women’s Initiative is hosting this month? They seem to all fall on times when I have class, but I would like to read about them before I graduate. Thank you.
why am I always the person who people come to talk about their problems with? Sure, I would always help a friend who needs to talk about a crazy boyfriend or what they want to do after graduation, but I get sick and tired of people whining about having homework, going to work or waking up at 8 a.m. Meanwhile, I have a mother diagnosed with a non-curable form of cancer, a father who has been unemployed for a year and I wake up at 6 a.m. Mon-Friday. I don't mind being the "dependable" friend, but it would be nice to have SOME type of recognition or for somebody to have the same consideration I show for them. So next time you're whining to a friend about how you didn't get the yoga class you wanted, think about what they might be dealing with while they listen to your meaningless rant. THANKS
No. WONK and Roosevelt Institute both live on the same level of Hell. Do not try to compliment WONK like that.
You are wrong. I can be a housewife after college while at the same time being a feminist. Why does raising the future generation of children get such little respect? The whole issue of family is completely ignored by feminist groups.
You know what I want? I want a guy to hook up with who won't either treat me like crap whenever I'm not naked or become clingy and needy and try to ask me questions about where this is going. Can't we just have sex, be friends and not take anything too seriously?
To the girl who yelled at me for trash talking Blends at Acapalooza: Yeah, I shouldn't have said anything in public. It was rude, I know. However, being out of tune is not a matter of opinion. It's a fact, and Blends was SO out of tune.
Is it so bad that I just want to live-rant the music that the Dav plays?  #sometimesshuffleisembarrassing
To the people who apparently hate the very idea of Women's Initiative: get over yourselves. If you really think women have no particular issues worth pursuing, you live in an ivory tower taller than theirs. If you think we need a Men's Initiative, get on that. Complaining at Students for Liberty meetings does nothing.
Sharks have a week dedicated to Nate Bronstein.
Nate Bronstein once challenged his reflection in a mirror to a staring contest.  He won
It's not illegal to ride your bikes on the sidewalk in D.C.  For once, will you people look something up and learn about the city you live in?
Can we stop with the smoking stuff already? There have been several smoking comments every week for a month or two now. We get the point. Now shut up
@ The Eagle article on the number of people AU students sleeps with was completely disgusting and one sided to me.  My number is one and it is going to stay that way for the rest of my life. Unless I know I am with the one person I am going to spend the rest of my life with, then I am not just going to hand over my body like fast food to some guy I meet at a party. Respect yourselves, people.
I didn't read that article, but my number is 9 and I don't think I have a problem with self-respect. I don't "hand it over" to "some guy" when I have a one-night stand — my body is MINE and when I have sex it's because I'm respecting my body's needs. I sleep around because I like to have sex. Having sex with someone doesn't mean they own you — it means both of you (hopefully) had a good time and shared a connection. That's it. Self-respect means I do what I want with my body without caring what judgmental pricks like you have to say about it.
Random statement of anger over arbitrary thing that can only be blamed on fate! DAMN YOU TO HELL!!!
Dear Student Health Center,
I came in and spent $35 for you to tell me that I'm not sick, though clearly I am. But that's not even why I'm mad. You. Lost. My. Forms. That's ridiculous. It can't be that difficult to put a paper in a folder. I saw it done right before my eyes when I filled it out a SECOND time. Not only is it unprofessional, it's insulting. I don't particularly enjoy writing down all of my family's serious illnesses. It borders on ethics. There are certain negative aspects that come with the territory of acquiring medical care. I'm fine with that. Forcing me to recount my family's hardships is not one of those acceptable tribulations. AU, the Student Health Center is clearly understaffed/under-trained/whatever. If I'm paying all this tuition money, I expect my forms TO BE IN MY FOLDER! ...That is all. Thank you.
Why must you have a girlfriend? You obviously have a crush on me and it's driving me nuts in class when I see you sneaking looks at me. Argh.
I don't smoke, but I'd rather hang out with smokers than all the uptight jerks in this week's rants. Seriously, stop parroting everything you learned in your high school health class! Everything causes cancer. And even if you're allergic to smoke or something, stop whining — it's not that hard to avoid on campus. I can't even remember the last time I smelled smoke on campus and it was probably when I was voluntarily hanging out with friends who were smoking. If you're annoyed by people smoking near you, move! It's not like they're smoking indoors! And if you happen to walk through a cloud of smoke, get over it — the world does not revolve around you and it will not end because something smelled bad for .5 seconds in your life.
AU asks, "What kind of WONK are you?" Well, do you want the short answer or the long answer?
To the person who left his used cigarette butt on the floor of my hall: Are you serious? Get a flipping life. This is my home, damn it. How would you like it if I defecated on your doormat? Pretty sure you wouldn't appreciate it very much. Grow the frick up.
Holy wonk there were a lot of rants last week.
So happy I came to AU when they still let me place out of college writing. They're about to screw over a bunch of people who, you know, went to competent high schools.
A friend of mine, after telling multiple stories of how he hooked up repeatedly over the past few years, started complaining about not having a girlfriend at the moment. As someone who's had considerably less action, I wanted to punch him in the face.
@The Eagle, You guys are awesome! The Eagle and the rants are probably the things I will miss the most from AU (apart from my friends, of course).
Dear Greek Week,
I have not problem with you all going all out and raging for a week, celebrating your brotherhood and sisterhood and sharing all the good things about greek life with the rest of us. There are great aspects of greek life like philanthropy, support and the dedication to having a good time. It reminds me that while not a good fit for me, greek life is a great opportunity for many students.
But please. Clean up after yourselves. Did you even take a backward glance after you left Tenley on Saturday? It was absolutely disgusting both outside on the field and inside the building. Mud was tracked everywhere, and I know you don't have control over the weather but a little consideration for the space you occupy would go a long way. Don't litter, we don't need to live the rest of our weekend with your leftover shit everywhere.
Thanks.
That awkward moment when someone thinks that the rant you wrote is somebody else's.
I don't know, I kinda like the WONK thing. Could be a lot worse.
Living well (better than you) is the best revenge.
AU, please hire me. I just applied. I'm a poor first-year graduate student who can't find a job that pays enough to pay her tuition bills.
RE: What is that truck that’s been on the quad?
The EatWonky truck? They're an awesome and delicious poutine truck that is independent and unaffiliated with AU. It's just a coincidence that their foodtruck business started out before AU debuted the god-awful WONK campaign. Learn more about it here: HYPERLINK "http://eatwonky.com/about"http://eatwonky.com/about
Dear Bike-Haters,
In D.C., it's totally legal for bikes to ride on the sidewalk. The only exception is downtown where there are clearly marked and established bike lanes. Furthermore, cyclists are allowed a FULL lane of the road, though some cyclists find it more comfortable to ride at the sides of the lanes. These laws change when in different Md. counties. Maybe do some research and get your facts straight before you receive a U-lock to the face.
Sincerely,
A Disgruntled Cyclist
April 5 Eagle Rants kind of suck. Maaaan, do we all need to get away from AU for a while.
I love this school. So far the most annoying thing is the people who rant. Grow up, stop being ungrateful and stopped being annoyed by such trivial things. Everyone here has it pretty good so stop being so whiny! And enjoy yourself
Sexwonks are too vanilla. And while I recognize vanilla as a kink, go beyond it.
We are going to be apart for a while, are you as distressed as I am? Let me know.
Big bald shuttle driver, I guess whole attempt at chivalry would have been cool back in the ’50s. But making me go to the back of the shuttle line so that all the girls can get on first and making me stand up so that a girl can take the seat I was in is really lame. Stop treating people differently because of their sex.
When my ghetto roommate threatened me both in person and on Facebook and screamed in my face, I told the Resident director, thinking he would do something. Since it is AU, he ignored my problem for two weeks. If I told AU I was living with a murderer they still would probably take their damn time. Sincerely, a student who’s sick of our disciplinary system that hardly seems to exist.
Just read these for the first time in a while and geez are people getting long-winded. For future reference fellow Eagle Ranters, if it's more than two sentences, people probably don’t care what you're upset about.
ACADEMICS: STOP BEING SUCH A COCKBLOCK
Watching the Humans vs. Zombies game this week is awesome. Things like this make me so proud of this nerdily wonderful school. Plus, anything that distracts me from the vortex of school and job-hunting is good these days.
Being at a school with more girls than guys, I should be happy that there is a guy who wants to be with me. He's being very nice and genuine, yet I've heard sketchy things about him. Not sure how to deal with this situation. :(
But I really like this other guy who I’ve hung out with a few times, and he's accompanying me to formal. Should I stick with the safe option (aka the formal date?) or should I hang out with the guy who's been very nice/genuine yet is possibly sketchy? Ahh.
AUNP came to facilitate a simulation in my IPCR class and it absolutely solidified my decision to go PCR for my functional field. Thanks AUNP for reminding me why I'm an SIS major in the first place! :D :D
Much love,
-A future negotiator
The ninjas who are in Jacobs Monday and Wednesday nights are absolutely BAMF. You guys(and gals) frighten me a little bit.
Five classes + five papers + three group projects + four finals + four weeks = FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
OMG I'M SO EXCITED FOR COLIN POWELL I CAN'T EVEN HOLD IT IN NOT FOR ONE INSTANT. COLIN. FREAKING. POWELL. I love you KPU.
The only place in D. C. where riding on the sidewalk is illegal is in the central business district. I'm sorry if someone made it impossible for your posse to walk in a three-person-wide, four-person-deep huddle for a total of two seconds as he passed you. I'm extra sorry if you had to step off the sidewalk to let someone pass because everyone knows grass and dirt combine to make lava.
I think AU should offer an HFIT meditation class. It would make so much sense.
Didn't I go to school for 12+ years before coming to AU to become “generally educated”?  And didn't I have to prove that with a whole bunch of sufficient or above scores before I was accepted to study at AU?  Thought so.  GFY Gen Ed requirements.
Phonathon is where dreams go to die.
The Tavern/Salsa workers are such characters and I love them all.  Even the grumpy ones.  They're just extra character-y.
"Can I get a
CHEEEEEEEESE
BURGEEEEEEER!"
#shittavworkerssay
GREEK WEEK IS THE BEST WEEK OF THE YEAR.
No one is entitled to anything.
@personal family issues ranter
My family is totally dysfunctional too. I hate the fights over rent money and everything. The bright side is that it gets much better when you graduate and become independent. The possible downside is that when you do find that real love, you may feel guilty that you love that person more than you love your own family. It's not necessarily a bad thing but a very awkward, unexpected feeling.
I recently noticed a sharp uptick in the number of bottle refilling spouts attached to water fountains. I am now so much more hydrated. AU WIN!!
Stats on Greek Week 2011:
Greeks Give Back collected almost 1,000 items of non-perishable food and over 1,400 cards for overseas troops. *EVENT OPEN TO ENTIRE AU COMMUNITY*
Pi Kappa Phi Wheelchair Basketball raised $4,000. *EVENT OPEN TO ENTIRE AU COMMUNITY AND NEIGHBORHOOD*
SigEpic Comedy Night was also OPEN TO ALL AU STUDENTS.
Yes, some of the other events were targeted towards greeks. About 20% of students at AU are affiliated in a greek organization. If you can find a good reason why these students shouldn't be proud of their organizations, let me know. The Greek Programming Board worked for months to fundraise for the week, organize events, get sponsors and make the week as successful as possible. The events went on even with cold temperatures, rain storms, hail storms and more rain storms.
Stop complaining about how much fun greek life had last week and plan your own week of fun. They enjoyed it and have sunglasses to prove it.
Wait, why is Nate Bronstein such hot commodity around here? Really guys? I mean, he's a nice enough person, I guess, but nothing that special. Am I the only one who doesn't think he walks on water?
"uhhhhh green tea has no caffeine. Where have you been?"
Umm green tea has four times as much caffeine as white tea and over half as much as coffee. What planet do you live on?
Dear SG,
Please do something about the horrific Health Center policies. Why can they bill my doctor's appointment fee home but are incapable of billing the $20 co-pay home? This makes no sense. And if I have to pay $20 to go to the health center, I will just not go, and instead spread my untreated STDs around campus. You're welcome.
Do you seriously think you are CONSIDERATE for throwing your cigarette in the trashcan SOMETIMES instead of throwing it on the ground? Wow. Your narcissism astounds me. Smoking in public is narcissistic. Smoke in your own house/apartment and give YOURSELF cancer. The rest of us prefer to see our future grandkids grow up, thank you very much.
Why does TDR never have blackberries?
I miss Dairy Queen.
To the smoker who dislikes the lack of disdain for drug dealers: Last time I checked, prostitution and marijuana don't cause cancer. SMOKING CIGARETTES DOES. I work hard to stay healthy. If you want to smoke yourself to death, do it in your own residence, not on AU's campus.
Agreed. Green tea keeps me up all night. To the person who is ignorant about caffeine content: I recommend you use 'the internets' to gain yourself some sense (and some basic knowledge about caffeine).
To the selfish people who walk around campus smoking: Some people have asthma or severe allergies and your smoking puts them in danger. It's more than just an inconvenience. Please be considerate of others. And my professor is pregnant. I'm sure she doesn't appreciate her baby being subjected to secondhand smoke because you are too selfish to smoke in private.
I'm really sick of all the class warfare on campus. Yes I have a $10 million trust fund. But I shop at thrift stores (on the rare occasions I do shop) and I am not flashy with my money. Stop judging everyone and dismissing them just because they are rich. I want to devote my life to solving international conflict for little to no pay. I am NOT shallow just because I have money.
I wish someone were generous enough to offer free meal swipe for students like me who live off-campus.
- Student who is hungry and wishes to have some good TDR food!
I love the penis-shaped and breast-shaped lollipops! We should have more of those to suck on daily!
:o
I told my mother I have a girlfriend. Her first answer was "Does she know?"
Dear Eagle Rants Editors,
Do you really not fact check idiotic false statements people make that are easily googleable? Green tea DEFINITELY has caffeine. Everyone knows that (except last week's confused ranter).
[Editor’s Note: The Eagle only edits Rants for occasional grammar, spelling and Associated Press style errors. We leave accuracy and opinion up to you ranters.]
It's kind of messed up how a romantic interest can control your emotions and well-being. I haven't hooked up / been involved with a single person at AU and I am totally fine with that. 
To the person who says we should get off the smokers' backs because lots of people have alcohol vices: If someone wants to get drunk until they throw up, that is their own health problem. It isn’t affecting MY health. I would have no problem with smokers if their habit were only affecting them (i.e. if they smoked in their own room). But I have a problem with smokers walking around smoking and spreading toxic cancerous fumes for people who DO NOT chose that lifestyle. They are forcing their bad habits on me. And that is not okay. When will AU join the hundreds of other colleges around the country that have become tobacco free?
I wish I had a puppy. I need someone/something to love me.
To the person who says we shouldn't care about smoking because everything causes cancer: Wow. You really need to take a health class or a statistics class. Or just get some common sense. Smoking doesn't just possibly lead to some negative consequences. It's been proven above and beyond to be extremely toxic. Have you seen pictures of babies born to mothers who smoke? Well, THAT IS WHAT YOU ARE DOING TO THE REST OF CAMPUS.
The worst kind of hypocrites are people who claim to care about the environment, but then go out and smoke, releasing toxic chemicals into the air and accelerating global warming.
Dear Eagle Rants Editors,
Please learn your grammar. I submit Eagle Rants with correct punctuation and then you change them.
Correct Example: I am going to the store to buy milk, eggs, and cheese.
Incorrect example: I am going to the store to buy milk, eggs and cheese.
Note the comma.  And please stop erasing the commas from my Eagle Rants because you destroy the rants and create needlessly long sentences that were meant to be compounded by a comma.
[EDITOR’S NOTE: We take out the comma because Associated Press Style dictates that there is no comma before the word “and” in a list. But we appreciate your concern for our writing skills.]
Dear girl in the library who is alternately laughing and crying loudly,
Please leave. You're weirding me out.
Okay, seriously, where are the single people?
What is up with all the self righteous a*******. Everyone has some sort of opinion or trait that they think trumps everyone else's. Count the number of rants that say "some of actually" followed by something very elitist.
Am I the only one that thinks livetweeting reactions to Colin Powell was a bad idea? Seriously, a bunch of kids tweeting while you're speaking to them? Talk about rude.
To the girl who wrote,
"I let my friends walk all over me. I pay dues to a sorority whose girls collectively don’t give a shit about me or my wellbeing. I drunkenly hook up with random guys well past the point where I would soberly say stop. I hope one day I stop feeling so worthless and isolated and gain some self-esteem."
 Your rant really affected me. I have been in the same position many times before. I know that it sounds stupid, but the best advice someone ever gave me was that you won't be loved or respected if you don't have love or respect for yourself. It made me really angry when I first heard it, but eventually I built up my self-confidence, it took a long time, and it wasn't easy. Although, you’re already a member of sorority maybe you could try joining an on-campus club or at least go to one of their events to give yourself a change of scenery where you can meet new people who might share the same interests as you. At the very least it will give you a break from your negative surroundings and you'd be doing something that you find interesting or enjoy with other people with similar interests. I just want to tell you that you're not worthless and to keep your head up. Don't let people walk all over you. I tried for years to make everyone around me happy and as a result sacrificed my own happiness. It's time you put yourself first. I'm not trying to preach to you. But, I hope in someone you get this message and it makes you feel better by knowing that there are people out there who care.
WVAU's new general manager is a fox!
President Kerwin,
Do the right thing. Give professor Berard tenure.
This time they are playing Pocahontas music.  This comes shortly after Evanescence.  #davmusicrants
To the guy that helped the door open for me as I was running to the East Quad Building: Thank you. You brightened my morning and proved that nice guys actually exist.
Colin Powell was AWESOME ... That is all.
To the people running the front desk every time I try to pick up a package:
Your job isn't that hard. Seriously, stop looking at me like I asked you to fly to the moon to pick up a box for me.
 
How many Wonks does it take to fix the flagpole?
I can't believe that so many people went to hear Colin Powel in Bender Arena. This guy has blood on his hands, lied to the entire population for the sake of his career and ideology, and when he comes here to explain that he is raising fund for a visitor center at the Vietnam War Memorial, you applaud him? There wouldn't be any need for Vietnam War Memorial without people like him. When I was 8, my country was bombed for more than a thousand days, because of people like him, forcing me to move and become a refugee. Shame on you who welcomed him like a movie star. You encourage the next generation of hawks.
I'm doing my internship back home this summer, and I still have to pay AU tuition. I'm lucky enough to get paid $3,500 by Americorps for my work, but I still have to pay AU upwards of $4,000! ARE YOU KIDDING ME?!?!
Alright listen you self righteous brat, I know you think your crap don't smell and I know you love love LOVE to hear yourself talk, but you are not the professor, so shut the hell up.
Here's something you don't read everyday — I know secrets that can bring down some very important people here at AU. Keep reading ...
Even though you guys rag on me, I still love ya.
The reason 51 percent of AU students say they don't drink is because everybody knows if you tell AlcoholEdu you don't drink, the test is shorter. Nice try.
Gott ‘em.
This rant page was super long.
Dear housemate, you are not the queen of the universe. Just because you are the "artist" that does not mean that everyone must love you as much as you love yourself. No one wants to use their keys to open the front door. But no one expects the door to open for them, except you. You are in the real world, deal with it. MTFU.
RE: If you push the automatic door-opener in MGC or Ward or any of the other buildings and are not visibly disabled (including on crutches), carrying something large/heavy or elderly, be aware: I am judging you.
I don't give a crap, and you seem to have an awfully high opinion of yourself to think that this rant will make me.  Seriously, don't be a tool.
Dear Dav,
You have a Narnia reference in Harry Potter font.  Unacceptable.  You should know better.
Regards,
- A Hogwarts Transfer
What's more annoying than the obvious common sense PA announcements in Metro stations about how to use the Metro? The tourists who need those announcements blasted even louder into their ears because they have no common sense.
So you can talk the talk, but can you wonk the wonk?
... You can't force a dance party, you can't force a dance party, but for you I'll try ...
Today on the AU shuttle, some incredibly handsome young man started dancing, singing and clapping his hands. He kept insisting through song that he was on a "party bus." He then impressively improvised verses about how society made him feel he couldn't express himself and since he couldn't take it anymore, he was going to dance and sing in public. He invited everyone on the bus to join in, but we all declined. Why are we so afraid to dance and sing in public? I want to get on the party bus.
Quiet floor. No talking. Damn wonkers.
Dear ranters, if you're trying to send somebody a message through Eagle Rants, be sure to have enough clues of who you are so nobody gets confused. Because I'm really confused wondering if what I just read pertains to me. DAMN YOU ANONYMITY!
I chose to study abroad in the fall because D.C. in the spring is so great. OK D.C. ... It’s time to start getting great.
I don't understand you. You seem to tell me one thing and do the other even though you know, at least you should know, that it hurts me. I'm shutting down, now, and closing myself off. Have fun slowing killing me on the inside.
I hope the twitching tree in the library gets new leaves this spring. It's looking sad.
This week two of my rants were published. I shat myself with pride.
Dear Professors,
Can we please all just sing Kumbaya and have excellent class discussion without the papers and project? I'm really not feeling it.
Sincerely,
- A Weary Student
I just wanna say: The Tenleytown Starbucks is an absolute excellent place to study.  The customers are generally friendly, the drinks delicious and the baristas know my drink when I walk in the door.
I'm ranting instead of paper writing. WHY?
I was hanging with the fellas
Saw you with your new boyfriend, it made me jealous
I was hoping that I'd never see you with him
But it's all good, 'cause I'm glad that I met him
Heh
'Cause now I know the competition's very slim to none
And I can tell by looking that he's not the one
He's not the type you said you liked
His style is wack, clothes are bad
Come on, girl, let him go
I want you back
@Can we publish the year’s eagle rants in a book, please?
HELLZ YEAH.  Then we could all put "published writer" on our resume's. DO IT EAGLE DO IT.
PS. I mean, you'd make bank.
 

Rant here!
 Type your rant here!  



Never miss a story
        Get our weekly newsletter delivered right to your inbox.
        

Email Address 






 






More from The Eagle






Opinion: AU’s response to what happened in Kerwin Hall will not keep us safe 







Opinion: The US is designed for cars — not people







Opinion: What it’s like being an immunocompromised student at AU





Rant here!
 Type your rant here!  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU women’s lacrosse team was able to fight off a surging Lafayette Leopards team by a score of 10-9 on Saturday in Easton, Pa. The win snaps a two-game losing streak for the Eagles.
Junior Lauren Schoenberger led the team as she picked up three goals in the contest. She now has 23 points this season with 12 goals and 11 assists. Junior Bernadette Maher also had a good game, recording two goals, four draw controls, two ground balls and two caused turnovers. She leads AU in goals with 25 on the season. In total, seven players scored in the win and junior Kaska Komosinski made seven stops in goal.
Sophomore Samantha Marshall scored the first goal about four minutes into the game. She is in a tie with Maher for second on the team with 27 points this season. Lafayette then started to rally and took an early 3-2 lead. Schoenberger followed that up by leading the Eagles to a 4-0 run with back-to-back goals, both off passes by sophomore Kimberly Collins, the Eagles’ points leader on the season, to give AU a 6-3 lead.
Collins picked up a goal of her own in the run, as did sophomore Chiara Speziale. The Leopards scored a goal to make the score 6-4, but a goal by Maher increased AU’s lead to 7-4 before heading into halftime.
Maher and sophomore Eliza Morgan began the second half with goals to extend the Eagles’ lead to 9-5. But two consecutive goals by Lafayette cut the lead to 9-7 with 13:07 to go. Lisa Schaaf answered back with a goal to make it a 10-7 game. Two more Leopard goals made the score 10-9 with 2:38 left, but that score would not change as the Eagles tightened up their defense and forced a turnover with 33 seconds left in the game. 
Lafayette had a chance to score when the Eagles turned the ball over with eight seconds to go, but it was too little, too late for the Leopards, and they did not have enough time to score.
AU clearly outplayed Lafayette in this one as they led in shots, ground balls and caused turnovers.
The win puts the Eagles at 7-6 on the season and 3-2 versus Patriot League opponents. AU takes on Navy at Jacobs Field on Wednesday, April 13 at 4:00 p.m. 
Lafayette’s loss was just another in a line of many as the Leopards have struggled mightily this season. Saturday’s loss dropped their record to 2-10 overall and 1-4 in Patriot League play. They beat Bucknell 13-11 last Saturday to pick up their first conference win, but before that had lost six straight games.
blasky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Surfer Bethany Hamilton became a media sensation at the age of 13 for the shark attack that took her entire left arm in 2003, her talent on the water and her strong faith in God.
The film “Soul Surfer” is based on Hamilton’s autobiography. But while it has some breathtaking shots of Hawaii, it failed to do justice to Hamilton’s inspiring story.
It assumes that, since Bethany’s story is so famous, the movie didn’t need to be written well. Aside from the performances by seasoned veterans Helen Hunt and Dennis Quaid, the best parts of the movie were when nobody was talking.  
The dialogue was incredibly awkward and extremely heavy-handed in the religion department. Hamilton says that her faith is what helped her keep her head above water, but the film tended to force the audience into it. For example, the producers attempted to air brush the words “Holy Bible” off of a book Bethany’s father holds in the movie in order to open up to non-Christian audiences. But at the Hamilton family’s insistence, the Bible remained in the final cut.
There’s no denying that then-13-year-old Bethany’s story is remarkable. She was back on her surfboard a month after the tiger shark attack that should have killed her and was awarded the Excellence in Sports Performance Yearly Award for “Best Comeback Athlete” in 2004.
But “Soul Surfer” is a movie targeted at girls who are too young to be able to recognize a well-made movie. Unfortunately, adults will have to take them to this movie and suffer through it for their daughters.
From a sports movie standpoint, there was no shortage of fantastic shots from above and beneath the water as the stunt doubles ripped along the waves. There was also no shortage of good cinematography in the film — otherwise it would have simply been a waste of two hours that no one could ever get back.  
The film also doesn’t do anything to help Hollywood’s misrepresentation of sharks. One scene shows a dead shark hanging in the Hamilton’s front yard surrounded by an angry mob. Dennis Quaid shakes his head at the shark as if it’s not in its nature and it purposely sought out his daughter to destroy her life. 
Hamilton is indeed as remarkable as all the countless stories and news specials say, but “Soul Surfer” does not live up to the legend. The film may inspire young girls with a story of faith and perseverance — but so could any movie on the Disney Channel.  
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
When an opportunity comes up for an additional $300,000 to help the victims of sexual assault and prevent further ones from happening, you’d think that AU would be all over it. In addition to the programs we already have, getting that extra funding would be a big step toward reducing rape on campus. Nothing too controversial there, right?
Wrong. When the University decided to apply for a Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) grant, they failed to follow through on their original decision. And one of the main reasons was that the grant requires all incoming freshman to complete a sexual assault education program, like AlcoholEdu, except it’s actually mandatory. And that’s a reason I just flat-out don’t understand.
Seriously, can anyone give me one good reason not to make sexual assault education mandatory? I’m sorry, but is it too much of an annoyance for freshmen to find a stop on their account because they didn’t complete SexualAssaultEdu? The consequences of having a student body uneducated about sexual assault far outweigh the mild annoyance of having to do this course.
Incoming freshmen are about to enter a world that’s completely new and will confront them with situations they’ve never considered before. Yes, there is usually a rape component to high school health (although, who knows what you learn in abstinence-only programs), but it’s often a very “No means no!” based program. And sex in college is a hell of a lot more complicated than that.
This type of education actually can help students understand sexual assault. Despite the complaint that AlcoholEdu is “cheesy,” it actually seems to work. Study after study finds that students who enter freshman year without completing AlcoholEdu have a significantly higher chance of engaging in “problematic drinking,” “high-risk drinking-related behavior” and overall drink considerably more than their peers who complete AlcoholEdu. There’s no data on SexualAssaultEdu specifically, but it’s probably fair to extrapolate that these online programs are somewhat effective.
So why not make SexualAssaultEdu mandatory? And why let that stand in the way of getting even more funding for sexual assault prevention and programming? There’s almost nothing you can do that’s crossing the line in terms of preventing sexual assault.
Emi Ruff-Wilkinson is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences and the winner of The Eagle’s Next Great Ratner contest.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The title of “Happythankyoumoreplease” is quite apropos — you will leave the theater grateful and wanting more of its offbeat charm. If you are already groaning at the prospect of yet another contrived indie rom-com à la “500 Days Of Summer” or the movie version of “Friends” or the millennials’ answer to “Singles,” you will find yourself pleasantly surprised.
In “Happythankyoumoreplease,” director, writer and star Josh Radnor (“How I Met Your Mother”) forgoes the hipper-and-more-clever-than-thou approach in favor of an unassuming, natural dialogue and genuinely likable characters. And if there is such a thing as a New York “vibe,” the movie captures it spot-on.  
The lead character, Sam (Radnor), is an aspiring novelist on the way to a meeting with a publisher who meets a boy named Rasheen (Michael Algieri) who gets separated from his family on the train. As a plot vehicle, Rasheen and Sam’s relationship is meant to assure us of Sam’s inherent goodness despite his ne’er-do-well, seemingly rakish lifestyle, delivering some of the more heart-warming, cute lines in the movie. 
For example, Sam labels his suburban angst-free childhood as hardly “Dickensian” or conducive to writing the great American novel. Or when Sam discovers Rasheen’s art talents, he laughs at Rasheen’s drawing of him as a “dashing Russian aristocrat.” These sort of exchanges abound and make the movie terribly endearing with a low cheese factor.
The other characters are equally compelling. Mary Catherine (Zoe Kazan) and her boyfriend Charlie (Pablo Schreiber), who try to decide whether or not to move to Los Angeles, which Mary calls the “epicenter of all that is awful.” Sam’s best friend Annie (Malin Akerman) is bemoaning her unfortunate choice in men, (dating “29-year-old 12-year-olds”) when she meets a seemingly dorky co-worker who seems to constantly hang out on her floor at work because “philanthropic giving is the cool place to be.”
Annie tells this story of an Indian cab driver-would-be-guru who advises her that a good way to perpetuate more gratitude in the universe is to simply say, “Thank you. More please.” Albeit hokey as far as mantras go, it’s veritable enough for hippie-esque Annie, who in the end gets over her abysmal dating streak and allows herself to be wooed by the uncool Sam #2.
Then, there is Sam’s love interest, waitress and cabaret singer Mississippi (Kate Mara), whose refusal to sleep with Sam due to her New Year’s avowal to “not be a whore” leads to their impossibly-cute three-day-stand/move-in session, complete with a hand-written contract and key exchange.
The characters in “Happythankyoumoreplease” feel very realistic with no tacked-on, contrived idiosyncrasies for entertainment’s sake. It’s definitely a feel-good movie, but not in a mawkish, fake sense. In the end, the characters all end up working through their various conflicts, but the resolutions are not fanciful and unrealistic.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A fat redneck and a skinny redneck jump off a cliff. Who wins? Society. 
Why do men want to marry virgins? They can’t stand criticism.
From the late, great George Carlin: “So, if there is a God, I think most reasonable people might agree that he’s at least incompetent, and maybe, just maybe doesn’t give a crap. Doesn’t give a crap, which I admire in a person, and which would explain a lot of these bad results.”
I love racist jokes. I love religious jokes. I love sexist jokes. Jokes make us laugh; they lighten our mood, they lengthen our lives. Jokes are therapeutic — they can mitigate conflict, help remind us of the absurdity of assumptions and pacify anger. Obviously, not every funny joke targets a specific segment of society, but some of the best ones do. 
Think about it. Do you like South Park? Do you watch Family Guy? Do you think Chris Rock is hilarious? How about Dane Cook? Sarah Silverman? Woody Allen? Howard Stern? If the answer is yes to any of the above, then are you racist or misogynist? Are you complicit in stereotyping? Are you reinforcing or ignoring norms that need to be challenged? Are you trivializing real issues and avoiding painful truths by laughing at legitimate problems instead of addressing them?  
Some of these accusations have been leveled at those who laugh at the list mentioned above. I disagree. If actions speak louder than words, then my activism and advocacy prove I’m an ally of many causes I mock in jest. I’m a white male, but I laugh at white-male jokes. I have Jewish lineage, but I laugh at anti-Semitic jokes. I’m a feminist, but I laugh at Peter Griffin’s buffoonery constantly. 
Some folks don’t think this type of humor is funny. They think it does more harm than good. Sometimes they’re right. A joke belittling women in the workforce may be humorous in the right circumstance (especially between two liberal women). But if an elderly male in the Deep South is telling it, is it really so funny? When the person who’s telling the joke has proven to actually believe what he ridicules, maybe it’s not funny after all. 
Besides our actual feelings toward the group, a couple of other prerequisites might include that we have to laugh at ourselves (or our identity group) and that no groups are immune or excluded from the roast. If those three things are fulfilled, I think it’s perfectly permissible.    
Additionally, context and intent are crucial. When friends and I hang out over a beer, we tell jokes we would otherwise refrain from telling in public. If you have the wits of a flagpole, odds are you’ve bitten your tongue in certain situations when you had a clever pun to share. It’s called being tactful. All of us can relate stories of a joke gone awry that we wish we could yank back like a fishing rod. It’s that remorseful feeling we get when that happens that illustrates our sensitivity and true sentiments. 
One of my friends asserted that the reason I’m able to laugh at these offensive jokes is because I’m insulated and remain unaffected by them. For example, it’s easy for an affluent white male to laugh at jokes and go about his day because of white male privilege. But what about the numerous blacks who laugh at Chris Rock’s jokes ridiculing blacks. What about women who love Family Guy?  
Laughing at offensive jokes doesn’t invalidate our true, inner feelings. Sometimes it’s solely a coping mechanism for dealing with the challenges we face in overcoming these issues. It would do us all some good to lighten up and use humor as a tool — not as a means of cloaking prejudice or to deflect taking action. We should know why we’re laughing.
Conor Shapiro is a graduate student in the School of International Service and a liberal columnist.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s tempting to think of the Swedish indie rockers Peter Bjorn & John as newer players in the indie rock scene. But in reality, the band — which takes its name from the first names of the three bandmates — are responsible for six studio albums over the course of nearly a decade, with their first self-titled album released back in 2002 on a small Swedish label.
The trio will play at the 9:30 club on Saturday, April 30. The band is touring to support their new release, “Gimmie Some.”
In 2006, PB&J gained critical and commercial attention with “Writer’s Block,” their third release and the band’s first on a major label. The album’s success, and the band’s rise to notoriety in general, was driven primarily by the massive hit “Young Folks.” 
With its ubiquitous whistle and bongo drums, “Young Folks” was the indie pop song of 2006, popping up everywhere from commercials to the opening scene of the “Gossip Girl” pilot to a “Now That’s What I Call Music!” compilation. “Young Folks” was the epitome of a breakthrough single, and as a result, the band has since struggled to shrug off the “one-hit wonder” condemnation. On their disappointing next release, “Living Thing,” the band chose a darker, sparser sound, and their rather unwelcome departure from the cheerfulness of “Writer’s Block” produced an underwhelming and cold album. 
PB&J’s newest release “Gimmie Some” shows the band’s return to form, and lively lead single “Second Chance” has a handclap-driven spark that was sorely missed on the band’s last release. It’s no “Young Folks,” of course, but judging the band’s releases against their one megahit is no way to enjoy their strong new album. PB&J may not have developed a distinct sound over the course of their career, but their eclectic and fresh-faced releases place them amongst the best indie pop acts today.
The group is joined on their tour with Bachelorette, a one-woman electronic project from New Zealand. Annabel Alpers, the woman behind Bachelorette, produces blissful synth-pop songs featuring her looped and layered vocals and plenty of reverb. 
This tour features two talented acts that occupy different realms of indie pop and will be sure to make for a night of excellent live music. Peter Bjorn & John’s endearing live show is not to be missed, and, yes, they will definitely play “Young Folks.”
mmcdermott@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On March 21, the South Asia Student Association (SASA) issued an apology to candidate for SG Secretary Eric Reath. Earlier that week, SASA had made formal endorsements to candidates running for SG that the club had decided would serve the best interests of SASA. There was a complaint filed that SASA did not follow the proper course of action to endorse SG candidates, and the Board of Elections decided to revoke SASA’s ability to be a part of this year’s elections. 
What exactly did SASA do, according to the Board of Elections? In order to endorse candidates for SG, there is a regulation that any club who wishes to voice their opinion must take the responsibility of reaching out to every single candidate on the ballot. SASA President Ritanch Hans mistakenly missed a candidate in an e-mail to the candidates, and SASA was therefore prohibited from voicing a formal opinion in SG politics. As the SASA executive board pointed out in their apology: “When you have to copy and paste 50 e-mails, you accidentally miss one. It happens.” 
The Board of Elections procedure for endorsement is absolutely nonsensical. The very idea that a student club or organization does not have the right to freely express their opinion without oversight is blatantly unfair censorship. If a student club wishes to endorse a candidate, they should be able to do so without the burden of reaching out to every candidate.
Compare this to endorsements in real elections where any group is able to endorse whomever they choose, regardless of whether they reach out to other candidates. Why does an organization need to reach out to a candidate they know they will not support? This is a waste of everyone’s time. 
More importantly, the Board of Elections shouldn’t have the power to decide what is fair and unfair speech. The assumption is that this rule was created to make candidates feel better about themselves. However, it is the responsibility of the candidates to reach out to the student clubs and organizations to garner support — that’s what campaigning is. 
But the infringements on free speech don’t stop there. You will remember that candidate Jessica Darmawan was sanctioned for sending out e-mails without going through the Election Board’s regulated process. This is an even more blatant abuse of free speech. Pre-publication censorship (which is what this process amounts to) allows the Election Board to control who candidates reach out to and even what their campaign materials say. I ask you, how is this a fair process for candidates? The idea behind it is to give every candidate equal chances. But this is ridiculous, because it assumes candidates don’t have equal ability to draft up an e-mail and send it to the organizations they’d like to be endorsed by. Personally I think anyone running for an SG position can handle drafting an e-mail without the Board of Elections babysitting them. 
This sort of over-regulation not only dampens political participation, it makes a mockery of AU. If we want to claim fair and open elections, let’s have fair and open elections. It’s time for AU’s election regulations to change and in order for that to happen, students need to speak out about the abuses of this system. If you’re interested in making this opinion heard, Elections Board meetings are Sundays at 12:30 p.m. in MGC 262 and open to the public. You can also contact them on the AUSG website.
AU Students for Liberty
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Finally some warm weather has (somewhat) come around, and with it comes shorter hems, brighter colors and other exciting new spring trends. These two students at AU caught my eye while walking down the Main Quad with their stylish ensembles. They make it apparent that some winter trends are here to stay while they both show off their combat boots. Here we get a taste of everything, from tights with shorts and boots, to white skirts with tucked in denim, to turban head ties. The transition from winter and spring can cause some chaos in our closets, but both these students show us how to do it right.
Freshman Phoebe Bradford, in SOC (pictured right), explained the inspiration behind her outfit.
“I saw it was going to be 70 degrees, and I always use that as an excuse to throw on a skirt. It makes those rainy cold days that keep popping up a little bit more bearable,” Bradford said. “I also love neutrals and then one big pop of color — it’s springy and puts me in great mood. Also, this is something I would have worn on a beautiful day back home in Brooklyn; I was feeling a bit nostalgic.”
As far as high-end designers that inspire her, Bradford has plenty.
“Anything Marc Jacobs touches is gold,” Bradford said. “I fantasize about owning everything by Alice + Olivia. Chanel is great for referencing classic/timeless style. And — just because he’s awesome — Alexander Wang.”
And though she’s exemplifying her unique spring style now, there are many retro trends she’s itching to bring back. 
“For sure this ’70s throwback to the turban styled headbands. It reminds me of photos I have seen of Sophia Lauren from the ’70s, and I’m loving the return,” Bradford said. 
In three simple words, Bradford describes her style as “eclectic, bright and vintage.”
• • • 
Yet when it comes to freshman Cristina Keane, in CAS (pictured left), her style is a bit more relaxed than fashion forward. When asked what inspired her wardrobe, Keane said:
“I never know how to answer this question. Nothing ever really inspires my outfits, unless you catch me on a day when I’m channelling Topanga Lawrence circa 1993 (which happens more often than you’d think).” 
And as far as her naming her favorite designers, Keane keeps the same lax approach.
“I have to admit I know very little about who designs my clothing, usually because I buy them secondhand,” Keane said. “You’d be surprised at how much Ann Taylor ends up in my wardrobe because of that. If I had to pick one, I’d probably say Jean Paul Gaultier. His collections often feature really bold colors and takes a lot of risks in his design.”
In keeping with that trend, for Keane, color is probably the thing she’s looking forward to incorporating into her spring style.
“I somehow acquired like, 5 pairs of really loud, vibrant pants. Most of them come above my ankles so I couldn’t wear them in the winter,” Keane said. “I don’t know if that counts as a trend, but I’m excited to show off my loud ankle-bearing pants.” 
In three simple words, she described her style as “fun, relaxed and anachronistic.”
thescene@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
