The No. 2 seeded men’s basketball team started March off strong with a 69-53 victory over the No. 7 seeded Colgate Raiders in the first round of the Patriot League Tournament. 
Vlad Moldoveanu scored 31 points to lead the Eagles. 
“The guys did a great job of finding me open, set good screens,” Moldoveanu said. “It wasn’t just me you know, coach did a great job calling plays for me, it was a team effort.”
The game started out with each team exchanging shots and tying the lead three times, but eventually AU took over the lead with 14 minutes remaining in the first half. 
Colgate’s Yaw Gyawu helped the opponents keep up with AU, as he shot three for eight from the floor and scored 8 first-half points. The Raiders kept their deficit under double figures and were looking to extend a 6–1 run into halftime, but with four seconds left, Nick Hendra, who tied his career-high nine assists, found a cutting Moldoveanu who converted the lay-up to put the Eagles on top 29-23 heading into the locker room.
“We were moving the ball well and finally settling down,” Stephen Lumpkins said. “In the first half we were just standing a lot, [but then] we started cutting through and those cuts started opening everything up.”
In the second half, Lumpkins and Moldoveanu helped deliver the one-two punch to knockout the Raiders.  Lumpkins turned his 7 points and seven rebound first half performance into his eighth double-double of the season. He ended the game with 19 points, tying his career-high.
Three Raider players did score in double figures and Gyawu and Mitch Rolls’ duel threat combined for 17 of Colgate’s 30 second half points, but with less than eight minutes to go and Colgate within five, Moldoveanu go hot from everywhere on the court.
In a four minute spurt, the senior scored 10 of the teams’ 14 points capping off a 14–4 American run. Vlad also scored 18 of his 31 total points in the second half including a 3-pointer to beat an expiring shot-clock.
“[Lumpkins] did a great job screening for me to get my shot off,” Moldoveanu said. “It doesn’t matter which way I come off, I like to shoot the ball right away. There were great passes; great screens and I just delivered the shot.”
The Eagles outscored the Raiders 40-30 in the second half to seal the 69-53 victory. 
American University will face the Lafayette College Leopards Sunday in the semifinals at Bender Arena.
The last time these two teams met, the Eagles survived a 95-92, double overtime thriller on the road, but this time AU is on a six-game win streak.
“I would like to think we’ve got some momentum,” Head Coach Jeff Jones said. “We’ve got to play harder, smarter, tougher [because] both teams are going to be very familiar with one another. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Former D.C. Public Schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee said the state of the U.S. public education system today “sucks.”
Rhee spoke to students March 2 in a panel event sponsored by the Roosevelt Institute at AU, after a screening of the documentary “Waiting for Superman,” a film about the nation’s public schools system. 
 “We are supposed to be living in the best country in the world,” Rhee said to a packed audience. “The land of opportunity, and whether or not kids get a good education is dependent on luck and the spinning of the wheel.”
The documentary says Rhee simultaneously drew praise and criticism during her tenure as chancellor. During that time she cut over a hundred jobs in the D.C. Central Office and closed 23 schools in D.C.
Her alliance with former D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty made waves during the mayoral election earlier this fall. Rhee resigned after Vincent Gray was elected.
Rhee talked about her stance on teachers’ unions, saying she was surprised that President Barack Obama has advocated for holding accountable and even firing underperforming teachers. 
“I don’t think you can overstate the importance that he has had over the debate of teacher quality over the last two years,” Rhee said.
She said while Obama has held teachers more accountable, Republicans primarily criticize the teachers’ unions. A Democrat herself, Rhee said that stance needs to change. 
However, she said she has seen Republicans, Democrats and independents alike calling for reform, including New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, an independent, and her fiancé, Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson, a Democrat.
“Democrats have been resistant about saying that within the last 10 years and I think that with some of the stuff that’s going on in Wisconsin, it is actually a different dynamic that’s happening there,” she said. “I think that you can hold unions accountable and draw very strong distinctions in what they ought to be doing and fighting for.”
Zachary Kolodin, director of the Future Preparedness Initiative for Roosevelt Institute, also served on the panel and said it is not productive to vilify the unions. 
He said that while the recession and deep deficits across the country have hit budgets hard, money should still be directed towards education.
“In Wisconsin, there’s a real demonization of unions and public employees and I think that reflects something real in our economy,” Kolodin said.  It’s really not the unions’ fault that America is such a ruthless place for the middle class right now.”
But Rhee said that in New Jersey, thousands of dollars are spent per child with disappointing results. 
She said that the root of the problem doesn’t come from poor districts or lazy parents, but the poor performance of teachers and attitude in the central office. 
“Once we as a school district do everything that we’re supposed to be doing, then we have the right to go to the parents and the kids and hold them accountable too,” Rhee said.
Rhee has continued her crusade against the unions by establishing her own interest group called StudentsFirst. 
Rhee said she believes that the failure of the system now is that there are advocates for adults but none for kids.
“The education landscape over the last few decades has been driven by special interests groups: textbook manufacturers, teachers unions, testing companies, et cetera,” she said. “We don’t have a system that is set up to protect children, we have a system that is set up to protect adults and their jobs.”
lgiangreco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
