American University is well known for its inclusion and efforts to unify students from a bevy of diverse backgrounds. From athletics to political speakers to the Westboro Baptist Church Counter Demonstration, the AU community comes together to support our entire community. While we each have our own opinions, our campus renowned for our civility and ability to engage in an open dialogue. 
In this light, the students of American University Students for Israel (AUSFI) do not feel it is appropriate to engage in ATV’s upcoming special program focusing on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The format of this program, asking student leaders their opinions, only creates the potential for a hostile environment. 
AUSFI is the umbrella student organization for Israel life on campus, focusing on educating students on the culture and politics of Israeli society. AUSFI embraces the same values as the AU community; we believe in allowing for an open dialogue in a safe and welcoming environment. Unfortunately, ATV’s proposed program does not provide a welcoming and educational environment in which to engage. We encourage students to remain the well-read and educated leaders for which we are constantly singled out. To outline our position in one simple line: We support direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, without preconditions, with final status compromises that result in peace for both parties living together in harmony.
Nothing productive would come of a debate between two student organizations with differing opinions. It is unfair to pit students against each other, especially about a subject many find so personal. At the end of the day, it is up to the leaders of their respective countries to come to a conclusion. What happens within the upcoming weeks regarding Israel and Palestine will certainly be matters of discussion, but not debate.
Jonathan Lipton 
Vice President of AU Students for Israel 
SPA 2014
Micah Deligdish 
Political Director of AU Students for Israel 
SOC 2013
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University is on trial — at least, its Campus Plan is. On Oct. 6, the D.C. Zoning Commission held the fifth of six scheduled hearings primarily dedicated to AU’s proposed expansions. Ultimately, these will culminate in a decision that could either give the University a green light to pass out construction helmets or significantly curtail its spacious ambitions. 
When the nearby Advisory Neighborhood Commission 3E announced its official position on the AU Campus Plan before the zoning commissioners, it offered a mixed review: approval of the construction of North Hall and expansion of Nebraska Hall, but the rejection of moving the Washington College of Law to Tenley Campus. 
To be sure, the partial approval of the Campus Plan sets forth building blocks that AU officials can gather to compose satisfactory compromises with residents and the Zoning Commission.
Nevertheless, the rejection of moving the law school to Tenley Campus is a perplexing and consequently frustrating one.
AU has been consistent and clear in its reasons for moving WCL. Tight on space and well removed from public transportation, the school has outgrown its current site. A more Metro-accessible campus, coupled with the space needed to effectively conduct classes, should foster the well-earned image of WCL as a top-notch law school in a city that revolves around the law. 
The benefits of relocating to Tenley are not limited to WCL alone. This locale is more integrated within a commercial area, likely increasing the positive economic impact of law school students. 
Not all residents have overlooked this benefit either. At a town hall last year, local resident Tom Hier commented on moving WCL to Tenley, stating “anything that we can do to get the University out into the community and more a part of our community is something I support.”
Residential opposition to WCL’s move to Tenley Campus can largely be organized around one theme: traffic. While this issue has persistently been raised, it can be shown to be largely unfounded.
Law students are more likely to be commuter students, raising concerns of a gridlocked Tenley Circle. Neighbors imagine thousands of law students running red lights and speeding through school zones as they attempt to make it to class. 
Moreover, recent parking violations near the current law school campus have crept over 600. Tenley residents have concluded that when the law school arrives next door, so will an influx of students parking in the neighborhood. 
Yet the D.C. Department of Transportation has insisted that moving WCL to Tenley, one block from the Tenleytown Metro station, would significantly reduce the number of students driving to school. And with fewer cars comes fewer needed parking spaces. DDOT has even approved AU’s Campus Plan in full, and this paper has seen no reason to second-guess the traffic assessments of transportation experts.
This isn’t the first time The Eagle has editorialized about the community’s reception of the AU Campus Plan. And unless the derisive contention that has typified discussions of the plan abates, it won’t be the last. Whether it is the law school move or the expansion to East Campus, we would implore our neighbors to take a deep breath and listen to the University explanations that accompany its Campus Plan. More often than not, they make sense for everyone. ? E
Send all responses and reactions to edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

AU saw a decrease in fire-related incidents at residence halls on Main Campus and Tenley Campus from 2009 to 2010, according to the 2010 Fire Safety Report released this fall.
14 total fire incidents were reported in 2010, compared to 19 incidents last year.
Letts had the majority of fire-related incidents on campus in 2010 with four incidents.
Centennial, Nebraska, Leonard and Federal Halls reported zero incidents in 2010.
Cooking-related incidents rise
Fire incidents related to food preparation rose to 76 percent from 36 percent in 2009.
The majority of food-related incidents are related to situations such as a student forgetting a pan left on a stove, said Glynnis Bowman, assistant director of environmental health and safety for AU’s Risk Management and Environmental Health and Safety Department.
“The fire statistics in the Fire Safety Report only deal with instances where there is an actual smoke or flame event,” she said. 
Less fire-related property damage
Only one fire incident on campus out of 14 total fire incidents caused property damage in 2010, according to the report. The damage from this incident, a fire in the mail services area of Letts Hall, was reported to cost $20.
In 2009, over $1,576.19 of fire-related damage was reported in six on-campus fire incidents, according to that year’s Fire Safety Report. 
Bowman said various AU departments pay for the damage inflicted by fire incidents depending on the situation. 
“My assumption would be that when it’s something building-related, then Facilities Management would come in and take care of that,” Bowman said. “If it’s something like a bulletin board that is owned by Residence Life, then I would assume that Residence Life covers the expense on that.”
Bowman said RMEHS only tracks statistics related to fire incidents and does not handle the finances related to fire damage.
RMEHS works with Residence Life each year prior to the report’s release to discuss ways to increase fire safety awareness at AU, according to Bowman.
“It’s always on the table to find something to do outreach to the students more than just the talk they get when we do a drill, and what’s written up in the Student Handbook,” she said.
No arson or fire-related injuries in 2010
There was also a decrease in attempted arson on campus. In 2009, 11 percent of incidents were attributed to attempted arson. The 2010 report said no cases of arson had happened on campus that year.
Despite the number of fire-related incidents on campus last year, there were no fire-related deaths or injuries on campus in 2009 or 2010, according to the report. 
The 2010 report also said there were two scheduled fire drills per residence hall during the year, one during spring semester and another during fall semester. 
The report is the second annual one to be issued by RMEHS, as mandated by the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2011.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU campus crime statistics
Correction appended
On-campus vehicle theft, hate crimes and alcohol and drug abuse violations increased from 2009 to 2010, according to the Department of Public Safety’s annual security report.
The number of burglary incidents decreased in the past year.
All crime rates at Tenley Campus, however, decreased from 2009 to 2010.
Liquor and drug violations
On-campus drug abuse violations have risen substantially from five violations in 2008 to 77 last year, according to the report.
On-campus liquor law violations that have been referred to Student Conflict and Resolution Services have also been on the rise in the past three years from 244 in 2008 to 386 in 2010, according to the report.
No arrests related to liquor law violations have been made, while there have been three on-campus arrests related to drug abuse violations.
Hate crimes
There were four hate crimes committed on campus in 2010, three of them motivated by religious discrimination. The other attack was related to sexual orientation.
There were no recorded hate crimes on campus based on race or ethnicity in 2010.
Hate crimes are typically differentiated from regular crimes depending on the motivation of attacker. But making that distinction isn’t always easy.
“It’s very hard to prove somebody’s intent,” said Christine Anthony, the assistant director of Student Conflict and Resolution Services. 
For example, if the attacker yells racial slurs or if a vandalism incident includes homophobic insults, it is considered a hate crime.
A person does not need to be self-identified as a minority to be the subject of a hate crime. If an attacker perceives a victim as a social minority, it is counted as a hate crime, Anthony said.
“If someone thinks I am a religious minority, and commits a crime against me because of that, it doesn’t matter if I am a religious minority or not,” she said.
Burglary
Burglaries decreased by 45 percent from 2009 to 2010. The majority of burglaries were laptop computer thefts that took place in residence halls. 
The decrease is the result of increased awareness in students about burglary, more guidance from the Department of Education and extra measures taken by Public Safety, according to Public Safety Logistics and Compliance Coordinator Adam Cooper.
“The Department of Public Safety has issued alerts reminding community members to lock their office/residential doors, as well as reporting keys to DPS immediately,” Cooper said in an email. “We have also stressed the importance of not admitting anyone as a guest unless they are your guest.”
Housing and Dining Programs Director Chris Moody said many of the burglaries are the result of students not locking their doors in the residence halls.
“Students sometimes become comfortable with their surroundings living in a residence hall community and do not lock their door behind them when going to class, the bathroom or a friend’s room,” Moody said.
Housing and Dining Programs will continue installing double card swipe system in residence halls and electronic room locks on dorm rooms during renovations to increase security, Moody said.
These numbers are not a cause to worry because many burglaries are the result of unlocked doors and unattended items, according to Cooper.
“If there were a need for serious concern, DPS will issue a ‘Crime Alert’ when the director of Public Safety or their designee considers the crime(s) to represent a serious or continuing threat to students and employees,” he said.
Sexual Assault
There was one reported incident of sexual assault in 2010, down from three incidents in 2009.
“[T]he decrease can be attributed to a combination of factors, presumably, sexual assault education would be one of these,” Cooper said.
Arson
No arson incidents were reported in 2010. 
Public Safety recorded three incidents of arson in 2009, two of which were unrelated incidents that occurred on the same night, according to Cooper. 
He said the decrease in arson incidents was the result of informing the public with Crime Alerts.
“These alerts helped to increase awareness in and around campus residential facilities,” Cooper said. 
Motor Vehicle Theft
Motor vehicle theft has steadily increased since 2008, according to the crime report.
There were three incidents in 2010, compared to two in 2009 and one in 2008.
All three 2010 incidents were motorized scooters, according to Cooper. 
Cooper said Public Safety is handling this increase by releasing motor vehicle theft alerts as they occur and patrolling the areas where motor vehicles are stolen. 
The federal government mandates that all universities must publish a report recording all of the crimes that happened on campus. AU has been publishing these reports since 2001.
news@theeagleonline.com
A previous version of this article stated that there were three incidents of arson in 2010. There were no reported arson incidents in 2010; the three incidents were in 2009. The article also stated AU has been publishing the Annual Security Report since 2005, but, in actuality, it has been publishing the report since 2001. A previous version also stated that there were five hate crimes in 2010; there were four hate crimes.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Looking for new music? DJs at student-run radio station WVAU share their thoughts on a range of recent releases.
Click here to read past Audiophiles.

Mikal Cronin
S/T
s/t LP by Mikal Cronin
The first track of Mikal Cronin’s album begins with a soft vocal harmony that instantly brings to mind Grizzly Bear, an influence not usually seen in the current fuzzed-out San Francisco rock scene from which Cronin hails.
But the softness doesn’t last long. A few moments later, he introduces the crashing cymbals and power chords that will be heard time and time again on the album.
Mikal Cronin picked up a thing or two from fellow San Francisco rocker Ty Segall. The first track “Is It Alright?” is no exception.
However, Cronin often chooses acoustic guitars over the fuzzy distorted electric guitar that has become Segall’s staple. 
But that is not to say that Cronin doesn’t indulge in distorted rock. “Green and Blue” is an onslaught of tambourine, pounding drums, distorted vocals and fuzzy guitars. 
Cronin’s debut features surf and garage rock songs with fun hooks, but with nearly every song having something in common with its predecessor, it feels tired and drawn out at times. 
The album’s dynamic final track “The Way Things Go” is a spectacular closer that separates itself entirely from the rest of the album. It has a fun synthesizer motif and even speeds up about halfway through from a crawl to a sprint. 
Cronin’s self-titled debut displays his ability for crafting enjoyable, poppy rock songs, though the consistency of the album’s sound can make it a wearing listening experience at times.
Recommended if you like: Ty Segall, San Francisco, music
Recommended Tracks: “Apathy” “Green and Blue” “The Way Things Go”
By BEN NIGH

Young Man
Ideas of Distance
It is obvious why Young Man, aka Collin Caulfield, became famous. 
His YouTube covers of indie standards like Beach House and Deerhunter drew attention for their precise replication of the original songs, and his new EP “Ideas of Distance” exemplifies the heavy influence of these bands, especially Deerhunter, Bon Iver and, of course, Animal Collective. 
And he’s not distancing himself from the comparison. Throughout the EP, Caulfield’s voice, inflection and mixing purposefully draws an almost immediate parallel to Panda Bear. 
On the new EP, Caulfield shows some basic songwriting improvements, veering from the predictably straightforward indie-pop approach and creating some interesting atmospherics with decent production value. 
However, the basic elements are still the same, with Caulfield’s guitar meandering above drum loops, his reverb-laden vocal droning layered on top.
While at points the record seems long-winded and overly emotional (the added string arrangements feel a bit out of place, especially when mixed with the cheesy ’80s drum beats), it’s a definite improvement from his past releases and may take him one step closer to being on par with the artists he shamelessly mimics.
Recommended if you like: Atlas Sound, Panda Bear, Youth Lagoon
Recommended Tracks: 2, 4,6

By Maxwell Tani

Zola Jesus
Conatus
The title of Zola Jesus’ new album is Latin for “moving forward,” so it is no surprise that we find mastermind Nika Roza Danilova advancing her sound with chilling strings and thunderous drums that sound like they came straight from a Florence and the Machine single.
Regardless, it is the opera-trained voice of Danilova that commands listeners’ attention, as she navigates these songs through their cool atmospheres and eerie textures.
This is a great headphone album, particularly in the moments where “Vessel” hits a wall of white noise and “Ixode” surrounds you with layers of Danilova’s vocals.
An often-chilling listen, “Conatus” creates its own mesmerizing world that only gets more rewarding with further listens.
Recommended if you like: Nico, Former Ghosts 
Recommended Tracks: 3, 5, 6
Click here to listen to the album.
By Cameron Meindl

Youth Lagoon
The Year of Hibernation
Youth Lagoon is Boise, Idaho native Trevor Powers. His debut LP “The Year of Hibernation” reflects a mature sense of melody and song structure, which is quite impressive considering Powers is just over 22 years old. 
Each track prominently features piano, synthesizers, programmed drumbeats and even some guitar, most notably on the third track “Afternoon.” 
What begins as staccato pick strokes evolves into a slick riff that slips and slides casually in between a whistling motif that mirrors the opening piano chords of the song. 
Powers displays an uncanny ability for slowly building each song by layering beats and other instruments on top of what usually begins with nothing but piano and his vocals.
What stands out the most is Powers’ fantastic vocal range. Though his vocals are soaked in reverb on nearly every track, this does not take away from the fact that Powers can actually sing. 
“The Year of Hibernation” is a fantastic first effort for Powers. Every track on the eight-song LP is an excellent dose of melodic dream pop, hinting that Powers’ greatest work is yet to come.
Recommended if you like: flannel, Idaho, People who play the piano that aren’t James Blake
Recommended Tracks: “Cannons,” “Afternoon,” “Montana,” “The Hunt”
By BEN NIGH
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A classic Sunday in true D.C. tradition means going over to Eastern Market, strolling among the vendors, grabbing a bite and doing some quality people-watching.
But there is more to the area than the rows of produce and craft stands. So the next time you head over to Eastern Market, try adding some of these new places to your agenda:

Try a New Brew
Peregrine Coffee
660 Pennsylvania Ave., SE
For those caffeine junkies looking for an independent cup of joe, try Peregrine Espresso.
This coffee shop is known for quality espressos and a great microbrew selection, coming out as one of the top coffee houses in D.C. It even fields a team at the U.S. Barista Championship (yes, this actually exists) but still keeps their brews at a college-kid friendly budget.

Take a Class
Capitol Hill Arts Workshop
545 7th St., SE
If you want to flex your creative muscles, Capitol Hill Arts Workshop is a quick walk from the Eastern Market Metro.
The nonprofit runs a variety of programs from ballet to poetry to oil painting.
Now only if they had underwater basket weaving …

Get Cooking
Hill's Kitchen
713 D St., SE
Hill’s Kitchen, another place to pick up a new skill, runs cooking classes and demonstrations, teaching D.C. locals kitchen tricks and fun recipes.
With classes ranging from how to wield a kitchen knife to how to create Middle Eastern vegetarian specials, college students can learn how to maneuver in a real kitchen.
If you can’t take the time to attend a class, definitely stop by the Hill’s Kitchen store for a cute selection of cookbooks and aprons.
And who said college kids couldn’t cook?

Grab a Book
Capitol Hill Books
657 C St., SE
Capitol Hill Books is a treasure trove not to be overlooked.
This used bookstore spans two floors, stuffed with bargain books, as well as rare first editions to fawn over.
Its selection, along with its knowledgeable and approachable staff, makes it a worthwhile experience sifting through books to find your next great read.
Take a Walk
Strolling through Eastern Market is the most popular activity, simply because there are always new surprises in store. Vendors rotate frequently and are always bringing in more merchandise. 
Eastern Market is a fabulous location for Christmas shopping, finding the perfect birthday gift or even just a bit of retail therapy after a long week of classes.
Remember to bring cash since ATM lines are notoriously long.
Just grab some Micha’s Sorbet (also a regular vendor at AU’s Wednesday farmer’s market) and soak in the sights.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I’ve never accused AU students of being open-minded, but the negative backlash one of my fellow columnists received this past week for his heartfelt views still shocked me. One online commenter even claimed the columnist simply wrote the piece to get girls (a strategy that has worked terribly for me), and many more wrote things not fit to print. 
Disillusioned with the fabled etiquette of the Internet, when my friend Cheryl Chan asked what this week’s column would entail, I responded, something noncontroversial, like conserving pandas. 
When she responded in all seriousness (like my columns) that pandas are the most controversial bear out there right now, I decided I hated the constant need of AU kids to argue about anything.
Chan’s dissonance reminded me of the time I ate at a restaurant once with a bunch of my SIS friends, all decent individuals. As we talked about our future plans, the conversation turned to the Peace Corps. While I held my opinion in check (it’s a fine way for those who studied abroad in Europe to see the world), the others were essentially divided on whether it’s helping people or it’s not helping people. 
Both sides made intelligent points, but all of a sudden my one friend just got up, said she didn’t want to take part in any more of this ignorant conversation, and walked away. At that moment, I saw my entire combative AU academic career unfold in front of me: my year as an SIS student spent arguing over international aid, my two weeks as a lit minor arguing over Achebe’s decision to write in English and all my time spent in SOC arguing over the merits of the serial comma. Contention has filled my classroom experience; do I really need more of it?
But while this flashback within a flashback played out in my head, Chan prattled on. “Yeah, pandas drain conservation funds that could save many more species and habitats, when evolution dictates they should go extinct.” Did Chan just make a convincing argument to pull the plug on pandas? 
“But there’s the other side too, by saving pandas, we’re saving that whole ecosystem. And I learned all this while studying abroad in London, you hater,” she continued. This debate fascinated me — that there was even a debate fascinated me — and I spent a considerable amount of time fact-checking her claims (admittedly mostly on YouTube, watching the little fur balls sneeze). Chan’s initial disagreement and subsequent reasoning not only helped me learn about a topic I didn’t know existed, but think from a different point of view. And so it came to be that a little Chinese export taught me the value of debate. Chan helped too, of course.  
Debate is healthy. As Ibrahim Babangida said, “Debate and divergence of views can only enrich our history and culture.” Had Babangida, military dictator of Nigeria from 1985-1993, followed his own advice, he might not have been thrown out in another military coup. I could regale you with stories from my aforementioned SIS stint of the importance of dissent and discussion to the political process, but I’m not trying to get you to argue more, just antagonize less.
When I proclaimed my hatred of AU’s love affair with argument mere paragraphs ago, I confused debate with derision and dismissal. However, based on my anecdotal observations, I’m not alone in that mistake. 
It’s important to debate the effectiveness of the Peace Corps, the raison d’etre of pandas and the opinions of columnists. However, as I tried to convey in my anecdotes (and regular readers will point to other examples), irrelevant ire is a fallacy likely to convince few people. So the next time someone dares to have a viewpoint different than your own, tell them they’re wrong the right way.  
Adam Gallagher is a Senior in the School of Communication.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Audiences may mistakenly expect “The Ides of March” to be a dramatic parallel to the rise and fall of Julius Caesar. Instead, the film depicts a different type of fall for all its characters.
The film follows a press secretary, Stephen Myers (Ryan Gosling, “Drive,” “The Notebook”) who works for Democratic Governor Mike Morris (George Clooney, “Up in the Air” and also the director of the film). Morris is a potential presidential candidate and Myers is along for the ride. The film is based on the play “Farragut North” by Beau Willimon. 
“The Ides of March” is a powerful drama that thrills viewers with its meaningful score and striking acting performances. 
“The Ides of March” is not missing the dishonest characteristic of a political story. The twists in the film, therefore, lack the element of surprise, yet still satiate a need all viewers have. Audiences want to experience the secret sense of pleasure that follows a scandal. Viewers love painful moral twists, and “The Ides of March” fills that desire with ease.
Though most of the screen time is spent with Meyers, “The Ides of March” has no single narrator or viewpoint. Viewers are allowed the time to gain perspective from multiple characters, but never gain a detailed insight into any. 
Powerful acting by the well-chosen cast portrays the small but potent glimpse into each character’s motivation. Viewers are always given just enough information to keep the action interesting.
Clooney’s direction reflects his appreciation and understanding for the art of acting. 
The acting in “The Ides of March” is poignant, yet subtle. Gosling is convincing as an idealistic young man in a position of power in a corrupt system. 
And Clooney has a gregarious yet dark persona befitting a rising politician. The Oscar-winner usually plays the charming gentleman with ulterior motives, so this role perfectly suits him.
Though pivotal to the film, women get little acting time. 
Molly (Evan Rachel Wood, “Across the Universe”) is a witty young intern who plays a powerful role in the progression of Morris’s and Myers’s lives. 
Viewers are intimate with her in some moments and shockingly distant in others. Her story leaves something to be desired, yet allows for intrigue. 
Wood’s performance on screen incites varying emotional responses, but they are always strong. 
Scenes focusing on Molly are rarely  accompanied by instrumentals. On the other hand, the pivotal moments with the leading men are commonly complemented by a strong score, which adds the thrilling dimension to their story filled with conventional political corruption. 
Though not revealing of unknown truths, “The Ides of March” speaks to politics’ transformative power.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Teach For America will host a panel at AU on Oct. 20 to speak on the current state of the U.S. public education system and the D.C. public school system. 
Teach For America is an organization that recruits recent college graduates to teach at urban and rural public schools across the country, according to its website.
Adam Rupe, the D.C. regional recruitment manager, said the panelists will answer questions about what it takes to ensure that all children receive a proper education that will prepare them for the work force or for college.  
“The education system in America isn’t where it should be right now,” Rupe said. “It’s one thing to understand education in an academic sense, but it’s another to understand it and figure out the reasons behind it.”  
The panel will consist of Teach For America alumni, educators and others who are concerned about education in the United States. It will focus on the state of education in the lower-income Washington neighborhoods and how it compares to the educational standings of other low-income areas around the country.
The list of panelists has not yet been confirmed. 
Teacher For America Campus Campaign Coordinators Olivia Stitilis, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, and Deon Jones, a sophomore in SPA, will moderate the panel.
Stitilis said the purpose of the event is to inform AU students of the educational inequities in D.C. schools. 
“Many students at American know that D.C. public schools face challenges, but they have no idea of the scope or the magnitude of the problems,” she said. 
Stitilis said she hopes the panel will educate students of the achievement gap that exists for D.C. public school students.  
The panel will be held in the Mary Graydon Center room 4 at 7 p.m.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Violence, gore, war — just another forgotten story on the six o’clock news. 
But on Oct. 5, Invisible Children, “a movement seeking to end the conflict in Uganda and stop the abduction of children for use as child soldiers,” according to their website, sought to bring these issues to the forefront. 
The speaking event and screening was hosted by the AU One World Initiative, an on-campus organization that is focuses on addressing ‘third world problems’ as local and global issues.
The group brought a special guest to Ward 1: Stella, a Ugandan refugee turned youth mentor and advocate. 
Stella shared the story of her childhood in northern Uganda as one of 14 children, all of who were night commuters — children who fled their homes at night to sleep in the city in order to avoid kidnappers. 
Stella avoided capture by acting as her recently-deceased aunt, wearing an old ragged garment and playing deaf and disabled.
“The rebels carried a padlocks, chains and rope,” Stella said. “This was a time where they would lock people’s lips with padlocks as if they were locks.”
Stella eventually was able to get an education and became a teacher, before becoming a mentor with Invisible Children back in Uganda. She now works with abducted girls who were lucky enough to escape but are traumatized and unsure where to turn.
To parallel Stella’s inspirational story, the Invisible Children Roadie Team (don’t think of your typical roadie — they are Invisible Children advocates who travel the world and spread their message about violence in Uganda) screened the organization’s newest film “Tony.” 
The movie details the initial interaction between one of the co-founders of Invisible Children, Laren Poole, during his first trip to Uganda at 19-years-old, where he meets a boy named Tony. 
The film essentially parallels the lives of Poole and Tony. Poole successfully helps to transform Invisible Children into a nationwide cause, while Tony deals with the death of his mother from AIDS, among other struggles. 
The film also tells of the bond between Tony and his friend Nate, a roadie with Invisible Children. Even when the story takes a tragic turn, it never fails to exemplify the resilience of Tony or the true strength of Invisible Children as a whole.
Additionally, the film points out the recent passing of U.S. legislation to provide monetary assistance to try to capture Joseph Kony, the warlord and leader of the Lord’s Resistance Army, the rebel group causing chaos throughout northeastern Africa.
The film focuses on Tony’s life in Uganda and then his life in the United States while touring the country with Invisible Children. It also brings up the founding of the Invisible Children Education Program and its Legacy Scholarship Program, which helps children in northern Uganda go to school and stay on a straight path with the help of a personal mentor, like Stella. 
She has two daughters at home in Uganda, and although she said that it was difficult to be away from them for so long, her mission is clear: to help the children of Uganda.
“I’m here so that those children do not go through what I went through,” she said.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I’d like to think I am from a country with great potential. 
No, I am not talking about the United States, but about Brazil, where I lived for nine years. 
We’ve had a 7.5 percent growth rate in the last year and a booming economy even amid the current crisis. We have constant oil discoveries, a World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016. And we are not only seen as the most promising country in Latin America for investment, but are beginning to trade in the big leagues with countries like China. 
Our accomplishments have bumped our rank in the Human Development Report to 73, or the “High Human Development” sector. However, we are still below the regional average of Latin America and the Caribbean, due to not only our multidimensional poverty but also to our corrupt and poisoned government. 
After the events that have been happening this week, in both New York City and D.C., I could not help but parallel Occupy Wall Street and Occupy D.C. to the corruption that plagues my country. Both protests are branches of Occupy Together, a grassroots protest against the greed and corruption of the wealthiest 1 percent of society. 
If only such a protest could come to Brazil.
If there’s one thing Brazilians know, it’s greed and corruption. We are from a country that is held back by the poverty that affects the majority of its population. Nevertheless, instead of addressing these issues, corrupt politicians take away the money, time and effort needed to bring Brazilians back to their feet. 
A perfect example is current federal deputy of São Paulo, Paulo Maluf. An ex-state governor of São Paulo, mayor of the City of São Paulo, congressman and presidential candidate, Maluf has been convicted of “maladministration” and is wanted for money laundering by a New York prosecutor, according to The Economist. 
Through this conviction and Maluf’s current indictment for alleged fraud, it is common Brazilian belief that Maluf has been accused of stealing money from public government projects and embezzling it into his private life. There is even a verb inspired by the man himself: malufar — to steal public money from the people. 
Another example is former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. It is illegal for a president to promote or show obvious preference to any type of candidate during election time. However, Lula not only promoted current president Dilma Rousseff on radio shows, but also was featured in TV campaign ads. 
What I find most upsetting is not the fact that these politicians are so corrupt, but that Brazilians continue to let them participate in the government. Despite Maluf’s suspected and proven wrongdoings against the Brazilian population, not only has the government decided to drop further charges against him as a result of legal loopholes, but Maluf is constantly re-elected into government positions despite his dubious history. Continuing the disturbing trend, Lula basically picks our country’s next president, due to his immense popularity amongst the population, and receives no form of punishment. 
Brazilians may have no memory, but sadly, many of them also have no education. They are not taught to think critically, to notice bias, to think for themselves or even know the functions of different government officials. However, seeing as the government refuses to educate the people, it is up to informed and frustrated citizens to help the uneducated and poor population. 
For this reason, I applaud those who are participating in Occupy D.C. 
It is up to the people to keep checks and balances on their government. Although the United States may be going in a somewhat opposite direction economically compared to Brazil, its citizens stand for honesty and just politics. This is the mindset that sets the first world apart from the third world, and the successful from the stuck.
Maybe one day, Brazilians as a people will also be able to occupy our capital, Brasilia, and demand for the just and honest government we deserve and need, if we ever wish to achieve our potential.
Julia Greenwald is a freshman in the School of Communications.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU field hockey team continued its hot streak Oct. 8, as the Eagles took down the College of the Holy Cross 4-0 in Worcester, Mass., to extend their winning streak to four games.
The Eagles (6-5, 2-0 PL) dominated Holy Cross (1-11, 0-2 PL) from the opening whistle, registering all four goals in the first half and never looking back.  
Sophomore Jaclyn Anspach put the Eagles on the board in the first 15 minutes, when she ripped a shot past Holy Cross goalkeeper Kelly Sotsky.
The goal was Anspach’s third of the season, and junior midfielder Jenn Bradley earned her team-high fourth assist of the season on the play. 
AU added to its lead 10 minutes later, as senior defender Tatum Dyer tapped in her first goal of the game on a perfectly placed penalty corner by midfielder Shelly Montgomery.  
AU’s furious attack paid off once more three minutes later when Dyer fed freshman midfielder Canon Hirschler, who found the back of the net to give the Eagles a 3-0 advantage.  
With all the momentum in AU’s favor, Dyer’s second goal of the game gave the Eagles a commanding 4-0 lead.
The shot was set up off another penalty corner; this time taken by freshman Courtney MacPherson.
Dyer’s second strike capped off a run of four goals in just 17 minutes for the Eagles, which allowed them to head into halftime with the game comfortably in hand. 
The second half featured little action as neither team generated many scoring chances.  Although the Eagles couldn’t find the net in the second frame, they were able to protect their lead and prevent the Crusaders from gaining any momentum. 
AU goalkeeper Ashley Dalisera was barely tested all afternoon and ended up with her second, and no doubt easiest, shutout of the season.  
The Eagles’ defense was tough from the start, holding the Crusaders to seven shots and needing Dalisera to only make three saves. The offense also excelled, generating 23 shots altogether, 16 of which came in the first half.
Overall, Dyer was the star of the show for AU. Her five-point game (two goals, one assist) was a career high and continued her strong senior season. 
Last week, she was named AU Student-Athlete of the Week after scoring her first career goal in AU’s 3-2 Oct. 2 win against Temple University.  
The Eagles will return to Jacobs Field for two home games this weekend.
AU will take on Colgate University Oct. 15 in the team’s final home conference game of the year before squaring off against the No. 3 University of Maryland Terrapins Oct. 16. The Terrapins are the defending NCAA Champions and are 11-1 on the season.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Department of Public Safety announced the appointment of Daniel R. Nichols as the new Director of Public Safety on Oct. 10. He will begin his duties on Nov. 1, according a memo sent to the AU community on Oct. 10.
Nichols spent the last 27 years working for the U.S. Capitol Police.  Most recently, he was the assistant chief of police/chief of operations, according to the memo.
As assistant chief of police/chief of operations, Nichols was charged with protecting the U.S. Congress, the Capitol, the House and Senate office buildings, the 35,000 permanent residents of the area and the 7 million visitors that come each year, the memo also stated.
While serving the U.S. Capitol Police, Nichols handled crisis communications during the 1998 shooting at the Capitol, the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the anthrax attacks in 2001.
He will provide leadership and direction to the department in order to create a safe and positive working and learning environment at AU, Assistant Vice President of Risk Management and Safety Services Pat Kelshian said in the memo.
Nichols holds a Master of Science in Management from Johns Hopkins University.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With a slumping economy and the hope of better job prospects, college graduates are heading back to the books.
Graduate school applications rose 8.3 percent from 2008 to 2009, according to the Council of Graduate Schools. The largest jump in applications was for degrees in business and health sciences. 
In order to stay competitive in a growing marketplace, AU is continuing to update existing programs and add new options for graduate students. In the past three years alone, the School of Communication, the Kogod School of Business and the School of International Service have added more than six separate graduate programs.
“We’re looking at weekend professional programs, where we’ll have pockets of innovative programs and curriculum that fit the competing demands of today’s graduate students,” Vice Provost for Graduate Studies Jonathan Tubman said. “We want to prepare a well- rounded graduate student that has both professional skills and the services of a supportive academic system.” 
Tubman said AU is looking at more hybrid models of learning and offering class times that coincide with the schedules of working professors.
“By adding in online courses, plus face-to-face classes, we want to make it easier in the future for graduate students to finish their degrees,” he said.
One program unique to AU is the new Master of Science in Sustainability Management, offered through Kogod. Sustainability management focuses on the need to provide solutions to many environmental and societal issues that continue to arise both at home and abroad.  
“We believe that there is both an immediate need and demand for this type of interdisciplinary program, and that we are the first business school in the country to offer a MSSM degree,” Program Director Daniel Jacobs said. “It is particularly appropriate for business schools to offer such programs because business has an increasingly prominent role and responsibility in addressing sustainability issues.”
Jacobs said he hopes the effects of the program will be felt both on campus and off.
“I hope that the program’s influence will be felt not only at AU, but in a variety of fields in the private and public sectors, including sustainability strategy, regulatory compliance, environmental protection, natural resource conservation, global development and corporate social responsibility,” he said.
A screenwriter by trade, second-year SIS graduate student Aron Flasher knew he wanted a career change. But returning to school means learning how to use Blackboard, properly cite papers, build resumes and navigate professional journals.
 “I wish the [international relations] program would have required brief seminars for students, like myself, who had been out of school for a while and/or were coming from a totally unique major, also like me,” Flasher said. “Anything that would have smoothed the transition process and filled in the gaps between international relations students and the rest of us,” he continued.
But many students said as they plan their next steps after graduate school, the time they spend at AU seems worthwhile.  
“I’ve wanted this since I was 15,” said Elizabeth Schaub, a second-year graduate student in SOC. “I knew back in 2000 that someday, somehow, I’d be at AU. It’s worth the 10 years it took and the money it cost. The professors are amazing, and I’ve become much more confident with the abilities I gained in my undergraduate education with the skills I’ve picked up in graduate school.”
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., started his career as an orthopedic surgeon who was tired of being told by the government how he could treat patients. 
Following a trip to lobby about tort reform at Georgia’s State Senate, Price decided to run for the state Senate. After winning that Senate seat, he ran to represent Georgia’s sixth district in the U.S. House of Representatives and won.
“One free American ought to be able to contact another free American for a service,” he said during a College Republicans event Oct. 4 in Butler Boardroom.
Price, a doctor turned politician, shared his views on health care, the American Jobs Act and the 2012 presidential candidates.
He serves as the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, according to his Congressional website. 
Price began his address by talking about the American Jobs Act, placing blame on overregulation by the federal government and the corporate tax rate. The United States holds one of the largest corporate tax rates, second only to Japan, he said. 
Price said he believes this tax rate only punishes businesses, especially small businesses. 
“I’m a zero percent business tax guy,” Price said.
He also spoke about health care, a problem that Price said he has insight into both as a doctor and politician. 
“It’s important to appreciate that we can fix all the challenges in health care right now, today, without putting the government in charge of a thing,” Price said.
Price said he believes health care decisions must be made between the family, the patient and the doctor without worrying about insurance. However, he said people deserve to be able to pick their own health care, as he believes the government cannot do this properly. 
“[About] 99.2 percent of the time, the federal government messes up,” he said.
The Republicans are currently pushing a few health care bills that Price said he believes will not make it past the Senate. He said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid would not bother to introduce the bills on the floor.  
“Sen. Harry Reid decided he doesn’t want to do anything that he doesn’t absolutely have to do because he has decided it is politically wise for his party not to address any controversial issues,” Price said. “That’s just an absolute absence of leadership, and it’s harming the country.” 
As for the presidential election candidates, Price said he believes former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney will get the Republican nomination. 
“If it’s Romney, he’ll trounce the president,” Price said.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU men’s soccer team scored three goals in the final 18 minutes of play against Army, defeating the Black Knights 3-0 in a physical match that saw a combined 31 fouls at Reeves Field Oct. 8.
The team remains perfect in Patriot League play.
“We just told the guys 3-0 is fantastic, and now we can sit back and see what the other results are now that we’ve done our job,” AU Head Coach Todd West said.
Army (5-7, 1-2 PL) immediately put pressure on the Eagles’ (5-7-1, 3-0 PL) defense to start the match. The Black Knights had several chances to score in the first half, with the best opportunity coming five minutes before halftime when David Rouleau’s point-blank header sailed over the crossbar.
AU had zero corners and took two shots in the opening 45 minutes, as both sides ended the half scoreless.
“I thought we started off a little bit slow; we went into halftime and talked about it,” AU midfielder Tyler Collins said. “In the second half, I think we came out a lot stronger.”
Sophomore Billy Knutsen played the entire second half in goal for AU with starter Matt Makowski not feeling well. 
The Black Knights immediately tested Knutsen; but Tanner Robertson’s 18-yard shot was saved and Knutsen was able to track back and punch a Rouleau attempt over the crossbar.
In the 72nd minute, it was the Eagles’ turn to attack. Colin Seigfreid served a corner into the box and Adem Gokturk headed home his first career goal to give the Eagles a 1-0 advantage. 
Two minutes later, Gokturk would follow up his goal with an assist. An interception in the midfield turned into a switching pass to Collins, who floated a 20-yard shot over the head of Army goalkeeper John Marinelli to put AU in front 2-0. 
“[Collins] just seems to relish the idea of us telling him to take guys on and go forward,” West said. “The goal he scored today looked like a professional forward chipping the keeper.”
AU added its third goal in the 86th minute, when Alassane Kane drew a foul in the box and scored on the ensuing penalty kick.  
“Army was pretty physical,” Gokturk said. “I think we matched up to their physicality, but our intensity needed to be picked up in the second half and we did that.”
The Eagles remain atop the Patriot League standings with the victory and have won by a combined score of 8-1 over their conference opponents.
“It’s great, it’s a real tough league to play in because all the games are so close,” Collins said. “But we’re actually coming out [and] doing really well with some 3-0 victories, so it should be a good season.”
AU will be in non-conference action Oct. 12 at the University of Alabama at Birmingham before returning home Oct. 15 to take on Lafayette College. The Leopards are in second place in the PL with a 2-0-1 conference mark.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Over 20 AU students ventured downtown on Oct. 6 to support the Occupy D.C. protests, part of a series of nationwide protests held to express frustrations with corporate greed and control of the political system.
The Occupy D.C. group has been maintaining a constant presence in McPherson Square since Oct. 1. The group says it is standing in solidarity with the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York and other such protests that have been going on since Sept. 17.
“It’s a really cool organization that grew out of a spontaneous movement,” said Chris Litchfield, a junior in the School of Political Affairs who attended the protest. “This is proof that people are awake and want to change things.”
Students march for Occupy D.C.
AU’s Community Action and Social Justice Coalition brought a group of about 10 people to the Oct. 6 event. 
Students joined the crowds in shouting slogans and handing out fliers describing the Occupy D.C. movement. 
The group marched from McPherson Square to the Newseum, where the Washington Ideas Forum was being held. The forum brings together various leaders, including Vice President Joe Biden, to share ideas about the state of the world.
At the Newseum, protesters shouted slogans and wrote their own ideas about how to run the country on a banner marked “People’s Ideas Forum.”
Participants played drums and acoustic guitars, shouted mottos such as “We are the 99 percent,” and held signs proclaiming their thoughts about the state of the political system and economy. 
The atmosphere was festive, and many people passing the protest showed their support, though some were annoyed when marchers did not stay on the sidewalk or follow crosswalk rules.
The protestors then returned to McPherson Square for a General Assembly meeting.
General Assembly meeting
During the twice-daily General Assembly meetings, attendees express their feelings and vote about various topics relating to their mission. The discussion is moderated, but not led. Everyone gets a chance to speak, ask questions or show support by “twinkling,” waving their fingers in the air.
At the General Assembly meeting on the night of Oct. 8, protestors discussed the need for a message and whether or not they should obey laws about sleeping in the square.
 “I have never seen something so organized as this meeting,” said Tom O’Connor, a freshman in the School of International Service after the meeting. “A lot was accomplished and it was very uplifting to watch. I definitely want to be an active part of what is going on.” 
About 15 AU students attended the Oct. 8 General Assembly meeting, and a few slept in the square that night.
AU students will continue participating in the Occupy D.C. movement as long as possible, Litchfield said.
The Occupy Movement
The Occupy D.C. group has no plans of leaving McPherson Square anytime soon, where they are located next to many of the corporations and lobbyists they are protesting, such as Koch Industries and Bank of America. 
The protestors were organized spontaneously through the Internet, according to Drew Franklin, a Class of 2010 AU graduate who has been involved in the movement.
“A popular idea that has been coming up in our meetings is to focus on the fact that we are in the nation’s capital and to emphasize how financial institutions are taking over our politics,” Franklin said.
Occupy D.C. started out with about 20 people Oct. 1 and has slowly grown over time. Over 300 people attended the General Assembly meeting Oct. 8.
“It is very inspiring to see this kind of support,” Franklin said.
In contrast, the Occupy Wall Street movement started with 1,000 people and has grown to over 10,000 people at some marches.
Occupy D.C. is standing in solidarity, but is not involved, with the much-larger “Stop the Machine” movement. 
Stop the Machine is focused on ending the war in Afghanistan but has also adopted a platform against corporate greed, and the groups are working to coordinate marches and demonstrations when interests line up.
Stop the Machine also held a protest on oct. 6 in Freedom Plaza.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Longtime Oakland Raiders owner Al Davis died Saturday. While he made many contributions to the NFL, such as playing a large part in its merge with the AFL, for my generation, Davis is the owner who made personnel decisions that made no sense to anyone not named Al Davis. 
Here now are some of my favorite Al Davis moments of recent years. In no way am I joking about Davis’ death. I am simply poking fun at some of the things he will be remembered for.
With the 17th pick the Oakland Raiders select … Sebastian Janikowski? 
This pick basically sums up Davis’ moves over the last decade or so.
In 2000, the Raiders selected kicker Sebastian Janikowski with the 17th pick of the first round. 
Now, Janikowski is listed at 6-foot-2, 250 pounds, so maybe they were going to put him at linebacker? No. He remained a kicker.
There is no way that any other team was going to take him in the first round. But Oakland did. 
The good news is that Janikowski has performed well his entire career. He tied an NFL record with a 63-yard field goal in this year’s season opener against the Denver Broncos and is the highest scoring player in Raiders history.
The bad news is that THEY TOOK A KICKER IN THE FIRST ROUND!
With the seventh pick the Oakland Raiders select … Darrius Heyward-Bey?   
While the drafting of Janikowski represents the craziness of Davis, the acquisition of Heyward-Bey represents the types of players he wanted on his team.
Even though Michael Crabtree was a much better player in college, Davis passed on him in the 2009 draft because Heyward-Bey ran a 4.25 40-yard dash at the NFL Combine. 
Never mind the fact that Heyward-Bey had 609 yards and five touchdowns in his final year at the University of Maryland versus Crabtree’s 1,165 yards and 19 touchdowns in his last season at Texas Tech. Heyward-Bay is really fast. 
Davis was always known for picking super athletic and physical freaks over proven commodities. More often than not, it turned out very badly.
With the first pick, the Oakland Raiders select … JaMarcus Russell?
Are you sensing a trend here? It seems that Davis’ biggest blunders occurred in the draft.
Maybe the biggest of Raider draft busts was quarterback JaMarcus Russell, who the team drafted No. 1 overall in 2007. 
Much like Heyward-Bey, Russell had a very limited track record coming into the draft, starting only two seasons for the Louisiana State University Tigers. But, he was 6-foot-6 and 260 pounds, so really they had to take him.
What a great decision to pick him ahead of Calvin Johnson, Adrian Peterson and Patrick Willis.
Russell lasted three years in the NFL and is now out of the league. Again, Russell was very gifted physically, but it takes much more than that. 
“Just Win Baby”
You can blame Davis for being foolish when it came to the draft or for being too reactionary when it came to coaching changes, but it would be foolish to accuse him of not caring. 
The Raiders won three Super Bowls under Davis. Much like George Steinbrenner, nothing mattered but winning at all costs.
The movie Field of Dreams is famous for its line, “If you build it, they will come.”
In reality, Davis knew that winning was the cure for any problem a team might have. Whether it’s low attendance or an unhappy locker room, win and it’s all taken care of.  
While many my age will remember Davis during his later years, making bad decision after bad decision, he will be remembered in football history as one of the best owners of all time.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Evan Petrone is the typical AU student; he’s in the Blends With Benefits a capella  group, works at the campus UPS store, is a member of Phi Alpha Delta...Oh, and he has a viral YouTube video.
At 625,578 views and counting, the YouTube video of Petrone playing the piano backwards has caught national attention.   
For those who haven’t seen this video, find the nearest computer, get on to YouTube, search “Evan Petrone backwards piano” and watch. Amazing, right? 
Now, the first thought that comes to mind is probably, “How on earth does he do that?” The answer: he uses his right hand to play left hand notes, and his left hand to play right hand notes. Petrone can do this because he has Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome — type three of the syndrome, known as the hyper-mobility type. Translated into English, Evan has extremely loose ligaments, allowing them to stretch and do seemingly impossible tasks, like playing the piano backwards.   
Petrone began playing the piano backwards in high school and continued practicing for fun. Last year, he made a video of himself playing “Clocks” by Coldplay and put it up on YouTube for “the heck of it,” he said. The video only received 600 views the first nine months it was up. Then in just one week this past September, the video went viral and gained 600,000 views.
“I was just really excited to have a video with half a million views,” Petrone said. “By the time it reached 600,000, I was focusing more on licensing at that point.”
Petrone’s video not only gained popularity among YouTubers, but also got attention across the country, and even across the world. “Tosh.0,” Comedy Central’s television show that displays the most interesting Web videos, put Petrone’s video on their website, which led to it acquiring an additional 30,000 views. The native Rhode Islander was interviewed by an Australian news site, Skyped into a news show in Arizona and was even asked to audition for Britain’s Got Talent. Petrone was extremely surprised by how big his video had become. 
“I really wasn’t expecting to get any real attention for the video,” Petrone said.
The biggest recognition Petrone has received is from the iconic comedian Jay Leno. A talent coordinator from “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno” contacted Petrone asking to be part of a segment on the show called “Will this thrill Bill?” — Bill as in William Shatner from the original “Star Trek” television series. Evan didn’t end up “thrilling Bill,” but that didn’t matter. 
“Being on Jay Leno was easily the most surreal thing I have ever done... I personally don’t think that playing the piano with my arms backwards is worth a $1500 trip to Los Angeles,” Petrone said.
Petrone’s 15 minutes of fame have also given him some financial perks. With his video going viral, he has gathered around $700 in YouTube ad revenue. 
Petrone hopes to develop his unique talent to play an entire song on the piano and is looking forward to the future. 
“Maybe I’ll audition for ‘America’s Got Talent!’” he said.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
