Two-thirds of all Student Government positions are empty after a nominating convention Wednesday night.
Twenty-four of 36 positions have not been filled on the ballot.
If those positions do not get filled in as write-in campaigns during spring elections on March 22 and 23, students, including those from the incoming Class of 2015, would have the opportunity to declare candidacy and run for those positions this fall, according to SG Senate Speaker Eric Reath, who is running for secretary.
The presidential candidates are Anthony Dunham, who ran unsuccessfully for the position last year, Ibraheem Samirah, Jessica Darmawan, Joseph Schulte, Timothy McBride and Zachary Lancet.
Students who declared their candidacy Wednesday can change the position they are running for over the next few days, though that’s unlikely, according to Board of Elections Chair Dan Lewis.
One candidate already violates campaign rules
Campaigning begins on March 14 and will continue until March 22, Lewis said. 
Candidates are prohibited from campaigning until then, according Board of Elections regulations. 
One candidate posted on his Facebook page that he was running for an SG position, which is a violation of the regulations. 
The candidate deleted the post on March 2 once Lewis informed him of the infringement. 
Lewis said the violation was a minor one, and the candidate was given a warning. 
The name of the violator could not be disclosed due to campaign regulations. 
Elections for the Class Council of 2015 and the SG Senate will be this fall.
zcohen@theeagleonline.com 
The Candidates
The following people have declared their candidacy for the following positions according to Andrew Toczydlowski, Student Activities coordinator of Governance and Leadership:
SG President: Anthony Dunham, Ibraheem Samirah, Jessica Darmawan, Joseph Schulte, Timothy McBride, Zachary Lancet
SG Vice President: Elizabeth Richards
SG Comptroller: Taylor Yeates
SG Secretary: Eric Reath, Kevin Sutherland
Class of 2012 President: Samuel Hagedorn
Class of 2013 President: Deniz Sonmez-Alpan
Class of 2014 President: Lauren Williams
Class of 2014 Vice-President: Timothy Vallario
SOC President: Jade Vakilzadeh, Madeline Shattow
SOC Vice-President: Jessica Liu, Samantha Landwehr
Undergraduate Business Association (Kogod) President: Alexis Zayfert
SPA President: Kevin Ralph
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Neil Kerwin will serve as AU president for five more years.
The Board of Trustees extended Kerwin’s contract until 2017. His current term began in 2007 and ends in the summer of 2012. 
Board Chairman Gary Abramson said a contract renewal is usually offered to presidents who receive excellent evaluations from the previous year’s assessment.

Neil Kerwin
• Kerwin is AU’s first alumnus president. He graduated with a political science degree in 1971.
• Kerwin began teaching in the School of Public Affairs’ Department of Public Administration in 1975. He served as the dean of SPA from 1988 until 1997, when he became AU’s provost.
• Kerwin served as provost until he became interim president from Aug. 24, 2005 to Sept. 1 2007, after former AU President Benjamin Ladner was fired for misusing University funds.
• Kerwin made $760,774, including base compensation, deferred compensation and health benefits, in 2008, according to Internal Revenue Service forms.  The Chronicle of Higher Education reported in November 2009 that Kerwin’s compensation was $1.4 million in 2007, though his salary was less than $600,000.
Neil Kerwin
• Kerwin is AU’s first alumnus president. He graduated with a political science degree in 1971.
• Kerwin began teaching in the School of Public Affairs’ Department of Public Administration in 1975. He served as the dean of SPA from 1988 until 1997, when he became AU’s provost.
• Kerwin served as provost until he became interim president from Aug. 24, 2005 to Sept. 1 2007, after former AU President Benjamin Ladner was fired for misusing University funds.
• Kerwin made $760,774, including base compensation, deferred compensation and health benefits, in 2008, according to Internal Revenue Service forms.  The Chronicle of Higher Education reported in November 2009 that Kerwin’s compensation was $1.4 million in 2007, though his salary was less than $600,000.
“The renewal represents the Board of Trustees' confidence in the progress and direction of the institution under his leadership,” Abramson said.
AU has maintained a healthy and steady enrollment, remained financially stable during an economic crisis, and successfully implemented the first two years of the Strategic Plan under Kerwin’s leadership, according to AU spokeswoman Camille Lepre.
Kerwin said he is pleased with the Board’s decision to extend his presidency at AU.
“I’m very happy, personally,” Kerwin said. “It’s great to think I’ll end my career here.”
Kerwin anticipates he will teach at AU after completing his second term of presidency, but he said he is not opposed to serving as president again.
“My expectation is that it would be best for the institution to hire another person, but you never say never,” Kerwin said.
AU held many “ritual celebrations” during Kerwin’s inauguration in 2007, including a celebratory dinner. Nothing is currently planned to celebrate his second term.
“We did that in 2007, so we wouldn’t do anything like that again,” Kerwin said. “It was fun when we did it, though.”
Vice President of Finance Don Myers said the Board of Trustees will decide Kerwin’s salary increase at their next meeting in May.
Kerwin said he attributes his success as president to his colleagues and the student body.
“When a president succeeds, or when a president fails, they don’t usually do it alone,” he said.
pjones@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
