Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf called for a new discourse about Islam in America on Feb. 28, saying the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks violated the religion itself. 
Rauf founded the Cordoba Initiative, which addresses the topic of healing U.S. Muslim relations after 9/11. 
Rauf made headlines this fall when he became the center of the highly publicized ground zero mosque debate. 
“We were found to be a convenient tool for the extreme right of the Republican Party for the midterm elections,” Rauf said.
9/11 not only had human casualties, but violated Islam itself, Rauf said. 
He said he took the attacks personally, saying that members of his congregation were among the first responders.
Rauf also said that the site was not to be an actual mosque, but rather a community center similar to the YMCA or Jewish centers that include athletic, educational and religious activities. 
The imam said that the point of the “Cordoba house” was to establish an American Muslim identity and catalyze a turning point in the discussion of Islam in America.
But the perceived conflict between being Muslim and being an American citizen was addressed long before the 2010 midterm elections, Rauf said. 
During the 2008 election, rumors circulated that Barack Obama was Muslim, eliciting some negative sentiment and fears. 
Rauf commended former Secretary of State Colin Powell for tackling the rumors head-on when he asked, “Is there anything wrong with being Muslim in America?”
Rauf also said he was astounded that the president's recent comments at the State of the Union received applause from both sides of the aisle, when he said, “We are committed to the conviction that American Muslims are Americans too and part of our American family.”
The School of International Service sponsored Rauf's appearance at AU.
lgiangreco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Although Melanne Verveer served as Hillary Clinton’s chief of staff when she was first lady, she knew Bill first through college.
“We shared a lot of the same interests, and in some ways, we were like policy wonks,” Verveer said of Bill Clinton.
The School of Public Affairs hosted the “Legacy of America’s First Ladies” conference March 1, including a panel of former first ladies’ chiefs of staffs for Hillary Clinton, Laura Bush and Michelle Obama.
Anita McBride, former chief of staff to Laura Bush and School of Public Affairs professor, said she grew closer to Laura Bush after George W. Bush became the governor of Texas. 
Susan Sher, former chief of staff to Michelle Obama, said Michelle worked as her employee for a number of years in Chicago, where they grew close.
“I was always a Michelle person,” Sher said.
In each instance, the first lady asked each woman to be her chief of staff, since a personal staff is necessary to cope with such an influential position.
“You are never prepared for the power of that position,” Verveer said. “It may not be in the Constitution, but it’s an extremely powerful position.”
While the president must deal with the interests of the public, the first lady is free to choose her own issues. 
Clinton served as an activist for education and children’s rights while her husband was in office, Verveer said.
But Verveer said the first lady is often forced to put aside her own personal goals to support her husband in the early stages of presidency, especially on foreign trips.
“You’re not really carrying out your own portfolio on those early trips because you’re helping the president,” she said. “You don’t have a portfolio, frankly.”
The chief of staff also helps the first lady create the image she wants to portray to the public.
“Michelle thinks of herself as an average American, even though she’s not since she’s living in the White House,” Sher said.
While a first lady’s typical day in the White House is “demanding,” McBride said the stress and long to-do lists are worth it.
“It’s a 24/7 job,” McBride said. “It’s always a part of you.”
At times, their jobs as chief of staff carried over to their time at home. Verveer said one time Clinton called her on a weeknight simply to talk.
“I remember one day I said, ‘Well, I’m in Safeway grocery shop, something you don’t have to worry about,’” Verveer said. “And her response was ‘you don’t know how much I wouldn’t mind going to a local grocery market.’”
pjones@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Feb. 27
The Department of Public Safety saw student #1 vomiting in a trash can in the Letts/Anderson Quad. Student #1 mentioned going to an unspecified club and consuming a couple of shots. He signed a medical refusal form and indicated he would stay with student #2. 
Public Safety responded to Anderson Hall for a report of an intoxicated individual. Upon Public Safety arrival, the individual, student #1, was conscious, vomiting and barely coherent. Student #2 stated she and student #1 attended a party hosted by a fraternity at an undisclosed location. Student #2 witnessed student #1 drinking rum. D.C. Fire Department transported student #1, accompanied by student #3, to the hospital. 
While conducting rounds, a resident assistant discovered a wall was damaged (cracked) in Capital Hall. 
DCFD transported a sick person from Congressional Hall to the hospital. 
While conducting rounds, a resident assistant discovered marble on the floor of a bathroom in Letts Hall. The marble was from a nearby sink. The resident assistant indicated he would initiate a 2-fix ticket for repair. 
DCFD transported a sick person from Anderson hall to the hospital.
DCFD transported a sick person from Hughes Hall to the hospital. 
Feb. 28
Public Safety discovered drywall was damaged on a pillar in Bender Arena. 
Staff reported a lawn mower and backpack model leaf blower were taken from a storage area in the Grounds Shop. The locking mechanism which stored the equipment in a gated area was tampered with. 
A bicycle was taken from a bike rack in the Katzen Parking Area. The bike had been secured to the rack with a combination cable lock. 
March 1
DCFD transported a sick person from Hughes Hall to the hospital. 
The School of International Service Garage entrance was defaced with a red painted symbol. 
A Bon Appétit employee took a picture of student #1 as student #1 attempted to put bread into his back pack in the Terrace Dining Room. Student #1 grabbed the employee’s forearm and stated something to the following effect:  “Why did you take a picture of me?  I pay $50,000 a year and $16 a meal. I am entitled to take as much food as I want.” The employee pulled her arm away and notified her supervisor. Reportedly, student #1 has been a recurring issue in the dining room. The supervisor forwarded records of previous incidents to Housing and Dining Staff. No injuries were reported.   
A complainant reported receiving e-mails and text messages from a suspect which were sexual in nature.  The suspect claims to know the complainant from seventh grade when attending school where the complainant “picked on” her. The complainant stated he does not know the suspect. The complainant asked the suspect to cease contact with him. 
March 2
An elevator technician responded and released an individual from a stuck elevator in Leonard Hall. No injuries were reported. 
Facilities Management and DCFD responded to release an individual from a stuck elevator in the SIS Building. No injuries were reported. 
While conducting rounds, a resident assistant discovered bogus Crime Alerts posted in Anderson Hall.   
While conducting rounds, a resident assistant discovered a cover removed from a radiator and wires hanging out of the radiator in Capital Hall. Facilities Management responded.
A small hole was discovered in a wall behind a door in Capital Hall.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
