Montgomery County Police issued a warrant May 27 for the arrest of Jorge Rueda Landeros in the murder of Kogod School of Business Professor Sue Marcum.
Landeros, a 41-year-old yoga instructor, is believed to be in Mexico, but Montgomery County Police are working with Mexican authorities to bring him back, Officer Rebecca Innocenti said.
“We are actively attempting to locate him at this time, but there is no definite answer,” Innocenti said.
The Bethesda Patch reported Marcum and Landeros were close friends, according to Marcum’s other close friends. According to the Washington Times, Landeros also taught Marcum Spanish. 
Marcum was murdered in her home Oct. 25. Montgomery County Police had previously identified DeAndrew Hamlin as a suspect in the case when he was found later that day driving her vehicle in D.C.
The police dropped charges against DeAndrew Hamlin last month. He was sentenced to 12 months of probation on May 13 for stealing Marcum’s car, The Eagle previously reported. 
Innocenti said the police wanted to release the information about Landeros’ warrant for arrest for two reasons:
“One, so the suspect knows we know,” Innocenti said. “And two, to inform the community that this wasn’t some random event.”
pjones@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
So, while we whine about our Campus Plan, we actually have a real problem on our campus. The new SIS Atrium is named for Prince Salman of Bahrain. This is the man who ordered the removal of protesters calling for democracy, with the military liberally using force and killing those who oppose the monarchy. Sure the guy's an alumni, but this is absurd.
I want to submit a rant about The Eagle not posting rants in the summer. But I can't, because either a) The Eagle will never publish my rant, because I'm submitting it in the middle of summer, or b) The Eagle will publish a round of summer rants, and then my rant will look stupid. What am I supposed to do?
The new system for setting up health center appointments online is terrible! The site is difficult to navigate and takes forevs.
The moment that you decide to make a passive-aggressive comment or gesture towards smoke in a place where smoking is allowed and expected is the very same moment in which I lose all concern for whether or not the smoke is bothering you.
Dearest Roomie,
If you're going to move out first and leave half your crap in the room for me and my Mom to deal with, at least be smart enough to NOT leave the bottle of herbal supplements where you hide the Adderall you've apparently been stealing from me on the desk for my mother to find.
Love,
The one that ACTUALLY has ADD
no more exams to cram for? no more unrealistic reading deadlines to meet? no more papers? well what am i supposed to do now?
-a terrified graduate
I need to find a way to deal with the news I can\'t go abroad because my family can't afford it. I love you guys and I am thankful for all you've done for me so no hard feelings...
I'm going to smoke so much more just to spite you totalitarian douchebags. Keep on ranting. I like to smoke and I don\'t blow it at others anyway.
Dear AU Financial Aid Office: Please make a note of all of the students who left campus just before midnight on a Sunday evening so that they could go rally at the White House about the Bin Laden killing. Clearly they don't care about studying during finals week, and since the Metro was closed, they had enough income to spend on a round-trip cab ride. I don't have that kind of money, I'm studying hard, and I really need more financial aid. Just keep that in mind, plzkthxbai.
Smoking cigarettes is not "immoral behavior."  It's a choice and its MY choice. If you have a problem, see me in person. Say something if I'm smoking a stogue. Yell at me if I flick my butt in the bushes. EagleRants won't get the job done.
Sounds great to me BWHTDIK
I always want to whisper to the prospective students on tour that they shouldn't waste their money and will probably end up depressed and transferring anyways.
To the person who is disgusted by the snot-infested girl, some of us have this thing called "allergies."  They're not contagious.
Deal with it.
XOXO, someone with severe allergies who has to go to the library to get work done every now and then
Dear kid who is coughing loudly every two minutes, I can only imagine how much it must suck to be sick during finals week, and my thoughts and prayers are with you. But for the love of God, could you please find somewhere other than the quiet floor to study?
As an AU alum and supervisor at a local company, I am distressed at the quality of our employees who are AU students or recent AU grads. Most of them are lazy, clearly not used to having any responsibility, vaguely moronic, strange, or just complete degenerates who can't show up to work. Some are a combination of all of these traits. I'm honestly more inclined to hire from GW in the future...
This is more of a preemptive Rant, because I have a feeling this persons gonna rant about me soon. To the person who ordered a Cheddar cheeseburger and had the number 5 when mine was 99 at tavern. Don't get upset just because I was before you. The ticket system goes up to 99 and then goes back to 1. You were after me. I wanted a Cheddar Burger too. And you know what, be happy I took that burger before you did, because the burger he gave me tasted like it had gone bad. I bit a bullet for you number five.
If we pay so much for tuition, can we please get more comfortable chairs in the 2nd floor library? My back hurtz!
RE: "To the girl in my government class who asked why anyone would could possibly disagree with her opinion of thinking WikiLeaks is bad.... I recommend you read the book “1984” or see the movie “V for Vendetta.” Stop being a mindless puppet. I am embarrassed to go to school with someone with such a lack of critical thought."
Did you really just question someones intelligence by citing fiction? I am embarrased to go to school with someone with such a lack of credible sources.
Did anybody notice that the graph presented next to "Gender gap changes classroom environment" article is so wrong?
[Editor’s Note: We noticed too, too late. The chart was switched around last minute. Sorry for the mistake.]
To the person who is transferring and complaining about AU: What is it you didn't like about AU? I love everything about AU. If you're going to complain, at least be specific.
AU looks gorgeous. Every time I walk through campus I feel like I am walking through an enchanted garden. Props to the grounds and facilities people for all the new plants and landscaping.
I hate exam season. I begin my papers well in advance so they are usually finished well beforehand. I do the readings, to every class, and review it all semester. When it is time for exams, there's really not that much for me to do. And now no one wants to play with me because they're all "studying.”
New MyAU...worst...portal...ever.
Dear tobacco prohibitionists,
Please don\'t neglect the important issue of chemtrails. I can feel their chemicals squeezing the life out of my brain whenever a plane flies overhead (a feeling I think you can sympathize with). Knock them all out of the sky, I say!
Keep fighting the good fight, from your brother in arms
Dear Library,
Why isn't the Mudbox open before 9am during finals week??
Sincerely,
I need my coffee
Commencement WONKs? Great. And of course, the grads are going to have to wonk across the stage to get their diplomas.
@Non-hipster Dav customer:
That is hardly alt music that you're complaining about.
Love,
an altbag
Dear Berks,
I know you suck as it is, but do you really have to add insult to injury and refuse to turn on the AC when it's 86 degrees outside? Oh yea, and it's also FINALS WEEK. I can deal with going to the library where it's cool to do work, but I have to sleep sometime. Awfully hard to do when my room is 80 degrees even with 2 fans and the window open.
-A resident who can't wait to move
The bagel toaster in TDR is my surrogate mother, in that I specifically walk by it on my way to the firewok just to feel it's gentle warmth on my right arm.
Dear "Non-Hipster Dav Customer,"
you have got to be kidding me. The Dav plays their fair share of Ke$sha and country music and Glee and other (bad) genres that are most certainly not indie. I know, I'm forced to suffer through it. Open your ears, my friend - there's more to music than dubstep.
To the worker at Eagle's Nest who only charged me $0.99 for a $5.00 purchase:
You made a hungry but poor college student very happy, and I will appreciate you forever.
Sincerely,
I now have only $0.20 left of my eagle bucks and a full stomach
It's fraud the way doctor's offices try to make you think a pap smear is required to get birth control. It is NOT required! European countries find it backwards that American doctors would withhold birth control until they get to "examine" you. Why are women standing by this oppression? Why is women's initiative not fighting for women's equality and instead wasting their time on trying convince us that all men are rapists and drunk sex is rape. True feminists should not stand for this. Women: Did you know you are NOT required by law to get a pap smear before being given birth control? The student health canter (and likely any other health center you go to) will try and push one on you because it is an way for them to make $$$$. Are they screening you for colon cancer? Lung cancer? Lymphoma? (all of which occur more frequently than cervical cancer) Nope. They are using your female sexuality against you and charging you for pap smears when you ARE NOT required to get them. What is Women\'s Initiative doing about this (the most gender oppressive issue in our nation)? NOTHING. Take a stand.
If you are not an AU student, then that makes sense that you do not get free security. Security for an event, is a privilege for AU students because they are paying the salaries. If you are not an AU student it makes sense that you do not get any of the paid benefits students receive, such as the UES center. -resp to article
To the person who criticized me for missing the "memo:" Chillax.
To the person who compared smoking to genocide, rape, global warming and racism: Please stop. Stop talking. Like right now and ... forever.
You're my boyfriend's best friend and I've completely fallen in love with you. I've never had a better time in my life than the time spent with you and the thought of being without you is driving me crazy. One of these days I'm going to tell you...
Is it just me, or does some variation of the phrase "I pay full tution X amount of money to go here" precede the most trivial rants in the world. Its like when people say "no offense" and then say something offensive... it isn't a magical card that gets you out of the obnoxiousness of your statement.
I pay full tuition to this school. The fact that I have to open my window or else I die from heat stroke is ridiculous. Also I'm dying from the allergies so having my window open does not help. Even in the third world I don't have to deal with this.
Dear AU Tour Groups,
We all understand that for some reason you want to come here and because of that you have to explore our campus, but there are some students actually living here. So MOVE YOUR BUTT AWAY FROM THE DOORS and we'll have no problems. And please don't ever tell me again that your with the group. I can see that you clearly don't belong.
Love,
Someone who is paying money to use the doors
@Broke and Horny CAS Student
I'd be more than happy to help you out
Dear Professor,
I really love you and your class, but having the final paper due almost a week early is simply cruel.
Sincerely,
There was a reason it was scheduled then.
Actually you moronic Dung Beetle, people invited to attend the Washington Semester Program have grades that are probably better than yours. What they also can do is pay full freight for the semester. So, in essence, they are paying for your education you brainless person who needs to make him/herself feel big by, incorrectly, attempting to put others down.
So I have a stalker, and she has a strong resemblance to Hugo Chavez. #dictator.
Hey AU - I see those blue recycling cans that just made an appearance in the amphitheater recently... I approve. :D
Now only if AU was able to get a trashcan in the bathrooms besides the Paper compost only ones, that would be fantastic. :P
The Wonk campaign is driving me "wonkers" ahhhhhh!!!
Can housing and dining PLEASE turn on the air conditioning? Its way to hot in the dorms!
Every guy I even think of being interested in is gay or taken. This isn't a complaint about the number of guys on campus, it's just a general observation about the ironies of life.
My eyes feel like the Eye of Sauron. Pollen, why dost you existeth?
Pollen. That is all.
 

Rant here!
 Type your rant here!  



Never miss a story
        Get our weekly newsletter delivered right to your inbox.
        

Email Address 






 






More from The Eagle






Opinion: AU’s response to what happened in Kerwin Hall will not keep us safe 







Opinion: The US is designed for cars — not people







Opinion: What it’s like being an immunocompromised student at AU





Rant here!
 Type your rant here!  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Facilities Management is considering adding a new shuttle route on Massachusetts Avenue toward the National Cathedral.
Student Government President Tim McBride has said he would like to see shuttles toward the cathedral after 8:10 p.m. classes so students who live in that area can get home more easily and safely.
Facilities Management is currently reviewing the proposal to see if it would work, McBride said.
Seven of the ten shuttles also now have electronic banners on the front and side of each shuttle that display the color route and the major stops of the route.
Three shuttles still do not have electronic banners, including two smaller buses and the shuttle that was damaged in the crash on Nebraska Avenue in October.
Facilities Management felt that the shuttles’ destinations were not clear, Transportation Services Supervisor Kevin Wyatt said. There were concerns that visitors to the University would not be able to navigate the shuttle system, Manager of Transportation Operations and Maintenance Facilities Management Alef Worku said.
Facilities Management also implemented an automatic system for counting passengers about a year ago. It utilizes a light beam rather than manual recording by bus drivers, Facilities Management Assistant Director of Grounds, Vehicle Maintenance & Support Services Mark Feist said.
Facilites Management regularly analyzes data about ridership to change the shuttle schedule and adjust the number of shuttles running at any particular time, Feist said.
Facilities Management is also working on a program that will allow shuttle riders to receive information about shuttle times via text message. The office is also advocating for more monitors in buildings around campus showing current locations of shuttles, Feist said. 
zcohen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
