Correction Appended
Howard Dean confused AU with a cross-town rival during a Feb. 8 speech.
The former Democratic National Committee chairman had discussed immigration last week with former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich at George Washington University.
Dean told the GWU audience Americans need to be welcoming to immigrants.
But at AU, Dean made a gaffe.
“Raise your hand if you have Native American blood in you,” Dean said at AU. “Everybody else is an immigrant, everybody else had someone in their family who scrubbed floors so you could be here at George Washington.”
Chuckles broke out and Dean joined in, realizing his mistake. But the School of Public Affairs Undergraduate Council, the sponsors of the event, had the last laugh when they presented Dean with an AU mug as a parting gift.
“And it says American University on the inside,” said one College Democrat member. “So you’ll always know what you’re drinking from.”
Besides that faux pas, Dean spoke about the current youth grassroots movement, saying change comes from the ground up — not down from the presidency.
He said while President Barack Obama should not have a problem getting out the youth vote in 2012, much of his younger base from 2008 is disenchanted with the administration’s performance thus far.
“It’s natural for you at your age to be very idealistic,” Dean said. “But it’s also natural for you to be easily disappointed.”
Dean also predicted a victory for Obama in 2012 based on this generation’s diversity and acceptance of others.
He described the audience as “the first multicultural generation.”
Dean also spoke about the war in Afghanistan, saying he supports the war but has some reservations about pulling troops out.
He said he is worried about how Afghan women will be treated if the U.S. leaves the country.
“I’m a politician because I believe deeply in social justice,” Dean said. “When we leave, women will be treated worse than slaves.”
lgiangreco@theeagleonline.com 
Correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the sponsors of the event. This event was sponsored by the School of Public Affairs Undergraduate Council, not the College Democrats.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
