It was a crazy finish for the Nationals on Independence Day as they beat the Chicago Cubs 5-4 on a rare walk-off wild pitch that allowed right fielder Jayson Werth to score the winning run.
Unlike Sunday’s game against the Pirates, it was the Nationals who struck first, scoring a pair of runs in the bottom of the first inning off back-to-back singles by Laynce Nix and Werth.
But the Cubs got one back the next inning when, after a one-out triple by first baseman Carlos Pena, center fielder Marlon Byrd singled to make it a 2-1 game. 
They then took the lead in the top of the fourth inning with men on first and third and two outs, Cubs’ left fielder Alfonso Soriano hit a routine fly ball to right center field that somehow dropped between center fielder Roger Bernadina and Weth in right, allowing both base runners to score. Not only did it cost the Nats two runs, it cost starting pitcher Jordan Zimmerman the chance to earn the win.
“Those things can’t happen on good ball clubs and I’m sure it won’t happen again,” Nationals’ Manager Davey Johnson said. “It was really tough on Zim. Zim still battled back, pitched a heck of a ballgame, but he should have won that ballgame.”  
Chicago picked up another run in the top of the sixth when catcher Geovany Soto hit a single with the bases loaded and two outs, but the Nationals stopped the damage as Werth threw Pena out at home.
Werth continued his strong day in the bottom of the sixth, grounding out to first base to allow Nix to score following a triple in the previous at bat.
Nix had a big game as well, walking with the bases loaded in the bottom of the seventh to tie the game.
The game remained tied until the tenth inning when Werth walked to lead off the inning. Johnson then decided to pinch hit with pitcher Livan Hernandez because of his ability to sacrifice bunt, which he did successfully. Werth then stole third base and came around to score on a wild pitch a few pitches later, and the Nationals were victorious.  
While the win was encouraging, this is not the way that Johnson likes to score runs. He said he much prefers home runs to sacrifice bunts. But right now, he’s taking runs any way he can get them.
“It’s really not a good comfort zone for me quite yet,” Johnson said. “I think we’re a much better ball club than that, and I’m sure we’ll show it in the second half.”
blasky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Nats’ starter Jason Marquis struggled early and often in the 2-10 loss against the Pirates, allowing four singles and committing a throwing error en route to a three-run first inning.
The Pirates picked up five more runs in the second inning, as Marquis was taken out and relieved by righty Collin Balester. Marquis pitched only one and one-third innings, allowing six earned runs on eight hits and no strikeouts.
“He’s pitched good all year long. It just didn’t look like he had much on it today, and sometimes that happens,” Nats’ manager Davey Johnson said.  
Washington scored two runs in the bottom of the second, thanks to a two-run homer to the visiting dugout in left field by catcher Wilson Ramos, his seventh of the year. Those would be the only runs of the ballgame as the Nats would go on to lose handily by eight runs.
The Nats have really been struggling since Johnson took over as manager. Since Johnson began managing the team last Monday, the team has lost five out of seven games.
“I don’t like to get beat,” Johnson said. “That wasn’t fun today.”
In better news for the team, MLB announced on Sunday that reliever Tyler Clippard will represent the Nationals in the All-Star Game. 
Clippard has made 37 appearances out of the pen for Washington in 2011. In those appearances he has a 1.96 ERA to go along with a league-leading 21 holds. 
While Clippard is having a great season, there are some who believe the Nats should have had more players on the All-Star team.
First baseman Michael Morse is having a tremendous 2011. The Florida native has hit 15 home runs to go along with a .299 batting average and 46 RBIs while playing solid defense at first.
Rookie second baseman Danny Espinosa is also deserving of an invite to Arizona, the host of the 2011 All-Star Game. Espinosa also has 15 bombs to go along with 48 RBIs. And while his average is nothing to brag about, he makes up for it with great defense up the middle.
There were a handful of Nationals’ players to choose from, but Johnson believes the All-Star coaching staff got it right by selecting Clippard, calling it “a great opportunity.”
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Nationals and Pirates played a true doubleheader on Saturday in order to make up a game that was postponed due to expected rain on May 17, even though it didn’t rain a drop.
The Nats lost the first game of the day, but won the second. Back-to-back home runs surrendered by Nationals’ lefty reliever Sean Burnett in the first game’s eighth inning were enough to put Washington away. Burnett is clearly having a disappointing season as his ERA now stands at 5.72. However, Nationals’ manager Davey Johnson is not giving up on him or any other reliever.
“The back end of the bullpen didn’t do a good job today,” Johnson said after the first game. “That’s what happened. But we’re getting there.” 
The Pirates kicked things off offensively in the top of the first inning as right fielder Garrett Jones and second baseman Neil Walker both came up with RBIs to give Pittsburgh an early 2-0 lead.
The Nats cut the lead in half one inning later as an Ivan Rodriguez single plated first baseman Michael Morse.
Pinch hitter Rick Ankiel hit his second homer of the season to right center field in the bottom of the seventh to tie the game at two.
The Pirates took over the lead in the top of the eighth, thanks to back-to-back solo home runs by Jones and center fielder Andrew McCutchen. 
Pittsburgh picked up an insurance run in the top of the ninth as pinch hitter Matt Diaz hit a single to score Brandon Wood, winnng the game 5-3.
Game two of the doubleheader began with the Nats taking the early lead as right fielder Jayson Werth scored on a groundout by Wilson Ramos.
The Pirates took the lead in the top of the third, but the Nats tied it in the bottom of the inning as Ryan Zimmerman grounded into a fielder’s choice, allowing center fielder Roger Bernadina to score.
Pittsburgh took the lead again in the seventh as Diaz scored on a double-play groundout.
However, the Nats again took the lead in the bottom of the eighth inning. Washington attempted a double steal and was successful, as Pittsburgh catcher Eric Fryer threw the ball away at third base, allowing pinch runner Brian Bixler to score and tie the game. Rodriguez then singled home a run a batter later to give Washington a 4-3 lead, a lead they would not relinquish.
Yet, while the Nationals won the second game, Johnson was still not happy with the offensive production.
“It was terrible,” he said. “We had the right guys up with men in scoring position and didn’t get it done … I know it’s gonna get better. I’m optimistic. I love to score runs. I’m kind of an offensive manager, and I’ve had to open up a big playbook.”
That has been the story of the season for the Nationals. Lose a game in which the pitcher performed well, or barely win by pushing just the right amount of runs across. That is what is to be expected with young players up and down the lineup. 
 blasky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The College of Arts and Sciences will offer Public Health as an undergraduate major starting this fall. The major will be open to all students, including the incoming class of 2015. 
AU students could previously only pursue a major in Health Promotion, an aspect of public health, according to Lynne Arneson, Premedical Programs coordinator. 
“Public Health focuses on maintaining and improving the health of the community,” Arneson said in an email.
Students will take courses in each one of the four cluster areas, but will choose to concentrate on one area: global health; health science; social and community health; and policy, program planning and evaluation. 
Public Health incorporates classes from each of the AU schools and will allow students to have a second major and minor.
AU will offer “Introduction to Public Health” as a core class for the Public Health major in the fall, the only fall course class specifically offered for the Public Health major. Two core courses will be added in the spring: SIS 221 “Global Health” and PHIL 296 “Introduction to Bioethics.” More classes will be added in fall 2012.
Arneson said the major is not a new concept to AU.
“This major has been in the back of folks’ minds for a while,” she said.
Arneson said she feels the Public Health major is a great opportunity considering AU’s location.
“D.C. is like the Mecca for Public Health,” Arneson said.
AU will only hire a director and an assistant director for the Public Health program since more than 70 faculty members already teach courses pertaining to the major.
Arneson said the new assistant director will be hired by the start of classes on August 29, but the director will not chosen until next fall due to the long process.
“It takes more time to find a director of a program, and usually the search begins in the fall,” she said.
Arneson will act as interim director until fall 2012, in addition to her position as Premedical Programs coordinator.
pjones@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
