The Eagles ended their regular season with a double-overtime 95-92 victory against the Lafayette Leopards Saturday in Easton, Pa.  
AU finished the regular season at 21-8, marking the third 20-win season for the team under Jeff Jones.
Troy Brewer turned in a phenomenal game, scoring eight of his season-high 28 points in the second overtime period. Brewer did most of his damage from beyond the arc, hitting five three-pointers on the afternoon.
The Eagles started the game on a 5-0 run, but were behind 8-7 with 17:23 left in the half. AU regained the lead after a Vlad Moldoveanu score. The teams exchanged scores, with neither team holding a lead greater than five points. At the end of the first half, the game was tied at 35.
The second half was similar to the first. Both teams exchanged scores with the Eagles holding onto a 52-51 lead midway through the period. With 4:39 remaining in the second half, the Eagles were down by four before Moldoveanu, Brewer and Stephen Lumpkins took over and scored AU’s last nine points of the half. Brewer hit a foul shot with 15 seconds left to tie the game at 67.  
The Leopards controlled the first overtime period, never trailing at any point and were up by four with 40 seconds left in the extra period. Brewer nailed another clutch three and Nick Hendra hit both foul shots with two seconds left in the game to force a second overtime.
The Eagles took an 82-81 lead with 3:25 in the second overtime and never looked back. The Leopards were not able to come back despite three three-pointers in the last 1:37 of the game. 
In addition to Brewer’s 28, Moldoveanu scored 30 points and collected eight rebounds while Lumpkins contributed 16 points. Nick Hendra had nine points and led the Eagles with six assists. The Leopards were led in scoring by Tony Johnson with 29 and Jared Mintz with 26.
The Eagles were excellent from the free throw line, nailing 89 percent of their shots. The Eagles also shot 10-22 from three-point range. AU finished 56.5 percent from the field, while the Leopards shot 47 percent. The Leopards did force 13 AU turnovers.
The Eagles finish the regular season with an 11-3 record against conference foes, marking the second time in program history AU has recorded 11 Patriot League victories. The Eagles regular season scoring leader was Moldoveanu, who recorded 19.5 points per game. Nick Hendra led the Eagles in steals with 26 and assists with 112. Lumpkins led the team with 35 blocks and eight rebounds per game.
The Eagles have not lost a game against Lafayette since 2005. AU will host Colgate University in the quarterfinals of the Patriot League Championship at Bender Arena Wednesday.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Grade: A
Scene Says: It’s no ‘Bourne Ultimatum,’ but it’s quite good.
Can one outrun one’s fate? “The Adjustment Bureau” answers that question quite literally. 
Based on the short story “The Adjustment Team,” by sci-fi writer Philip K. Dick, the film is a sci-fi-tinged romance not unlike “Gattaca” or “Code 46” in its ethos, and despite its fairly grave subject matter, it is incredibly entertaining and captivating in its human angle.
Matt Damon stars as rising political star David Norris, whose chance encounter with contemporary modern dancer Elise (Emily Blunt) sets him on an inexorable path. Elise’s character is instantly lovable — she is irreverent, ebullient and free-spirited. David has a reputation for being a “loose cannon,” but under her influence, he loosens up instead. 
So, their romance blossoms until David encounters the men of the Adjustment Bureau, who tell him, “You peeked behind a curtain you weren’t supposed to know exists.”  Apparently, it is not according to the “plan” for David and Elise to be together. 
Even though the plausibility of the level of ardor they have for each other from just a few encounters requires a leap of faith, both Damon and Blunt play their roles perfectly and their on-screen chemistry carries the storyline well. There are a couple of silly moments, such as when David must be prevented from seeing Elise dance by the Adjustment Bureau because he will instantly fall in love with her if he does (gasp — he does). But these minor hiccups do not detract from the overall enjoyment of seeing their relationship grow.
Director George Nolfi’s (“Ocean’s Eleven,” “The Bourne Ultimatum”) portrayal of “The Adjustment Bureau” as fate’s company men is incredibly amusing. The use of corporate speak — e.g. the higher being is “The Chairman,” “angels” are “case officers,” “briefcases” are interventions — is clever and apt in building the mythology. The various adjustments, calibrations and irregularities are very reminiscent of “a glitch in the Matrix” motifs and accessible to the viewer (no elaborate sci-fi mumbo jumbo here).
The droll, Englishmen-like bureau men have serious jobs, but certainly have a sense of humor. The dapper bureau men are powerful but not omnipotent — as Harry, one of the bureau’s men who comes to David’s aid explains it’s all science. They have an interest in making sure humans do not screw up too much, but they cannot read their minds or observe everyone at all times and can only predict outcomes based on the percentages. Therein lies David and Elise’s out — there is a margin for irregularities, chance and the big one, free will.
“The Adjustment Bureau” is a thrilling film with just the right mix of sci-fi plot elements and a strong human story — it is clever and funny, without being overbearingly technical or requiring extreme suspension of disbelief.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Freshmen, sophomores and juniors — rejoice! The University’s latest budget locks tuition increase rates for the next two years at the lowest level in 15 years. 
We applaud AU’s recognition of student concerns and its work toward keeping AU at least somewhat-almost-maybe affordable.
Considering the toll the economic recession took on students and universities across the country, AU has weathered the storm admirably. AU’s first $1 billion budget demonstrates the University’s positive growth and signals its firm financial footing. 
With these changes, AU will be at the lower end of the national average for tuition hikes — 3.8 percent vs. 4.3 percent. But even with the reasonable increase, AU’s tuition is still marching inexorably toward that frightening $50,000 mark. 
AU must continue to make good on its goal of giving more need-based aid. As the University continues to grow and develop structurally, it is imperative to remember to help those that make all this possible — the students (and/or their parents) that pay for these changes — by keeping reasonable.
AU’s endowment is near the highest it has ever been and we look forward to increased aid and student investment in the coming years. However, we caution the University to remain focused on fiscal responsibility first. 
In today’s ever-changing global economy, we’ve seen how quickly seemingly sound financial footing can crumble. This University has gained respect among peer institutions and students for weathering the recession without having to resort to layoffs or large tuition hikes. 
If AU stays committed to responsible growth, this University can continue to prosper well into the future. 
As we all hope to graduate from this fine institution in the near future, that’s a prospect every student should appreciate.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction Appended
This story is the first in a series investigating World War I-era chemical weapons and equipment buried under AU’s campus and in the Spring Valley neighborhood.
In April 1917, just days after the United States declared war on Germany, AU’s president wrote a letter to the White House.
“To his Excellency, Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States,” AU President Benjamin Leighton wrote. “I am authorized to extend to the United States Government the use of 92 acres of land lying within the District and composing the campus of the University...for such purpose as the Government may desire. The campus may be used either for a camping ground for troops, for gardening and raising products for the Army, or for such other purpose as you may elect.”
The U.S. Secretary of War accepted Leighton’s offer. By that summer, there were 2,100 U.S. Army soldiers and officers stationed and ready for training at “Camp American University,” with thousands more to come. 
The new tenants transformed the campus. Before their arrival, the only structures on campus were the College of History, now known as Hurst Hall, and a half-finished McKinley Building. 
But over several months, the soldiers’ khaki tents and officers’ wooden barracks filled the quad. 
AU’s campus became a small city, with a hospital, horse stable, post office, shoe shop, tailor shop and deli. 
The AU newspaper, The Courier, reported the dramatic change of scenery in July 1917. 
“The change from a wooded and grass-covered expanse with the white marble fronts of University buildings showing through the green of the trees, to a busy and bustling tent and board city of several thousand soldiers, before whose onslaught every particle of grass has been turned to well-trodden dirt and clay, is startling and incongruous,” the newspaper said.
The U.S. government also built a Young Men’s Christian Association office on campus. 
The YMCA provided soldiers and officers with a weekly schedule for religious services and entertainment. 
Every Thursday night, the soldiers gathered in the amphitheater ¬— known to them as the “Auditorium in the Grove” — for a stage performance by actors from D.C. 
Between 3,000 and 4,000 soldiers and civilians attended these performances every week, according to The Courier.
But the soldiers didn’t spend all their time in the “Auditorium in the Grove.”
Officers regularly sent them on eight-mile practice marches up and down Massachusetts Avenue, which would take hours to complete. 
They practiced marching formations and had bayonet practice in the fields on the South side of campus to train for the trench warfare on the battlefields of France.
“The American University is doing its duty, first in peace, now in war,” The Courier wrote in October 1917. “And when peace returns, once more the scholarly duties will replace the martial trappings.” 
Although students seemed to welcome the Army at first, they soon worried about the University’s well-being. 
“What more can the American University do for the United States Government that it has not done?” The Courier wrote.
While AU provided housing for thousands of soldiers, its academics suffered. University lectures, which were open to the public, were “reduced to a minimum,” the Courier wrote. “Sentinels challenge every person who enters the grounds and buildings; even the officers of the University must show their passes.”
Though the University’s academic research faltered, research on chemical weapons began to thrive on the campus grounds. 
See the second part of this series in The Eagle’s March 15 issue.
news@theeagleonline.com
Correction: An earlier headline on this story stated AU volunteered its campus to the Army Corps of Engineers in 1917. AU volunteered its campus to the Army in 1917.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Board of Trustees passed its first $1 billion budget for fiscal years 2012 and 2013, which includes a 3.8 percent increase in undergraduate tuition, the lowest rate of tuition growth in 15 years.
Tuition will be $37,554 for the 2011-2012 school year and $38,982 for 2012-2013. Tuition for the current 2010-2011 academic year is $36,180.
Vice Chairman Jeff Sine said the Board increased the tuition by a smaller rate to make AU more affordable to students and maintain AU’s educational reputation. 
“There’s a conscious attempt by administration to try to keep those rates as low as possible given the economy and given the fact that we want to still represent a great educational value,” Sine said. 
Washington College of Law and graduate tuition, excluding the Kogod School of Business program, will also increase by 3.8 percent each year, according to Senior Budget Officer Tom Ingold. 
The national average tuition increase for private schools and universities is 4.5 percent for the 2010-2011 academic school, an increase from the 4.3 percent tuition increase in 2009-2010, according to the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. 
The average tuition at private colleges was $26,273 for the 2009-2010 academic year. AU’s 2009 tuition was $32,816 then. 
The residence hall fees will increase by 1 percent for the 2011-2012 academic year and 2 percent for the 2012-2013, a smaller growth than last year’s 6 percent. 
A double room in 2011-2012 will cost $4,554 per semester and $4,645 per semester in 2012-2013. 
A double occupancy room in Letts, McDowell, Leonard, Hughes and Anderson Halls currently cost $4,509 per semester for the 2010-2011 academic year.
Other budget plans
The Board of Trustees approved the budget’s $60 million to strategic plan initiatives, an increase of $20 million from the FY 2010-2011. These initiatives include increasing number of faculty, proceeding with the 2011 Campus Plan and increasing sustainability.
Sine said using these funds to pursue specific strategic goals would allow AU to prosper. 
“Those are the numbers that led us to invest so the University continues to achieve the kind of momentum it already has, and even accelerate, but at the same time recognizes the need to remain affordable to as many people as possible,” Sine said.
Vice President of Finance and Treasurer Don Myers said AU’s commitment to the strategic plan is “bold.”
“Many organizations have strategic plans, but do not necessarily articulate the financial investment in this form for the general public,” Myers said.
The University endowment increased by 14.6 percent from June 2010, an impressive amount from last year, according to Sine. In April 2010, the endowment was $360,635,000 according to AU’s 2009-2010 Annual Report, which would make the endowment approximately $413,287,710 today.
“We’re nearly back to our all-time-high for endowment size today,” Sine said. 
The Campus Plan approval will allow AU administration continue forth with their plans for reconstruction with funds. 
“[The Campus Plan is] as bold as anything AU has done in history, and it’s a critical part of the academic progress to actually have the fiscal plan that lets all that happen,” Sine said.
pjones@theeagleonline.com
Clarification: Incorrect figures for graduate and Washington College of Law tuition increases were provided to The Eagle. This version has been corrected.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The works of Tennessee Williams are known primarily for two things: a heavy Southern influence and deep, brooding themes concerning the nature of humanity. His less popular play, “Orpheus Descending,” certainly does not stray from these distinctive markings, and the production of the show put on by the AU Department of Performing Arts was able to do the play justice. 
Directed by CAS Director of Theatre Carl Menninger, the show was the department’s second offering of the year, providing a somber break after the irreverent Stephen Sondheim musical, “Company,” and before the Shakespearean play, “Measure for Measure.” 
The plot revolves around the arrival of Valentine Xavier, a classic drifter-musician character, to a small Southern town and his subsequent affair with dry-goods shop owner Lady Torrance. Suspicion among the townsfolk against Val rises before coming to a dramatic head near the end of the second act.
“The concept of being on the outside, being an outsider, is just as relevant now in the wake of 9/11,” Menninger said in an interview with The Eagle. “And that is what the play is about: people seeing an outsider as threatening when he is really nonthreatening.”
The first thing an audience member notices about “Orpheus” is also one of its strongest traits: the set. The action of the play never once moved from the aforementioned store, and it was meticulously recreated with individually labeled goods and pale plywood construction that perfectly invokes the archetypal image of the old-style, Southern general store.
This is ultimately what “Orpheus” succeeded the best at: creating a living world. The set, lights, music and costumes worked together seamlessly to create an immensely convincing portrait of a southern town. The play deals heavily in themes of denial and repressed emotion in a society that does not allow free expression.  Without a well-crafted backdrop to provide that society, none of those themes would come through at all.
Of course, themes also need competent actors to be communicated, and once again “Orpheus” did not disappoint. AU senior and department staple Kelsea Edgerly gives a riveting performance as Lady, the tortured wife of the despicable Jabe Torrance, chillingly portrayed by AU junior Adi Stein. Aside from the occasional unrefined Southern accent, every member of the supporting cast played their roles well, which is important in a play that is relatively heavy on ancillary characters. 
“Student actors have a willingness to experience this in a passionate and energizing way,” Menninger said. “It’s not just a job yet, they are driven solely by their passion and their desire to create and explore. There is a kind of newness to the process that I love.”
The sole weak performance was unfortunately the character of Valentine Xavier, portrayed by 2005 AU alumnus Ryan Graham. Graham is certainly competent, but he lacked the onstage energy and ease of communication his castmates had mastered. The role of Valentine Xavier needs a certain threatening smoothness to work, and Graham’s often stilted delivery ensured that he never quite got to that point.
This minor blemish was not enough to stop “Orpheus Descending” from being a production that achieves what so many fail to: entertainment and enlightenment. Performers told a classic story of a drifter who shakes up a small town, while managing to effortlessly weave Williams’ themes of freedom and vision and love into the plot. 
All those involved in the production make a world that can seem so foreign to us city-slickers feel as natural as being home onstage.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Say you’re riding the Metro. You glance around scanning for a seat, anxious to rest your legs from a long day at work. Your eyes drift down to The Eagle, eager to get your rant fix for the week. Suddenly, the rants zoom up close and personal as a stranger bumps into you, sending the paper violently into your chest. You look up angrily to reprimand the person, only to notice you’re witnessing an altercation that has nothing to do with you. 
The man was shoved. A fuming passenger begins yelling, chasing the man who bumped you with his fists raised ready to fight. 
Or say you’re going for a jog outside on a balmy afternoon. Justin Bieber kicks on your iPod as you approach a hill. You’re zoned in, ready to tackle the climb. You’re huffing and puffing by the end and you crouch down with your hands on your knees to catch your breath. As you turn to continue, you notice a woman dragging a dog on the sidewalk, the leash choking the puppy as it yelps in pain. The woman yanks forcefully as the bark becomes audible over the music. You look on disgusted and press pause on Beebs. She’s scolding the dog and in her fury, kicks it in the mouth. 
What do you do? 
Hopefully, you have never or will never encounter such a grotesque scenario. But you might. Odds are each one of us has been confronted with a similar dilemma at least a few times in our lives. We could each share a troubling anecdote about a schoolyard bully, sexual harassment, or violent parents whacking their child in public. 
Should we intervene? If so, to what extent? What’s the proper protocol? 
There’s no uniform answer. No simple one either. At times, I’ve spoken out in defense of a stranger. Others times I didn’t. Sometimes I regretted my action or lack thereof. Other times I felt proud I was brave enough to interfere to potentially resolve a conflict. 
Obviously, each scenario is unique and can’t be completely anticipated. These events are spontaneous, and it’s impossible to ascertain precisely how you’d react under the intensity of the moment. However, it’s a good idea for us to begin asking these hypothetical questions so we’re more prepared when things happen.
The Center for Women in Transition has a few tips. “In order to create a safer community, everyone can take steps to be an active bystander.” For example, “Ask yourself, ‘If I were in this situation, would I want someone to help me?’” Also, “Just distracting someone, saying something, checking in with a person can stop the momentum of something bad.” Other suggestions include the basics like calling the police.
Practice makes perfect. For those who are naturally shy or timid, positive intervention may be the first place to start. Deliver a sincere compliment to a stranger. By getting out of our comfort zones, we can adapt and feel more at ease under tenser conditions. The world could certainly use more compliments anyhow. 
Some incidences can escalate quickly and if you intervene you may face personal harm. Speaking out may be righteous and admirable or it may be unnecessary and imprudent. There’s always risk incurred in these circumstances.  
Martin Luther King Jr. said, “The first question which the priest and the Levite asked was: ‘If I stop to help this man, what will happen to me?’? But ... the Good Samaritan reversed the question:? ‘If I do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him?’”
Your level of engagement is up to you. I’m not endorsing blanket intervention. But do take a stand for what you believe is right. 
Conor Shapiro is a graduate student in the School of International Service and a liberal columnist.
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Detroit has officially decided that, bowing to pressure from a campaign of residents and outsiders, they will build a statue of Robocop in their fair city, thus ruining all the credibility the city built up with that Chrysler ad with Eminem. The metallic savior of the city, which in the film is portrayed as crumbling ruins (any joke here would be too easy), will be remembered forever as a reminder of what happens when a big corporation has too much power and tries to destroy your entire city (metaphor!). 
And thus, Detroit joins the pantheon of cities around the world that have honored fictional characters in immortal statue form. From high art to the lowest art, sometimes people get bored of generals and heads of state and just want a statue of Jack Sparrow or Captain Crunch. So here is my list of notable statues of fictional characters, so that you can go visit them and imagine what they might look like in the Louvre centuries from now, as art historians wonder about the aesthetic significance of Robocop’s gun-arms.
Ignatius J. Reilly — New Orleans
Reilly is the protagonist of John Kennedy Toole’s hilarious novel “A Confederacy of Dunces,” featuring a collection of bizarre and grotesques characters and set in New Orleans in the ’60s. 
Reilly himself is overeducated and under-motivated, earning money by selling hotdogs on the street while trying to break up his mother’s relationship with a policeman who previously harassed him. Even with its absurdist bent, it has been called one of the best depictions of the city, so it may not be that absurd to place the character on Canal Street, trying to spot people so obviously inferior to him.
Ralph Kramden — New York
Outside of Port Authority you’ll find a statue to one of our culture’s finest wife-beaters, Ralph Kramden of “The Honeymooners.” Airing in a time when I assume threatening a loved one with physical violence was funny, Kramden’s famous phrase “One of these days, Pow! Right to the kisser!” is recognizable to even those who haven’t seen the show. 
Sherlock Holmes — London
Everyone knows two things about Sherlock Holmes: He never actually said “Elementary, my dear Watson,” and he really loved opiates. But England’s most famous gumshoe has earned his place in London’s heart all the same, after starring in nine novels and another dozen works all penned by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. 
As one of the most famous characters from London outside of the Dickens canon, his stories shaped perceptions of the city as well as earned him a spot on Baker Street.
Samantha Stevens — Salem, Mass.
Salem, a town once known for burning innocent women as witches and is now known as the town where you can pay to see someone pretend to burn innocent women as witches, was a little miffed at the idea of building a statue of “Bewitched” character Samantha Stevens, likely because she was never properly burned on the show. 
Townspeople felt that it trivialized history, and denounced the fact that it wouldn’t be made of wood.
Marge Gunderson — Fargo, N.D.
Though the film “Fargo” doesn’t actually have anything to do with the town, Fargo, N.D., erected the “Wood-Chip Marge” statue in their historical Fargo theatre. 
For any hardcore fans of the Coen Brothers’ film looking for the famous site in the movie but can’t find their way to Brainerd, this is still a great consolation prize.
Peter Pan — Multiple countries
Something about Peter Pan crosses cultural boundaries, because statues of the green boy who never grows up can be found all over the world. He has statues in London; Perth, Australia; Brussels; Camden, N.J.; and other locations. Pan is originally a Scottish creation by novelist and playwright J.M. Barrie.
The Little Mermaid — Copenhagen
Though we all know the Little Mermaid from the Disney movie, the character is a creation of Hans Christian Andersen, the beloved children’s writer and Denmark’s greatest literary hero. The statue has survived for the last century in Copenhagen’s bay area, where it sits in the middle distance and serves as a major tourist attraction. Though the Andersen original has the titular character essentially committing suicide, it’s still exciting for kids who have only been exposed to the Disney-fied version.
mrichardson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
