Valentine’s Day is coming fast upon us, and its coming is inexplicably linked with love songs. Musicians have been singing about the boy-meets-girl conundrum for as long as pop music has existed, and in the spirit of Valentine’s Day, here are some quality love songs of past and present:
Bright Eyes — “First Day of My Life”
Even if your soul is as black as the night, this song’s unabashed beauty will still make you cry. Conor Obsest’s fragile voice coupled with heartbreakingly gorgeous lyrics make for one of the best love songs of recent memory and one quintessential for Valentine’s Day. 
The Smiths — “There Is A Light That Never Goes Out”
If you scoff at romance and prefer your love songs served with an edge (or on the “500 Days of Summer” soundtrack), this masterpiece by the Smiths more than suffices. Besides, nothing says “Happy Valentine’s Day!” like promising your lover a tandem death.
The Flaming Lips — “Do You Realize??”
It’s a sweeping love song that serves as the perfect anthem for Valentine’s Day (and for the other 364 days of the year, too). It’s about the brevity of life, the scope of the universe and the simple joy of seeing the smile of someone you love.
Ben Gibbard — “You Remind Me Of Home”
 “I Will Follow You Into The Dark” has been inexplicably ruined by every wannabe Jason Mraz with an acoustic guitar, so if you like romance accompanied by soft strumming and earnest vocals, dig a little deeper with this song from Death Cab For Cutie lead singer Ben Gibbard. He’s married to Zooey Deschanel, so he must know some valuable secret about wooing the ladies. 
The Beach Boys — “God Only Knows”
Probably the best love song ever written, the Beach Boys say it all on “God Only Knows”. It’s a song about eternal love, plain and simple. If you listen to just one song this Valentine’s Day, make it this the one.
Anti-Valentine’s Songs
If sentimentality and feeling aren’t on your Valentine’s agenda, you’re in luck. Almost as common in music as the themes of love and affection are rejection, anger, bitterness and dismissal. A brief selection of the very best anti-Valentine’s Day songs is below.
Weezer — “Pink Triangle”
Boy meets girl, boy falls for girl, boy discovers that girl likes other girls. “Pink Triangle” is the best song ever written about finding out your crush isn’t interested in you — or member of your gender, for that matter.
Kanye West — “Gold Digger”
The title is self-explanatory. Kanye puts a nail in the coffin of romance, trashing the ubiquitous money-hungry female of hip-hop culture. It’s a perfect song for anyone tired of blowing all their free cash on an ungrateful significant other
Sufjan Stevens — “Casimir Pulaski Day” 
If you prefer a weepier Valentine’s Day, look no further than this tearjerker from Sufjan to tear your heart into tiny shreds. A tale of a girl stricken with bone cancer, this song is perfect for spending the holiday with your Kleenex box.
OutKast — “Ms. Jackson” 
What anti-Valentine’s Day would be complete without OutKast’s ode to the beloved mother of one of their baby mamas? Thanks, Andre 3000, for teaching us the true meaning of chivalry. 
R. Kelly — “Real Talk”
An R&B classic, R. Kelly lashes out at his lady in the most hilarious way possible — over the phone with as much drama and riffing as possible. Perfect for any jaded listener who’s killed a few relationships by creeping at the club, or goaded an ex-lover with relish to burn all his or her clothing.
Bob Dylan — “Like A Rolling Stone” 
The best diss track of all time features Dylan mocking an ex-flame fallen from grace. This Valentine’s Day, though it may be tempting to trash your previous lovers via College ACB, take Dylan’s lead and and compile an eloquent litany against your ex, mocking them for their misdeeds.
The Beatles — “Norwegian Wood” 
John Lennon knew how to treat a lady correctly: pay her a visit, sleep in her bathtub, and then light her house on fire when she leaves for work the next day. It really doesn’t get any less romantic than this. Happy V-Day, Yoko.
mmcdermott@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After a year of snow and precipitation-fueled puns, AU officials say they are now better equipped to deal with winter’s natural disasters.
The blizzards of February 2010, known as “Snowpocalypse” and “Snowmageddon,” tested the strength of AU’s emergency preparedness. In the process, it set a precedent for handling future storms.
Preparation for short-term and long-term snowstorms is the same, according to Chris Moody, executive director of Housing and Dining Programs. 
Groundskeepers and snow removal crews begin planning for winter storms as early as November, according to Mark Feist, assistant director of Facilities Management. Preparation involves equipment maintenance and adding snowplows to University trucks.
First, an emergency management work team looks at the University’s protocols for weather-related emergencies and creates a plan based on what is most relevant to the time of year and the weather situation, Moody said.
Facilities Management is then in charge of stockpiling salt and equipment to clear roadways and sidewalks. From there, the challenge is managing the actual storm and student reaction.
To combat last year’s storms, the entire Facilities Management staff was housed on-campus and worked around the clock.
“After 10 hours of operating equipment, you’re pretty burned out,” said David Wilson, a grounds maintenance zone supervisor. “Sometimes we have to drop back and let it just come down. There's no way to keep up.”
Once a storm starts, the University focuses on communicating with students about upcoming activities on campus, such as sporting events, movie nights and dances.
“Snowmageddon” helped show Housing and Dining how to plan successful events in bad weather, should another storm occur.
“Last year was a good case study in what activities would attract students and what activities would not,” Moody said. “More informal things worked better because people just wanted to get out of their rooms and interact.”
In the event of another large snowstorm, Housing and Dining plans to work with information technology resources to expand communication to students who live off-campus and cannot receive e-mails through the residence halls.
Professors used Blackboard, Wimba Classroom, Google Wave, Facebook, Microsoft PowerPoint, Skype, e-mail and telephones to communicate with students during the storm. Twenty-one classes were held via Wimba during last year’s storms, according to the Center for Teaching, Research and Learning.
CTRL Director James Lee believes AU faculty is better prepared for another blizzard because of online classes. Since last February, enrollment in CTRL’s online tools training course has doubled.
“Just because we had a big snowstorm does not mean we stop [teaching],” Lee said. “It can happen again even if it was a once-in-a-lifetime experience … Swine flu kind of brought [emergency preparation] to the conscience, but ‘Snowmageddon’ made it a reality that [we] won’t forget.”
Weather emergencies require that essential staff members still be able to reach the University. Last year, Bon Appétit workers stayed in Georgetown hotels and 40 AU employees were housed on-campus over the course of a week, according to Moody. 
“Snow events take major commitment from the staff to be away from their families and to be here to provide services,” Moody said. “It’s great when students appreciate the [staff] that don't have a day off of work like many others have. Those are the real heroes of a snow event.”
Melissa Winn and staff writer Abby Fennewald contributed to this story.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s coming, just around that chilly February corner — the day that either sparks dread and induces eye rolls or makes the heart of lovers go all a-flutter. Valentine’s Day is almost here and for some young AU students that means planning the perfect V-day date, a task less simple than it may seem. 
A truly atrocious Feb. 14 may be the last for a once happy couple, but a successfully planned night of romance can be a beacon of continuing success for another couple. But how to know what plan is perfect for your sweetheart! Therein lies the paradox.
Well the Scene staff is here to help provide a path that avoids a Valentine’s Day that ends with your Juliet/Romeo throwing a box of mediocre chocolates in your heartbroken face. 
Not every date is appropriate for all stages of a relationship.  While a night in a roadside motel may be just the spice a dull marriage needs, it’s an unsavory choice for that girl/guy you met last week in World Politics, unless of course they’re “into that” and then you may or may not want to reconsider your choice in mate.
We’ve done some of the grunt work and have scouted out some D.C.’s best  date spots tailored to your honey’s needs.
Cool operator
Go for a calm, creative and classy location if it’s a tricky first date. One possibility include an afternoon at Tryst, located in Adams Morgan. This bustling coffee shop is a great choice to keep things casual while still showing her/him a good time. The eclectic décor, slouchy couches and tempting pastries make for a super-sweet setting. 
Not to mention that this AdMo treasure is usually a-buzz with chatter which means less awkward first-date silences. 
Who knows, maybe you’ll share more than a pain-au chocolat.
The white knight
Maybe a laid back afternoon of chatter isn’t your style. 
For those looking to go all out and sweep your valentine off of his or her feet feel free to up the ante. Begin with the night with a tried and true gesture. Roses from that subway guy, free-form poetry, why not break out the old guitar then seal the deal and send chills down his or her spine with a night of ice-skating at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden’s ice rink.  
End the night with a stop to one of D.C.’s best cupcakeries (Cake love, Georgetown Cupcake, Red Velvet, what have you).  
Who knows, you might be getting breakfast as well. 
That super-creative jerk who makes everyone else look bad
This year it could be you! 
Put fellow couples to shame by planning an exciting night that will leave your date in awe, rendering them nearly un-dateable for any future partners because they will never live up to your epic standards of awesome! 
Consider what makes you guys great if you’ve been dating for a while. If you love comedy and ethnic food than head out to an Ethiopian restaurant on U Street and follow it up with two surprise tickets to a nearby show at the Washington Improv Theatre. Or simply do something they’d never expect.
Finally, go dancing, sing to your sweetheart at a karaoke bar, see that sports game even though you have no idea what a Washington Wizard is — leave your comfort zone in the name of love!  
Another option? Share a unique experience together. Hike through Fort Reno Park and share a frigid picnic, go out to a fancy-shmancy Embassy event, dress up and catch the midnight showing of Rocky Horror picture show, skydive — just get creative!
Who knows, you may actually have a great Valentine’s Day this year. 
mwolfson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As we approach the one day of the year that it’s acceptable to be an overly sentimental, lovey-dovey sap, we decided to editorialize on a relevant issue: STIs.
 In D.C. alone, the rate for gonorrhea is 4.3 times higher than the national average, while the rate for chlamydia is 2.7 times higher, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. However, accessible testing for these infections also exists, sometimes even free of charge — unless the Department of Health decides to cut funding for free tests, as has happened recently to D.C.-area universities. Upon hearing their reasoning, we can understand why such cuts were made, but we believe that the subsidizing of such testing is important to increase access for students who cannot afford to pay for it.
Not all STI testing was affected, just that of chlamydia and gonorrhea. The Student Health Center, up until last fall, provided the now $30 test free of charge to AU students. Although $30 does not seem like an enormous chunk of change, to college students operating on little to no income, it’s a pretty big deal. For some, it’s a large enough chunk of change to avoid testing altogether, especially if they don’t know for sure if they need the tests. 
We’ll hand it to D.C. college students — the primary reason for the funding cut was that STI rates among us are pretty low. The Department of Health diverted our funding towards high school testing and treatment, which is substantially more important considering that the 15-18 age demographic accounts for half of chlamydia and gonorrhea cases in D.C. 
One factor contributing to these cuts may have been the lack of student representation in the D.C. government. Aside from Deon Jones and the student representative elected to the Georgetown area Advisory Neighborhood Commission, college student representation in D.C. government is non-existent, which means that important decisions that affect us are being made without our input. 
In the meantime, the Student Health Center is hard at work trying to restore free testing and is even considering collaboration with the Johns Hopkins University to make this a reality.
We applaud the efforts of the Health Center in helping ensure AU students have access to these tests, although we wish that the Department of Health would restore the funding first.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Somehow, senior forward Vlad Moldoveanu finds himself in key moments in big games and Sunday’s 62-61 victory over Lehigh on the road was no different. With just two seconds remaining in the game, Moldoveanu hit one of two free throws to give AU the lead. 
The Patriot League matchup remained close all the way until those final seconds as the Eagles and Mountain Hawks would trade leads and never pull too far in front of the other. AU started the game with momentum as they took a 6-0 early lead while holding Lehigh scoreless for the first five minutes. But like most advantages in this game, it did not last for long.
The Mountain Hawks went on a run of their own and pulled ahead 9-8 early in the first half. Over the course of the next five minutes, the two teams would trade the lead four times. Late first-half efforts from junior guards Charles Hinkle and Troy Brewer gave the Eagles a 26-23 lead before a Lehigh buzzer beater pulled the Mountain Hawks to within one. 
The first half leaders for AU were junior forward Stephen Lumpkins who had eight points and six rebounds along with Hinkle’s and Brewer’s five points apiece. Both teams were evenly matched in the first half, as the Eagles shot 34 percent from the field while the Mountain Hawks were a slightly better 36 percent. The second half brought better shooting from both teams, but neither team was able to pull away.
After falling behind early in the second half, Brewer hit three straight jumpers to give AU a slight edge before his teammates would follow suit and give the Eagles their largest lead up until that point at 41-36. For the first time, it looked like one team had a chance to put their opponent away for good when a Moldoveanu three-pointer gave AU a nine-point lead, 52-43. Lehigh was able to remain in the game thanks to their scoring leader, C.J. McCollum, who would finish with 21 points and 10 rebounds.  The Mountain Hawks’ guard then hit back-to-back three-pointers before Lehigh’s Gabe Knutson’s capped off a 7-1 run with a dunk in the final minute and tied the game at 61.
Though the Eagles had given up a large lead, there was still time to get the ball down the court and put up a shot for the win. AU’s scoring leader, Brewer, put up a would-be-game-winning shot but it fell short. Luckily, Moldoveanu was there to grab the ball. When he went for the last second shot he was fouled, which sent him to the line and meant the end for the Mountain Hawks.
Brewer finished the game with a team-high 17 points, with help from Moldeveanu and Lumpkins who both netted 13. McCollum did not receive much help from his teammates as he was the only member of the Lehigh squad to finish in double digits.
With the victory, AU improves its Patriot League record to 6-2, which is good for second place in the conference. The Eagles next game is tomorrow night in Lewisburg, Pa. where they take on the conference-leading Bucknell University Bison.
slindauer@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For those who have never seen snow before, “Snowpocalypse” came as a shock. 

“I haven’t really decided whether a lot [of snow] is good or not. I mean, it’s exciting. I haven’t really experienced enough of it to get sick of it yet. I was kind of surprised that people just grab it with their hands and stuff. That’s intense, man. I play with the sand because I’m from Hawaii and that’s what we do because we don’t have snow, but that’s a trip, man.” 
Austin Itamoto
Sophomore, College of Arts and Sciences
With not much else to do inside, some students chose to break the dry-campus policy.

“We did have a few interesting people come down to the front desk drunk out of their minds. It was a handful of people. They weren’t transport-drunk, but they were funny-drunk, which are the better ones because at 3 a.m., you need to laugh.”
Margot Witter
Junior, School of International Service
Even a simple trip to Tenleytown was a wild new experience during the snowstorms.

"Well, after four days of sleeping until 3 p.m., we got bored and decided to go on an adventure. There was snow completely covering Mass Ave., and we were walking in the middle street and there were other groups of people walking down the road. It really looked like the apocalypse. We finally got there and the television was on and that’s when found out that we got 44 inches of snow instead of the usual four to seven in a year."
Julia Schultz
Sophomore, SIS 
Unlike many students who stayed burrowed in the dorms throughout the week, some took the opportunity to do some sightseeing.  

"By the third or fourth day, when we felt claustrophobic, two other girls and I made the trek to the Metro and got off at the Smithsonian stop. We were walking around and we saw a giant igloo. That was the first igloo I’ve ever seen. Naturally, I climbed into the igloo, and there were other people in there with me. People signed their names on the igloo into the ice. Then we walked towards the Lincoln Memorial. It was nerve-wracking and I was scared, but I walked on the reflecting pool. We saw a man fall in because parts of the ice were cracking, but luckily the water wasn’t too deep." 
Kate Greubel
Sophomore, Kogod School of Business
Eagle staff member 

“Let me break it down for you. The good things about the snowstorm were that we were paid time and a half, we got to close early, and the students really enjoyed the specials we had. The bad things were that it was hard to travel, there were a lot of falls and accidents, and we didn’t always get our breaks on time.” 
Kevin Nelson
Counter Attendant for Terrace Dining Room

“After one day it’s okay, but after two, three, four snow days, you need to entertain the students … Oh yeah, I’m ready for it now. My office is filled with chips, candy, soda and 100 bottles of water.”
Patrick Ledesma
Assistant Director of Operations, University Center
Farah Mohamed, Brianna Falcone, staff writer Marissa Cetin, Kendal Gapinski, Nancy Lavin and Vivian Roussel contributed to this story.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As we continue through these long, desolate, despairing days of winter, it’s time that we bring a little more light into your lives. That’s right, it’s time for the commencement of our “The Eagle’s Next Great Ranter” competition. 
Despite the title, this is not a glorified Eagle Rants — this is a place where you can elaborate upon your rants, taking them from a two sentence vent to a well-constructed article. This contest is for those of you who love to comment on our content, but yet have not tried your own hand at it. It’s also for those of you wanting to try your hand at a different style of writing, or just attempting something new because you have some extra free time (lucky you). Whatever your motive, we invite and encourage you to put your best effort forth. Honestly, what do you have to lose?
Now this isn’t going to be some free-handed, haphazard effort on our part, and we hope it isn’t on your end, either. We have some ground rules to lay down:
1. Any work submitted must be original — it can’t be something you did for class or something you posted on your blog and want to pass our way after. (If you think it’s super awesome and want to post a link to it afterwards, that’s fine, but it cannot be featured beforehand).
2. This should go without saying, but we’re saying it anyway — no plagiarism. Your work must be your own, no making up facts, all the same stuff that goes for class regarding plagiarism applies here as well. All entries will contain a source list for any information or facts referenced in your piece.
3. Entrants must be current students of American University. Sorry recent grads, but we need to give those of us who haven’t made it to the finish line a chance to shine.
4. This is your chance to express your educated opinion within a public forum. This isn’t the place for you to drone on about how much that one kid on your floor is weird, or how you didn’t like your friend’s outfit that she wore out the other night.
5. You must state your opinion clearly within your piece. If you’re not too sure what the process entails, you can visit our “Guide to the editorial page” we featured last August for more information. (http://www.theeagleonline.com/opinion/story/a-guide-to-the-editorial-page/)
6. Please use proper grammar, punctuation, spelling, etc. We will edit for Associated Press Style before publication and will also edit for the above, but it makes all of our lives easier if you help us with the basics.
7. Entries are due by 5 p.m. the Friday before publication. Late entries will not be accepted.
8. Participants will be regarded in the same light as regular columnists for The Eagle during the duration of this contest. Columnists are not allowed to comment on their own content on our web page, which includes responding to the comments of others. 
Judging will consist of panel decisions and readers’ votes. The judges’ panel will consist of two Eagle editors and a guest judge. Readers will have the opportunity to vote online for their favorite column of the week, which will account for 25 percent of the vote. 
Once a round of columns is published, you will be able to vote for your favorite online. If you like sending things in old school (also known as paper and pen), drop me (Linda Barnhart) a note at our office, MGC 252.
The contest will consist of three rounds. Each week, a certain number of contestants will be eliminated until we have our winner. How many are eliminated each round depends on how many submissions we receive. The winner will be granted a weekly or bi-weekly column. 
Any questions? E-mail me at edpage@theeagleonline.com. Best of luck to all of you, and I look forward to reading your submissions!
Name:
Graduation Year:
School and major(s)/minor(s):
Phone number:
E-mail:
Have you written for The Eagle before?:
What student groups/activities are you currently involved with?:
For your first column, pick a current event or topic and tell us how/why it is important to AU students. Local, national, international — you can take your pick — but show us why AU students should find it important. Please submit completed form and column to edpage@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU women’s basketball team failed to sustain offensive momentum in a 57-46 loss to Lehigh University.  
This Eagles team has established themselves as a strong shooting team, but they only shot 29.4 percent from the field and 18.8 percent from three on Saturday. Senior forward Liz Leer led the team with 12 points, followed by Nicole Ryan at 10 points.  
Head Coach Matt Corkery said that the main reason for the loss was inconsistent offensive play. 
“We just never got in a rhythm offensively,” Corkery said. “Never got anything going consistently for a long period of time, and our offense really sputtered and struggled most of the game.” 
For most of the first half, the team fought on defense to try to make up for a struggling offense. After early baskets by Lisa Strack and Tori Halvorsen it seemed as though the Eagles were struggling just to keep possession of the ball. 
With nine minutes remaining in the opening half, the Mountain Hawks took the lead, which they would not relinquish until the midway through the second half.
Heading into the second half, AU trailed, 22-21. The Eagles failed to score for the first few minutes of the half until Leer came up with a layup followed by another two points. With Lehigh leading 40-30 with 10:02 remaining, the Eagles went on a 12-2 run to tie the game up at 42.
The Eagles hit their stride when Ryan hit back three-pointers followed by another three from Strack. Unfortunately after that run, the defense faltered.
“That spurt was when we were playing our best, it was when we were pushing the tempo, when we were in control, when we were attacking them,” Leer said. “Then they hit a wide open layup because we didn’t communicate enough on defense and then we couldn’t come back after that.”  
In the remaining minutes, the offense improved at the expense of the defense. Every time AU scored, Lehigh scored twice, leading to the 57-46 Mountain Hawks’ victory. 
Lehigh’s Erica Prosser led the Mountain Hawks with 29 points, five rebounds and three steals. She completely dominated the lackluster AU defense.  
“Prosser killed us, I mean she was running down our throats,” Leer said. “It’s not just whoever’s guarding her to take care of it and we didn’t do a good job of stopping her.”  
In preparation for Bucknell University on Wednesday at Bender Arena, Corkery said the team needs to work on their mental game more than anything.  
“I think that’s the biggest area of improvement for us is mental, you know our concentration, our focus, and our mental toughness,” he said. “It’s a quick turnaround. We’ll have three days to get ready for Bucknell, a team that’s very good. For us I think it’s getting back to the basics and what we do as far as our roles on the team and just trying to execute them.” 
The loss knocks AU’s conference record down to a 5-3 and their overall record to 15-7. The Eagles are in second place for the Patriot League.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU was ranked as having one of the highest numbers of Peace Corps volunteers in the nation this year, compared to other universities.
Last year, 55 AU students served in the Peace Corps, ranking it fourth with Cornell University on the list of medium-sized universities with the most Peace Corps volunteers. AU was also ranked fifth for the highest number of Peace Corps volunteers from graduate school.
AU ranked No. 2 in its division in 2009 with 51 students in the program.
Blair Ufer, the Career Center’s employer services coordinator, said AU has a high percent of students who volunteer compared to other universities.
“We’re extremely pleased with the number of volunteers relative to our undergraduate population,” she said. 
AU has significantly smaller undergraduate population than George Washington University — which ranked first on the medium-sized universities list — and other D.C.-area universities, but has a large number of volunteers.
Since the Peace Corps’ inception, 819 AU alumni have served in the Peace Corps, Ufer said. 
Stephen Chapman, public affairs specialist for the Peace Corps’ Mid-Atlantic Regional Office, said AU’s high number of volunteers is due to the school’s focus on international affairs.
“AU students have a strong interest in both service and international affairs, so the Peace Corps is a perfect way to launch a career,” Chapman said. “Volunteers return to the United States as global citizens, with leadership, language, teaching and community development skills that position them well for educational and professional opportunities.”
There are many benefits to joining the Peace Corps, including free housing, medical insurance, graduate study benefits and a readjustment allowance upon return to the U.S., according to Chapman.
Some of the countries where current AU alumni are serving include Zambia, Jordan, Ecuador, Honduras, Cambodia, Togo, South Africa, Bulgaria, Rwanda and Madagascar, Chapman said.
In 2009 and 2010, 51 AU students volunteered each year. This number has been steadily rising since 2006, when 34 AU students joined the Peace Corps.
nglass@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Today’s incarnation of Valentine’s Day is a holiday created by greeting card companies. The plump image of Cupid, the mass-produced cards and the silly hearts on candies are so shallow and superficial that it’s nauseating. Anti-Valentine’s Day celebrations are a part of a growing movement against the hypocritical holiday of Saint Valentine’s. 
Whether you’re single or part of a couple, there are plenty of ways to enjoy yourself on Valentine’s Day without subjecting yourself to the lovey-dovey details.
Go sight-seeing
Honestly, it’s probably one of the most un-romantic things you can do in D.C. Even in the chilly winter weather, there will be no limit to the sweaty and loud tourists who accompany you to the Washington Monument or the Lincoln Memorial. The setting may seem picturesque, but in a place as public as the National Mall, no traces of romantic intrigue can be found. D.C. couples will most likely stick to the exclusive, local areas. If Valentine’s Day is all about “intimacy,” go in the opposite direction. Take pictures, wear fanny packs, and just obnoxiously point at our beloved national monuments.
Throw an Anti-Valentine Party
Decorate your dorm with black paper hearts. Serve bowls full of broken heart candy. Vandalize pictures of adorable celebrity couples (mustaches and pirate teeth never get old). Buy a heart-shaped piñata and smash the hell out of it. Make T-shirts. Tell date stories gone wrong over a fake campfire. 
What better way to spend the day of love than hanging out with close friends while blasting anti-love songs? There is no end to the fun that can be had in mocking of people who celebrate Valentine’s Day.
Find your inner guy
Sometimes there’s nothing better to drown out the mush and love than to kick back in your PJ’s and watch some explosions and gunfire. The Bourne Trilogy is a good pick if you’re feeling intellectual. If you’re in the mood to drown out your feelings, rent a “Transformers” movie. It doesn’t matter which one. 
If you get tired of zoning out in front of the TV screen, bust out the video games. Mario Kart, Super Smash Bros or Madden are great group games. If you feel like playing solo, grab the RPG’s or shooter games.
Have a girl’s/guy’s night out
There are plenty of clubs and restaurants having themed nights either before or on Valentine’s Day bitter singles. D.C. clubs are always a good place to loosen up and, if you want, meet other singles, especially since most doting couples are stuck in crowded, formal restaurants. Or go to a restaurant like Co Co Sala in Penn Quarter which is hosting its own “Anti V-Day” party on February 10. 
If you’re part of a couple that doesn’t feel like doing the candle-lit dinner, head over to Ben’s Chili Bowl, or even a random hot dog stand and dig into some greasy food. If you really want to make a point, make it an eating competition. There’s simply no limit to the ways in which you can celebrate your own Anti-Valentine’s Day.
hbui@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If you’re doing the dirty this Valentine’s Day, make sure you’re clean and get tested for STIs. But be ready to shell out more than you did for that bouquet of roses.
The Student Health Center can no longer provide free on-site testing for chlamydia and gonorrhea due to D.C. Department of Health funding cuts.
The Health Center now provides these tests for a $30 fee. The screenings were previously free for students because the city government provided the kits to AU at no charge.
Student Health Center Director Dan Bruey said the Health Center is currently working on obtaining low cost or free testing, through either its lab or outside programs. 
In response to student concerns over affordability, the Health Center created a discounted STI package that tests for herpes type 1, herpes type 2, syphilis and hepatitis C. 
The package costs $80 and is not billed to insurance. If students would rather bill the testing to their insurance, the price is higher.
Bruey said that most students choose to pay the discounted fee rather than have it billed to insurance because some students are on their parents’ insurance plans and don’t want their parents to know they got tested. 
Bruey said that students usually visit the Health Center for another reason, but start discussing STI screening and decide to get tested while they're there. 
When students come into the Health Center for STI testing now, they are given the option to either pay the Health Center fee or go to a free testing site. The Health Center refers students to Planned Parenthood if they cannot afford the fees. 
There are more than 40 locations in the District where students can get free testing, including at the Department of Health Sexually Transmitted Disease Clinic, at 1900 Massachusetts Ave., SE. 
D.C. Public School students receive free testing
Although the city cut free testing from certain communities, including college health centers, it increased coverage for D.C. public high schools. 
Now any public high school student can get free on-site testing and treatment for chlamydia and gonorrhea.
D.C.’s rate of chlamydia is three times the national average, according to the Department of Health.
Fifteen to 18-year-olds make up half of D.C.’s chlamydia and gonorrhea cases, according to Michael Kharfen, a Department of Health spokesman.
The Department of Health decided to cut free screening at college health centers and other communities after reviewing the statistics on chlamydia and gonorrhea infections in D.C. 
“We were not finding very high infection rates among the college students, but we found very high rates among our adolescent students aged 15 to 19,” Kharfen said.
Because of the lower infection rate among college students and higher rate among high school students, the Department of Health needed to reallocate where their money was going.
“With the limited funding that we receive, we have to focus those efforts where we know there are lots of infections,” Kharfen said. “Offering free testing for people who don’t have the disease is not the same as offering free testing for adolescents who have no other resources and often cannot rely upon their parents, because they don’t want to talk to their parents about it.”
Testing at highest demand before, after vacations
Bruey said that the flow of students coming into the Health Center for STI screening jumps at certain points in the year, usually coinciding with a vacation. 
Bruey said that traffic is highest after students return from spring break, and also jumps before they leave for winter break. 
"Whether or not there is something really going on is something that we haven't measured," Bruey said. 
Bruey also said one possible explanation for the winter increase is that students don't want to get tested at home, or want to get the test out of the way so they can enjoy their breaks. 
But Bruey believes the reasons for a spring break spike are slightly different.
"[It] might just be because of the behavior that may happen on some spring break trips with too much alcohol or irresponsible decision making," Bruey added. "A lot of it may be because students are worried over one encounter, or it might be just for peace of mind, or it might be because they are actually experiencing symptoms.”
llandau@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Cheesy romance films have always helped to grease the wheels in our own intimate lives with their cultural signifiers and incredulous scenarios. While some of us have grown to adulthood with a certain ache of cynicism, we here at The Scene believe in keeping with the spirit, and have come up with a list of romantic films to watch in honor of that day of Saint Valentine.
“Say Anything …”
Despite our overwhelming tendencies to scoff and mock, romantic films thrive on clichés, possibly because of how memorable they become with the passing of time. 
No other film proves just that than this 1989 classic featuring John Cusack and Ione Skye. Who can forget the scene where Lloyd Dobler tries to win the heart of Diane Court by blasting “In Your Eyes” on his stereo with outstretched arms?
“The Notebook”
To some people, films based on Nicholas Sparks’ novels are the epitome of sap. They are so overwrought and dramatic that they make you want to gag. 
Sure, the plot isn’t exactly subtle nor do the characters seem to show any dimension, but it’s that overly idealistic vision of love that serves as the focal point between the characters of Noah Calhoun (Ryan Gosling) and Allie Hamilton (Rachel McAdams).  
“Love Actually”
“Love actually is all around” is one of the opening lines in this British comedy. As more than just an expression of two consenting partners, love is explored through a number of loosely interweaving stories, ultimately displaying itself as adventure, friendship, rejection, loss and identity. 
Whether you’re a Type A personality who’s fallen for a coworker or a sexless dork who’s grown world-weary with rejection, there’s something here for everyone.
“(500) Days of Summer”
This ever-popular 2009 indie romantic comedy featuring Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey Deschanel has all the trimmings that appeal to our generation — the music, the off-beat cinematography and a coming-of-age “love story” expressed through insecurity and humor. 
After losing Summer Finn, whom he believes to be the love of his life, Tom Hansen tries to win her back, facing recurring bouts of disappointment and realization.
“Amélie”
“Amélie” — both the name of this unforgettable, award-winning 2001 French film and the eponymous heroine — isn’t conventional by any means. Whether she’s talking to photos or counting the number of orgasms people are having at any given second, Amélie is an effervescent girl who finds joy in the peculiar. 
After she discovers a childhood treasure chest and vows to return it to its owner, she resolves to devote her life to doing good things for others, getting herself into all sorts of mischief and finding love in the process.
scho@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This past Thursday, I was invited by a squad of D.C. ROTC Cadets to one of their morning physical training sessions.???Being a enlisted Iraq veteran who has just returned from his second tour, my ego took a little hit after being beaten by 20 year old cadets during shuttle sprints (of course I patronizingly told them that if I had a college gymnasium to train in, I would be running circles around them).???After the workouts, the platoon leader called the cadets in, and told them that an article had been published in the American University newspaper that they might take offense to.???She told the cadets that while they may have strong feelings on the matter, they were not to criticize the article or respond publicly.??That’s just not what cadets do.
Make sense,?I thought.??Cadets are going to need to learn that discipline to keep their head down and stay focused on the mission, shrugging off praise and criticism alike, even when their first instinct may be to react.??
While the development of military professionalism and humility is a necessary part of the development of a commissioned officer, it comes with the drawback that ROTC cadets may be hampered from engaging in the dialogue necessary to justify their presence on campus when it is called into question by men such as Mr. Shapiro.
Good thing I’m not a cadet.
The practicable issue that this article poses to the students of American University has nothing to do with the concept of reserve officer training, but rather the following:??Are the male and female cadets who already attend American University deserving of the same common respect and dignity as the rest of the students on campus, or should they be ridiculed for their identity????By inferring soldiers are murderers, warmongers and delusional victims, Conor Shapiro makes it absolutely clear that cadets are second class students at American.
Perhaps it is hard to understand how deeply upsetting this rhetoric is to cadets and veterans alike, as our experiences and group culture are different from the non-military student.??The closest way to illustrate how cadets and veterans perceive this article is to humbly ask you, the reader, if you’ve ever been told that because of who you are, and that which you can’t change, you are somehow contemptible.??Being called a killer and warmonger may seem fair game to some, but for soldiers such criticism cuts to the fiber of our being, as it suggests that the service that has become the crucible of our lives will forever alienate us from our civilian brothers and sisters.?
Yet despite the discriminatory rhetoric employed by Mr. Shapiro, let this be absolutely clear:??No matter what our backgrounds may be, and no matter what our futures may hold, together we are American University.??At this school we pride ourselves on diversity not only of being, but also of beliefs, and by extension of this solidarity our differences may serve only to enhance the greater community.??As a student who has served two tours in Iraq, what has struck me most about American was how much I had to learn from students who demonstrated their service in different ways, from those that volunteer in the D.C. community to those brave study abroad students who have witnessed the uprisings in Egypt this past week.??Conor Shapiro would like to imagine American University’s relationship with the military as a binary between idolatry and criticism, praise and scorn.??As members of the military, we have asked for neither, but rather only the common equality and shared kinship with the rest of the student body.
The discussion over whether or not ROTC should be expanded is a legitimate discussion, and faculty and students alike should give serious thought and analysis to the matter.??Mr. Shapiro is by no means required to support the program.??But as with all students at American University, our cadets are owed the reciprocal dignity and respect that makes our school as exceptional as it is.??
John Kamin
SPA ‘12
Vice President, AU Vets
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
