The 2011-2012 AU men’s basketball team knew it would be without last year’s leading scorer, as Vlad Moldoveanu finished his senior year this past winter. Now, it will be missing its second-leading scorer as well.
Forward Stephen Lumpkins has decided to forego his senior season and sign with the Kansas City Royals after being drafted by the Royals in the 13th round (396th overall) of the Major League Baseball First-Year Player draft. The Pittsburgh Pirates chose Lumpkins in the 42nd round of last summer’s draft, and he jumped at the chance at signing this time around.
“The deciding factor for me was the opportunity to get into pro baseball with an organization I was comfortable with,” Lumpkins said. 
According to The Washington Post, Lumpkins’ recent workouts have seen him reach 88 mph on the radar gun, although scouts had been tentative to commit to him because he hasn’t been facing live competition regularly. AU last fielded a varsity baseball team in 1986, so Lumpkins pitched for the Bethesda Big Train in the Cal Ripken Collegiate Baseball League last summer.
Lumpkins, who was set to spend the summer playing for the Laconia Muskrats in the New England Collegiate Baseball League, will instead head to the Royals’ rookie team in the Arizona League sometime next week.
“It was a very tough decision as the AU basketball program and community has had such a positive impact on my life over the past three years,” he said. 
On the court, the forward averaged 13.5 points and 8.2 rebounds last season while compiling the best field goal percentage in the Patriot League. A second-team All-Patriot League performer, Lumpkins was expected to headline this year’s Eagles alongside fellow rising senior Troy Brewer. Now, his career at AU ends with him ranked fourth all-time in blocks and 19th in rebounds. 
“The thing I’m going to miss the most is the guys on the team,” Lumpkins said. “We have such a close team and honestly the hardest thing for me to do was to tell them about my decision.”
Lumpkins’ departure means that AU will now have to replace four of the five starters from last year’s 22-win team that finished second in the Patriot League. Aside from Brewer (11.5 points), no returning player on the roster averaged more than five points last season.
“We met with Stephen [Thursday] and he let us know that he has chosen to pursue a career in baseball,” AU Head Coach Jeff Jones told AU Athletics. “We thank him for the three years of hard work he gave our program. We wish him well.”
Lumpkins’ top memory from AU is the team’s appearance in the NCAA Tournament his freshman year. The forward played 13 minutes in the Eagles first round matchup against Villanova. 
“I had a great experience at AU and am going to get my degree at some point,” Lumpkins said.
Ttomea@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU neighbors and members of the D.C. Zoning Commission voiced their concerns about the expansiveness of the AU Campus Plan at a June 10 Commission hearing.
Seven AU officials including Chief of Staff David Taylor and Assistant Vice President of Facilities Development and Real Estate Jorge Abud presented the most recent version of the Campus Plan at the Zoning headquarters in Judiciary Square.
The board members took issue with the three residence halls proposed for the East Campus. They said students living in these residence halls might disrupt traffic patterns, put a stress on local parking and create disturbances in the community.
Dan Van Pelt and Rob Schiesel of the consulting firm Gorove Slade Associates presented traffic analysis reports that showed a majority of the people driving on the major streets near campus are not students or other AU-affiliated individuals; they are D.C. residents passing through the area to other parts of the District.
Abud pointed out that resident students with cars on campus are not currently allowed to park on local streets. Students living on the East Campus would park in the East Campus underground parking garage. 
The layout of the residence halls on the East Campus would create a community feel and a sense of unity among East Campus students, Abud said.
In addition, the amenities and new stores to be included on the site would make students less inclined to venture out into the surrounding community.
The University is in negotiations to build a Panera Bread and an Apple Store in the two East Campus retail spaces.
Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner Tom Smith criticized these retail space additions during his cross-examination of the AU representatives.
“Stores like these would appeal to more people than just AU students,” he said. “Will this affect overall traffic in the area?”
Abud said outside visitors to these stores would have to use pay-as-you-go parking in the East Campus parking garage.
The board members also questioned AU’s relationship with the surrounding community.
They asked how AU deals with neighbor complaints about upperclassmen living off-campus, one of the major issues raised by individuals that submitted letters about the Campus Plan to Zoning Board Chair Anthony Hood.
Associate Dean of Students Michelle Espinosa said the University works to respond as quickly as possible to these complaints.
“If a neighbor complains about a house full of AU students making too much noise, I’ll e-mail those students the next day to ask them why this happened,” she said.
Hood said he was concerned AU has not done enough in recent years to repair community relations and keep students from causing neighborhood conflicts.
“I’m hearing some of the same complaints from neighbors that I heard ten years ago when I reviewed the 2001 Campus Plan,” he said.
Abud told Hood the University does not have a regulatory process to deal with individual questions or concerns about the Campus Plan. AU officials have talked to members of the community through ANC meetings and have made all Campus Plan documents public on the AU website, he said. 
Hood felt this outreach effort was not sufficient.
“That kind of response is the reason why I’ve had to read so many letters from the neighbors about the Campus Plan,” Hood said.
He went on to say that cooperation between AU and its neighbors would be crucial to the implementation of the Campus Plan.
“At the end of the day, this is about all of us living together,” he said.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
