The Washington Nationals have recovered from a six game losing streak and have now won three in a row, beating the Atlanta Braves 5-3 August 1.
The game started with solo home runs by both teams as Nats’ center fielder Rick Ankiel hit a shot to center in the bottom of the first, and Braves’ second baseman Dan Uggla hit a shot of his own the very next half inning.
Ankiel, the Nats’ leadoff hitter for the time being, is making the most of the opportunity to play every day after the team sent down center fielder Roger Bernadina earlier in the week. 
“It’s awfully hard to sit, especially if you’re capable of being a power hitter like he is, when you get one, two starts every week,” Nationals’ Manager Davey Johnson said. “Now he’s getting a regular diet in there. He cut down on strikeouts, his swings are better, and that comes with playing.” 
The Nationals retook the lead in the bottom of the second when starting pitcher Livan Hernandez hit a single to right to score Jayson Werth from third.
Ankiel hit his second homer and fifth of the year in the bottom of the fifth inning to put the Nats up 3-1. This was his fifth multi-homer game of his career.  
Nationals’ left fielder Laynce Nix came through with an RBI in the bottom of the sixth to score first baseman Michael Morse. The next hitter, Ian Desmond, hit into a fielder’s choice at shortstop, scoring Werth to make it a 5-1 game.
Washington got a great start out of Hernandez after the veteran right hander had struggled in his last few starts. On Monday, he threw six innings, striking out three, allowing six hits, no walks and one run.
“He was outstanding,” Johnson said. “I was going to let him face a couple hitters in the seventh, he was throwing so good, but I had a chance to add on.”
Braves’ catcher David Ross hit a solo shot in the top of the seventh inning to cut Atlanta’s deficit to three.
Uggla hit his second homer of the game as well in the top of the ninth off of Nats’ closer Drew Storen. It was his 22nd home run of the season. But that would be it, as Storen did not allow any more runs and preserved the win.
While the Nationals are 17 games back in the NL East and 10 games back in the NL Wild Card standings, the team has not given up on the season quite yet. If there is any hope, they must beat the teams in their division, like the Braves. 
“We’re up for our division, and we need to play well against the teams we gotta catch,” Johnson said. “And I think everybody in that room feels the same way. Bring ‘em on.”
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Nationals won the rubber match on Sunday afternoon, beating the New York Mets on a walk-off chopper up the middle by Ian Desmond.
A major play occurred in the top of the third inning as the Mets had the bases loaded with one out, and third baseman David Wright hit a fly ball to Nats’ right fielder Jayson Werth. Werth caught the lazy fly ball and fired home where it was cut off in front of the pitcher’s mound by first baseman Michael Morse, who then threw to first to get Daniel Murphy, who had been breaking for second to end the inning. Things could have gotten out of control, and the base running mistake would come back to hurt the Mets.
There was not a lot of offense early on in the game, as the first runs in the bottom of the sixth inning. Ian Desmond, Ryan Zimmerman and Michael Morse hit back-to-back-to-back doubles to put the Nationals up 2-0.
“We should have gotten more,” Nats’ Manager Davey Johnson said. “We just kind of fizzled at the end. We’ve got some good hitters and they seem to be warming up. I think these last couple of months are going to be good.”
The Nats pitching staff did a good job of handling New York’s bats, except for one guy. Scott Hairston, whose brother Jerry was traded from the Nationals to the Milwaukee Brewers on Saturday, hit a pinch-hit solo home run to make it a 2-1 game in the top of the seventh. It was his sixth homer of the season and sixth pinch-hit home run of his career. Hairston then tied the game with two outs in the ninth with his second solo shot of the game to tie the game at two.
But the game would not make it into extra innings as Nats’ catcher led off the bottom of the ninth with a single to right. Mets’ reliever Bobby Parnell then hit Rick Ankiel to make it first and second with no outs. Two batters later, after a failed sacrifice bunt by center fielder Brian Bixler, his second terrible bunt of the game, Ankiel and Bixler moved up on a wild pitch. Desmond then hit an infield single to second to end the game.
Though they won this series, it is clear that the postseason is not in the team’s immediate future. With that in mind, Johnson announced that young lefty Ross Detwiler will be joining the rotation, while veteran lefty Tom Gorzelanny will be moved to the bullpen.
“He’s a good young arm. He’s been pitching awfully good,” Johnson said. “I’m giving him an opportunity to go out and pitch.”
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
