The Eagle will no longer be publishing the police blotter. This was not an internal decision, but instead the result of judgment made outside The Eagle in consultation with neither us nor the student body. Because this was one of the most popular features of the paper, we believe that we owe our readers an explanation.
Typically, the AU Department of Public Safety sends The Eagle the police blotter each Thursday or Friday preceding our publication date. That text is then published as is, straight from the source, edited only for names, grammar and AP Style. However, the Friday before our Aug. 29 issue came and went with no customary email of the weekly crimes, disturbances and general shenanigans occurring on campus. After contacting Public Safety, The Eagle was informed that we would no longer be sent the police blotter as we had come to know it.
Instead, we would be sent a document that lists the occurrences not with a specific description, but by the general category of their nature. Gone are the detailed accounts, replaced with vague one-word entries and times: Theft — Tunnel Shops — Sept. 8 — 2 a.m.; Burglary — Sports Center-Inside — Sept. 3 — 4 p.m. The descriptions that AU has come to call the police blotter would no longer be available for public use.
We would like to have been given as detailed a response as possible to Public Safety’s reasons for restricting student access to the legal infractions occurring on campus. And if these reasons were compelling, The Eagle might have accepted this decision tranquilly and gone gently into the night. Unfortunately, Public Safety has given us no such compelling reasons. 
In our meetings with Public Safety following the initial email notification, our calls for continuing the police blotter access were met with deaf ears. Officials insisted this new format continued to provide to students the information required by law. It seemed that Public Safety had made the judgment on their own that AU students did not need the additional information. Yet as far as this paper knows, no students were ever consulted in the alteration.
As far as concrete reasons for changing the format, Public Safety offered few, if any. However, officials did once voice concern that previous blotter releases were viewed as entertaining by the student body.
To be sure, the police blotter was a source of entertainment for many readers, and The Eagle published it in part with this in mind, including the recent “Best of the Spring 2011 Police Blotter” piece. Yet the loss of the police blotter amounts to losing more than a couple laughs. It’s the loss of valuable source of campus information — a source of information to which both George Washington University and Georgetown University students continue to have access in their communities.
The police blotter acted as a primary source for students to identify trends in on-campus crime and to take necessary action. A string of thefts in Letts South? You can bet that Eagle readers were locking their doors.  
Moreover, the crimes listed by the police blotter frequently led to concrete and detailed stories in The Eagle. Just last spring, our stories on the vandalism in the Letts Sky Lounge were a direct result of initial reports on the police blotter. The same applies to recent reports on campus bike theft and a reduction in overall campus theft, among others.
We at The Eagle are saddened by this recent friction with Public Safety. Traditionally, they have been one of the most cooperative and responsive departments on campus, but since Former Public Safety Chief McNair left AU, that has not been the case. By pulling access to the police blotter, they are unnecessarily restricting information to which AU students are entitled.
The police blotter shed needed light on threats and disturbances that occurred throughout campus. And until Public Safety reinstates access to the police blotter, The Eagle urges its readers to join us in protest against the dying of this light.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Former Department of Public Safety Chief Michael McNair departed AU Aug. 18 for personal reasons. McNair served as the chief of Public Safety for seven years.
Since the departure involves personal matters, which are confidential, no further information will be provided for McNair’s departure, according to Associate Director of Media Relations Maralee Csellar. 
Csellar said in an email that the search process for a new Public Safety director has already begun. 
Captain Norman Bailey and Lieutenant Martin Pfeifer will supervise DPS until a new director is hired. Bailey serves on the University Council and has worked at AU for seven years, while Pfiefer has been with the University for five years. 
“There will be no interruption in Public Safety services as a result of the change,” Csellar said. 
The AU community will be informed when a new Public Safety chief is hired.
llandau@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s not often that Bender Arena gets packed at 9 p.m., but on Sept. 9 the dancing didn’t stop until after midnight. The event was the Student Union Board’s first major event of the year — a free We The Kings concert, featuring an opening act by singer-songwriter Ben Kweller. 
Kweller started the night with reckless abandon, hopping between genres almost faster than the crowd could keep up. A lively three-piece pop-punk set gave way to slow acoustic solos, followed by ragtime piano dance numbers and a good dose of bluegrass. Kweller’s musical dexterity did not go unappreciated by the crowd, and the dancing barely stopped throughout his hour-long set. 
The only moment when Kweller lost the energy, and maybe even the audience’s attention, was during his 20-minute long piano set. He quickly recovered, finishing it with a rousing harmonica/piano/vocal piece, showcasing his musical and instrumental range, and encouraging, once again, the crowd to get on their feet and move. 
The main act, We The Kings, capitalized on an riled-up audience that had been dancing through the filler songs and practically set the stage on fire with charisma. 
Frontman Travis Clark revelled in the spotlight, punctuating every song with an anecdote, and often going off on wild tangents throughout his set. 
In between songs, with nearly everyone charged with the peppy energy only pop-punk can provide, Clark would dive into stories about making a fool of himself in Jacobs Fitness Center, cute girls on campus (and in Chipotle) and the history of his “frisky pants” worn to the night’s show. 
However, his steady, easy-going and occasionally excitable ramble was often interrupted by his looking backstage and asking “How many strikes do I have now?” or apologizing for saying something he was evidently not allowed to say. The seemingly rigid guidelines imposed on what Clark could or couldn’t talk about on stage seemed out-of-place on a college campus. 
However, the rules in place didn’t stop Clark from seducing the crowd, and inviting them to party. Perhaps the highlight of Clark’s antics was when the lights went low, the band left the stage and Clark brought out an acoustic guitar. Scanning the crowd, he set eyes on a blonde from the front row. 
“You make purple look awesome,” he said, inviting her onstage. Sitting her down on a stool, and turning the lights off completely, Clark proceeded to serenade her with a soulful acoustic rendering of “We’ll Be a Dream.” 
Crowd involvement seemed to be a high priority for Clark and We The Kings, as he encouraged multiple sing-a-longs throughout the set. Clark taught the lyrics to some of their lesser-known songs to the crowd and set up several a capella, crowd-only choruses. 
By the end of their set, We The Kings had the entire crowd moving up and down, dancing and singing at lung-top volume to their most well known song, “Check Yes Juliet.” The audience noise was deafening as Clark announced they had one last song, “the song that put us on the map,” he said. 
Travis Clark and We the Kings seemed grateful for the show, and the audience-band love was nearly tangible throughout the set. Ben Kweller never ceased to amaze, and the technical team and roadies from SUB ensured the show moved quickly and flawlessly.  SUB started its season strong, and more concerts like this one could ensure a very successful year.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University is currently the only D.C. school to hold a perfect, five-star rating on Campus Pride’s LGBT-Friendly Campus Climate Index.
Campus Pride is a nonprofit organization that works to promote a safe LGBT learning environment on college and university campuses.
On Aug. 8, Campus Pride announced that 33 college campuses across the United States now hold a five-star rating, including AU, which jumped from 4.5 to 5 stars this year. 
Campus Pride’s LGBT-Friendly Campus Climate Index rates schools based on their responses to a variety of questions related to LGBT life and issues: Academic Life, Student Life, Policies and Practice, Campus Safety, Housing and Residence Life, Counseling and Health Services, and Recruitment and Retention Efforts.
Queers & Allies Executive Director Jill Altman said she thinks the positive score makes a big difference for incoming students and their parents. The index goes beyond word of mouth and shows that AU is actually LGBT-friendly, she said. 
Director of the GLBTA Resource Center Sara Bendoraitis said she was able to report improvements in LGBT housing options in recent years, specifically gender-neutral/single occupancy restroom facilities in campus housing. 
“I think that for parents who have accepted their children, their biggest fear is harassment,” Altman said. “So to know that they’ll be in a college community away from home that is safe, I think will make them feel a lot better.”
Although AU currently holds a perfect five-star rating, that is an overall score based on a number of different factors. When broken down, AU received five stars in all of the categories except for Housing and Residence Life and Campus Safety, for which the campus earned 4.5 and 3.5 stars, respectively. 
Even though AU earned a perfect score overall, the University received only 3.5 stars for LGBT Campus Safety because the questions relating to campus police training for sexual orientation issues and gender identity/expression issues were both marked “no.” Bendoraitis said she marked “no” because the questionnaire is answered from the perspective of the Resource Center, which provides Safe Space and Trans 101 training, but does not offer mandatory training for Public Safety officers. 
Public Safety Captain Norman Bailey, manager of patrol operations, disputed the 3.5-star rating, which he said is “technically incorrect” because Public Safety currently receives basic training from Metropolitan Police Department’s Gay and Lesbian Liaison Unit as part of a consortium of D.C.-area universities. The training includes clarification on terms such as “transgender,” “gender identity” and “gender expression,” and officers are trained in how to deal with issues ranging from domestic violence to harassment and assault. 
In addition, Bailey said Public Safety officers are strongly encouraged to participate in Safe Space and Trans 101 training through the Resource Center. Bendoraitis said she usually sees a few officers at each training session. 
“I think next year when we do the evaluation, there will be very different answers,” Bendoraitis said.
llandau@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Everyone needs a hobby. Some people read vampire novels. Some people play video games. Some people, like the two main characters of the film “Bellflower,” prepare for the coming apocalypse by building an arsenal of homemade weapons and heavily armed cars ready to come out on top in the event of “Mad Max”-style gang warfare.
Believe it or not, “Bellflower” is actually (kind of) a love story about two friends obsessed with the post-apocalyptic world. Woodrow (director and writer Evan Glodell) is a timid, sensitive type and Aiden (Tyler Dawson) is a charmingly obnoxious bro who forces Woodrow to meet a girl named Milly (Jessie Wiseman) in a contest at a bar to see which of them can eat the most crickets.
The first act of the movie chronicles the blissful days when Woodrow asks Milly out and they drive from Los Angeles to somewhere in Texas to find “the cheapest, nastiest, scariest place” to eat (which, along with the crickets, sums up Milly’s personality in a nutshell). Though cliché, the story is charming and doesn’t overstay its welcome. The film then cuts well into the future, with the only indication of the passage of time being that Woodrow has grown an epic beard, at which point their relationship comes to a well-foreshadowed end.
In addition to the characters’ obsession with the apocalypse, “Bellflower” distinguishes itself through its unique visual style. Many shots are saturated with orange light, depth-of-field effects often keep the focus on one character by drastically blurring everything else around them. Dirt and grime accumulate on the lenses of the cameras as the film progresses.
Some quick cuts give the audience the bare minimum of information, while other scenes are as slow and deliberate as a Jim Jarmusch film. It’s clear a great deal of effort was put into giving the film a careless, indie aesthetic that absolutely works. The setting complements the grimy visual style, as most of the film takes place in an unnamed lower-middle-class suburb that could easily be mistaken for somewhere in Middle America if not for a nearby beach.
Part of the film’s appeal is how it takes the viewer for a ride through its own apocalyptic wasteland of a plot, shifting from charming, predictable love story to something else entirely. Suffice to say there are two movies contained in “Bellflower,” and they couldn’t be more different from one another. About halfway through, Woodrow gets into an accident, suffering brain damage as a result, and the rest of the film unfolds in a strange and nearly nonlinear fashion.
The filmmakers achieved their unique visual style by constructing some of their own camera setups just as Woodrow and Aiden craft their own weapons, and the parallel works well for the film as a whole. Like their weaponized car Mother Medusa, “Bellflower” is a weapon of mass destruction: It lulls the viewer into a false sense of security with its off-kilter love story and then proceeds straight off the deep end.
But it’s far from the perfect crime. “Bellflower” becomes tiresome towards the end, having pushed the envelope a touch too far. Once you get it, it’s not hard to figure out where the movie will end. When a film takes itself seriously enough to be described as an apocalyptic love story, some heavy-handedness is inevitable.
“Bellflower” is a no-budget “500 Days of Summer” that substitutes greeting cards for post-apocalypse armaments and light humor for sheer weirdness. It’s beautiful and dangerous, though artistically indulgent and not for the faint of heart.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This past weekend the AU volleyball team traveled to Blacksburg, Va., to play Virginia Tech, the University of Tennessee and Seton Hall University in the Hokie Classic. The Eagles (4-6) failed to win any of the three games, losing in straight sets in all three and dropping below .500 on the season.
The Eagles lost their opening match of the Hokie Classic on Friday against Virginia Tech by set scores of 25-22, 25-21 and 25-15. The first two sets were competitive, with each team trading kills until the Hokies (5-4) began to pull away. Virginia Tech dominated the third set as the Eagles struggled to get their attack going.
Freshman Sara Rishell led the Eagles with 10 kills while Morgan Hendrix had seven. Setter Alexandra Hammer finished the game with 21 assists. For the Hokies, Justine Record and Cara Baarendse led the team with 13 and 10 kills, respectively. Erin Leaser set up 31 assists.
Tennessee cruises to  victory
The Eagles took on the Tennessee Lady Volunteers in their second game of the weekend, and the Lady Vols (7-2) notched a straight set victory with set scores of 25-14, 25-13 and 25-16.
No Eagle recorded double digit kills in the contest. Hendrix posted six kills while Rishell and Megan Rosburg tallied four apiece. Monika Smidova led the Eagles with 12 assists and had 11 digs defensively. Tennessee was led by DeeDee Harrison with 10 kills and Mary Pollmiller with 28 assists. 
Eagles fall to Seton Hall
The final game of the series pitted the Eagles against Seton Hall (4-5), and the Pirates won by scores of 25-20, 25-21 and 25-15.
Hendrix led the team with 11 kills and Juliana Crum finished with eight. Defensively, Hammer led AU with 10 digs while Rosburg registered six. 
In the opening set, the Pirates jumped out to an early 7-2 lead before prevailing 25-20. In the second, the Eagles were able to score eight unanswered points to give them a 15-14 lead midway through the set. However, the Pirates were able to come back for the 25-21 win and take a critical 2-0 advantage. The final set saw the Pirates jump out to a quick lead and cruise to a 25-15 victory.
Of the four teams in the tournament, Tennessee finished with the best record. The Lady Vols swept Seton Hall and AU, and defeated host Virginia Tech 3-1. The Hokies finished the weekend at 2-1, Seton Hall finished at 1-2 and the Eagles at 0-3.
Eagles struggling in non-conference play
Despite entering the tournament on a two-game winning streak, the Eagles have struggled through a tough nonconference schedule. After the graduation of the top players from last year’s squad, AU has lost six games on the season, which is double the amount of losses from last year.
The road for the Eagles does not get any easier. After playing a rescheduled D.C. Volleyball Challenge match with George Mason University on Wednesday, Sept. 14, AU returns to Bender Arena to host the American Classic. That tournament will see the Eagles take on the University of Villanova (7-3), Western Kentucky University (9-1) and the University of Missouri (11-2).
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
When the Washington Nationals signed right fielder Jayson Werth to a seven-year, $126 million contract in December, many thought it would be a bad deal in years five, six and seven. Yet, with the regular season coming to a close in just a few weeks, it’s safe to say that it looks like an awful deal after one.
And it’s not why you think, either. The contract doesn’t look like a waste just because of his .230 average. It’s not just because of his .333 on-base percentage. It’s not just because of his .394 slugging percentage. It’s not even about his 141 strikeouts.
What it’s about is the way he has presented himself throughout the season. When you’re given a monstrous contract, the expectation is not just to put together impressive stats. Unless you sign with the Yankees or Red Sox, when you sign that kind of contract, you become the face of the franchise. When the team loses, like the Nats have done and were expected to do this season, people look to you for answers. You’re expected to handle your struggles and the team’s with class. Werth has not done that.
After a game in May in which the Nationals lost their fifth game in a row and were in last place in the NL East, Werth told reporters that “things need to change.” He did not clarify which changes he was referring to, but many believed the comments were made in the direction of then-manager Jim Riggleman. Riggleman eventually resigned amidst a contract dispute, though it had nothing to do with Werth. 
The problem with Werth’s comments was that at the time, he was hitting about .240. It’s not like he was helping solve the problem; he was the problem. The changes he was talking about needed to come from him. 
When reporters asked him about his comments the next night, he went on a diatribe about how the whole culture of the team needed to change, including how Teddy Roosevelt, who as a running joke has never won the fourth inning President’s Race, needed to win. He was dead serious. The fact that a person in a costume never got to win a meaningless race to entertain fans really bothered him.
Yes, that makes sense. The losing wasn’t the fact that at the time Jerry Hairston Jr., Laynce Nix and Roger Bernadina were all in the same everyday lineup. It was definitely the fake Teddy Roosevelt losing pre-determined races that influenced the result.
Then there are the reports that Washington’s right fielder refused to pose for pictures with fans at a charity event. These are people who paid a lot of money to have this experience, yet Werth could not be bothered to take a few photos. 
It’s not right to treat teammates or coaches with disrespect, but when you start disrespecting your own fans, you’ve crossed into a whole different level.
It’s no wonder he’s been booed by Nationals fans when he strikes out looking, which he seems to think is his job. One part of the problem is clearly the money he is being paid to do more than he has done this season. 
Just like A-Rod in New York, fans expect more when you’re being paid nine figures. 
But the other reason is that Werth is simply not likeable. Red Sox fans did not boo David Ortiz when he struggled in the first few months of the 2010 season because fans love the guy. Werth has done nothing but alienate Nationals fans. 
Jayson Werth is no superstar. No one ever thought he was, even when he was part of a World Series team in Philadelphia. Now, if he’d only stop acting like one.  
blasky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The men’s soccer team has hit a frustrating bump in its season, losing 2-1 in overtime to both Liberty University Sept. 9 and Syracuse University Sept. 11. 
Liberty overcomes deficit to beat AU
The matchup against the Liberty Flames (2-1) started off with AU playing heavy defense while Liberty’s strong offensive attack kept the ball on the AU side for a majority of the opening period.
After an opening half that saw neither team push across a goal, an energized AU squad flipped the script and controlled possession in the Liberty side of the field at the start of the second half. After 68 minutes, Mark Wysocki scored his first goal of the season, and the first of the game, to put AU up 1-0.
“There were spots in this game where we were good, and we were able to connect and find each other, and move ourselves down the field and get opportunities,” Wysocki said.
The AU celebration didn’t last long, however, as just six minutes later Liberty’s Chris Phillips responded with a goal of his own. The two teams were able to stave off any more goals, ending the second half with a 1-1 tie after 90 minutes.
That score held through the first period of overtime, as 10 minutes passed without any goals. But with just two minutes left in the second overtime session, Darren Amoo scored the golden goal for Liberty. A first team all-Big South selection with three goals on the season, Amoo’s strike caused the Eagles to suffer a heartbreaking loss in the team’s home opener. 
“I’m furious,” Head Coach Todd West said. “I knew it when we warmed up that we weren’t ready. I don’t think it was a quality performance for a home opener.”
West also cited the team’s lack of effort as one of the major factors contributing to the loss. 
“We can control our effort, and we didn’t bring [the] effort that this program is all about,” West said. “They have to look in the mirror, or we’re not going to issue uniforms to guys who aren’t going to bring us the right effort.”
Acknowledging that Liberty outshot AU 13-3 on the afternoon, goalkeeper Matt Makowski said preventing such a large gap is one of the team’s priorities.
“It’s good in one sense, because it keeps you active,” Makowski said. “Obviously that’s a number we don’t want to give up. I think they had some good players, some clever players up front. I would have liked to see two more saves, instead of the number that there was, but it is what it is.” 
A four-year player for the Eagles, Makowski made key saves all afternoon to keep the contest tied 1-1.
Eagles defeated in overtime for second straight game
Makowski’s hope didn’t come through in the game against the Orange (2-2), as AU was outshot 23-8. In another match decided in overtime, AU was unable to pull out a win, falling yet again by a score of 2-1. 
Six minutes into the first period, Syracuse’s Louis Clark scored the only goal in the first half on Makowski. 
With just seven minutes left in the game, the Eagles were able to tie up the score, as Jack Scott found the back of the net for AU. The goal gave Scott his third point of the season, after the senior picked up an assist in AU’s D.C. College Cup victory over George Washington University.
With the score tied at one apiece, AU moved into overtime for the second time in three days. 
With the AU offense unable to take any shots on goal, Syracuse’s Nick Roydhouse scored off a free kick for the Syracuse victory. Roydhouse has now found the back of the net in two straight seasons against AU, scoring the Orange’s lone goal in their 2010 2-1 loss to the Eagles.
AU will play its next four games at home, starting with a game on Friday, Sept. 16 against the California State University Fullerton Titans. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The No. 8 AU field hockey team lost a pair of games this weekend at the Terrapin Invitational in College Park, Md. The Eagles (2-3) lost 2-1 in overtime on Saturday against Ohio University and fell to Northwestern University on Sunday 2-1 after outshooting the Wildcats 17-5.  
Ohio upsets AU in overtime
The Eagles played well against Ohio, who is now riding a six-game winning streak to open the season. The Bobcats (6-0) maintained offensive control in the first half, but AU’s strong defense was able to deflect three shots on goal.  
AU jumped out ready to attack at the start of the second half, scoring a goal on a penalty corner in the 42nd minute. Alex McMackin was responsible for the lead, after teammate Gina Hofmann’s attempt was deflected right at her, giving her an open lane at the left post.  
Less than 10 minutes later, Ohio came back and tied the game on a goal by Louzeth Schutte. AU’s Grace Wilson almost gave the Eagles the lead in the 67th minute but was unable to get a shot past the Bobcats’ Jen McGill, forcing the game into overtime.  
After blocking two Ohio penalty corners early, the Eagles were unable to block Taylor Brown’s straight shot off the corner in the 80th minute.  
“Ohio played a very strong and disciplined game and while it could have gone either way, they deserved the win,” Head Coach Steve Jennings told AU Athletics. “I believe we can learn a lot from this loss and use it to help us focus on the critical elements of our style of play.”
Northwestern clips Eagles 
The story was similar for the Eagles’ Sept. 11 game, as they could not prevail in another very close game against Northwestern.  
The Wildcats (4-2) jumped out first on a goal by Regan Mooney in the 12th minute. Several minutes later, AU scored on a pass by Grace Wilson that deflected off the stick of Kati Rothenhoefer and slid past Northwestern goalkeeper Maddy Carpenter.  
The Eagles entered the second half with the game tied 1-1 even though they outshot the Wildcats 6-2. The women continued to pressure the Northwestern goal, but their three shots were unable to penetrate the thick Wildcat defense.  
Before AU had a chance to setup another attempt, Northwestern took possession on a penalty and Chelsea Armstrong’s goal made it 2-1 Wildcats in the 47th minute of play.  
The Eagles made several quality attempts to score down the stretch, but the sound Northwestern defense was able to hold onto the lead up until the clock showed zeroes.  
Despite outshooting the Wildcats 17-5 and having more chances on penalty corners (5-4), AU was unable to use those opportunities to put shots past the net.  
Some positives to come out of the loss were Rothenhoefer’s first career goal and Wilson notching her second assist of the season.
The Eagles will try and bounce back from the two consecutive losses when they host the University of Louisville at Jacobs Field on Sunday, Sept. 18 at 2 p.m.  
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Army Corps of Engineers and American University are endorsing a recommendation to tear down the AU-owned single-family home at 4825 Glenbrook Rd. The residence, located near the south side of campus, is unoccupied. 
Though the Army Corps is already in the process of removing World War I-era chemical munitions from the property, the demolition would allow the Army Corps to remove artifacts that it suspects are buried under the house. 
The Spring Valley property was the location of a chemical weapon burial pit during World War I, when AU became a chemical warfare laboratory and military base. Similar pits containing laboratory glassware, mustard gas and other toxic chemicals have already been located and excavated. 
The demolition is the most expensive option for cleaning up the site, and would cost the Army Corps between $12 and $14 million. 
“It’s what the Spring Valley community has been requesting for years,” Spring Valley resident and activist Allen Hengst said. 
The Army Corps estimates the cleanup will take between 12 and 18 months, Project Manager Brenda Barber told the Army Times. After the Army Corps removes the artifacts from the site, it plans to restore the property’s status as a residential lot.
A final plan has not been determined for the home’s demolition. Army Corps Public Affairs Chief Chris Augsberger said it still has to be approved by the Department of Defense in December. 
The general public, including Spring Valley residents and the AU community, will be given an opportunity to formally comment on the proposed plan at a meeting later this month. A 30 to 45 day window will then be open for additional comments.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A new semester brings new art exhibits to the AU Museum at the Katzen Arts Center. Six exhibits opened Sept. 3, showcasing diverse styles and mediums. Five of the six exhibits will run until Dec. 14, with the exception of Bruce Connor’s, which is closing on Oct. 23. 
“Inner Piece: Works from the Heather and Tony Podesta Collection”
This exhibit includes photos from Laurel Nakadate that depict a woman “entangled in emotional situations,” according to AU Museum resources, and Clare Langan’s artistic expressions of natural landscapes. Also featured in this collection are painter Julie Roberts and Spanish artist Pilar Albarracín.
“The exhibitions brings together artists rarely — if ever — shown in Washington, D.C.,” said Jack Rasmussen, director and curator of the American University Museum.
“Re-viewing Documentary: The Photographic Life of Louise Rosskam”
The work of Rosskam, a pioneer in the golden age of American documentary photography of the 1930s and ’40s is examined within this exhibit. Emphasis is placed on his work in Southwest D.C. and his illustration of the social and economical growth in Puerto Rico, according to AU Museum resources. 
“Bruce Conner: An Anonymous Memorial”
Fitting in with a topical message is “Bruce Conner: An Anonymous Memorial” which is in dedication to the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. The artist was listening to the radio when the two airplanes hit the World Trade Center, and created a scroll inkblot drawing with two leaves falling, according to the AU Museum website. The next day, another piece with three leaves falling was created, then four the next day, eventually becoming the basis for the collection.
“Wayne Barrar: An Expanding Subterra”
On a different literal level altogether, Wayne Barrar depicts the life “down under.” His work is a collection of photographs all from underground worksites including mines, power stations and subways. Much of his work is focused on areas in South Australia, as well as the Midwest.
“Gifts of Duncan Phillips”
The fifth exhibit is a collection of works to serve as a tribute to Phillips, an individual who played a major role in the development of AU’s Art Department. The exhibit is a collection of pieces he gave directly and indirectly to AU’s Watkins Memorial Collection and pieces from the Art Department’s early faculty members, according to AU Museum resources. 
“Seismic Dream”
The final exhibit is located in the Sylvia Berlin Katzen Sculpture Garden. The artwork of Pattie Porter Firestone is the first to have a sound component to the exhibit in the sculpture garden. The sound element was composed by Barbara Buchanan and creates a unique experience engaging both the eyes and ears. 
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Looking for new music? DJs at student-run radio station WVAU share their thoughts on a range of recent releases.

DOM
Family of Love EP
It’s easy to understand why people love to hate DOM. The band’s signature whiny vocals, elementary lyrics and generally obnoxious public presentation (see the WVAU website interview-trolling for a taste) can be alienating to even the most tolerant listener. But despite their best efforts to appear nonchalant and unapologetic, on their new Family of Love EP, DOM demonstrates their growth from blog band jokesters to relatively mature pop musicians. 
Gone is the scrappy, lo-fi production, instead replaced by polished, clean tones and dense textures. The band layers playful synthesizers over multiple guitar tracks to great effect, utilizing producer Nicholas Vernhes’s (Bjork, Animal Collective) mixing genius. The record is straightforward pop to the core, with each bubblegum melody bouncing off of the next and sticking in your head for hours. All this is tied together by DOM’s signature snarky, sarcastic vocals, as lead singer Dom continues to wear his narcissism on his sleeve. “I don’t care about anyone else!” he sings in a shout-along chorus. 
So while DOM still may be recording his music with a self-aware smirk on his face, the “Family of Love EP” is a perfectly crafted indie-pop masterpiece that is nothing to smirk about.
Recommended if you like: Ariel Pink, Army Navy, STRFKR
— Maxwell Tani

THE WAR ON DRUGS
Slave Ambient
The War on Drugs’s sophomore album comes in at an opportune time to make us remember that Americana is not dead. With “Slave Ambient,” this rapidly evolving band brings in some transcending guitar tunes and ambient sounds which are combined with lead singer Adam Granduciel’s enticing voice — bringing us right back to the Dylan/Springsteen times. 
Although the band now consists of only three people, ex-member Kurt Vile’s influence remains very much present into this album as the synth, melodica and harmonica fuse together to accompany us through this nostalgic voyage. Shoegaze’s influence lingers, but it is the mixture of the band’s incisive songs and theme of new beginnings seen with “Best Night” and “It’s Your Destiny” that gives this album a refreshing sound. 
Recommended if you like: Bruce Springsteen, Kurt Vile, Bob Dylan
— Carlo Fiorio

VERONICA FALLS
Veronica Falls (Slumberland)
It’s impossible to write any review of Veronica Falls without including the word “twee” about a hundred times. As if right off of the famous “C86” mixtape, this London-based quartet shows a penchant for jangly 1980s British indie pop, with a hint of ’60s garage rock and girl group harmonies. Each song follows the same lo-fi guitar, bass, minimal drums and guy-girl vocal approach with little deviation save the occasional distortion-heavy gallop displayed on the group’s first single “Come On Over.” 
However, while this format may seem fairly overdone, the key to the band’s success lies in the simple, yet interesting songwriting. Each song is romantic and earnest, relying mostly on the strength of the vocal melodies to carry the songs. The group doesn’t do anything to reinvent the wheel here, but their solid debut promises more to come with time.
Recommended if you like: Pains of Being Pure at Heart, Vivian Girls, The Pastels
— Maxwell Tani

CANT
Dreams Come True
I blame Department of Eagles for misleading me into thinking that every Grizzly Bear side project sounded a lot like Grizzly Bear. This certainly not true for genius Producer (Morning Benders, Dirty Projectors, Twin Shadow) and Record Label Owner Chris Taylor’s debut solo album under the moniker CANT. 
Instead, “Dreams Come True” is a wave of dark, atmospheric haze and programmed electronic doom. The album, which is almost entirely programmed, is a complex arrangement of danceable beats, dystopian synths and harsh, distorted electronic soundscapes. And while its lightest moments are almost trancelike, the album is much more of a bad Radiohead trip or a nightmare soundtrack to Katheryn Bigelow’s “Strange Days.” Its brooding and darkly melodic synths are layered over dissonant bass reverb-steeped vocals. 
If you were expecting “Two Weeks” or “Excuses,” I would stay as far away from this record as possible. But if you are curious about what the year’s darkest, densest art-pop record of the year sounds like, give it a spin.
Recommended if you like: Twin Shadow, (dark) Radiohead, Nicholas Jaar
— maxwell tani

MISTER HEAVENLY
Out of Love
An indie supergroup featuring members of Islands, Man Man and Modest Mouse, Mister Heavenly have labeled themselves as “doom-wop,” a genre that explores ominous love songs with doo-wop harmonies. As Ryan Kattner and Nicholas Thornburn trade off vocals, the whole thing feels very natural and fun – It’s the definite sound of a few friends who really wanted to make a record together. 
Opener “Bronx Sniper” features a stomping riff derived from Neil Young’s “Southern Man,” while “Reggae Pie” rides a groove that could be mistaken for a Sublime B-side. Most memorable, however, are the pure pop tunes: “I Am a Hologram” is a mid-tempo rocker that piles on hook after hook, while “Pineapple Girl” features swirling organ and the best back-and-forth vocals of the album. Let’s hope this isn’t a one-time-only project.
Recommended if you like: Islands, Telekinesis
— Cameron Meindl

MOGWAI
Earth Division EP (Slumberland)
For any person that thinks post-rock is an easy genre to exhaust, listen to this EP and stare at your wall in contemplation for a few minutes. Although this EP takes on a similar feel and formula of other post-rock groups, there are several characteristics that make it distinct. 
Though the EP was basically the runoff from their most recent album, “Hardcore Will Never Die, But You Will,”  it takes on a distinct, strikingly dramatic personality. Strings and pianos are everywhere, layered with heavy fuzz and yet more subdued guitar riffs and lyrics. It’s not entirely a departure from the most recent album, but is more explorative in form and instrumentation.
Recommended if you like: Explosions in the Sky, Do Make Say Think, A Silver Mount Zion
— Clare Teeling
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Having lived in D.C. for three years and just outside of it for most of my life, I’ve realized that you have to be borderline-obsessed with the Redskins, pandas and cheeseburgers to truly fit in in this town. Have a conversation with any Washingtonian about Hightower’s chances of being the ‘Skins starting running back, giving Tai Shan back to China or Bobby Flay’s potato chip-laden burgers and you’re in for life. 
In the recent years, “burgermania” has taken over the city with New York City imports Shake Shack and P.J. Clarke’s, and President Obama’s fixation on Ray’s Hell Burger. Here are a few new-to-the-D.C.-area burger joints worth checking out that won’t break the bank. 
SHAKE SHACK
Metro: Dupont Circle (Red Line)
Having joined D.C. in early summer, Shake Shack has made a seamless transition from New York City to the District’s burger elite. At Shake Shack you’ll find “roadside” burgers, hot dogs, frozen custard and (surprise!) beer and wine.  Stick with the classic “ShackBurger” (with cheese, crisp lettuce, roma tomatoes, “ShackSauce” and topped with the best burger bun imaginable), an order of crinkle fries and one of the Shack’s root beer floats.
If you’re feeling extra hungry, try the frozen custard for dessert; along with the signature flavors, the custard menu features a different flavor every day and changes each month. And, as if they couldn’t make their way further into the hearts of Washingtonians, Shake Shack has a mini-menu at Nationals Park.
Bobby’s Burger Palace
Metro: Foggy Bottom (Blue/Orange Line)
Be prepared to wait in line for one of Bobby Flay’s burger creations, as the joint just opened early this month. Flay’s Burger Palace offers every kind of gourmet burger topping you can imagine (watercress and pickled jalapeños, anyone?) along with shakes, sweet potato fries and onion rings. The Palace offers salad and sandwiches too, but why eat one of those when Bobby Flay’s grilling the burgers?
Standouts include the “Crunchburger,” topped with double American cheese and a heap of potato chips (in fact, every burger on the menu can be “crunchified”). Finish your meal with a pistachio milkshake and call it a day.
Elevation Burger
Metro: Court House (Orange Line)
What makes Elevation Burger so unique is its use of “elevated products” and an “elevated” dining experience, according to the restaurant itself. But what really makes Elevation Burger unique is that you can order any burger “bloody,” catering to the ravenous carnivore in all of us.
Eco-friendly diners can rejoice in the use of organic, grass-fed and free-range beef and fresh produce. (Even the tables, chairs and paint are made of recycled materials.) As for the menu, try a malted milkshake or the “Vertigo burger,” a build-your-own burger that allows the hungriest of hungry to fit ten patties under the bun. 
BGR: The Burger Joint
Metro: Dupont Circle, Bethesda (Red Line)
BGR: The Burger Joint claims that they offer the “one burger YOU MUST HAVE before you die.” While the attitude is a bit egotistical, the place does offer a damn good burger. BGR’s classic burger features the menu’s star: a prime, dry-aged beef patty that’s topped with a sesame seed brioche bun. The menu also offers turkey, tuna, veggie and lamb burgers along with double-fried Yukon Gold and sweet potato fries. Try the sliders, mini versions of the classic burger, with a side of the “green standard” fries: they’re grilled asparagus spears topped with Parmesan cheese.
Want a free meal? Order the “9 pounder,” a massive burger featuring a 15.4-pound patty with two heads of lettuce, eight tomatoes, three red onions and four whole pickles. And finish it.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It always starts the same way: new school year, new health goals. Eating the cookies from TDR only on the weekend, going to every single Zumba class the gym offers and trading in your beloved Diet Cokes for water are just a few examples.
But now the first two weeks of classes have come and gone. You actually have homework (and getting through that should justify one cookie ... or two), 9 a.m. classes have never seemed so early and sleeping in is much more appealing than going to the gym. 
Don’t beat yourself up. It takes time to develop a routine and find the best work-out time. In the meantime, here are four small things you can do without even breaking a sweat that will  keep you healthy and happy. 
1. laugh 
Not too hard, right? According to Steve Wilson, a psychologist and laugh therapist, “The effects of laughter and exercise are very similar. We change physiologically when we laugh. We stretch muscles throughout our face and body, our pulse and blood pressure go up and we breathe faster, sending more oxygen to our tissues.” 
What could be easier than this? Grab your friends, settle into an episode of “Modern Family” and immediately feel better inside and out. 
2. Go to bed half an earlier instead of wasting time on your computer. 
And while you’re at it, learn to disconnect from technology every now and then. The benefits of sleep, especially for college students — a notoriously sleep deprived population — are endless. Better grades, better attitudes, better focus, better hair — you name it, sleep is an all-powerful elixir. Twitter will not magically disappear overnight and Facebook will still be there in the morning, but your first class will feel infinitely more painful on five hours of sleep versus eight. 
3. Walk to Tenleytown instead of taking the shuttle (if it ever stops raining). 
Right up there with sleep in the all powerful elixir category is Vitamin D. Best received through daily moderate levels of natural sunshine, getting enough Vitamin D is even easier than getting enough sleep. While you can find Vitamin D in foods such as fish and eggs, the sun is actually a more effective way to reap its benefits. Plus, you only need 10 minutes outside on a sunny day to prevent deficiencies. Vitamin D is also a great stress reducer, which explains why people are happier when it’s sunnier. 
4. Smile. 
Even if you hate your science class and you didn’t sleep because of your annoying neighbors, smiling, whether you are actually happy or not, has statistically proven health benefits. Smiling automatically releases endorphins, natural painkillers and serotonin, a recipe for feeling good mentally and physically. And the effects aren’t just short term. According to studies at the Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health, smiling can lower your blood pressure, your immune system and make you seem more attractive.
So instead of blaming on yourself for not getting to the gym as much as you wanted this week: Relax. Rest assured that all you need for major health benefits is a comfy bed, some good friends and a little sunshine. 
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If you or your friends have a Facebook, you know the Tom Petty quote about college. It’s too long to print, but it encourages students to stop worrying about GPAs and concentrate on being irresponsible. I’ve always knocked it as an easy thing to say for millionaires, but after four years of observation, I find most of those who followed his advice have just as good GPAs as those who didn’t. 
The system seemed broken, and swinging my Eagle press credentials like the pistols they are, I went to string-up every smart kid’s favorite villain: grade inflation.
First stop: the Interwebs. A recent article, “A History of College Grade Inflation,” on the New York Times economic blog reports on the findings of researchers at Teachers College at NYU who study the distribution of grades. The number of A’s given out has nearly tripled over the past 70 years, to the point where nearly half of all grades given are A’s. I shudder to think what the School of Communication’s statistics are, where two comments on a discussion board assure your good fortune. Am I really the über-genius my mom tells me I am? More on that in next week’s column. (Spoiler alert: I am.)
Next stop: disgruntled smart kid, i.e., the victim. I found one in David Park, a senior in the School of International Service, who is intelligent, articulate and brooding — and single! 
He echoed the researchers at Teachers College when he said the reason for the inflation is “due to the tacit agreement between students and professors that if we get inflated grades, they will be indemnified with good enough evaluations to keep their jobs.” He then tearfully recapped how grade inflation has robbed him of the chance to differentiate himself from the pack, how it keeps the least challenging professors employed and how that is hastening the decay of the higher education system. 
David turned out to be a real downer, but he made some good points. I couldn’t let him write my column though, so to gain another perspective I visited Sue Gordon, the director of career development at the AU Career Center. I was sure she would shed some light on the chaos grade inflation must be playing on graduate school applicants and getting top-paying jobs. 
She didn’t — instead shunting my obvious tilt by reminding me how little GPAs matter after your first job, how really only financial and consulting firms set bare minimum GPAs (usually around an attainable 3.0 or 3.5) and how other factors like letters of recommendation are huge in getting into grad schools. My faith in the downfall of American education was shaken. 
Grasping for answers and compliments, I called upon Associate Director of Merit Awards and all-around nice lady Joan D. Echols. Her take: it’s terrible, but top students will find a way above the rising tide of 4.0s.
“Beyond the grades, undergraduates can set themselves apart by collaborating with faculty on writing a paper or doing research,” she said. “And it’s a more enriching undergraduate experience.”  
She made a lot of sense, and not only because her sentences didn’t include the word “indemnified.” Seeing as how AU produced nine Boren Scholars last year and seven the year before, which is the second most in the nation, it doesn’t seem like the school has felt any negative effects of the grade inflation. 
And thus my witch-hunt ended with me deciding the witch isn’t such a bad influence on the neighborhood. If grade inflation forces our top students to do more than memorize facts, to earn their way in their field as an intern or make their mark doing research, then maybe it has been a blessing in disguise.  
GPAs have never been a good measure of a student’s ability, just as student evaluations have never been a good measure of a professor’s. As GPAs become more uniformly high, graduate schools and employers will have to weigh them less when considering applicants and find other ways to recognize the best and brightest.  
To modify the old Ibu axiom, GPAs should be respected, but achievement should be revered. Or was I the only one who did the African Writing homework, you Petty-listening slackers?
Adam Gallagher is a Senior in the School of Communication
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Despite Friday night’s rain pour, fashionistas flooded the streets of Georgetown on Sept. 8 to enjoy a night of champagne toasting, trend spotting and high-end discount shopping.
Hosted by the Georgetown Business Improvement District and the 2011 Fashion’s Night Out Host committee, over 100 Georgetown salons, stores and restaurants united to create the highly anticipated event that took place simultaneously with other FNO events worldwide.
Fashion’s Night Out took place in 18 countries, 250 cities in the United States and over 1,000 stores in New York City alone, so the expectations at Georgetown were high. But according to attendees such as AU alumna, Jackeline Stewart, these expectations were surpassed.
“My highlight was getting free champagne at the CK Underwear Store,” Stewart said. “Also, Aldo had a great sale. I got Oxford shoes for $34!” 
Her friend and sorority sister Keren Odeah Johnson agreed that the event was successful despite the rain.
“The rain made it cooler,” Johnson said. “There’s always something to do when it’s sunny outside. Otherwise I would be indoors right now.”
“Rain doesn’t stop my show. Never has. Never will!” Stewart added
Various Georgetown establishments offered incentives for FNO shoppers and each participating store extended their hours to as late at 11 p.m.
Some stores, such as Anthropologie and J. Crew offered personal shopping and others, such as BCBS and Blue Mercury, offered hors d’oeuvres and champagne. Other stores even created a complete party environment with deejays and dancing, like PNC Bank’s outdoor dancing event with DJ Obeyah. 
Other Georgetown stores that participated in Fashion’s Night Out’s festivities were Rugby, Charm, Sisky, UGG Australia, TD Bank, Tari, Intermix and more. 
Even the businesses that decided not to hold an event in their stores took part in the night’s activities. Co-owner of the Georgetown store Shoe Gallery supported his fellow Georgetown businesses by attending many of the events. 
The Lululemon Athletica store featured models doing yoga positions in their store window.
“Lululemon [Athletica] was my favorite because the girls are so happy and excited at all times and there was a dance party in there,” he said.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Having sex in the dorms calls for sensitivity and special attention to the cultural mores that govern the florescent-lit halls we call home during the academic terms. While baby Eagles debate age-old questions like spit or swallow, other issues have traditional answers that are worth reviewing.
1. Get a smush room
In order to set the mood, you should work with your roommate(s) to ensure a sexy scenario that avoids awkward walk-in moments, unless that is a kink for all parties involved. Despite daily cleaning of the restrooms, I maintain that sex in common areas  downright offend the sensibilities of the ordinary student. No shower, cement-block study cell or stairwell can take the place of your very own, private smush room (which you probably share with one or two other people). Simply put, the formula is lose the roommate, lock the door and lube up your barrier devices.
2. Be considerate of neighbors
Even though you have created a sanctuary for you and your sexual partner(s), you might disturb the peace if you do not keep the noise down. Keep in mind that the building is not private, even if your smush room is, so keep the sexual hullabaloo at a minimum. And please, no hanky panky or anatomy review sessions in the laundry room in hopes of avoiding the noise issue. Keeping sex between you and your consenting partners qualifies as basic polite behavior.
3. Know the schmuck before you f***
Know the sexual history of your partner before you get going. No one wants a sexually transmitted infection, which might not present the obvious symptoms that diseases cause. For example, the most common STI, chlamydia, may “silently” cause pelvic inflammatory disease and permanent damage to reproductive tissues in women. Silent as in most people have no symptoms. 
Tell your partner about your most recent STI test and about past sexual partners. Since HIV can take up to three months to appear in testing results, you should let your partner know of any potential risk for infection, even if you came up negative.
If you need to be tested, visit I Want The Kit online at www.iwantthekit.org. They will send you a kit to test for chlamydia, gonorrhea and trichomoniasis free of charge. Then, find a location to get a free HIV test at www.hivtest.org. The Student Health Center also offers testing services.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
President Barack Obama will be re-elected next year, according to AU Professor Allan Lichtman’s predictions.
The AU College of Arts and Sciences professor, who has correctly guessed the outcome of every presidential contest for the last 30 years, is beginning to get notice from various news outlets such as U.S. News and World Report and Fox News.
According to Lichtman, it’s quite simple to predict the winner.
There are 13 “keys,” or factors, that can go for or against the party controlling the White House.  If the party in power has six or more keys going against them, they lose, according to Lichtman.
 “You don’t even have to take your shoes off to find out who’s going to win the White House,” Lichtman said.  “You just have to count to six.”
 He was able to compile his system through presidential election campaign history going back to 1860, the beginning of the two-party Republican-Democratic dichotomy.
 Lichtman first developed the system in 1981, and used it to successfully predict the re-election of President Ronald Reagan three years later and again during every subsequent presidential campaign, coming out correct every time.
 Lichtman explained that leading up to the election in 1984, economic conditions seemed poised to make Reagan a one-term president. However, Professor Lichtman’s keys, such as substantial policy change in his first years in office and the lack of a third party challenge, showed a re-election on the horizon.
 He did not develop this methodology alone, citing assistance in developing his “keys” system with Russian geophysicist Volodia Keilis-Borok.
 “Geophysics, specifically earthquakes, are all about whether there is either stability or upheaval, and the same could be said for political campaigns,” Lichtman said.
The only “key” that Republicans can fully control this campaign season is their candidate’s charisma. However, that he doesn’t see much promise in that area for the Grand Old Party, Lichtman said.
 Chris Litchfield, the president of AU College Democrats, agreed with Lichtman’s speculation that the Republican field candidates will be unable to attract the same amount of voters as President Obama. However, he is apprehensive about basing electoral hopes on predictions made months in advance.
 “By any means, I urge [Democrats] to realize that we can’t write this election off,” Litchfield said.
 AU College Republicans did not respond to requests for an interview in time for publication.
 Professor Lichtman, who has given speeches across the world regarding his system, is ready to stick to his process even among skepticism.
“Despite vast changes [in the American political system], the keys stay the same,” Lichtman said.
Lichtman’s 13 Keys to the White House
1 Short-term economic conditions: The economy can’t be in recession during the campaign in order to have the incumbent party win this key. Thus, it’s unclear which party the key will fall on.
2 Long-term economic conditions: The economy is still in a recession, causing President Obama to LOSE this key.
3 Success in foreign or military affairs: Obama WINS this key, as Osama Bin Laden has been killed.
4 Failure in foreign or military affairs: There have been no massive military failures, which gives Obama a WIN for this key.
5 Presidential Scandal: President Obama WINS this key, as the Obama Administration has not had a major scandal.
6 Incumbency: Obama automatically WINS this key, as he is the incumbent president.
7 Domestic social unrest: There have been no large-scale riots or other large domestic disturbances in the course of the administration. President Obama WINS this key.
8 Charisma of the incumbent: President Obama hasn’t used his charisma effectively in the debates over health care and other legislation, causing him to LOSE this key.
9 Charisma of the opponent: The opposing field doesn’t have someone who can rally large amounts of the electorate through the candidate’s charisma. President Obama WINS this key.
10  Third party challenge: As of now, there is no serious third party challenger for the presidency, allowing President Obama to WIN this key.
11  Primary election challenger: Likewise, there is currently no serious challenge to President Obama within his own party for the upcoming Democratic primaries, giving President Obama a WIN here.
12  Significant policy change: However unpopular among some his proposed legislation may be, there have been significant achievements, be it the stimulus or health care reform, among others. President Obama WINS this key.
13  Party mandate (whether the President’s party holds more seats in the Congress after the midterm elections than the previous term): The Democratic Party’s loss of the House of Representatives in last year’s midterm elections gives President Obama a LOSS in this key.
Total: 9 keys in Obama’s favor, three keys against him, with one undecided
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
My only question is: Who can dethrone the Southeastern Conference? I welcome all challengers. As a matter of fact, I am begging for challengers. I am so over watching the most stacked conference in the country stockpile BCS national championships year after year. What fun is that?
I appreciate the richness and depth of the SEC, and I respect its authenticity and tradition, I really do. But I loathe the dominance over NCAA football that the conference has exhibited over the last five years.
A team from the SEC was crowned the BCS National Champion each of the last five years, and the conference has roped in six titles since 2000. 
My point: college football needs a change. So who can dethrone the SEC? There are three teams from three different conferences that can do it, and I’ll tell you why:
University of Oregon Ducks (Pac-12)
The Ducks are coming off a national championship defeat to the Cam Newton-led Auburn Tigers, but they have the offensive firepower to get back to the title game. Oregon boasts a high-octane offense that averaged 47 points per game to lead the NCAA in scoring last year and you know they’re capable of throwing at least 40 points on the board on any team on any given night. 
Oregon lost its season opener to the No. 3 Louisiana State University, but it has a whole season to climb back up national rankings. 
The Pac-12 added two teams with a strong pedigree in the University of Utah Utes and the University of Colorado Buffaloes, which will enhance the strength of schedule for Oregon. What also makes the return to a championship game plausible (barring no other loses and a few blowouts) is the fact that the conference now has a championship game with the addition of the two aforementioned teams. Oregon has an All-American running back in 2010 Heisman Trophy finalist LaMichael James, a stellar quarterback in Darron Thomas, a solid defense, superior coaching and not to mention very awesome jerseys. The Ducks have the goods to dethrone the SEC.
University of Oklahoma Sooners (Big 12)
The Sooners have the same offensive capabilities as Oregon, but they are backed with a much more talented defense. Oklahoma averaged 37 points per game last season to rank 14th in the nation, while it finished ninth defensively in sacks. 
Quarterback Landry Jones is ready to compete for a Heisman; but most importantly, he is ready to lead his team back to the title game. Last season, Jones threw more than 4,500 yards, 38 touchdowns and only 12 interceptions. The junior is ready. Even if Oklahoma loses a game, the Sooners can crash SEC’s party.
University of Nebraska Cornhuskers (Big 10)
A first-year member of the Big Ten, the Cornhuskers possess every quality necessary to ward off the SEC from copping another BCS National Championship. Nebraska boasts a stout defense that scored four defensive touchdowns and intercepted 19 passes last year, the eighth-ranked rushing attack in the nation from a year ago and a returning threat at quarterback in Taylor Martinez.
The Cornhuskers are a team on a mission: They are a respected team but are still not mentioned as a top-tier team. So what does a team with their mindset do? Rise to the challenge. And I believe Nebraska is capable of ending the SEC’s parade.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
