In the midst of election madness, it wouldn’t be long before Hollywood swooped in to capitalize on the frenzy of politics. This came in the form of the timely comedy “The Campaign,” starring Will Ferrell (“The Other Guys”) and Zach Galifianakis (“The Hangover 2”).
“The Campaign” tells the story of two rival politicians, one a long-term congressman (Ferrell) and the other a naïve dimwit (Galifianakis), competing to win the North Carolina Congress seat. Hilarity ensues.
In a national press tour to promote “The Campaign,” Ferrell and Galifianakis stopped in D.C. on July 31 to hold a VIP screening of the film at the Newseum.
On the last stretch of their fake whistle-stop tour, Ferrell and Galifianakis were beginning to sympathize with the predicaments of the politicians they were poking fun at.
“Going to a bunch of cities and meeting a lot of people, the pressure that they feel.” Ferrell said. “But we don’t feel that pressure. Because we’re magic.”
However, preparing for the film wasn’t so much about getting into the mindset of politicians than getting some good material to turn into jokes. Ferrell and Galifianakis watched plenty of news, debates and videos on presidential candidate and Texas Governor Rick Perry’s hair.
“We didn’t really seek out politicians for advice, but I don’t think they wanted to talk to us,” Ferrell said.
Ferrell himself had some experience in political satire on “Saturday Night Live” playing an exaggerated version of George W. Bush, but he stated that this stint didn’t help him much in portraying “The Campaign”’s  smug Cam Brady.
 “The Bush portrayal I did was someone who didn’t really enjoyed talking to the media and was sort of petulant about that sort of thing,” Ferrell said.  “Cam Brady loves the spotlight, so they’re pretty different.”
However, Ferrell and Galifianakis both agreed that life in the spotlight, even for celebrities and politicians, could be pretty wearisome sometimes.
“We have a lot of empathy for politicians because of the cameras on the people all the time now,” Galifianakis said. “There’s kind of a Big Brother element.”
hbui@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s tough playing the best friend. People often take you for granted, even though you consistently keep up with comedy greats like Amy Poehler or hold your own in an award-winning film like “The Social Network.”
Rashida Jones (“The Muppets”) is used to being typecast as the supporting friend or loving wife. But in “Celeste and Jesse Forever,” she finally gets a chance to show she’s more than just a bit player.
“I definitely feel lucky to have found a way to be pigeonholed, because that kind of means you’ve made it,” Jones said in an interview with The Eagle at the Ritz-Carlton in Georgetown. “But I’m definitely in danger of becoming wallpaper.”
Her role as the title character Celeste is anything but. Despite the double-billing of her and Andy Samberg (“That’s My Boy”) as Jesse, the movie is all about Celeste and the ups and downs of a pivotal time in her life. In the film, Celeste and Jesse are a divorcing couple, but they are also best friends. As their friends grow frustrated with Celeste and Jesse’s attempts to maintain their non-romance, perfectionist Celeste finds her career and her love life go in a direction she does not expect or want.
“We want the movie to be funny and we want people to enjoy it, but we want to be really honest about heartbreak,” co-writer and actor Will McCormack (“Boiler Room”) said. “And we tried to be as nuanced and as realistic as we could on a subject that’s hard for people. Break-ups are hard, you think your whole life is going to go one way and it doesn’t, and that’s hard to accept.”
Jones co-wrote the script with McCormack and based much of the story on their relationship. They initially wrote it to be more central to Celeste’s story, but liked the relationship between Celeste and Jesse so much that they further built Jesse into the script.
“Andy and I being friends I think added a lot of value to the movie and to our chemistry in the movie,” Jones said. “It’s so fun to watch Andy because he’s never gotten to do anything like this before. He’s always had it in him, and he kept saying me ‘I can do this, I can do this,’ and he was right. And he did it in front of us, and he broke my heart.”
It’s easy to relegate this movie to romantic comedy status, but it goes beyond the genre. Celeste is one of those rare female leads who doesn’t fall into the traps of stereotypical heroine cliches à la Katherine Heigl. She’s a realistic character who doesn’t have to be tamed by a man, or lose her powerful position in order to be made sympathetic.
“Will very generously wrote with me this part, and it’s different, where I get to be kind of unlikable and real,” Jones said.
“It’s hard though, I think for women, because if you don’t write it yourself, often I think women do get relegated to the role of the wife or the girlfriend,” McCormack said.  “Celeste is usually the part for the guy, or had been in the past.”
It was a refreshing change of pace for Jones, who shines in a film that is part of an ongoing wave of smart and funny films written for women, by women. 
“It’s frustrating that there has to be renaissance, but now it’s acceptable you can write your own materials as a woman—you can be the guy part and people are like, ‘Oh my god, it’s a new trend!’ Jones said.
The inverted romantic comedy is certainly a new trend in theaters today, but you won’t see Jones or McCormack approaching another one for a long time. However, they do plan to continue working together for the foreseeable future. Considering the quality of their latest film, let’s hope it’s forever.
“Celeste and Jesse Forever” comes out in theaters August 10.
hbui@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Starting pitcher Stephen Strasburg shined for the Nationals in a 4-1 victory over the Miami Marlins August 5 at Nationals Park. 
Strasburg allowed only three hits and one walk while striking out six in six scoreless innings to improve to 12-5 on the year. Dating back to last season, the All-Star pitcher has not allowed an earned run in his last 26 innings pitched against the Marlins.
After lasting only four innings and surrendering six runs in his previous outing against Philadelphia, Strasburg overpowered Miami and his teammates sensed Sunday’s start would be different.
“He [Strasburg] was great,” Adam LaRoche said. “That was back to the old ‘Stras’ we remember. There was something about when he came in the dugout before the game, we could all sense a little different attitude.”  
That attitude also carried over to the plate, where Strasburg drove home the game’s first two runs with a second-inning single that scored Jayson Werth and Danny Espinosa. 
“It’s big when you have a pitcher in the lineup that can handle a bat,” Strasburg said. “I think they’re starting to pitch me more like a hitter.”
The Nationals tacked on two more runs in the second when LaRoche delivered a two-out, bases loaded single that drove in Strasburg and Steve Lombardozzi. The four-run cushion would be all the Nats needed with their ace on the mound. 
Miami scored its lone run in the seventh off back-to-back doubles from Carlos Lee and Greg Dobbs, which enabled Washington’s Drew Storen to earn his first save of the season since coming off the disabled list July 19.
“It felt pretty good,” Storen said. “I think the big thing for me is if I can get my sinker. If I can get my sinker to do what it was doing, then there is no reason not to pitch to contact when you have the guys playing behind me that I do.”
One guy playing behind Storen is outfielder Michael Morse, who appropriately extended his hitting streak to 14 games on Michael Morse Bobblehead Day. 
A bright spot for the Marlins came from Jose Reyes as his single in the fourth inning put his hitting streak at 24 games, the longest in the majors this season. 
The Nationals will now start a 10-game road trip, beginning August 6 against the Houston Astros. Edwin Jackson will take the ball for the Nationals, squaring off against Dallas Keuchel in Monday’s series opener. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
