Ever since the “The Blair Witch Project” fooled and captivated horror-seeking audiences everywhere, found footage movies have been all the rage. From the “Paranormal Activity” series to “REC,” it seems as if every October a new one is being released. But as any horror movie buff knows, not all of these are made equally.
“V/H/S” straddles the line between good and laughably average. Its peaks are truly frightening, but the occasional lulls and frustrating plot holes sour the entire experience.
“V/H/S” is a horror anthology comprised of five short stories tied together with a found footage story arc. All of the stories were created separately by different directors and compiled together.
The main story “Tape 56,” directed by Adam Wingard (“You’re Next”), tells the story of a group of young men who film their illegal exploits for money. A friend of the group approaches them, saying he knows a man who will give them even more money if the group breaks into a house and recovers a specific VHS tape. Members of the group play a couple of tapes while searching for the correct one in a house that is not as empty as it appears.
The tapes range from creature features, home invasions and haunted houses. Ti West (“The House of the Devil,” “The Innkeepers”) was the only director whose story did not include blatant paranormal activity.
A twist on the classic home invasion plot, West’s story “Second Honeymoon” follows a young couple on a road trip down south. After settling in at a dirty motel, the couple is bothered by an uninvited guest who films them while they sleep. Like “The House of the Devil,” West’s short story has you waiting until the last moments, where everything that could possibly go wrong does so in the most unexpected way.
“Second Honeymoon” is a bright spot in the anthology. Unlike some of the other shorts, West doesn’t waste the audience’s time or over use the magic provided by CGI.
“Amateur Night,” directed by David Bruckner (“The Signal”), also stands out from some of the other shorts. When a trio of men go out on the town with a pair of spy cam glasses, they pick up a girl who isn’t quite human. Bruckner takes no prisoners with his short. It’s over the top in a way that’s both delightful and horrifying to watch. Although the beginning party scenes drag on a little too long, the rest of the short is very fast-paced.
Joe Swanberg’s “The Sick Thing That Happened To Emily When She Was Younger” has interesting points, but the incredibly vague ending makes it difficult to discern exactly what’s going on.
Likewise, “10/31/98,” directed by the group Radio Silence (comprised of Matt Bettinelli-Olpin, Justin Martinez, Tyler Gillett and Chad Villella), stirs interest with a malignant house but falls short due to its predictability and laughable CGI.
“Tuesday the 17th” by Glenn McQuaid (“I Sell the Dead”) explores the interesting idea of a killer you can’t see, but it’s boring and forgettable upon execution.
“V/H/S” is a fun movie to watch in preparation for Halloween, but it doesn’t compare to other horror movie classics like “The Blair Witch Project,” “The Shining” or “Halloween.” Classic and cult horror films challenge the genre and leave large traceable marks on the movies that follow them. While the anthology concept is unique, “V/H/S” doesn’t challenge many horror stereotypes. The characters are still frustratingly naïve, women are either sex kittens or just pure evil, and blood and guts make up a large part of the scares.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Dying City” tells the provocative story about violence and war both overseas and in day-to-day life. Though the War in Iraq and the events of 9/11 are a major backdrop to this play, what brings it to life is its focus is on the characters and their relationships. The show is running at Signature Theater from Oct. 2 to Nov. 25. 
Kelly (Rachel Zampelli) is barely hanging on after the suspicious death of her husband Craig in Iraq a year earlier. Craig’s twin brother Peter shows up at her apartment unannounced, bearing emails sent to him from Craig in Iraq and his own heavy set of emotional baggage. Craig and Peter are both played by the same actor, Thomas Keegan. 
The play jumps around, set before Craig’s life and after it. With each switch the audience discovers more about the turmoil and trauma in the lives of these three characters, as well as their complex relationships with each other and with the unseen characters they talk about. There is also a sense of heightened intensity as more of the past and present story unravels.
Running at about an hour, the two-person show has an incredible pace. The action of the scenes is broken up excellently by the small pauses to cue a switch in time. It never feels like the show is lagging, and there’s just enough time to fully process the previous scene before a new one starts.
Zampelli and Keegan have an incredible chemistry that gives further depth to the beautifully written script.  Keegan’s portrayals of Craig and Peter are both remarkably distinct. He manages in just one hour to create two, fully-fleshed-out characters. 
Zampelli portrays the fragile aspects of Kelly’s character with sensitivity and nuance, drawing the audience into her life. This makes the moments in which she erupts with pent-up anger all the more powerful.
Though the passion of the actors is certainly enough to carry this show, they are supported by a well-executed set and lighting design. Set designer Daniel Conway creates the look of a New York apartment down to the last detail, from the books filling the shelves to the modern furniture to the city skyline you can see through the curtains in the back. The lights not only cue the switches in time but create an atmosphere that supports the emotion of the play. 
“Dying City” will take you on an emotional ride and leave you pondering not just the lives of the three characters but your own life and relationships.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Nothing makes my stomach turn faster than when someone says they’re not voting. I understand that apathy in general makes you seem aloof, and being aloof makes you seem hip, but not voting is not hip. Political indifference just ends up making you look lame and ignorant. Believe me. 
Voting is your civic duty, and it’s so unbelievably easy to fulfil. All you have to do is take 15 minutes and give the government your opinion. You don’t have to write an essay. You don’t need an original idea. You just need an opinion.
There are a ton of issues that really only have traction with younger voters right now. The polar ice caps are melting. College costs a fortune. Only six states in the United States think gay people are harmless enough that they can get married. 
This stuff bites, but who cares enough to change it? Young people. We are the age demographic that is most affected by all this baloney. Let’s do something about it.
Now, when I say ‘let’s do something about it,’ I’m talking about easy things. Don’t worry about calling Congress, volunteering or organizing anyone for anything. If you don’t already do this, then you probably won’t in the future, which is really OK. These things require a serious time commitment, but voting does not.  The whole point of having a republic is to elect someone to make the tough decisions for us. All we have to do is pick someone, that’s it. So easy, right? It’s such a painless task. You just have to pick a guy.
Young people are often looked down upon and disregarded as lazy or uninformed. As young people, we know that’s not the case. Well OK, a lot of us are pretty lazy, but by and large we are all well-informed. We know what we want, we know what we like and we know what sounds fair. When you boil it down, that’s all that politics is about. Which guy running for the White House, Congress or the Senate do you think is right? Pick him or her. Pick anyone.
Don’t forget, you can’t gripe about rules, laws, leaders, fines or taxes if you didn’t even take part in the election. People that try to pull that just look silly. You also can’t justify not voting by saying your one vote won’t sway an election, because that’s just not true. We’re all in this together. Voting isn’t an individual kind of game. We’re supposed to have each other’s backs. When you vote, you’re helping improve not just your life, but also the lives of every other American. Anyone can change anything, hence why our ancestors came to this country. So much can happen when just a few people decide they want to get involved.
Go vote.
Joseph Chmielewski is a senior in the School of International Service.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Former U. S. Comptroller General David Walker said the economy and government debt should be Americans’ top priority on Election Day during his speech at AU on Oct. 9.
“Spending is a bipartisan problem and it’s been out of control since 2003,” Walker said.
Walker’s speech was the last stop in his “$10 Million a Minute” bus tour across the nation. AU students, faculty and staff filled up the University Center, leaving few seats vacant.  
Walker said the president needs to fix the economy as the chief financial officer. 
“The country’s financial situation is worse than politicians will admit,” he said. 
Walker said America is in a “federal financial sink hole” that the millennial generation will have fund. 
He emphasized the presidential candidates need to address three main issues: the economy, jobs and fiscal responsibility.
Walker said Greece is the only country facing a more severe debt than the U.S. and serves as an example of what could happen if the country does not take action soon.
Politicians should focus on reforming the Social Security and Medicare programs because they receive the largest amount of federal funding, Walker said.
As the baby boomer generation enters retirement, more Americans will rely on Social Security benefits, putting pressure on the economy, he said. Politicians need to pass legislation that will gradually increase the age at which citizens receive Social Security benefits, Walker said.
“We are on a path to a crisis,” he said. 
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Aramark and other university workers are often an invisible workforce, providing essential services for our campus. Students don’t always know how to demonstrate respect and appreciation for the work that they do. In many ways through our action and inaction, we contribute to their invisibility. 
Our culture binds us to informal rules of decorum. In other words, when we do not know what to say to somebody, we often don’t say anything at all. This leads to a series of awkward moments such as smiling nervously, avoiding eye contact or finding another bathroom to use. Our silence, born out of our own embarrassment, sends a powerful message regarding student-worker dynamics. When we don’t say anything, we say a lot. We say that they aren’t worth our attention and that students are somehow superior to workers. 
Diffusing this silence begins with a simple good morning, good afternoon and good evening. Greetings are crucial because they show that we recognize somebody and that we aren’t ignoring them. Something as basic as greeting workers shows that students value them, whereas silence shows that they aren’t worth your time. 
We feel most uncomfortable in social situations that we’ve never encountered before, so our silence also involves racial and cultural dimensions. Many Aramark workers are Latino men and women, and we may be unfamiliar with Latino people and cultures. You may not know what to say to somebody who speaks a different language and differs from you culturally.
First, I encourage students to look past these differences and acknowledge their similarities with Latino Aramark workers. 
Second, recognize that despite these apparent linguistic and cultural differences, we can still show respect towards these men and women. We don’t want to assume that a worker speaks Spanish, but try saying both “good morning” and “buenos días.” This shows that you’re making an effort to recognize that person, that you want them to feel comfortable and you value their work. 
Finally, you should not make workers’ jobs more difficult. A great way to acknowledge workers is to respect your living spaces. When you make a mess, Aramark workers need to take the time to clean up after you. Leaving trash around sends a message that you do not value the worker’s time.
Be aware of your own presence. If you’re studying in your lounge and a worker is clearly trying to vacuum, unplug your computer charger so it’s not in the way. Do not wait for them to ask you, or to try to vacuum around your charger. Instead, try asking: “Am I in your way?” It’s common courtesy, but also an opportunity to show that you appreciate workers and the time they spend maintaining our campus. 
Reflect on what you do and don’t do when interacting with Aramark workers. We have the opportunity to respect their contributions through recognition or to reinforce student-worker hierarchy through our uncertain silence. The little things matter. 
Derek Siegel is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences. 
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After battling icy rain, the AU women’s soccer team dominated in a 3-0 victory against Lafayette Oct. 7 at Reeves Field.   
The win marked the Eagles’ second straight against Patriot League opponents, following a 1-0 home victory over Lehigh Oct. 5.  
Sunday’s win saw the Eagles score early in the first half and seal the game in the second with two goals.
“I thought that was one of the most complete performances we’ve put on in a while,” AU head coach Dave Bucciero said. “I’m really happy with the way they played in a lot of different areas, and I have nothing but positive things to say about this team.”
Bucciero added that the team did well moving the ball, staying composed while moving with a good speed of play. He was also pleased with the scoring opportunities his team generated, along with the back line’s handling of the counter attack. 
AU  (4-8-2, 2-1 PL) jumped on the board in the eighth minute when Erin Mulhern passed to Michelle Montilio, who veered right and got past Lafayette goalkeeper Lauren Smedley to notch the opening goal.  
After the Eagles defense fended off the Leopards (4-8-2, 1-2 PL) for most of the half, AU goalkeeper Charlene Belanger went to work and stopped Lafayette from tying it up. Allison Stone took a shot on goal, but Belanger scooped it up at the 41st minute.  
AU started the second half with equal intensity, as Michaela Cowgill scored the second goal of the game when Sam Trotta’s pass soared in her direction. Cowgill headed it in to put the Eagles up 2-0 in the 65th minute.  
Lafayette came roaring back with an attempt that almost got past the relentless Belanger, when Jaclyn Giordano’s kick hit the bottom of the crossbar and bounced down just outside the goal line in the 76th minute. The AU defense quickly recovered the ball and pushed it out of the box before Lafayette could score off the rebound. 
After Carleigh Morba took a shot that Smedley fumbled, the ball hit the ground and Kristin Piorun sent it into the net to give the Eagles their final goal with 4:30 left in regulation.  
AU outshot Lafayette 18-5, with Belanger remaining a dominant force in goal by posting two saves to gain her second straight shutout.  
“All season she’s been working her butt off trying to get that shutout,” AU defender Kirsten Eriksen said. “Finally it’s starting to come together and it’s at the right time, right place.” 
Friday’s victory over Lehigh came as a result of a 50th-minute score, when Jasmine Mohandesi sent the ball into the center, where Shaena Alfonsi was there to push across the game-winning goal. 
The Eagles now hit the road to continue Patriot League play, visiting Bucknell Oct. 13 and Holy Cross Oct. 19.  
sraphelson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Seventeen Amtrak employees failed company-run drug tests in 2011, according to a recent report released by Amtrak Inspector General Ted Alves.
These employees were in “safety-sensitive positions” such as engineers and conductors, the report said. 
The report determined that Amtrak is not controlling substance abuse.
“Amtrak runs a safe railroad today and we are committed to making further safety improvements for passengers and employees,” the company said in an unsigned email to The Eagle. 
Suggestions for improvement in the report included raising the amount of annual drug testing, training supervisors to recognize signs of abuse and engaging senior management in the process.
The findings represent a small sample of employees. Federal guidelines only mandate one-fourth of workers be tested, and the most recent test covered almost one-third. 
Amtrak plans to raise testing to 50 percent of their employees due to the results of the latest tests, Alves’ report said.
Current screening procedures were put in place after a collision in 1987 in Chase, Md. The engineer of a Conrail train, which collided with an Amtrak train, was under the influence of marijuana at the time of the accident.
Findings prompt student worry
Many AU students use Amtrak to travel between school and home because it has multiple routes along the east coast.
Kate Wiznitzer, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, uses the system to travel home to Stamford, Conn., for school breaks.
“I’ve never had a problem with Amtrak, but this does make me hesitant in the future,” she said.
Daniel Hovaness, a freshman in the School of International Studies, said he also uses Amtrak to go home for long school vacations. 
“I though it was worrisome but not a major concern in my travel,” he said.
Hovaness said the company should perform substance tests more often but that the findings didn’t warrant anything “radical.” 
Wiznitzer agreed there should be more testing.
“It should be mandatory testing for everyone,” Wiznitzer said. “It only takes one person to jeopardize someone’s safety.”
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
D.C. Councilmember Mary Cheh proposed a bill on Oct. 2 that would require disabled citizens to pay for reserved street parking. 
Disabled people with government-issued permits would have to pay hourly parking fees and honor time limits for the spaces under the new bill, titled the Accessible Parking Amendment Act of 2012.
Parking spaces reserved for disabled citizens would be designated by a red top, according to Cheh’s press release. However, disabled people will now have to pay to use these spots.
The bill proposes 10 percent of D.C.’s 18,000 parking meters be marked as “red-top” meters. 
The D.C. Council will vote on the bill in upcoming weeks. 
Disabled citizens don’t pay for designated parking spots in current system
“Red-top” meters are currently open to the public and only require payment from those without disabilities. However, if a person with disabilities parks in a “red-top” meter today, he or she receives free parking and a longer time limit. 
Approximately 1,500 “red-top” parking meters existed as of Oct. 2, the press release said. 
The District Department of Transportation (DDOT) introduced these painted red meters last spring. However, the D.C. Council halted the “red-top” meter program in March because DDOT did not have the authority to enact these measures, Cheh said. 
An investigation of the “red-top” program found many drivers had committed parking fraud, according to Cheh, who represents Ward 3. 
 “We had extraordinary instances of people parking all day,” she said. 
Reform for suggested handicap parking spots
Under the new bill, disabled drivers will also have to pay for parking at “blue-top” meters. These are safe and accessible parking spots that are suggested to disabled drivers, according to the press release. “Blue-top” meters are located in popular areas in the District such as the National Mall.
All members of the public can park in “blue-top” parking spots, which will continue under current and proposed legislation, according to Kiara Pesante, Cheh’s communications director. 
Disabled citizens who park in “blue-top” spots currently make no payments for parking and are given time extensions, Pesante said.
A public forum to discuss this proposal will be held on Oct. 15 at 2 p.m. at the Council Chambers of the John A. Wilson Building near Federal Triangle Metro. 
Laura Bruns, the events director for AU’s Disability Rights Coalition, said she is disappointed that the District is penalizing the disabled in order to combat parking fraud. 
“If everyone else is paying, it doesn’t necessarily strike me as unfair,” Bruns, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said. “But going from something free to paying seems kind of weird to me.” 
However, Cheh said the bill is a matter of fairness. 
“All may park, and all must pay,” Cheh said.
Eagle Staff Writer Alex Greco contributed to this report.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Lupe Fiasco | Food & Liquor PartII: The Great American Rap Album Pt. 1
After publishing two thoughtful, well-put-together albums (“Food & Liquor” and “The Cool”) along with several solid mixtapes (“Revenge of the Nerds” Parts 1, 2 and 3), Lupe Fiasco threw out the over-produced stinker that was “Lasers.”
While “Food & Liquor II” does return to the conscious roots that made Fiasco special in the first place, the rapper still tries to impress far too much by overcomplicating his work. The album’s grandiose title is a perfect example of this tendency; it mentions two different parts of two different projects. 
At least the verses themselves are much improved from the other Lupe work in recent memory. He’s snarky, thoughtful and sharp throughout the release, even though he continues to annoyingly elaborate on his verses. Seriously, man, we don’t need you to sing the last punch line.
The production also leaves something to be desired. About every third beat is of “The Cool” caliber while the others resort to played-out canned percussion hits and piano lines. 
“Food & Liquor II” isn’t a bad album by any means, but the rapper that we all loved hasn’t come back to us just yet. 
Recommended If You Like: Kanye West, Mos Def and Kendrick Lamar
By Spencer Swan
Metz
Post-hardcore group debut album that is super heavy but maintains structure. 
The debut album from Metz hits hard and fast, lasting not even half an hour but maintaining a relentless barrage of heavy music. Each track runs about two minutes, which is almost as much as the average ears can take. Each is a short burst of heavy, atonal guitar backed by a thunderous cascade of drums, all with vocalist Alex Edkins shouting and shrieking over it. “Knife In The Water” begins with a heavy guitar riff and eventually descends into repetitive shouts of “down!” But even through all of this seeming chaos, the album maintains a strong structure. There’s nothing intricate about this album — instead, it moves in large chunks of screamed vocals, distorted guitar and feedback.
RIYL: Big Black, The Jesus Lizard, Sleigh Bells
By Bill Oldham
Flying Lotus | Until the Quiet Comes
With one ear to the future and one to the past, the producer delivers an understated but vibrant electronic record.
With both “Los Angeles” and “Cosmogramma,” Steven Ellison has proven himself a leader in the world of electronic music. On his latest release, his synthesis of jazz and hip-hop may at first seem backed off, less outstanding and, to the eager fan, a bit disappointing. 
However, after a thorough listen, you realize that all the intensity and brilliance of his other releases are still there, simply stated in a subtler manner. Slow-moving jazz grooves contrast with a more upbeat electronic sound with smooth, cascading keyboards against artificial woodblocks and high-hats. 
Tracks flow so seamlessly it’s sometimes impossible to know you’ve changed songs. By the fifth track, the quick-moving bass lines of Ellison’s protege and fellow Brainfeeder member, Thundercat, begin to enter the mix, bringing with them a heightened sense of expression and complexity. Vocal contributions by Erykah Badu and Thom Yorke add to the spacey and shimmering qualities of the music but blend into the aesthetic, never distracting the listener from Ellison’s compositions. 
Songs waver between pure jazz and pure electronic, from the organic, almost psychedelic “DMT” to the colorful, high-pitched synths and maximalist bass on “Sultan’s Request.” 
Flying Lotus once again shows his gift for melding the classic and the present-day, just this time in a more understated way.
RIYL: J Dilla, A Tribe Called Quest, BadBadNotGood
By Bill Oldham
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
By Josh Paunil
Eagle Staff Writer
Facing a 2-0 deficit against Navy and the prospect of falling three games out of first place in the Patriot League standings, the AU volleyball team rallied back to win three straight sets Oct. 5 in Bender Arena.
“We played two close games, and we just made too many unforced errors in the first couple [of] games,” AU head coach Barry Goldberg said. “When we played game three, we kept saying ‘play it like it’s game one.’ We came right out, got a little bit of rhythm, started running it and controlling more of the rallies.”
The Eagles (11-7, 3-2 PL) got off to a quick start in the first game, scoring six of the first seven points. Morgan Hendrix, who recorded two service aces in the stretch, hit a match-best .417 on the night.
AU continued to hold a multipoint lead over Navy (7-10, 3-2 PL) during the early part of the first game, but Navy used a 4-0 run in the middle to take a 17-16 advantage for its first lead of the match. The teams continued to trade points until the Midshipmen scored three straight to take the first set, 25-23.
The second set featured a familiar feeling for the Eagles, when they again got off to a quick lead that they later gave up. They traded points for the remainder of a set that ended in another 25-23 Navy victory.
Following the halftime break, AU came out firing on all cylinders to take an early lead that they sustained for the whole third set. 
Rebecca Heath posted seven of her season-high 17 kills in the game, which the Eagles won, 25-14. 
“The first set we got less kills, the second one we got more kills and still lost, but the third, fourth and fifth set just felt completely different,” Hendrix said. “You felt like everyone was there for you and had your back.”
Heath recorded one of two double-doubles in the match, tallying 11 digs along with her 17 kills. 
“I think Rebecca has been a pretty big deal for us,” Goldberg said. “She’s got a pretty decent handle, hits bright spots and her leadership has been paying off.”
Setter Kylann Scheidt posted the other double-double, chalking up 39 assists and 14 digs.
Juliana Crum helped carry the baton in the fourth set, as she recorded two of her nine kills in the match and two service aces to lead AU to a 25-21 set win.
The Eagles completed their comeback in the fifth set, winning 15-7. They hit a match-best .571 when it mattered most and recorded no errors.
“It felt really good to know we could be down two games and have it in us to come back, even though we haven’t been able to come back in a few other games,” Hendrix said. 
AU now begins a five-match road trip beginning Oct. 12 at Bucknell.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The technicolor array of M&M’s is irresistible. Sorting is a must, as is trying different combinations of colors (blue and green or red and orange are highly recommended). Blue 1, Red 40, Yellow 6, Yellow 5 and Blue 2 merge to create the assortment of colors in the 400 million M&M’s produced each day. Brown, yellow, green, red, orange and blue are no longer just the colors of the candy that melts in your mouth, not your hand. These artificial dyes have also colorized a different food staple: honey.
Since August, bees in the French town of Ribeauville have begun producing honey that is bright neon blue and green. The source of this psychedelic nectar is not a lab experiment gone wrong or a fluke mutation. Instead, it is the small circular candies consumed in over 100 countries around the world. 
The French bees lived near a biogas plant that processes the waste from a Mars plant that makes M&M’s. The result of the bees’ sweet tooth is a honey that looks radioactive.
The environmental impact of our industrial society has gone far beyond the brazen chemical runoff into a lake or dark toxic smoke of a factory. Human existence permeates every level of the biosphere, penetrating even the most remote ecosystems. The French bees are a vivid example of a food system riddled with chemicals, pesticides and inorganic compounds. What is considered “organic” or “natural” is often a farce. Even local apples, perfectly round and blemish-free, have been treated with a cocktail of sprays to ensure a consistent and visually pleasing fruit.
Methylmercury, an organometallic cation released in the air by coal plants or is the runoff of mines, was found in every single fish tested in 291 streams by the U.S. Geological Survey. Twenty-five percent of the fish tested had mercury levels higher than the safety levels set by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Frankly, our food system is broken. Fruit, fish, grains and dairy have been saturated with chemicals, both intentionally and unintentionally. Since the beginning of October, there have been over a dozen food recalls in the United States. This is an astounding number and does not even account for the massive amount of chemicals deemed safe for consumption.
Blue 1, Red 40 and Yellow 6 are all produced from the aromatic hydrocarbons from petroleum, which essentially means they are crude oil. Yellow 3 has been linked to hyperactivity, and Blue 2 is primarily used as a pH indicator. Many of these chemicals are banned in some countries and not recommended for children. Still, we eat thousands of tons of them each year. 
While the bees may find these chemicals sweet, they are not safe, healthy or natural.
Sam Mendelson is a sophomore in the School of International Service.
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Cava Grill, a Greek restaurant, opened a new location in Tenleytown on Oct. 4. 
The restaurant is part of a chain that serves healthy food in a timely manner for little cost, according to Brett Schulman, the operating partner for Cava Grill.
“It’s great for students, office workers and families because the grill is set up like an assembly line, so people can get their food and go if they need to,” he said.
Similar to Chipotle, customers first choose a main dish of salad, pita or a bowl. Then they choose a meat or vegetable dish and toppings. 
“Falafels, Crazy Feta and other spicy sauces are our most popular items on the menu,” Schulman said.
The restaurant is located near the corner of Van Ness Street and Wisconsin Avenue, near McDonald’s. The restaurant will soon accept Eaglebuck$, Schulman said. 
Cava Grill is offering dine-in dishes at their Tenleytown location to become more eco-friendly. Only disposable dishes are offered at the restaurant’s other D.C.-area branches.
“We hope to test it out at the Tenleytown location and incorporate it at the other locations,” Schulman said.
News@TheEaleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This week’s pop culture headlines ranged from the latest Adele track, to the new TV show that has everyone talking. Take a break from midterms and catch up on the happenings of Hollywood and beyond.
Back for the “Fall”
Although 2011 was perhaps the most successful and gratifying year Adele will ever have, the seemingly infallible songstress receded from the spotlight in 2012 to prepare for the arrival of her new baby with boyfriend Simon Konecki. 
Last week, though, she emerged from her hiatus to debut “Skyfall,” the haunting, epic theme song for the latest eponymous James Bond film. The song, recorded with a 77-piece orchestra, ascended the iTunes chart within hours, a reminder to the music industry that few hitmakers are as reliably commercial or musically satisfying as Adele.
Knockout Competition
Tensions are at an all-time high behind the scenes at “American Idol” after new judges Mariah Carey and Nicki Minaj interrupted a recent audition taping with a profane shouting match, during which Minaj reportedly threatened to knock Carey out. 
In retaliation, Carey spoke to Barbara Walters about the incident, prompting Minaj to post a series of enraged tweets. Portions of these events may have been concocted or encouraged to generate much-needed buzz, although rumors of conflict have been circulating since September. Nonetheless, the prominence of this story may indicate a renewed interest in this flagging franchise, set to air January.
Nashville’s the Star
ABC’s new hourlong drama “Nashville,” praised by some critics as the best new network show of the season, stars Connie Britton (“American Horror Story”) as a troubled aging country star and Hayden Panettierre as a feisty upstart in the vein of Taylor Swift. 
In addition to stirring acting and heightened melodrama, each episode of the show will feature several songs, including country standards and original tunes penned by artists as diverse as Hillary Lindsey, Elvis Costello and T Bone Burnett. Fans of drama and music alike should tune in on Wednesdays at 10 p.m.
GO!
After a long career of leading roles that some critics might call “underwhelming,” Ben Affleck stepped behind the camera in 2007 to direct the acclaimed crime thriller “Gone Baby Gone.” Following that film’s success, coupled with an Oscar nomination for his follow-up “The Town,” Affleck has become one of Hollywood’s most in-demand directors for buzzworthy drama projects. 
It’s no surprise, then, that his latest film “Argo,” about a curious attempt to free Iranian hostages, has attracted critical buzz at several international film festivals. With a stellar cast including Affleck, John Goodman, Bryan Cranston and Alan Arkin, it’s a must-see.
Damage Control
In the past two years, Jason Aldean has ascended from reasonable success to genuine superstardom in the country music world, having topped the charts with stylistically inventive hits like “Dirt Road Anthem” and “Don’t You Wanna Stay.” 
Just in time for the release of his new album “Night Train” (out Oct. 16), fresh controversy has surrounded the married father of two and his inappropriate conduct during a dinner outing with former “American Idol” contestant Brittany Kerr. Aldean is likely hoping that the fallout from this controversy will not hamper album sales or his public image.
mlieberman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Brace yourselves, sci-fi fans: Fringe Fridays are back.
Season five picks up where the mind-blowing fourth-season episode “Letters of Transit” left off.  After being preserved in amber, our heroes have reunited 25 years in the future to find their world transformed into a dystopian, Observer-ruled society. 
FBI Fringe Division team members Olivia Dunham (Anna Torv), Walter Bishop (John Noble), Peter Bishop (Joshua Jackson) and Astrid Farnsworth (Jasika Nicole) are now tasked with aiding in the resistance of the Observer regime, along with a little help from Peter and Olivia’s now-grown daughter Etta (Georgina Haig).
Since the beginning, “Fringe” has skillfully managed to balance its “freak-of-the-week” format and overarching mythology with relatable character development and a surprising amount of poignancy. For every plot twist, universe jump and alternate timeline, viewers are rewarded with an emotionally resonant subplot, be it an exploration of a scientist’s God complex or a touching search for forgiveness.
Although the show’s chances of returning for a fifth season initially looked slim at the start of renewal season, fans can now rest assured knowing that the show runners will have the opportunity to resolve this often weird, always wonderful show on their own terms.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
An AU alumnus’ defense attorneys requested Oct. 9 that an independent expert examine their client in the hope that he can be deemed incompetent to stand trial for the alleged murder  of his wife in August 2011. 
The D.C. Superior Court ordered experts from the defense and St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, a psychiatric hospital in D.C. operated by the National Institutes of Health, to submit official competency reports by Nov. 19 so a trial can begin Dec. 3.
Alumnus Albrecht Muth, 48, was arrested Aug. 17, 2011 and later charged with the murder of his 91-year-old wife, Viola Drath, a Georgetown socialite. 
Muth received his bachelor’s degree from AU in 1991. Alumni Relations did not disclose any more information about Muth’s time at AU, citing privacy concerns.
Muth told the Metropolitan Police Department he found his wife unconscious on the bathroom floor of their house in Georgetown on Aug. 12, 2011, according to police reports.
Medical Legal Examiner Michelle Mack pronounced Drath dead the same day at noon. Her remains were then transported to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, according to police reports.
However, Deputy Medical Examiner Carolyn Revercomb said Drath’s body had signs of “strangulation and blunt force injuries” after performing an autopsy on Aug. 13, 2011. She reported Drath’s death as a homicide, according to charging documents.
Muth was charged with first-degree murder on March 6, according to charging documents.
He was hospitalized in February after going on a two-month hunger strike. Doctors ordered him to receive psychiatric care until they could determine if he was competent to stand trial, according to The Washington Post.
The Supreme Court ruled in 1960 that in order to be deemed competent to stand trial, doctors would have to prove three factors at minimum:
• a defendant reasonably understands the charges against him,
• reasonably understands court procedures like pleading guilty and not guilty and
• is able to rationally work with his attorney.
Muth was diagnosed with and received medications for delusional disorder and other mental illnesses as of Feb. 15 in St. Elizabeth’s, according to a report filed by hospital CEO Patrick Caravan. 
Delusional disorder is when an individual experiences everyday beliefs that have been proven false such as believing one has been deceived by a lover for at least one month, according to the Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. 
Doctors of St. Elizabeth’s had deemed Muth incompetent to stand trial for more than six months because he:
was unable to rationally consult with his attorney, 
went on a second hunger strike on July 31 
and attributed his hunger strikes to visits from the Archangel Gabriel and claimed that the Iranian government killed his wife (when it was proven he never had any contact with them). 
However, St. Elizabeth’s officially deemed Muth as competent to stand trial on Sept. 4 after conducting a series of psychological tests and interviews with Drath’s family members. Her family said Muth had a history of developing identities to assist him in developing elite social relationships with key political people, according to a Caravan’s report.
Eagle Staff Writer Alex Greco contributed to this report.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This week, I was introduced to some catchy new releases. Whether you like all the songs or just one, my goal is just to give you something to jam to while walking to class, “studying” in the library  or really just anywhere!
1. “The Gold Lining”—Broke for Free: 
I found this song on music website The Kollection after I was initially drawn in by the album artwork: the Golden Gate Bridge enveloped by humongous sand dunes. After giving it a listen, I knew it would be a song worth sharing. 
Broke for Free, a San Francisco beatmaker, opens this song with a chill and almost beachy vibe, but then builds up the song by combining a funky guitar riff and a hip-hop reminiscent beat. It may sound strange, and frankly it is something I usually would never give a second listen to. But something draws me in. I recommend this lyricless song to fans of a band like The Postal Service, or, as The Kollection suggests, Explosions in the Sky.
2. “Remember Me (featuring The Weeknd)”—Wiz Khalifa: 
I admit it, I love Wiz Khalifa, and yes, I knew who he was before his mainstream breakout hit “Black and Yellow.” In fact, he was a much better artist before he released his first studio album. 
Yet after Wiz admitted to his fans (in so many words) that “Rolling Papers” was not an album he wanted to replicate, I was hoping for something that reminded me of the old Wiz I know and love. 
This song, slated to be on his upcoming album “O.N.I.F.C.,” combines Wiz’s signature flow and lyrical content with an eerie beat that only Toronto crooner The Weeknd could sing over. Even if you’re only a little curious to see what Wiz is up to (besides being a daddy-to-be), I suggest giving this song a listen.
3. “Down the Road”—C2C: 
Admittedly, I know next to nothing about C2C besides the fact that they are a renowned turntable group from France. This song was introduced to me by a friend of a friend, and it was stuck in my head for the rest of the day. 
I would not even know how to categorize this track besides saying that it could be a song ‘90s group Jamiroquai would release that Justice would later remaster. Intrigued yet? Just listen — I (almost) guarantee you’ll love it.
4. “Diamonds (Alessio Silvestro Remix)”— Rihanna: 
It seemed as if everyone was excited when pop queen Rihanna released her single “Diamonds” two weeks ago. And while I usually like Rihanna, I am not a fan of the original song. It’s too slow compared to the dance tracks I have come to expect from her. 
So to make it more enjoyable for me, I was introduced to this remix. I could not have asked for anything better. All I want to do when I hear this song is dance, and I bet you’ll have the same experience.
5. “Just What I Am (featuring King Chip)”—Kid Cudi: 
I completely respect an artist’s right to experiment with their style. But honestly, I don’t know one person who enjoyed Cudi’s experimental last album, “WZRD.” But since releasing this song and “King Wizard” from his upcoming album, the old lovable Cudi is back with a vengeance. 
I like both new tracks, but I chose this song because of its trippy vibe and “Man on the Moon” feel. Expect this song to blow up and be played everywhere, so start listening and loving now before you get sick of hearing it!
jmorice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
