The Davenport coffee lounge renovated its kitchen from June 7 to 15 after a leaking pipe caused water damage under the floor. The results provide a cleaner kitchen, a more spacious lounge and increased drink options for students, according to Davenport Manager Rebecca Regan, a graduate student in the College of Arts and Sciences.
The Davenport staff alerted AU facilities management about the water flooding from under the sink sometime before June 7, Regan said. Building Maintenance Supervisor Jerome Jimason and his team discovered a leaking pipe between the cabinets and the kitchen wall and water damage under the kitchen floor due to a detached drainage pipe between the ice machine and plumbing.  
The Davenport closed that week to repair the damages. Jimason’s team immediately replaced the kitchen floor with marmoleum, a waterproof floor made from recyclable materials. 
However, renovations such as reattaching sink pipes and putting plastic sheeting on the wall were delayed because the custom-made, stainless steel table and sink that were needed did not arrive until June 14. 
To stay on deadline, Jimason’s facilities team worked from 6 p.m. to 4 a.m. on June 14 to:
•Replace the old sink, table and pressboard cabinets with a new stainless-steel table and sink
•Fix the leaking sink and ice machine pipes
•Paint the wall to cover up coffee and water damage stains 
•Place fiber-reinforced plastic sheeting on the wall as protection from future water damage. 
While waiting for the stainless-steel table and sink, the Davenport staff disposed of the large purple table that housed coffee near the outside entrance to create more space. They also erected a new shelf behind the counter that houses syrups and 20 new varieties of tea.  
The staff also bought a new pour-over rack and a French press to make fresh coffee and increase drink options as a tribute to the renovated kitchen, Regan said.  
Regan said the changes to the Davenport will aid the staff in providing more efficient service to students.
“The Davenport is now cleaner and easier to maintain, and therefore we can focus on other things to help our customers as opposed to worrying about water damage or the kitchen looking dirty,” she said. 
Students returning to the Davenport are excited about the extra lounge space but haven’t yet noticed any other changes to the coffee shop or menu options. 
“It’s nice to not be crammed in next to everyone,” Sean Gisonda, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, said. “There’s more space to spread out.”
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
