Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The idea has been done before: How do you decide whom to trust when your life is full of deceit and secrecy? Yet in the new action-thriller “Safe House,” the answer to this question may even come as a surprise to the viewer.
The film, set in beautifully authentic Cape Town, South Africa, has a confusing beginning. The storyline switches between the day’s events of both CIA agent Matt Weston (Ryan Reynolds, “Green Lantern”), who keeps watch over a safe house, or a secure locale where government agents or criminals can be kept in hiding, and U.S. traitor Tobin Frost (Denzel Washington, “Unstoppable”). Frost is being chased throughout Cape Town by a mysterious troupe of men, after him for reasons not immediately understood.
Through numerous (violent) turns of events, Frost ends up in Weston’s custody. The distrust and tension between the two carries on until Weston realizes he and Frost really aren’t that different from each other, even though Frost is a rogue CIA agent wanted by the U.S. government for decades and Weston has been in the agency for only a year. 
This realization forges an unforeseen bond between the two men, one that will keep them both motivated towards their cause.
While the film is quite entertaining and realistic, a few scenes were a bit too uncomfortably realistic, including a squirm-inducing waterboarding scene. 
A few plot elements could have also been further developed, especially the romantic storyline between Weston and his girlfriend Ana (Nora Arnezeder). 
At times, the viewer may feel as if the scene was left hanging, and some things weren’t explained clearly enough. 
“Safe House” is the typical action movie, filled with car chases and gun battles. While everyone might not be interested in watching death and destruction, enthusiasts will most likely find this movie above par. 
In the end, viewers may be cheering for a completely different side than the one with which they started.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU women’s basketball team had a record-setting day Feb. 11, when the Eagles defeated the Holy Cross Crusaders 67-47 at Bender Arena.
The Eagles (18-6, 10-0 PL) started off Patriot League play with 10 consecutive wins for the first time in program history, giving them a three-game edge in the conference standings. It is also the best start a Patriot League team has gotten off to in seven years.
“A big part of that success is our preparation,” said Lisa Strack, who recorded 13 points and five steals. “But an important thing we talked about is it’s not over, so we have to keep looking forward to the next practice and the next game and keep preparing.”
The Eagles were in a tough battle against Holy Cross (13-12, 4-6 PL) in the first half, as neither team built a lead of more than three points. 
AU took a 25-23 lead into halftime following Tori Halvorsen’s layup with 30 seconds left in the first half.
The contest remained competitive in the first nine minutes of the second half, as the Eagles led 38-35 with 11:06 to play. But AU broke the game open with a quick 12-0 run over the next 2:51. 
“[That run] was big because we started to get some offense off of our defense,” AU Head Coach Matt Corkery said. “We did a better job executing in the half court and found a lineup that was effective for us. It was a big difference in the game.”
Alexis Dobbs, who tallied 10 points on the afternoon, started the run with back-to-back 3-pointers. AU knocked down eight 3-pointers in the game, with seven of those coming in the second half.
“It’s huge knocking down those 3-pointers,” Strack said. “It’s a big component of our game, and it got us going.”
The Eagles received strong play off the bench from Ti’Asia McGeorge, who chipped in nine points on three 3-pointers for AU and contained Holy Cross guard Alex Smith. 
“That’s what we expect from her,” said Jen Dumiak, who led the Eagles with 14 points and seven rebounds. “She’s one of the best defenders on our team. She comes in and brings a lot of energy and locks down people guarding the ball.”
One of the big turnarounds for AU was its ability to force turnovers and increase the tempo of the game. For the fifth straight game, the Eagles forced at least 20 turnovers.
“[The girls] wanted to pressure them on defense and press,” Corkery said. “We responded positively and picked up our defensive energy.”
AU will next travel to Annapolis, Md., to take on the Navy Midshipmen Feb. 15. 
The defending Patriot League Champions, Navy is second in the conference this season with a 7-3 PL record. 
Strack will need 16 points in the game to reach 1,000 points for her AU career.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction appended
No residents were injured in a fire in the Avalon apartments on Massachusetts Avenue Feb. 12, but one firefighter was transported to the hospital for chest pain.
All residents were evacuated outside into below-freezing weather for about 45 minutes after two fire alarms were pulled.
The fire started in a kitchen on the second floor and did not spread beyond the unit. Fifth Battalion Fire Chief Jeffrey Herbert said he would not describe the blaze as “small,” but as a “working fire” with heavy smoke conditions. 
“Everything was black,” said Sabrina Naimark, who lives down the hall from the fire’s origin. “There was a lot of smoke.”
Responding units required both an attack line hose and backup line to extinguish the fire, Herbert said.
Once the situation was under control, the fire department tested the building for carbon monoxide before letting people back in. 
Despite the all-clear, the Avalon lobby still reeked of smoke. The rug of the second floor hallway was soaked through and black ash dotted the walls. 
Nine engine companies deployed to the scene, including four ladder trucks and five EMS units. 
“They did a great job,” Herbert said. “The companies followed their protocol, put the fire out quickly and contained it to the apartment of origin.” 
A portion of Massachusetts Avenue was blocked off during the operation, forcing commuters to reroute themselves. 
Officers reopened the road at 4:15 p.m. and normal traffic patterns resumed. 
Staff writer Zach C. Cohen and contributing writer Noah Gray contributed to this report.
llandau@theeagleonline.com 
A previous version of this story story said MPD blocked off Massachusetts Avenue, but the fire department blocked off the street.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
