Rooted in a world where big business controls politicians to the point where stump speeches sound like late-night infomercials, “The Campaign” is a fitting satire for the scandals of modern politics.
This is a movie that thrives on its premise. Set in North Carolina, incumbent congressman Cam Brady (Will Ferrell, “The Other Guys”) is a glad-handing, philandering fool who has run unopposed for the last few elections. After Brady becomes embroiled in a sex scandal, a pair of multinational corporation-owning businessmen named the Motch brothers, played by Dan Aykroyd (“War, Inc.”) and John Lithgow (“Rise of the Planet of the Apes”), decide it's time to install a new congressman more favorable to their business interests. They back Marty Huggins (Zach Galifianakis, “The Hangover”), a cardigan-wearing wuss who speaks in an effeminate Southern drawl, to challenge Brady.
While the fun of the movie is watching the two candidates sink lower and lower to try to hurt one another's election chances, the real heart is seeing the political race depicted as a complete farce. Neither candidate has anything of worth to say, with Brady throwing out patriotic rhetoric (his slogan is “America, Jesus and freedom”) while Huggins adopts a vague back-to-values platform that insists “It's a mess!” without ever defining what exactly the mess is.
Because of this, the movie is technically non-partisan. Both candidates are Republican, but no actual Republican ideology is ridiculed. Instead, the political hopefuls compete with each other through alpha-male posturing, trying to prove who the better father, husband and breadwinner is. Before he even begins the race, Huggins gets a total life makeover with gun racks and oil paintings of eagles hung on his walls. He even has to replace his two pugs with a brown lab and a golden retriever because those breeds tested better with focus groups.
The most important question for a comedy, though, is: is it funny? Yeah, it's pretty funny. You probably won't be dying in your seat with laughter, but you'll be entertained. Ferrell is great in his role as he combines his reprised roles of President George W. Bush and Ron Burgundy. Galifianakis’ skill at playing naïve characters is used in a different way than usual, but it still works. The two roles are rooted in each comedian's sense of humor, so fans of either will be pleased. The supporting cast has some great performances as well. Unfortunately, Lithgow and Aykroyd as the Motch brothers don't seem to be savoring their roles and, consequently, come off as dull.
The movie does rely a bit too heavily on gross-out humor. Some of it comes with the territory since the plot deals in part with sex scandals, but it seems like a crutch occasionally. If you have two rich wells of political humor and character-driven humor to draw from, why have so many jokes about genetalia?
It could be because, as a straight-up comedy, the movie is weaker than the highest points of Ferrell’s and Galifianakis’ respective careers. If you're going to “The Campaign” expecting to pure hilarity on par with “Anchorman”, you'll be slightly disappointed. However, if you're in the market for a topical political satire that will make you laugh throughout, “The Campaign” is an excellent candidate.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Movies have been trying to answer the question of whether men and women can be friends for years. But rarely do they find it. “Celeste and Jesse Forever” approaches this question in reverse, focusing on a divorcing couple trying to stay best friends. While we may never know the answer, the result is a funny, honest and real movie about two people who just weren’t meant to be.
 “Celeste and Jesse Forever” is about Celeste (Rashida Jones, “The Muppets”) and Jesse’s (Andy Samberg, “That’s My Boy”) attempts to maintain their close friendship after their divorce. The film skips over the depressing separation in which Celeste, a rising career woman and perfectionist, is frustrated over Jesse’s apparent inability to grow beyond his surfer man-child persona. Now that they’re divorced and Jesse’s living in the guest house, things seemed like it would go back to normal. However, this gets their relationship stuck in an awkward rut, which everyone could see except them.
“Celeste and Jesse Forever” seemed to meander a little in terms of what direction it wanted to go. Was it a romantic comedy? Was it a journey of self-discovery? Was it the story of the emotional derailment of a woman à la “Bridesmaids”? In the end, it was a queer hodgepodge of all three, honing in on the film’s message that life was messy, and there’s never any clear path.
The movie overloaded a bit on “charming” indie music montages, giving much attention to many a lingering look or a carefree laugh. These montages, while beautifully filmed, were a departure from the messy realism of the film and often veered toward cliché.
The humor in the film is dry and witty, thanks to the writing talents of Jones and Will McCormack (“American Outlaws”). Jones and McCormack based the screenplay on their own relationship, and it shows. Much of the film seems to be a series of inside jokes between Celeste and Jesse, giving the audience a mere glimpse of how their close their relationship used to be. Both the humor and the relationships have a level of intimacy rarely seen in a romantic comedy.
Jones and Samberg are both better known for their comedic roles, but it’s refreshing to see them stretch their dramatic chops. Jones easily out-acted Samberg, who gave a heartbreaking but demure performance as Jesse. He doesn’t get to do much, as his character falls victim to a contrived plot device, inadvertently flattening his character. Samberg was sadly sidelined for most of the movie, but he does the best with what he gets.
Jones is the star of the film. As the co-writer and title character, it’s obviously a very personal performance. She is stunning in the film, balancing Celeste’s initial confidence and wry humor with her character’s later self-destructive behavior. Jones skillfully plays out Celeste’s flaws, avoiding the temptation to slip into stereotypical rom-com territory.
The supporting actors are impressive but forgettable, including co-writer McCormack, who plays Celeste and Jesse’s pothead friend. Chris Messina (“Ruby Sparks”) as Celeste’s potential love interest and Emma Roberts (“Scream 4”) as Celeste’s vapid pop star client make fun appearances with little screen time, but the supporting characters are honestly a little unremarkable. Elijah Wood (“Lord of the Rings”) is the only actor who transcends his role, stealing the scenes as Celeste’s gay boss who tries desperately to be as sassy as the stereotype permits.
“Celeste and Jesse Forever” is a delightful inversion of the romantic comedy, though it’s not as biting or challenging as other entries to the genre. It’s a charming and intimate film that invites audiences into the private lives of perfectly real and flawed people.
hbui@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
