Well, here's a galumphing bon mot for "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations."
"Never rob a bank across from a diner with the best donuts in three counties." It is said multiple times and it's also the most satisfyingly nonsensical sentiment expressed in Baltasar Kormakur's ("Contraband") "2 Guns." Unfortunately, everything else is a by-the-numbers predictable affair. However, it is executed competently with engaging wide action shots of stuff crashing into each other. 
Based on Steven Grant's graphic novel of the same name, "2 Guns" targets on Robert Tench (Denzel Washington, "Man on Fire") and Michael Stigman (Mark Wahlberg, "Ted") are off-kilter schlubs who plan to rob a bank and swindle the drug lord Papi Greco (Edward James Olmos, "Battlestar Galactica") for all he's worth in a perceived sting operation. 
This bank of riches amounts to roughly $3 million, but when Tench and Stigman finally rob the bank, they find more than what they bargained for upon discovering an extra $40 million. 
From there on out, a wacky low stakes cat-and-mouse game occurs.
As the double crosses quadruple and the increasing amount of rogue villain characters begin to appear, Tench and Stigman have to work together to stop bad guys and get the money back from Stigman's commanding officer Quince (James Marsden, "Enchanted"). "2 Guns" is a needlessly difficult movie to follow and this is primarily caused by the dozens of characters ebb and flow throughout the film with the grace of a tidal wave. 
The action and characterization of the story aren't of much consequence either. All that really matters is where the money is, but in that respect "2 Guns" is fairly run-of-the-mill for a heist film. Its conclusion is a shot that can be heard from miles away and conscripts qualities from other films such as "Oceans 11" and "The Town." Even if one has seen Oliver Stone's "Savages," they can probably grasp the visual and plot contrivances being resurrected once again in "2 Guns."
One of the more curious quandaries is the languid attention to tone, which can switch from comic vagrancies catapulted between enemies to gravely melodramatic vagaries with the pull of a trigger and creates unintentionally hilarious moments. 
The saving grace for "2 Guns" is the on screen chemistry between Wahlberg and Washington. The 2 W's seem to enjoy acting out with comic dialogue and performing the gun play fantasies in this battle of the witless. 
Blake Masters's ("Law and Order: Los Angeles") screenplay makes everyone seem more clever than they actually are and the repetitive and clunky nature of some lines will certainly induce more unintentional spouts of laughter. With that said, the finale is pure 80's action movie style schlock. 
"2 Guns" is a well constructed piece of work technically, but has the brains of "Hard Ticket to Hawaii." Bobby Beans says to Paula Patton's ("Precious") character Deb, "I really meant to love you." 
The same expression could be applied to "2 Guns" well after the film has ended and ample reflection has been heartily applied.
dkahen-kashi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It took a while before Woody Allen's European idyllic adventures of neurotic whimsy, captured in good spirit with "To Rome with Love" and "Midnight In Paris," eventually landed him back in the U.S.
In "Blue Jasmine," Allen arrives on the west coast in San Francisco. This rags to riches then back to rags, morality play is a character study of one woman on the verge of a nervous breakdown. 
The obvious influence postured in Allen's "Blue Jasmine" is "A Streetcar Named Desire;" with his heroine recalling the cypher of Blanche Dubois. 
But Allen's "Blue Jasmine" does have much in common also with Pedro Almodovar's work, whose female centered films envelope themselves in the conflations of soap opera tendencies. "Blue Jasmine" does do this too, but it's rare to see Allen in such cynical form; balancing tones from his comic work with the drama of "Cassandra's Dream" so well. Even so, "Blue Jasmine" is blessed and buttressed by an impressive central performance.
Cate Blanchett ("Hanna") plays Jasmine (n
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
 Dave Grant, guitarist for the Poor Young Things, tells how the band came to life inauspiciously as a high school gang of misfit toys that lifted its roots from their home in Thunder Bay to Toronto. Since then they have transformed into an alternative rock powerhouse with sonic-smashing melodies and ruddy vocals reminiscent of the Foo Fighters. The band Poor Young Things will swing into D.C. for a show at DC9 on Aug. 7. 
The Eagle's Tam Sackman talks to Grant about life on the road, influences on his music and the origins of the band. 
TS: Were you friends in high school or was that just your first encounter with them?
DG: We were more acquaintances in high school, there were two groups that formed two bands. They took the best musicians out of each of those bands and formed what would be Poor Young Things.
TS: I read on your website that at a certain point you all moved in together. How did that change the band's dynamic?
DG: Not only did we move in together, we changed cities. We moved from our hometown in Northwest Ontario called Thunder Bay to Toronto. That's when we decided to take this whole music thing on a professional level. So it was all business.
TS: Tell me about "The Heart. The Head. The End." How do you feel about it as a debut album?
DG: I love the album. I'm really proud of it. It's like a snapshot into the life of a 25-year-old. We're all trying to get somewhere. You could be a kid in university- you're making sacrifices. We're a rock and roll band on the road all of the time and we're making different kinds of sacrifices and we're all trying to get somewhere. I think that's pretty much what the album kind of encapsulates.
TS: What song on the album is your personal favorite and why?
DG: I like "Black Lightning," "Ghost Notes," and "Sign of the Times." I can't pick between those three. "Ghost Notes" is one of our slower songs, but in typical Poor Young Things Style, it ramps up in the end. And the other two I just really enjoy playing live.
TS: What effect has working with producer Jon Drew had on your music?
DG: The guy is a sonic genius. He knows the sounds that we want, we'll describe a sound to him and he will just instinctively know how to get that sound. We work well together. He's changed our music by just being able to achieve what we're hearing.
TS: You guys have been a part of Warped Tour along with having your own headlining shows around the U.S. and Canada. Do you prefer a festival like Warped or a more intimate venue?
DG: Well, there's nothing like playing an intimate venue when you can see the beads of sweat dripping off the fans' faces because its such a hot and sweaty bar. But there's a different aspect about playing outside in a Warped Tour festival gig. You almost have a built-in crowd there. So, you're making new fans who typically wouldn't be seeking you. They'll just be walking by the stage, and they'll see you and either like you or dislike you.
TS: Are there any major differences between touring in the US and Canada?
DG: Well, we've been touring in Canada (obviously, being Canadians) a lot more. So we have a bit bigger of a fan base there. But touring in the States is more of a fight because people have no idea who we are. The fight is to win them over. I personally get a lot of joy out of the people in the crowd having no idea who we are, and at the end of the show really enjoy what we've played.
TS: Is there anything that you miss about home when you're on the road?
DG: Family. I miss my girlfriend when I'm on the road. But it's OK. We survive. Waking up in your own bed is something that you miss after about week number three. Having a stocked fridge of food is always good too. No room for the fridge on the bus.
TS: You guys were nominated and won Sirius XM Artist of the Year. Did that change anything for you? How did it feel?
DG: We were nominated with a whole bunch of people who were very well established. We totally did not expect to win. It came down to fan voting, and we came out on top. Some of the people we were up against had like ten times the social network reach than we did. For us to come out on top was very flattering and an honor.
TS: What bands and artists do you admire the most?
DG: There's a Canadian band called Arkells. We love those guys. Their high-energy show is something we try to achieve whenever we play. There's another Canadian band called Teenage Kicks, they're super cool. Gaslight Anthem we like. Even old stuff, like Springsteen and Petty.
TS: Is there anything else you'd like audiences to know about your show at DC9 or any of the shows on this tour?
DG: We're a hard working Canadian rock and roll band. We put on a high-energy show. If you want to come get entertained, come down to DC9 and we'll put on a good show for you.
Catch Grant and the rest of Poor Young Things when they play DC9 on Aug. 7. 
Time: 8:00 pm
Tickets: $10
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU alumnus and Maryland native Brian Levin helped write and produce the new film "Flock of Dudes," premiering in 2014.
Levin came to AU's School of Communication for his graduate studies after completing his undergraduate degree in 2002 at Towson University in Baltimore.
"I had a good feeling when I was on campus, plus my program had all the resources I needed but was flexible enough that I could explore what exactly I wanted to do with my career," he said. 
Upon completing his program at AU in 2005, Levin moved to New York City where he developed the idea for "The Post Show."
"The Post Show" was an online sketch comedy show starring Levin, college friend Bob Castrone and fellow NYC comedian Jason Zumwalt. The trio released two shows per week on their website and the success of their sketches led to features on "Funny or Die" and the G4 network's "Attack of the Show." 
Levin's brainchild helped the comedy troupe "get their foot in the door" of the film industry as they wrote "Flock of Dudes," he said. 
The film stars Chris D'Elia as a slacker in his thirties who decides to finally grow up after a series of events, including eviction from his apartment.
"I think a lot of [the inspiration] actually came from personal experience, just kind of hanging out in New York with a group of friends and doing what people do in their 20's," Levin said.
However, the movie is still in the works and scheduled to be released next year. 
Levin currently has six scripts in different stages of development (casting, financing, and/or production). He is also working on bringing one of his upcoming projects to the East Coast by filming in the Baltimore/D.C. area.
"I think of the Baltimore/D.C. area as just where I grew up, so that's where my imagination draws from," he said. "For me, it's less about the politics and more about visuals and the energy of the people in the area."
jmorice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
