Correction appended
UPDATE: April 11 at 6:05 p.m.
Water was restored to the Northside residence halls around 2 p.m., according to Sophia Benedicktus, the associate director of residential facilities.
The water first went off at about 8:30 a.m. after a water line was hit during construction on the Cassell Hall steam line she said.
Construction on the steam line was scheduled to be finished April 10, she said.
Benedicktus does not know when construction on the steam line will be finished, but it may be completed by the end of next week, she said.
Original story
Students living in Northside dormitories are experiencing a water outage after contractors hit a underground water line while completing construction near Cassell Hall. The water will return this afternoon, according Construction Manager Tony Esse.
The broken pipe has been isolated and the water is safe, Esse said.
Contractors are working on an emergency repair of the line, Holly Mussatti, assistant director of facilities operations, said.
"These things are usually pretty speedily resolved," she said.
This is the second time that Northside had water problems due to construction on the steamline. A water pipe burst on March 22, The Eagle previously  reported. 
“Personally I have been having a lot of trouble sleeping lately due to the heat. I was on the Quad until 3 a.m. for the past two nights because it's more comfortable over here. I'm just really frustrated,” Kevin Levy, a freshman in the School of International Service and a resident of Hughes Hall, said.
Air conditioning will not be completely turned on until April 15, The Eagle previously  reported. 
Current Student Government President Emily Yu and President-elect Patrick Kelly met with Vice President of Campus Life Gail Hanson this afternoon to discuss the situation. Housing and Dining has been handing out water and ice cream to residents throughout the afternoon.
Housing and Dining could not be reached for comment before press time.
“We're sitting in our rooms and lounges sweating and we have no clue how much longer it's going to take to get water back,” Levy said.
Amanda Sands, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said she was frustrated about not being able to shower in the morning during the heat.
“I understand that the [air conditioning] won't turn on for another few days, and that the buildings get hot when the temperature outside rises,” Sands said in an email.“But this time there's no running water, and that's an unacceptable burden to impose on students living in less-than-ideal circumstances already.”
Sands agreed that Housing and Dining did not inform students well, and they have not offered any solutions.
Sands is hosting a prospective student for the Honors Overnight and believes the situation will hurt the potential student’s perspectives on AU.
“I just feel bad for the [prospective student] I’m hosting tonight.” Sands said in an email.
Staff Writers Tori Dalcourt and Devin Mitchell contributed to this report.
Correction: This article previously stated that the air conditioning would be turned on March 15.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
UPDATE: April 11 at 12:58 p.m.
Leaders in government, academia and private business will speak at this year's AU commencement ceremonies. 
SPA - EPA's Lisa P. Jackson
The former administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will speak at the School of Public Affairs Commencement ceremony. She will receive an honorary doctorate in public service.
SOC - DreamWorks's Darryl Frank
Frank, who received his bachelor's degree in SOC in 1991, will be given an honorary doctorate in humane letters. He is the co-president of DreamWorks Television and will speak at the School of Communication commencement. 
SIS - Former Foreign Policy editor Moisés Naím
Naím is a senior associate in the International Economics Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the former editor-in chief-of Foreign Policy. He will receive an honorary doctorate in International Affairs.
CAS - Harvard's Paul Farmer
Farmer is the chair of Harvard Medical School's Department of Global Health and Social Medicine. 
He's also the co-founder of Partners in Health and has been honored as a Kolokotrones University professor.  
Farmer will receive an honorary doctorate of science.
Kogod - J.G. Wentworth's Gary Veloric
AU alumnus Veloric is the founder of J.G. Wentworth. He also founded Red Stripe Plane Group, a family of companies focused on entertainment, music and technology.
Veloric graduated from Kogod in 1982 with a bachelor of arts and a bachelor of science. He will receive an honorary doctorate of laws.
WCL - State Department's Harold Hongju Koh
Koh, a former legal adviser to the U.S. State Department, will speak at the Washington College of Law's Commencement. He is now a Sterling Professor of International Law at Yale Law School.
He will receive an honorary doctorate of laws.
Schedule
SPA — Saturday, May 11 at 9 a.m.
SOC — Saturday, May 11 at 1 p.m.
SIS — Sunday, May 12 at 1 p.m.
CAS — Saturday, May 11 at 4:30 p.m.
Kogod — Sunday, May 12 at 9 a.m.
WCL — Sunday, May 19 at 1 p.m.
zcohen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction appended
AU’s wannabe wizards and witches disappointed that Hogwarts was not on the Common App will be glad to hear about the newest concoction coming out of Student Activities. 
AU’s new “Harry Potter” fan club, Dumbledore’s Army, received confirmation March 1 to become an official club on campus. 
A few freshmen in Hughes Hall came up with the idea for the club, according to AUDA president and Slytherin Prefect Pooja Patel. There are close to 250 students on the roster, Patel said in an interview.
But student enthusiasm and paperwork were not the only ingredients in the potion needed to achieve official status. The club also needed a wizardly adviser to mix it all together: School of Communication Dean Jeffrey Rutenbeck. 
“Many of today’s college students have grown up living with (and living through) the cultural phenomenon of ‘Harry Potter,’”  Rutenbeck said in an email. “Dumbledore’s Army provides AU devotees with an opportunity to share their passion for all things ‘Harry Potter’ and, at the same time, engage in meaningful community service.”
Rutenbeck said he has an “Elder Wand” in his office, and if he was a character from the books, he thinks he would be Neville Longbottom, a friend of Harry’s.
The dean’s passion for “Harry Potter” was born out of reading the series to his eldest daughter, he told Patel at a AUDA meeting he attended.
The group will hold two meetings each month. The first meeting involves the planning and discussion for that month’s fundraiser or event. At the end of the meeting, members can win prizes in trivia competitions. 
The second event could be a fundraiser, competition between the Hogwarts houses or a movie viewing. Last month, wizards-in-training won handcrafted wands.
AUDA sorted students into the four different houses of Hogwarts using a sorting hat from the “Harry Potter” books. Sorting members into Gryffindor, Slytherin, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw will organize clubs members and create lively competition between houses during club events and activities, Patel said.
Being sorted was a little disconcerting in front of a crowd gathered near the Quad, said Jake Esenther, a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences and a member of AUDA.
“[I] can’t imagine how the first years felt in the movies,” he said.
In addition to being an outlet for students to revisit the beloved series, AUDA will fundraise for the Harry Potter Alliance, Patel said. 
The HPA is “Harry Potter” author J.K. Rowling-endorsed 501(c)3 nonprofit that works with nongovernmental organizations to alert the world to the dangers of global warming, poverty and genocide, according to the Harry Potter Alliance’s website.
The club has plans to host a feast for Thanksgiving or Halloween and a Yule Ball to raise money for the HPA, as well as to bring Quidditch to the Quad sometime next year.
“We have crazy ideas we definitely want to do,” Patel said.
Correction: This article previously misspelled Patel's first name.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
There are some days that you just want some super cheesy comfort food that no salad, smoothie or other low calorie food can satisfy. 
I just love lasagna, but I can almost never order it at restaurants since I
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
David Axelrod, campaign director and former senior adviser for President Barack Obama, will speak at AU April 15. 
The event is sponsored by the Kennedy Political Union and will take place in Ward 1 at 8:15 p.m.
Axelrod, a graduate of the University of Chicago, worked as a senior campaign adviser for Obama in both the 2008 and 2012 elections. 
He began as a political journalist and became the youngest political reporter in the Chicago Tribune’s history in 1981 at 27 years old. He began working on campaigns in 1984 as a communication director of Sen. Paul Simon’s, D-Ill., campaign.
Axelrod has since worked on the campaigns of many politicians, including former President Bill Clinton, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and former Sen. John Edwards, D-N.C.
He has also drawn recognition for working toward racial equality in politics, aiding in the election of the first African-American mayor of Chicago, Harold Washington, and of the first African-American president.
sgaber@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The usually quiet AU Quad was enveloped in a cloud of bright colors on April 7, as dozens of students gathered to celebrate Holi, the Indian Festival of Color. 
Holi celebrates the coming of spring in India and is traditionally celebrated by throwing powder and water at those who attend the festivities. 
Those who were prepared wore white, and those who weren’t watched as their clothes were destroyed by pink, yellow and red powdered paint provided by the South Asian Student Association, which hosted this event. 
Holi was also co-sponsored by Student Government, AU Muslim Student Association, AU Bhangra, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion and the Residence Hall Association.
The event started at 2 p.m., with groups of soon-to-be-painted students hesitantly approaching the area outside of Kay. 
After paint packets were distributed, the Quad became a swarm of bright colors, with attendees throwing powder at friends and strangers alike. Holi was open not just to AU students, but all members of the community.
“The most impressive thing to me was the diversity of the people there,” SIS junior Alison Pease said. “By that I mean there were not just AU students there, but also families and other people from the community. I think it’s great that AU takes the opportunity to celebrate such a fun holiday and that the community chooses to participate as well.” 
Local DJ Naiem Reza played popular songs throughout the event from both the US and India. Those who were versed in Bollywood dance styles had a chance to shine in the center of one of the various dance circles that had formed. Everyone else was able to come together for some paint-covered group dances like “The Cupid Shuffle” and “Gangnam Style.”
Soon after, another component was added: water. Buckets were filled and combined with paint to make colored water that was then dumped on people’s heads or shot through one of the water guns provided by SASA. 
The paint-stained, now wet Quad lent the perfect environment for a mud-sliding competition that cleared what was once the dance floor. 
“Being Hindu, I’ve never had so much fun celebrating Holi,” CAS freshman Sarthak Batra said. “From the beautiful color to the thick mud, it was more than an experience, and I look forward to doing it next year, even though the aftermath of cleaning up was difficult.”
Batra also said that this event sparked his interest in joining SASA, which also catered free samosas, an Indian fried pastry, for the event. 
After the celebration, the Quad was left stained bright red, resembling some sort of eerie abandoned battlefield after combat. 
However, the only casualties in the event of the Holi festival were some white t-shirts and a few pairs of jeans.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Student Government senators proposed a number of improvements to the AU shuttle system April 7, including a regular schedule for the buses, safer shuttle stops and a more efficient tracking app.
SG Senator for the Class of 2013 Brad Korten is one of four senators on a SG shuttle study commission, which reported its findings to the Undergraduate Senate. It conducted a survey in an email sent out to students on March 20. About 1,100 students responded to the survey, according to Korten. 
“We would like to get an actual shuttle schedule,” said Korten. “Hopefully it would cut down confusion and infrequencies for students.”
Korten said members of the commission and the administration will meet at least one more time before the school year ends to discuss the recommendations. 
Some short term recommendations proposed to the Office of Facilities Management include:
An improved, more publicized shuttle tracking app for students
Text and email alerts when an accident or delay occurs 
Improved lighting at shuttle stops for students’ safety  
The current shuttle tracking app works through the University’s mobile website. While it does show where each shuttle is, it  does not give information about traffic, delays or other potential problems, Korten said.
Glenn Holmes, senator for the class of 2016 and another member of the commission, said the response from the University was positive.
“[The administration] were pretty much on board with all of our recommendations,” he said. “This is an example of good advocacy.”
cjohnson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It's 2013, but if you've been listening to new music, you might not know it. 
The unavoidable outcry on the Internet over the ill-advised Brad Paisley/LL Cool J collaboration "Accidental Racist" suggests that the song has a take on race relations that most of us like to think we've put behind us. 
Meanwhile, Ray J's diss track "I Hit It First," aimed at Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, though a subject of less controversy, is no less outdated or ignorant in its take on gender and sexuality. Both of these songs couple their archaic insights with musical styles that are equally stale.
Both songs came out at roughly the same time, but Ray J did not get nearly as much press Paisley and LL did for "Accidental Racist." Though the coverage varies, the most common takeaway is that the song's exploration of racial tensions and Southern pride is at best misguided and at worst racist. 
Putting the lyrics aside for a second, the song is just not good. At almost six minutes long, it's a painfully slow diatribe that mixes the most boring and unoriginal country music riffs with some of the least inspired and most desperate "rap" contributions of the 21st century. This model didn't work in 2004 in Nelly and Tim McGraw's "Over and Over," but apparently that's another memo that Paisley and LL didn't get.
There's been plenty of valid criticisms of the lyrics in the song, most of which are sometimes ignorant and usually offensive. 
One part of the lyrics that hasn't gotten much attention, however, are the last words, barely uttered by LL as the track fades out: "It's real, it's real/It's true."
The importance of these lines is that, unfortunately, for Paisley and many of his fans, the "struggle" he faces in the song, trying to embrace Southern pride without being racist, is real. That's not to say it's a valid struggle. It's not. It's something that most of us came to terms with a long time ago. 
We no longer feel that symbols associated with slavery are necessary to show our love for the south or Lynyrd Skynyrd, and we don't think that retiring those images and the pain they can cause somehow discriminates against us. 
We don't think that judging someone for wearing a do-rag is the same as judging someone for wearing a Confederate flag. We understand that one is a fashion choice which draws racist criticism and one is a symbol of slavery, racism and oppression. 
Paisley, though, apparently does not understand this. 
And it's not entirely his fault. Country music has been dodging the issue for decades, so Paisley is "progressing" the genre by having this discussion. 
Unfortunately, he's progressing the genre to a point that a lot of us, especially those outside of the country music paradigm, reached 15 years ago or more. 
To have this "conversation" play out on our airwaves in 2013 is frankly embarrassing. Music has the potential to spur social progress, and it often has, but popular music today is behind the curve, not only in the national discussion on race, but also issues of gender and sexuality.
The same week that "Accidental Racist" came out, Ray J released a new track called "I Hit It First," a diss track aimed at Kimye. It combines of one of Ray J's signature vapid, annoying hooks with plenty of bragging about his sexual relations with Kardashian. 
If you couldn't tell by the title, there's no shortage of misogyny, objectification of women and plain immaturity in this track. 
Though it's less out of left field than "Accidental Racist," it's still a ridiculous song in which Ray J, apparently too nervous to talk to his former hookups, speaks exclusively to Kanye, talking about Kardashian as though she isn't a sentient being. 
There are plenty of songs motivated by bitterness when someone doesn't call you back, but this one is particularly bad. Ray J just digs himself deeper throughout the song, revealing his childish bitterness in every adolescent, numbskulled verse. 
Also, as a tip to Ray J or any future diss track writers, if you're going to try to diss the man at the top of the rap game right now, at least try to do so over a beat that doesn't sound five years old.
smeehan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Rest In Peace, Roger Ebert (1942-2013)
Roger Ebert, one of the most influential and widely-respected film critics of all time, passed away last week at the age of 70, after a long battle with cancer. 
Ebert's witty, impassioned reviews championed the best and brightest that cinema had to offer while never failing to challenge Hollywood norms or criticize problematic films. 
Even when surgery robbed him of his ability to speak, Ebert continued to write with impressive frequency, developing a massive online following and demonstrating a truly wonderful commitment to his love of the cinema. 
A short blurb can hardly do him justice. Rest in peace, Roger.
A Lecture on "Hannibal" Lecter
NBC is in dire straits commercially right now, with even its most popular programs sinking to all-time viewership lows. 
However, the network may have stumbled on a hit. Bryan Fuller's "Hannibal," starring everyone's favorite cannibalistic villain, has attracted critical raves for its nuanced perspective on the serial killer tropes found in such recent shows as "The Following" and "Dexter." 
Rather than glorifying the violence, Fuller's show puts it under a microscope with beautiful visuals, compelling performances by Hugh Dancy and Mads Mikkelsen, and a surprisingly intellectual exploration of the psychology of an apparent lunatic.
Movie Magic
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In January, 3,000 lesbian, gay,  bisexual and transgender activists chanted together to claim our space in a long line of public demonstrations and validating our efforts over the last 40 years. We chanted “from Seneca Falls to Selma to Stonewall.”
But these were not chants for marriage equality. This was a fight for immigration reform.
The social movements inspired by the events in that chant are ongoing and interwoven. The 1969 Stonewall riots in favor of gay and lesbian rights did not invalidate the pursuit of racial justice. Rather, they introduced a layer of nuance to the Civil Rights movement by challenging the idea that oppression functions in discrete categories of race, gender or sexuality.
More than complementing one another, or simply laying the foundation upon which the next could be built, these anti-oppressive movements actively reinvent identity politics. They call into question our social identities as women, Jews, people with disabilities. They interrogate not only the meaning of these particular identities, but also the politics of inclusion and exclusion that determine who will benefit from collective action and who will be left behind.  
If the LGBT movement narrowly advocates on behalf of marriage equality, adoption rights and military service, then what about those who are marginalized because of multiple identities? For the over 250,000 undocumented LGBT people in our country, these single-issue victories would be hollow. Marriage, for example, would remain inaccessible for an undocumented lesbian woman who must also confront an unaccommodating immigration system.
Such a woman cannot separate her experiences as undocumented and as a lesbian. In order for her to achieve equal access to social institutions, both of these identities must be supported. Any movement that claims to advocate for her rights as a lesbian but not as an undocumented person contents itself with her partial liberation. A person cannot be half free or three-quarters equal because freedom demands absolute equality, which does not exist as long as our identities dictate our institutional access.
The decision not to include immigration reform in a national LGBT agenda sends the message that only certain LGBT people are worthy of full protection. It qualifies identity politics as belonging only to those who adhere to certain social norms. It declares a hierarchy that values U.S. citizens over undocumented friends and neighbors, as if their LGBT identities are less meaningful than our own.
Immigration reform isn’t separate from LGBT equality. Rather, it changes the way LGBT persons understand our identities and how we advocate for our communities. 
A fully inclusive movement must reject all hierarchies. If we fail to understand immigration reform as an LGBT issue, then we have not achieved radical change. We have only shifted who benefits from systematic inequality, rather than challenging the inequality itself. 
Derek Siegel is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences.
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This profile on AU men’s basketball Head Coach Jeff Jones was originally published in full on Schad's blog in October. 
In March 1993, a reporter asked then-Virginia head coach Jeff Jones where he saw himself in 20 years. The round-faced coach took a bite of his barbeque sandwich and answered.
“I won’t be coaching 20 years from now,” Jones, then 33, told The Roanoke Times. “There’s just too much excess baggage to go with the job.”
That, of course, was before he took Virginia to the Elite Eight in 1995. Before the son of a coach surpassed his father in wins. Before he remarried and moved to Washington D.C. Before he led American University to a pair of Patriot League titles and NCAA Tournament appearances.
Now 52, Jones smiles at the thought of his 33-year-old self. He sits quietly at his desk writing a thank you card, sporting a black Nike pullover and a light stubble. Commemorative basketballs and pictures of his children dot the office. A Big Gulp on his desk has been reduced to ice.
It is here, nestled in a corner office overlooking Bender Arena, that the fiery skipper, the man who routinely screams at his bench and is hoarse by game’s end, is at his most serene.
“Some people would say ‘well, it’s just basketball,’” Jones said, explaining his job. “It is, but when there’s that many people that pay that much attention, it is your livelihood. And there’s a lot of stress involved.”
The Washington D.C. region has seen its fair share of collegiate coaches come and go over the last dozen years, from a fired Karl Hobbs to the retired Gary Williams. But before Wednesday, only Jones, who first arrived at American in 2000, had survived.
He did it by winning in a winnable conference, building a rock-solid program that has never finished below fourth in the league. Graduation rates on the team were high. Support from the athletic department had never been better. Jones was comfortable, and one year ago his contract was extended through the 2016 season.
“We love DC, and there’s a loyalty,” Jones said in October. “American has been very welcoming, and for me that’s a big thing: to be at a place where you’re appreciated. There have been other opportunities, but this is and continues to be the right place for me.”
The Daily Press reported Wednesday that Jones has accepted the head coaching job at Old Dominion University. The move will be announced at a Thursday press conference, according to Press columnist David Teel.
———-
Jeffrey Allen Jones was a strange kid.
His father, Bobby Jones, coached the Kentucky Wesleyan Panthers for 13 years, first as an assistant and then as head coach. Born in Owensboro, Ky. in 1960, Jeff was five when his father started coaching, and he immediately fell in love with the game of basketball. He loved watching his dad’s practices, soaking up the intricacies of the game for hours on end. While his friends were outside, running around or maybe playing basketball themselves, little Jeff was sitting quietly in the gym, observing the Panthers’ practice.
“I remember people joking around that I was a strange kid because I would go and watch his practices, and I would literally watch,” Jones said. “I’d go and I’d sit there and I’d watch, and that was a great day for me.”
Jeff didn’t love coaching, but he loved basketball. Surrounded by the sport, he took to the court and quickly became one of the best point guard prospects in the state of Kentucky. Hours of watching practices had taught him how to see what other players might miss. It made him invaluable.
After high school, Jones opted to leave his home state for Charlottesville, Va., where he was a four-year starter for the Virginia Cavaliers. He’s most well-known for playing alongside Ralph Sampson and leading the team to four postseason appearances, including the 1980 NIT championship and the 1981 Final Four.
When he graduated with a psychology degree in 1982, he had five job offers waiting for him. The world was his oyster. But none of those offers fulfilled his lifelong dream of going to the NBA, so he waited. After being signed and cut by two teams in a matter of months, his NBA dreams were dashed by Christmas. He was looking at two options: play professionally overseas, or return to Virginia as an assistant coach.
“Playing in the NBA was a dream. Playing overseas wasn’t a dream,” Jones said. “When that NBA dream kind of ended, I was ready to turn the page. And that’s when coaching became something that I wanted to do.”
———-
As a 22-year-old assistant coach at Virginia, Jones was given a lot of freedom and input in head coach Terry Holland’s system. The staff would hash and rehash and re-rehash a plan ten times before finalizing it, and Jones’ opinion was valued every step of the way.
He learned by observation and worked his way up the coaching totem pole at Virginia until Holland left to become the athletic director at his alma mater, Davidson College. In a controversial move, the athletic department picked Jones, who was 29 at the time, to be his replacement. He became the youngest head coach in Atlantic Coast Conference history.
“I don’t think there was any question that I was ready,” Jones said. “Maybe unknowingly, I had been preparing most of my life for that.”
Seven years, six 20-win seasons and five NCAA tournament appearances later, the wheels began to fall off. Three arrested players tainted Jones’ reputation at Virginia, and a losing record on the court certainly didn’t make things any better.
When leading scorer Courtney Alexander was accused of hitting, kicking and choking his girlfriend in June 1997, Jones ignored suggestions from his higher-ups in the athletic department and dismissed Alexander from the team. The move left a hole in the Virginia lineup and a growing rift between Jones and the administration.
Jones was fired after the 1998 season.
“There were lots and lots of great memories [at Virginia], and obviously when you fall short and you don’t do as well towards the end, those are the ones that, initially, you remember the most,” he said. “But I think we experienced a pretty good level of success. I’m not sure that Virginia’s been back to that level of success since.
“In fact,” Jones continued with a sly smile, “I’m sure that they haven’t been back to that level of success.”
———-
The year after Jones was fired was both the best and worst time of his life. He actually enjoyed his summer for the first time he could remember, spending time at beaches instead of hunting down recruits. But by October, the familiar itch of basketball season returned. Jones needed it. He desperately missed the sport.
He signed on to broadcast a few college basketball games with what is now Comcast Sports. But between those games was when Jones really took off. From early November to the middle of spring, Jones embarked on a whirlwind tour visiting the country’s best college coaches. He watched Gary Williams at Maryland and Tom Penders at George Washington. Bob Huggins at Cincinnati and Skip Prosser at Xavier. Rick Majerus at Utah – twice. Dave Odom at Wake Forest. Tubby Smith at Kentucky. College teammate Rick Carlisle, who was then an assistant coach with the Indiana Pacers.
Altogether, the coaches Jones visited have accrued 4,210 wins.
“It was kind of like my sabbatical,” he said of the trip. “Those guys allowed me to see inside – it was great. The thing I’ve always told people is you pick up some new stuff and new perspective, but it also sometimes reinforces your beliefs in your way of doing things. There’s a lot of different ways to be successful, and every place you went, you could see that coach’s imprint, their personality, their style.”
———-
Jones brought a style of his own to American when he was hired to resurrect the flailing program in 2000. In his first year, he held practices at 6 a.m. every morning to send a message to his players: the losing ways of the past were unacceptable.
Losing is as unacceptable now, more than a dozen years later, as it was then. Jones hates losing. Abhors it. And he makes it very clear to his players that if they lose, it won’t be for a lack of effort. Jones works his players as hard as anyone starting point guard Danny Munoz has ever played for.
“I think anyone who plays Division I college basketball is going to be a hard worker coming into collegiate athletics, but there’s another step that you really have to go to when you get here your freshman year. It’s not something that’s easy, at all, and he really pushes you to get there,” Munoz said. “Putting everything that you have into one thing is so important to him and that’s why I think you see a team each year at AU that plays as hard as it can. Because it comes from him.”
Jones berates his players during games and yells more than he talks. To an average fan this may look like insanity or a need for anger management classes, but for Jones it’s an outward expression of his passion for the game and his players. He doesn’t yell at them because they screwed up – he yells at them because he so desperately wants them to reach their potential.
“My style, whatever that is, is not for everybody,” Jones said. “But when the players know that the coaches care about them, and the players care about one another, I think that – in terms of their experience while they’re here – that adds a lot.”
Contrary to popular belief, Jones does have a soft side, too. He’s a generally easygoing person away from the court. He has three kids – Meghann, Madison and Jeffrey – and a spacious house in suburban Arlington. He’s a diehard Redskins fan. And in between practices and games, Jones doesn’t get too swept up by the pressures of basketball to appreciate the process.
“It’s kind of weird thinking of Coach Jones off the court because that’s where you spend the most time with him, but when we’re just at the hotel or the day before the game, he’s happy and jokes around with us,” Munoz explained. “He’s a laidback guy. He likes to have a good time and have some laughs just like everyone else.”
———-
It’s been 19 years since Jones was asked about how he would spend the next 20, but now the question is being posed to him again. He smiles at the thought and thinks about all that’s happened in the past two decades – the good and the bad, the firing and the hiring, the trips across the country and trips on the court. As he thinks, the fire-and-brimstone version of Jones slowly shrinks away. In his place is simply an aging man contemplating the future. With a healthy family and steady job, he counts himself as blessed.
The fiery basketball coach leans forward on the desk and stares straight ahead. His eyes are a steely blue. He’s never really had a plan for the future or a grasp on the past. But when asked where he’ll be in 20 years, this time around, he knows exactly what to say.
“God,” Jones says, “I hope I’m at a beach somewhere.”
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Board of Trustees Chairman Jeff Sine committed to looking into divestment of fossil fuels at an open forum in the Ward Circle Building on April 4.
Members of Fossil Free AU questioned President Neil Kerwin and Sine about divestment at the event. Students in Fossil Free AU attended the event wearing bright stickers that said, “Vote Yes to Divest.”
“We are not stock pickers,” Sine said. “The whole question of socially-responsible investing in terms of portfolio construction doesn’t really fit our model.”
The University uses  Cambridge Associates , an investment adviser, to help them with portfolios, according to Sine.
“We’ve asked Cambridge to come back in May to address some of these questions,” Sine said. “We will take a fresh look at this in May and report back to you.”
Sine did not commit to taking any sort of action, but he promised to taking a hard look at divestment and social responsible investing in May.
“The concern you are expressing is real,” Kerwin told the students. “The number of students that we talk with at the ages of 16, 17 and 18 are far more sensitive to issues of global warming and the green posture of the campus that they are joining than of high school students a generation ago.”
AU is focusing on being the No. 1 choice for high school students, Sine said. Environmental awareness is something that prospective students consider when choosing a college or university.
Kerwin believes that incoming students are impressed by our commitment to be carbon neutral by 2020.
“I think that it is important for us to consider every opportunity we’ve got to make a realistic impact,” Kerwin said. “I don’t think with an endowment our size we will bring Exxon to their knees if we decide to pull whatever we have invested in them out.”
tdalcourt@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In late March 2003, the Harold and Sylvia Greenberg Theatre in Tenleytown opened, finally giving a massive home to the Department of Performing Arts at AU. 
The theater gave the department the ability to perform large-scale shows, and it increased the amount of resources that could spur new and innovative performances.
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the opening of the theater, and celebrations included a gala where Sylvia Greenberg (daughter of D.C. housing magnate Abraham Kay, for whom the Kay Spiritual Life Center is named) was honored. Her husband Harold, who also shares the Greenberg namesake, passed away in 2009.
The DPA also reprised the first show ever done in Greenberg (and Sylvia’s favorite musical), “Cabaret.” 
View a slideshow from this year's production of Cabaret

AU professor Gail Humphries Mardirosian directed the Greenberg Theatre’s first full-length show, creating a full-circle moment after having directed the first show in 2003.
With a 300-seat capacity, 700 square feet of dressing room, 2,400 square feet of space for the production and scene shop and 1,600 square feet for the costume shop, the Greenberg Theatre revitalized the way the DPA produces shows.
Before Greenberg opened, the DPA had been forced to use lackluster facilities, like the Clendenen Gymnasium that doubled as a theater at the time (demolished in 1985 to make way for the Jacobs Fitness Center), which was in deplorable condition, blighted with rats and leaking ceilings.
“[Clendenen] and where [Katzen Arts Center] stands was a building literally made out of tin that housed a gym, a big basketball court, and by the time I got here it was also semi-condemned,” Caleen Jennings, a DPA professor, said. “So we had an upstairs floor that we could use and we used it to teach acting classes and . . . the assumed theater group would do shows in there.“
General plans for a theater being installed at AU went as far back as 1988, when there were initial plans being drawn up for a theater to be installed on the main campus. But until Greenberg gave a gift of $2 million to the University to build the theater, plans could not come to fruition.
“One thing that’s a paradox . . . I think it’s the brilliance of the way the space was designed. Yes, it’s way bigger than the Studio [Theatre in Katzen], but it’s got an intimate feel,” Jennings said. “You could be in the very last row and feel a part of the action.”
The Greenberg Theatre has been home to many of the department’s plays and musicals, from Jennings’ adaptations of Shakespeare’s plays from “Hip Hop Much Ado About Nothing” in 2004, to “M4M (Measure for Measure),” to Pete Townshend’s “The Who’s Tommy” and Alfred Jarry’s “Ubu Rex,” directed by professors Javier Rivera and Cara Gabriel, respectively.
“They are hard workers, extremely collaborative,”  said Rivera, an assistant professor in DPA. 
Rivera also spoke about Barbara Tucker Parker, Greenberg’s costume designer. 
“She’s sort of built an empire in the basement of the Greenberg, so it’s just fascinating to go in there and get lost, “ Rivera said. 
Parker custom-makes every costume with her assistants for the choreographers and the directors. Each show produced in the Greenberg Theatre is given a unique approach to ensure spectacle and quality.
The Greenberg Theatre was a vast improvement over the former Experimental Theater, where Kogod stands now, and the current Katzen Studio Theatre, built in 2005. Greenberg, for a time, was the department’s only performance venue from 2003 to 2005. Humphries Mardirosian, the person who pushed for the theater to be placed, mentioned the importance of having a full-scale theater at the department’s fingertips. 
“It is [a] pure delight to direct in the Greenberg with so many options at your fingertips when interpreting the text. It is also very important for our students,” Humphries Mardirosian said. “They get a variety of opportunities for refining their craft as actors, as well as working with all of the technical dimensions that the Greenberg offers for lighting, sound, set, costuming and management opportunities.”
Humphries Mardirosian, who was one of the people instrumental to getting the theater built, said that Greenberg allowed the department to expand its horizons.
“With the Greenberg Theatre, we tripled the audience potential for each night, and that was glorious,” Humphries said. 
At 10 years, the Greenberg Theatre hopes to ensure at least one thing for the future of performing arts at AU: the show will go on.
dkahen-kashi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
UPDATE: April 4 at 3:12 p.m.
Director of Student Activities Karen Gerlach will leave AU at the end of the semester to become vice president for student affairs at Trinity University in Northeast D.C. 
Gerlach has worked for Student Activities for almost 17 years. She became director of Student Activities nine years ago, according to the AU website. Her last official day will be May 8. 
As an AU alumna, Gerlach plans to stay connected with the school. Gerlach hopes to continue teaching courses in the School of Education, Teaching and Health and keep in touch with students she has mentored through the university.
“I have enjoyed my time at American, and will miss so many aspects of the institution,” she said.  “However, it is time for me to take this next step in my career.” 
Scott Jones, director of University Center, recently left as well. Jones' last day at AU was April 1. 
He is now senior director of the University Center at the Biscayne Bay campus of Florida International University. 
Jones had recently come to AU from George Washington University, according to the AU website.
Despite the departure of two directors, University Center Senior Director Michael Elmore is not worried about the transition. 
"With a change like this you have an opportunity to look at new ideas and new opportunities," he said. 
Jones' position is not yet accepting applications, as it may be changed before the next school year, according to Elmore. 
He hopes that the potential change will allow for more interaction with students within the department. 
sgaber@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Despite the perceptions that America is progressing toward gender equality in politics, a study by School of Public Affairs Associate Professor Jennifer Lawless and Professor Richard Fox of Loyola Marymount University suggests otherwise.
Although Lawless does not believe her study applies to all cases, she identified a trend of women being less politically motivated.
“What we found in the study is that by looking at a random sampling of college students, we found that women were less politically motivated,” Lawless, who teaches in the Department of Government, said. 
Lawless and Fox’s report, “Girls Just Wanna Not Run,” randomly surveyed 18- to 25-year-olds and formed an argument that women are less likely to consider entering the political world.
The study’s findings highlight a need for young women to be empowered from an early age. Lawless emphasizes the need for early parental support, encouraging women to play competitive sports and organizational efforts to get women involved in politics, according to the report.
“My concern is that it’s less likely to appear on women’s radar screens in the first place,” Lawless told The Huffington Post.
The study also asked women and men how they feel they can best bring about change, with women seeing their participation in charities as being more effective than entering into politics. 
Lawless attributes this view of women to society’s institutionalized notions of gender.
“It’s the way that politics have been perceived,” Lawless said. “There is a notion that women have to be twice as qualified to get half as far.”
Lawless and Fox are involved in a multi-pronged approach to bridge this gender gap. The details are still being worked out, Lawless said.
An event in May at AU will unveil their findings to D.C. policymakers. In addition, their report will be sent to relevant political figures as well as to women’s high schools and colleges nationally to spread the impact of their findings, Lawless said.
Lawless said she lacks optimism about future female politicians if no change occurs. Looking back on the past six election cycles, there are actually fewer female governors than previous years, Lawless said. 
“There has been this general idea that the next generation looks different, with these women in politics such as [former Secretary of State] Hillary Clinton getting attention, and that we just need to be patient,” she said. “However, the gender gap today we uncovered is just as big as 10 to 50 years ago. There is a lack of change over time and across generations, and that is particularly troubling.”
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
