It's that time of year. You've made your deposit, bought your bumper sticker and started shopping at Bed, Bath and Beyond. Freshman year is quickly approaching, and you're feeling a little overwhelmed. Try not to fret, The Eagle's collected a few tips that'll make your transition to college life a little easier. 
What to do:
Get to know your floormates/roommates during Welcome Week.
Unless you switch rooms, these people will be your neighbors or will live with you all year. Get to know them: having friends on your floor is great and will save you from awkward elevator interactions.
Your research.
Before you even come to AU, research everything. What activities are you interested in? What professors in your intended major got great reviews from previous students? Who could be a great mentor in your program? There's no need to plan everything, but it's helpful to have an idea of what you want to do with your time here at AU.
Budget, budget, budget.
D.C. can burn a hole in your pocket if you're not careful. TDR (the nickname for the dining hall) gets old quickly and you'll soon end up at Whole Foods. Metro adds up, too. Clubbing? Forget it. Keep track of how much you're spending and maybe get a part-time job to help pay for expenses. Be smart and save where you can: the Eagle's Nest foot scrub can wait. 
What not to do:
Stay on campus.
You're going to be living in D.C., so be sure to explore the city since you won't have any classes or other obligations for that first week. Go to U Street, eat Ethiopian food, and relax at Malcolm X/Meridian Hill Park. Sit on the Watergate steps with a friend and just enjoy the nice summer weather before it rains. Jog around the Tidal Basin when the cherry blossoms come out (if you can get around all the tourists). You live here now, so go explore!
Forget to add an activity that is outside of AU.
Get a volunteer gig or a part-time job. It'll help your career, increase your time management skills and help you feel like a true "DCist." 
Forget to breathe.
It's no secret that college is stressful. You may find yourself writing a five-page paper and trying to complete a 100-page reading in the same night. Fights with your friends, hookups gone awry and that oh-so-needy professor can all add to your stress level. Resist feeling overwhelmed and find a quiet spot either on campus or in D.C. to relax. If that's not enough, be sure to check out AU's Counseling Center, which offers a variety of mental health resources. 
acohen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Inés Medina's art exhibit "The Concept of Plastic Division" at the Embassy of Spain provides insight into an artist's perception of societal divisions. 
Medina looks to the psychological and philosophical realms, begging the question of how the divisions in our everyday lives - regarding gender, wealth and religion, to name a few - influence our identities and our constant struggle for power. 
Medina, hailing from the Basque Country of Spain, succeeds at translating her ideas of the self into artwork that speaks to the influence of the constant power struggle and how we view ourselves in comparison to others. 
Medina stresses that as a society, we seem to need these divisions instead of simply understanding and learning from our different perspectives.
"Human beings are seduced by power, but power creates conflict," Medina said. "However, we all need power for protection. Fear is at the foundation of everything in our society."
This theory is manifested through her composition titled, "Facing the dividing monster of fear."
Medina's artwork offers a captivating mix of contrasting hues, altered based on the subject matter. 
Additionally, the wording Medina uses for the titles of the paintings differ based on the location. The New York paintings seem to manifest the disintegration of one's identity, with titles such as "Panic!" and "What is going on with the monster?" while the paintings completed in Spain focus on a more positive reflection of the self. 
Once again, Medina succeeds at indirectly urging the exhibit's spectators to reflect upon the structure of their societies.
"The Concept of Plastic Division" seemed to elicit a positive response from the exhibit's many spectators, thanks to Medina's skillful use of the oil, charcoal and watercolor mediums, and the profound reflections on the differences of our social roles displayed by her artwork. 
Where: Embassy of Spain, located at 2375 Pennsylvania Avenue NW.
When: On display until July 30
Price: Admission is free during visiting hours, Monday through Thursday 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., and Friday 9:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
What better way to celebrate the 4th of July in our nation's capital than with fireworks, concerts, parades and much more? Check out our list of best D.C. events on Independence Day and try them out yourself:
1. The National Independence Day Parade
Grab your friends (and probably a rain jacket too) to watch the downtown parade featuring floats, a few celebrities and bands from all over the country.
Where: Constitution Avenue from 7th Street to 17th Street
When: 11:45 a.m.
Price: free
2. A Capitol Fourth, a concert
Enjoy music by the National Symphony Orchestra, Barry Manilow and Darren Criss while watching a D.C. sunset on the lawn of the U.S. Capitol. For those outside of the D.C. area this summer, catch the event live on PBS.
Where: West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol
When: Gates open at 3 p.m. and the concert begins at 8 p.m.
Price: free
3. DC's Fireworks Spectacular on the National Mall
Don't settle for second best when it comes to fireworks. Instead of watching them on TV or from your apartment window, run down to the National Mall to see them up sparkle and shine up close. 
Where: Viewing areas on the National Mall near the Washington Monument and Reflecting Pool will be accessible only through secure access points and will fill up quickly, so get there early. Other viewing areas include the U.S. Capitol, the Lincoln Memorial, the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, the Thomas Jefferson Memorial, East Potomac Park, rooftop bars or apartment buildings in Washington DC and the White House Ellipse. 
When: 9:10 p.m. 
Price: free
4. Nationals Game
Celebrate the 4th of July with America's favorite pastime: baseball. Find some cheap tickets and maybe even splurge on a hot dog and freedom fries to support our local team, the Nationals, as they play against the Brewers on this patriotic day.
Where: Nationals Park
When: 11:05 a.m.
Price: Tickets are available at The Washington Nationals website. Price varies.
5. Smithsonian Folklife Festival
Indulge in D.C.'s ethnic culture by exploring this annual festival. Watch musical performances, try new foods and learn to dance in celebration of America's diversity. 
When: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: National Mall
Price: free
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
