Say this for “Identity Thief”: it meets expectations. In other words, it’s as bad as its trailers and February release date would suggest.
Written by Craig Mazin (“The Hangover Part II”) and directed by Seth Gordon (“Horrible Bosses”), “Identity Thief” boasts several talented performers. Jason Bateman (“Horrible Bosses”) and Melissa McCarthy (“This is 40”) have extraordinary comedic gifts, and the supporting cast is populated with excellent actors like Jonathan Banks (“Breaking Bad”), Amanda Peet (“Bent”), Robert Patrick (“Gangster Squad”) and Eric Stonestreet (“Modern Family”). 
Unfortunately, none of this talent elevates the shoddy material.
The movie’s first scene climaxes with a vomit scene more gross than amusing, a harbinger of things to come. Shortly thereafter, Bateman arrives on screen as a businessman named Sandy Patterson. Hilarious, right? Well, no, but seemingly every new character gets in an unimaginative jab about the endless comedic potential of a traditionally female name transposed on a male body. The script lacks the good sense to recognize that the word “Sandy” is not inherently funny.
Melissa McCarthy’s eponymous character takes advantage of Patterson’s allegedly hysterical gender-neutral moniker and, as the title indicates, steals his identity. For the rest of the movie, Bateman’s Sandy convinces McCarthy’s Sandy to travel from Florida to his home in Colorado so that the identity thief can admit her crimes to the victim’s boss (John Cho, “Star Trek”) and the police. Complications include a drug boss (Banks) and his cronies (Genesis Rodriguez, “Man on a Ledge,” and rapper T.I., “Takers”), an unhinged lunatic (Patrick), a promiscuous cowboy (Stonestreet) and all manner of transportation-related issues.
“Identity Thief” fails the first test of movie comedy — it doesn’t inspire laughter. McCarthy is making every effort, running and singing and pratfalling, but her character is excessively unlikable and cartoonish rather than endearingly outrageous. Bateman serves as the straight man to McCarthy’s antics, but even he seems irritated by the tired dialogue.
The problem is not simply that the movie is too ridiculous or that the premise is too absurd. In fact, in some instances, the opposite is true. The first act treats this identity crisis almost as if it were reality. The writers have misjudged the absurdity of this premise. Why not exaggerate those elements instead of making us pretend to care about the ramifications of a police investigation?
Even more problematically, the script seems to frequently call attention to McCarthy’s weight. McCarthy is a beautiful woman who happens not to fit the stereotypical weight of a Hollywood actress. So what? How about a movie in which the character’s weight is simply a fact and not a talking point? Such progressivism would be refreshing. Instead, this movie makes cheap jokes at her expense.
After more than an hour of tiresome antics, the script takes an unwelcome turn into entirely unearned sentimentality. Suddenly, the writers require that the audience invest in the emotional lives of formerly loathsome characters. Yes, she’s a con artist, but she has a sob story! Yes, he’s an impressionable doofus, but he has been pushed around all his life! To McCarthy’s credit, she nearly pulls off this abrupt transition by virtue of her charm. Bateman is not so lucky.
Some of these problems might have been alleviated if the comedic set pieces were fresh or amusing in any way. Sadly, they’re not.
At one point, the conversation between the two Sandys takes an inexplicable turn. “I visually enjoy you,” McCarthy tells Bateman lustily. 
Unfortunately, it’s nearly impossible to visually enjoy this lazy, sloppy, inane movie.
mlieberman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Steven Soderbergh (“Contagion”) throws every plot twist imaginable in his latest thriller, “Side Effects.” All the better, considering that the director announced his retirement and said that this would be his final film. 
The film starts with a shocking mystery of a trail of bloody footprints in a well-furnished home in Manhattan and then transitions to three months later, to the release of Martin Taylor (Channing Tatum, “Magic Mike”) from prison and his reunion with his wife, Emily (Rooney Mara, “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo”).
Days after her husband’s returns to her life, Emily tries to kill herself for reasons she says she cannot explain and is back to seeing a psychologist, Dr. Jonathan Banks (Jude Law, “Anna Karenina”). 
After failed attempts with previous depression prescriptions and consulting with her old psychiatrist, Dr. Victoria Seibert (Catherine Zeta-Jones, “Broken City”), Banks prescribes Ablixa, which seems to be working for Emily until one of the side effects, “acute parasomnia” makes her commit a very ghastly sleep crime, creating a nationwide trial.
After a slew of passionate scenes of ripped off blouses, fake psychological tests, bugged microphones and the malpractice of prescription drugs, this film noir still takes unexpected twists.
All the characters want the easy way out of their problems, which ultimately dooms them in the end. Martin wants to easily find a job by networking with an ex-cellmate, Emily wants to simply take a pill to boost her sex drive and Banks wants to move the trial case in order to fix his reputation and have more stable finances.
Halfway through the movie, there is a strong indirect political statement about the malpractice of psychiatrists who misdiagnose their patients by easily giving away prescription drugs. This is merely a motif within this complicated yet pleasurable Hitchcockian film. 
The diverse acting styles reach out to all demographics, especially with the comic relief in Law’s character. In one scene, Banks asks one of his patients if she would partake in this one experiment. She is hesitant. He states,“Your drugs are free.” Without a word, she swiftly signs her name on the pad.
His witty British character foils that of Seibert, whose austere character is unexpected from Jones, but convincing. 
The audience also gets waves of the now-expected edgy vibe that Mara displayed in “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo,” yet with a more innocent approach. 
And Tatum, well, let’s just say it is very similar to most of his roles.
The storyline is just confusing and ambiguous the entire movie until the last 15 minutes. Even with superb observational skills, there is little hope that someone would actually see the plot twists coming. Even figuring out who the main character is can be a struggle. At first the camera focuses on Mara’s character, showing sympathy towards her, but then it focuses on Law’s and then back to Mara’s. There is no wit behind Soderbergh’s surprises. It’s like lifting the rug from under someone’s feet.
“Side Effects” is heavy on meds. Despite the surprises and the film’s anti-malpractice motif, one could argue that that is a good thing.   
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
 By Alex Hoffman 
You know you go to AU when ending the politics of the Student Government involves changing the title of “senator” to “representative,” or when “impeachment” becomes “removal from office.” 
Over the past few weeks, instead of ending the politics, the latest referendum fight has turned into a horrible reenactment of the “West Wing.”
At this point, there is no question that SG needs to change. The organization has simply become too good at recreating real government gridlock. But that change shouldn’t lack common sense and cost more of your money, especially a year after SG has completely redone its branding by buying new banners, t-shirts and other materials with the new logo.
The fact is, the proposed referendum is a shallow change. When looking at the details, it is clear that politics will remain just as divisive as they are today. It gives four executive members the ability to serve another year in the newly formed Board of Representatives (the old Undergraduate Senate) without confirmation or re-election. It’s a revolving door that doesn’t end the politics – it just ensures that a smaller group of insiders will have control over the organization.
What’s even sadder is the fact that as a student body, AU has been through this before. In 2004, when the Student Confederation (now that was a name change we needed) transformed itself into the SG. The reform process was rushed, filled with fierce arguments and ultimately offered shallow changes.
Here we are eight years later on the verge of going through the process again. For the sake of future AU students, isn’t it time to learn from these mistakes? Isn’t it time for reform that isn’t just a shallow name change? Isn’t it time for the reform to be truly transparent and open from start to finish, not just days before the Election Day?
Those against the referendum believe that if we are to reform SG we need to do it the right way, at the right time, with a level of common sense we haven’t seen in the last two attempts to transform the organization. That’s why we are proposing an actual open and transparent system that gives student organizations an actual seat at the table, the ability to vote on the creation of the new referenda line by line, issue by issue. Rather than meeting behind closed doors over the summer, we want to ensure that any student who wants to play a role in shaping the new SG will have a chance to do so. Rather than waiting six months to talk to you about the reform, we intend to continue conversation with the student body from start to finish.
Alex Hoffman is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and the campaign manager for Students for Transparency, a group of students who oppose the constitutional reform. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU women’s basketball team (13-9, 6-2 PL) knocked off Colgate (6-17, 0-8 PL) 69-44 Feb. 9, getting off to a hot start and never taking their foot off of the gas pedal.
Center Stephanie Anya led the way for AU with a game-high 14 points. The senior shot a perfect 4-for-4 from the floor and made 6-of-7 free throw attempts. Two Eagles, Geleisa George and Arron Zimmerman, matched their career highs in points with 13 each. Sarah Kiely led the team in rebounding with 10, and Alexis Dobbs led the team in the assist and steal category with 4 of each.
“Steph posted up strong.” Head Coach Matt Corkery said after the game. “One of the things she’s been focusing on is having great balance and scoring through contact. She’s working really hard and getting great position down low."
Forward Josie Stockill led the way for Colgate with 10 points. The Raiders, who are now on a 10-game losing streak, struggled throughout the game and shot a mere 31 percent from the floor. The Eagles held Colgate’s best scorer, guard Jhazmine Lynch, scoreless in the game.
“I think we did a nice job guarding Lynch, their best player.” Corkery said. “We did a nice job 1-on-1 guarding her, but also with team defense as well. It all started with having a good effort. I think that everyone that came in and got time was focused on getting stops.”
Following the win, Corkery is one win away from 100 in his career. If the Eagles win their next match-up, Corkery would become the fastest coach in Patriot League history to achieve the feat.
AU returns to action at home against a struggling Lehigh (10-12, 2-5 PL) on Feb. 13 at 7 p.m., where Corkery will try for his historic win.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Great play from Tony Wroblicky and John Schoof led AU past Colgate 70-55 Feb. 9 for its first win streak in 89 days.
The game had seven ties and 16 lead changes in the first 27 minutes.
Then Wroblicky made the play of the game. With the game tied at 36 with 13:13 left on the clock, Wroblicky leaped across the floor to block a Colgate (9-16, 3-5, PL) layup. The Eagles (9-14, 4-4, PL) never looked back.
“Blocking the shot definitely got the crowd in the game,” Wroblicky said. "Maybe subconsciously it kind of intimidated them a little bit,” he said with a big smile.
Not only did the crowd erupt after the block, so did the Eagles. Immediately after Wroblicky’s tremendous play, AU started a 16-2 runx ballooning its lead to 52-38.  The play infused both Bender Arena and the Eagles with energy that Wroblicky was playing with the whole game.
“I thought that Tony was really the one guy from the start that had energy,” Head Coach Jeff Jones said. “Couple of the other guys seemed like they were running in mud.”
Another large part for the Eagles’ big run was John Schoof. The sophomore scored half of AU’s 16 points during the run and 24 points overall. 
“When a kid is a good shooter to begin with and puts in as much hard work as John does,” Jones said. “Other people are in bed, or other people are doing other things, John Schoof in this gym getting up shots.”
That hard work is paying dividends.  In his last two games, Schoof is 8 for 12 on 3-pointers. This season the sharpshooting sophomore is shooting an outstanding 50.9 percent on 3-point shots. His deadly accuracy has put him in the top-10 in 3-point shooting percentage in the nation.
Looking Ahead
The Eagles will need performances like Schoof’s and Wroblicky’s if their first win streak in almost three months is going to continue. AU travels to Patriot League leader Lehigh on Feb. 13 (16-5, 6-1, PL). In the first matchup, the Eagles lost 63-57. The Eagles have played their best basketball for the Patriot League’s best, and AU will enter the Lehigh game having won three of its last five games.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
• More safety dance!!!!!!
@...we can leave your friends behind. ‘Cause your friends don’t dance and if they don’t dance well, then they’re no friends of mine.
• @FOB ranter: Yeah, I'm excited to see what new directions they go in! And tell me about with the tickets . . . my friend and I both tried to buy tickets for their show in DC this morning and they sold out in less than a minute. So bummed :(
• Everyone loves safety dance!!
@YOU CAN LEAVE YOUR FRIENDS BEHIND
[Editor’s Note: I worked at a sandwich shop over the summer and they played Safety Dance every hour. I no longer love Safety Dance.]
• @ person trying to get me to date a Methodist: Yeah, you guys are nice. I just really liked this particular guy.  Oh well. 
• If women only gym hours are actually instituted I want a reduction in tuition of all males as Fitness Center are a part of it and if I have less access than women do, my fees should therefore be lower. Women only gym hours is just going too far
• @"Maybe tuition could go down if we didn’t piss away money on the incompetent behemoth that is student involvement."  So true.  I didn't come here because I wanted a school run by a bunch of preachy little kids.  I want a school run by academic professionals, and I'm glad they don't role over for every Kucinich wannabe.
• @"there's a calm before the storm" I know, it's been coming for some timee
• "Most whites are not attracted to people outside their race, nothing racist about that. I have no sexual attraction for non whites."
wow, speak for yourself. I don't really care if you're racist, but please don't try to make everyone think that I'm racist too just because I'm white. I am often attracted to people who do not have white skin.
• @"How about we just abolish SG, SA, CAUS, and all of it, and have no student involvement in professional administrative matters- lets all hold hands, sit down, and shut up so the professionals can get stuff done." Spoken like a true Stalinist! Maybe we should apply this model to the whole country and let "professionals" run everything while the silly people effected by these decisions sit by quietly and respectfully.
• I love how my friend group here is like a lifeboat of down-to-earth people in a sea of pretentiousness. To those of you who feel like being nice gets you nowhere on this campus, trust me, there are friendly, small town people here that don't go out of their way to look superior over others.
• In love with my awkwardly adorable TA #help
• @Rants Editor you da best
[Editor’s Note: Thanks!]
• Is this the Krusty Krab?
[Editor’s Note: No, this is Patrick.]
• When you get down to brass tacks, Kendra Lee is as sexist as the guy wearing that t-shirt.
• House of Cards kicks ass.  I found it today and watched the first seven episodes in a row.
• My best friend and I realized that the price of sticky snowballs would skyrocket whenever a war started on neopets since they're really good battledome weapons for beginners.  So we bought a load of them and turned them over for hundreds of thousands of neopoints.  That was a lot at the time, not sure what the inflation situation is now.  Then we graduated fourth grade and got bored of playing online games targeted at the 6-12 demographic.
• kevin sutherland claims no one reads rants anymore, what kind of AUSG secretary is that?! im calling BS
• @au is kinda gay. AU is super, crazy, flaming, hopelessly gay! But damn proud of it! Let is pride in our gays!
• We need to get rid of Black history month once and for all. All it leads to is more white guilt and blacks feeling superior. I freaking hate it. 
• Kendra Lee's opinion piece was more about her eating disorder than it was about anything else.  No one touched her, said anything to her, or even noticed her.  A t-shirt had some words that hurt her feels!!!  Boo-hoo!
I thought law students were supposed to be mature?  Or tough?  I wouldn't want a lawyer who sees some words and runs away to sulk and throw shade.
• Violent t-shirts???  OH NOES!  These t-shirts are violent!
GUYS, you've got to throw out all of your t-shirts!  They are violent.  The t-shirts in your dresser might become violent and attack you.  EVERYBODY MUST THROW OUT all of their t-shirts right now.  
If they have words on them, BURN THEM!  These t-shirts will stop at nothing until they have attacked everyone--including you.  Death to t-shirts.  It's us or them!
• Coming from someone who typically wears shirts one may find politically incorrect, I find it hilarious that the IFC thinks they can take away and prevent the use of private property. 
• The irony is that Kendra Lee WSL '14 agrees with the t-shirt's message.  She's not in the gym and struggling to manage her appetite becuase she thinks fat girls are beautiful (though they can be).
Her piece reads like she's one of those girls who doesn't respect her fatter sisters and doesn't think anyone has any worth unless they are skinny.  
The t-shirt offended her because it told her that what she believes is true.
• @" If I ever meet someone who expresses the misogynistic, despicable opinions which are appearing on the article about the shirt, I will literally castrate them, regardless of gender."
If I ever meet someone who expresses such disregard and apathy towards free speech and private property which are appearing on the above comment, I will literally castrate them, regardless of gender.
• Women's only gym hours would be completely unfair to men who barely have enough time or space to work out at JFC. I hope no one tries to push this agenda! If anything they could make a separate gym that is just for women. We all pay the same amount for the gym you aren't special. 
• Can somebody please explain what is going on with AUSG? I feel clueless and have not seen a good explanation. 
• Would other people be interested in starting a Dance Marathon at AU? Basically, like THON at Penn State and tons of other schools around the country. We need some school spirit, y'all!
• You seemed into me. Now I'm not sure what to think. My gaydar is all sorts of messed up. I don't want to give up on you, and you'd be my perfect Valentine.
• its so much fun staying home on the weekends doing homework at night....not
Loading...
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
