Reggie Tankard is a freshman from the Bronx who plays third baseman on AU’s club baseball team. The Eagles’ club baseball team went 1-1  against York College of Pennsylvania on October 6. The team is 1-1 overall and will play Howard at  Montgomery Blair High School on Friday.
Reggie sat down with the Eagle this week to talk with about baseball, school and life. The Club Student-Athlete of the Week is determined by the leadership of the specific team
Alex Romero: Tell me about your teams performance in last week’s two games against York College of Pennsylvania.
Reggie Tankard: I think we played well for the first two games of the season. Our team chemistry will grow further on in the season, but for our first outing we fought hard. The defense played great and the offense got better throughout the day. We lost the first game 9-3 and won the second 7-6 in extra innings.
AR: How was your performance during last week’s games?
RT: In the first inning I hit a double and after that hit it just all came back to me. I felt like I was back into the baseball mode and it all felt natural from then on. Overall I scored two runs, had four RBI’s and went four for five hitting with a triple, two doubles and single.
AR: What are your personal goals for this season?
RT: Well, I heard we haven’t won many games in recent seasons. And coming from my background where my baseball team was the district champions I’m used to winning. I made a goal to get a few games under our belt. And I’m glad we started on a strong note with a win this weekend.
AR: Tell me about your coach.
RT: Our coach is Chris Grassano and he is a junior here at AU. He’s a great coach and is team captain too. He helps out the people who are less experienced, explains the game to everyone, and tries to get everyone playing time.
AR: What is the leadership presence on the team?
RT: The players who are more experienced take on a tougher role. Since I’ve been playing for a while I try to help teammates out, give them tips on how to track fly balls and get their glove down to a fielders triangle. When it comes to leadership there’s the head coach on the team then there are some peer mentors.
AR: How long have you been playing baseball?
RT: I’ve been playing since I was eight so about 10 years now, but it feels like all my life. 
AR: So what’s your motivation to play at AU on a club team considering you don’t get the publicity or scholarships of the varsity sport athletes?
RT: I don’t mind the lack of publicity, I just do what I have to do for us to win games. And as long as there’s some sort of organized baseball I enjoy doing it.
AR: What can AU do to improve club sports?
RT: Help with funding because we have to do a lot of fundraising to pay for transportation, ref’s and umpires, so that’d be a first. Then they need to provide more field space and availability for us to practice on.
AR: How has the practice field situation affected you and your team?
RT: Since there’s not much practice fields available for us to use, we sometimes go to Massachusetts Avenue field. And often times there’s little league kids there so we have to use the sides and just throw and soft toss so we don’t get much of a practice in. For when we can’t get much practice in I just remember what I was taught when I was little and just go out there and do my best.
AR: Outside of baseball what do you do for fun at AU?
RT: I try to stay very active. I play basketball and football a lot and I enjoy hanging out with my friends.
AR: What’s your favorite class at AU?
RT:  My business 1.0 class with Professor White. He’s a really great teacher and business is something that I’m passionate about. I want to be a businessman when I grow up, or perhaps a sports agent or sports manager.
AR: Why did you choose to come to American University?
RT: I love business and being in D.C gives me a great opportunity to be successful.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Parenthood: Season 5, Episode 2 – “All Aboard Who’s Coming Aboard”
With the niceties of the season premiere in the past, the Bravermans stumbled toward a variety of mistakes this week. Christina (Monica Potter, “Saw”) plunged ahead with intrepid mayoral campaign, hiring a campaign manager (Jurnee Smollett “Friday Night Lights”) and arousing continued skepticism from her husband Adam (Peter Krause, “Six Feet Under”). Julia met a fellow unemployed parent (David Denman, “The Office”) at her daughter’s school, but this “meet cute” was a little too cute for a married woman.  Crosby’s infant hatred grew stronger as the tears grew louder, and Sarah (Lauren Graham, “Cloudy With A Chance of Meatballs”) once again caught the eye of curmudgeonly photographer Hank (Ray Romano, “Ice Age: Continental Drift”). 
The most affecting story of the week was also the quietest. Zeek and Camilla rarely get big storylines because they’ve settled into their grandparent status, but this week they pondered the possibility of moving to a new home and rekindling their romance in the big city. Bonnie Bedelia and Craig T. Nelson knocked these subtle scenes out of the park, a nice reminder that family dramas aren’t all melodrama and contrivances. Sometimes, people just outgrow their homes.
-Mark Lieberman
South Park: Season 17, Episode 2 – “Informative Murder Porn”
The usual hit-or-miss nature of South Park is a definite hit with the second episode of its 17th season. “Informative Murder Porn” oozes the satire that makes South Park a critical hit, as well as the comedy that keeps audience hooked on the animated sitcom.
In less than 22 minutes, “Informative Murder Porn” mercilessly and impressively attacks the American public’s fascination with simulated TV drama, cable company monopolies and their practices. 
The episode starts with a fleeting concern about vicious documentaries focusing on spousal crime that couples in South Park are hooked on. The violent TV dramas come to life for the South Park crew when a man in their town brutally murders his wife. The students at South Park Elementary blame the homicide on the “informative murder porn” found in that couple’s home and consequently take initiative to prevent their parents from watching the same shows.
The episode centers on Randy Marsh and his endeavors to watch the documentaries. Randy takes several measures, including complaining to his cable company and learning Minecraft, just to access the channels that his son Stan password protected. 
The episode is highly topical, but entertaining for viewers whether or not they are familiar with the episode’s references. Questions and terms about Minecraft may be alien to South Park’s audience, but scenes that like two adults calling each other “griefers” from rooftops paints a hilarious picture that keeps viewers watching.
With all of its clever points, “Informative Murder Porn” still has the distinct humor and characteristics of a typical South Park episode. New and regular South Park viewers won’t be disappointed. 
- Kara Avanceña
Scandal: Season 3, Episode 1 – “It’s Handled”
After a long, highly anticipated wait, ABC’s hit drama “Scandal” is back. The season premiere picked up right where the second season left off: the question of who leaked Olivia’s name as Fitz’s mistress.
The self-proclaimed “fixer” Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington, “Django Untamed”) is now the one who needs the fixing. After her alleged affair with the president was exposed, she needs to find a way out of her mess. Viewers were stunned by seeing the vulnerable side of Olivia for the first time as she wasn’t very “gladiator-esque.”
It’s no secret that Olivia is not the best when it comes to men, but viewers were given some insight into why that might be. Olivia’s father is the “original” Olivia Pope; obviously, the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree. Her hard exterior may be tough to break down, unless you’re her father. “You have to be twice as good as them, to get half of what they have,” he says. Now it’s clear why she has such high expectations of herself and her “gladiators.”
The episode was entitled, “It’s Handled,” which is exactly what the premise of the plot was – handling the leaked cheating scandal between Fitz and Olivia. The idea of Fitz, Olivia and Mellie all together in one room might sound like World War 3, but surprisingly, they all came together for the good of their “unconventional threesome.” 
But the question still remains, who leaked Olivia’s name? Think about it. As Mellie said, “Who would benefit from it the most?”
- Brianna Williams
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The DMV had no idea what Kiss Land entailed, but The Weeknd eased everyone into his 
animated world at DAR Constitution Hall on Oct. 5.
At first glance, the venue for this show seemed like a poor choice. DAR Constitution Hall is a 
huge seated venue with so much open space and a wide, but tiny stage. From the floor to the 
ceiling, everything feels distant. I did not know if the artist who sounds so good in studio could 
deliver on the same level in a high production live performance. And with such moody music, 
the large space didn’t give off vibes for an intimate setting.
These anxieties were immediately put to rest by Banks. Performing on her first tour ever, Banks 
complimented The Weeknd well. Cast under dark, ambient lighting, the singer was constantly in 
motion, gracefully dancing around the stage. “This Is What It Feels Like” was entrancing to hear 
live, followed by “Before I Ever Met You” and “Change,” all tracks from Banks’ “London” EP. 
Banks never stopped interacting with the crowd, conversing in between “Fall Over” and “Warm 
Water” about her personal life and embracing insecurities. 
“Every woman is a goddess,” Banks said moments before she belted out a cover of Lauryn Hill’s
“Ex-Factor.” The audience was so taken back by the power of her vocals and reacted in a 
hysteria of cheers and shouts. Banks then closed her set with “Waiting Game.”
“D.C. is a special place for me because my family is from here, and they’re all here,” she said.
All at once, the audience was transported to another world— Kiss Land. Bright and animated, 
the stage was decorated in neon lights inspired by Tokyo. The Weeknd started with tracks from 
his new album “Kiss Land,” including “Adaptation,” “Love In The Sky,” “Belong To The World” 
and “The Town.”
The Weeknd’s stage presence was literally out of this world, and performing with a full band 
enhanced his voice immensely. Throughout the night, The Weeknd continuously gave credits to 
his band, genuinely displaying his appreciation for their contribution to the tour. 
Additionally, the venue worked for The Weeknd’s vocals, especially when he delivered a 
stripped down version of “What You Need” under a spotlight.
“Even though this is a Kiss Land tour, I’m gonna be playing these… classics tonight,” The 
Weeknd said as an intro to “Coming Down” from “House of Balloons.” 
The Weeknd also made sure to perform favorites from the “Thursday” EP such as “The Morning” and “High For This,” to which the crowd chanted.
The Weeknd wasn’t hesitant about opening himself to his fans, sharing personal experiences 
from touring over the years and explaining what the live Kiss Land experience was all about. He
also showed his sexy side, thrusting and grinding on stage during “The Party & The After Party.”
Of course, The Weeknd wouldn’t be where he is today without his fellow Torontonian, Drake, 
and he paid homage to his homie with “Live For” and “Crew Love.”
“You guys showed us so much close, thank you. And thank you for the number one album in the
country, I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for you guys…Can I ask you one more favor? Can you all 
put your lighters up?” 
Everyone immediately obliged, sparking their lighters and flashing their cell phones in the air. 
The flickering flames set the ideal mood for The Weeknd’s final encore, “Wicked Games.”
The Weeknd completely dominated DAR Constitution Hall on an emotional and physical level, 
making the evening in Kiss Land absolutely unforgettable.
sgore@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Taste of D.C. Festival
Hoping to taste some of the best cuisine the district has to offer, but don’t have the time to seek 
out all those restaurants? Have no fear because the annual Taste of D.C. arrives in the district 
on Oct. 12 and 13. Vendors from famed Ben’s Chilli Bowl to Mayur Kabob will present their most
savory dishes. No government shutdown will stop these gastronomical gourmets from 
displaying the best of the best in the district. 
For more information about ticket prices visit their website.
Oct. 12 and 13th, Pennsylvania Ave. 9th – 14th Streets NW, 12 p.m.-7 p.m.
Taste of H Street 
After you’ve had your fill at the Taste of D.C., hop over to H Street for their festival on Oct 13. 
They have a live auction with items ranging from flat screen televisions to sporting events 
tickets. Taste of H Street promises to deliver a dynamic choice of cuisine from Lebanese to 
Jamaican. The event is also being sponsored for charity and donations will benefit the students 
of Friends of JO Wilson Elementary School. 
For more information about the event and ticketing visit their website. 
Sunday, Oct. 13, 2013 5:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. at the Atlas Performing Arts Center
Ford Theater’s “The Laramie Project”
The government shutdown has affected many institutions as many workers are furloughed, 
including the historical Ford Theater. Regardless, they will go ahead with the staging of their 
new play “The Laramie Project” throughout the week at the First Congregational United Church 
of Christ. The play follows a small town in Wyoming’s reaction to the murder of Matthew 
Shepard. 
For ticket information visit their website for more.
Morning and matinee performances start at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. respectively. Regular 
performances at 7:30 p.m.
FAD Georgetown
The Council of Fashion Designers of America effectively canceled the famed Fashion Night Out,
so the fashionistas of Georgetown decided to take things into their own hands. Thus the 
creation of FAD (Fashion Art Design) Georgetown, which give its own local spin to the Fashion 
Night Out style events. Dozens of high fashion boutiques and mainstream couture have joined 
together to bring fashion to the masses with unrivaled discounts. Boasting screenings of Jean 
Luc-Godard films to events hosted by bloggers E of “District of Chic” and Krystin Hargrove of 
“Be Loud Be You,” Georgetown seems to be brewing a new local tradition with FAD. 
For more information visit their website.
Friday, October 11 • 6–10 p.m., Saturday, October 12th from 12 p.m. – 6 p.m. and Sunday.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Few films this year offer genuinely funny riffs on cinematic tropes except “Machete Kills,” 
Director Robert Rodriguez’s follow-up to the proudly icky and violent “Machete.” 
In this sequel, the film starts off with a fake trailer of “Machete Kills Again in Space,” where 
Machete (Danny Trejo) dons a spacesuit and kills people with hilarious Star Wars-like laser 
guns. Right off the bat, this signals the film’s embrace of pop culture references, which is 
sprinkled generously throughout the film.
After that fake trailer, we open as Machete and Sartana (Jessica Alba, “Little Fockers”) raid an 
illegal weapons sale by U.S. military men to Mexican cartels. When a third party comes and 
interrupts the exchange, Sartana is left dead while Machete is tasked by U.S. President 
Rathcock (Charlie Sheen, “Two and a Half Men,” credited as Carlos Estevez) to kill Mexican 
revolutionary-terrorist Mendez (Demian Bichir, “The Bridge”). Machete unwillingly complies and 
is sent to meet his handler Miss San Antonio (Amber Heard, “Drive Angry”) before heading back
to Mexico.
When he meets Mendez face-to-face, his plans to kill him are thwarted by the fact that 
Mendez’s heart is connected to a button that will launch a missile directly aimed at the 
president. His only hope of avoiding this is to bring Mendez across the border to meet the 
original creator of the bomb, Luther Voz (Mel Gibson, “Edge of Darkness”). Cue the gross-out 
violence and inappropriate humor.
Similar to the previous film and most of Rodriguez’s filmography, “Machete Kills” contains so 
many cheesy one-liners, grotesque violence and terrible sexual politics that the audience will be
left offended if the film was meant to be taken seriously.
In fact, the only time the film sags is when it takes itself too seriously. “Machete Kills” 
empathically comes out as anti-U.S. in regards to illegal immigration, often blaming the U.S. 
government for the cartel violence in Mexico and the casual racism that Americans sometimes 
spew.
In one instance, Gibson can be heard saying degrading commentary about the need for 
Mexican laborers in their space mission. If that is meant to be ironic, it unfortunately doesn’t 
come across that way because the film portrays every American as singularly oppressive and 
unsympathetic to the Mexicans’ plights.
Nevertheless, there is plenty of good fun in this film to sustain the momentum it built. Trejo is as 
comically inert as the titular no-nonsense character as he was in the previous film. The problem 
is, with each successive sequel, his deadpan seems to suffer from diminishing returns. The rest of the actors seem to have good time playing cartoonish characters, especially Mel Gibson and 
Demian Bichir, who give new meaning to the word over-the-top.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Captain Phillips” tells the true story of how Captain Richard Phillips (Tom Hanks, “Da Vinci 
Code”), a merchant mariner, was boarded and held hostage by a group Somali pirates who 
hijacked his vessel. 
The story begins subtly with a plain title sequence and a montage of Phillips getting ready to fly 
to Africa to attend to his duties on the ship. The audience then moves on to a conversation with 
his wife, in which they orate how hard it is that he is constantly on the move. 
After the intensity subtly picks up with deliberation of how to handle the situation, the U.S. Navy 
doesn’t pick up the phone (apparently they were all getting coffee) and Philips is forced to call 
the British military. Stockily enough they don’t help very much. 
The stage becomes set for a rivalry relationship when Phillips exchanges glances with pirate 
leader Abduwali Abdukhadir Muse, portrayed by first-time actor Barkhad Abdi. The first time the 
pirates attempt to raid the ship, they manage to shake them. Muse is more persistent the 
second time. We are then thrown head first into a Die Hard-like scenario and the all too real 
action takes full steam. It’s not that the movie is violent, the film’s grit comes from its realism.
Most of the supporting characters never get their moment in the spotlight except for the four 
Somali pirates. The film avoids making cookie-cutter stereotypes by giving them compelling 
back stories that make them each very distinct from one another. 
While all are played well, none stands out like Abdi’s performance as Muse. Abdi is incredibly 
fascinating because everything about him seems to be counteracted by something else. He is 
the smallest and weakest-looking, yet the most intimidating. He behaves like a child playing a 
game, but remains the most committed and commands the most authority. 
Director Paul Greengrass (“United 93”) presents some of his smartest direction in this film. He 
seems to be a bit too familiar with action movies from his work on the Bourne franchise, as there
are unnecessary shaky shots. He is known for his use of handhelds and he uses it effectively in 
this practically done thriller.
There are also some things that can be explored deeper with Philips, mainly concerning his 
family. This is also a minor fault though, as we get to know a lot about Phillips the man during 
his struggle for survival. Overall, “Captain Phillips” offers a competent and refreshingly real life 
thriller.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Miley Cyrus- “BANGERZ”
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=My2FRPA3Gf8 
In case anyone lived under a rock for the past few months, Miley Cyrus dominated the pop culture conversation with foam fingers, giant teddy bears, gratuitous nudity and problematic associations with hip-hop culture. “BANGERZ,” her first album to fully abandon all traces of her Hannah Montana origins, is neither a game-changing triumph nor an outright disaster. Instead, it lands somewhere in the middle: several songs are excellent with strong vocal performances, but many of the raunchier hip-hop-flavored tracks fall flat. 
Producer-of-the-moment Mike WiLL Made It helmed seven of the album’s 13 tracks, but none top his accomplishments on singles “We Can’t Stop” and “Wrecking Ball.” Most of the guest features also fail to impress: Future’s auto-tuned interpretation of Ben E. King’s “Stand By Me” leave traditionalists howling, and other cameos from Britney Spears, French Montana and Big Sean showcase little more than Miley’s wide-ranging Rolodex. 
Despite these failures, it’s the ballads not the “bangerz” that make a lasting impression. “Adore You” and “Maybe You’re Right” find Miley in peak vocal form, the quaver in her raspy tone doing justice to the darker emotions at play. And for an upbeat winner, “#GetItRight” overcomes its despicably hashtagged title with Pharrell’s sunny production and an irrepressible exuberance that the rest of the album lacks.
- Mark Lieberman
V V Brown- “Samson & Delilah”
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Erw0XvaZ2zo 
With more creative freedom, V V Brown displays an overwhelming amount of passion on her long-awaited follow-up to 2010’s “Travelling Like The Light” album. Released under her new label YOY (You Own You) Records, “Samson & Delilah” drops all the doo-wops, but has plenty of head bops to compensate for the lack of former R&B and pop influences. The Biblical couple for whom the album is named after embodies male and female power struggles. 
The opening track “Substitute For Love” sets the tone— it’s a dark and ethereal ballad, heavy in electronic and synthesized sound. Brown’s operatic voice is commanding as she chants behind pulsing drums and vocalizes the hazardous side of love when it morphs into a toxic obsession. “Samson” follows the same flow, rolling at a gradual place that builds until the climax of all the noise. Standout single “The Apple” bites in deeper with a catchy hook and beats straight from the ‘80s. A personal favorite “Ghosts” blends some African juices in the mix that will stir up an adrenaline rush.
V V Brown refuses to compromise herself and this album is a testament to her artistic bravery. “Samson & Delilah” is the victory prize after overcoming obstacles set by the music industry. It’s theatrical, it’s dramatic and it’s transformative.
- Sydney Gore
Sleigh Bells- “Bitter Rivals”
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cr-ahiFDkts 
Sleigh Bells’ new album “Bitter Rivals” debuted this week, just a little over a year from their last album “Reign of Terror.” Starring Derek E. Miller and Alexis Krauss, the Brooklyn based noise pop band debuted their first album “Treats” in 2010. “Bitter Rivals” appears as a return to the band’s classic sound of loud guitar riffs, heavy bass and bubblegum vocals.
Title track “Bitter Rivals” has the familiar modge-podge combination of funky sounds and seemingly opposing melodies. It starts off with soft introduction of hums and a dog barking then lets loose their memorable hard guitar riff and deep bass sound that Sleigh Bell fans love. While “Bitter Rivals” seems to echo “Treats,” it falls short of even that. The album seems less fresh and original than the last two. 
Despite this shortcoming, tracks like “Sugarcane” and “Sing Like A Wire” have the great pop vocals and guitar breaks that would please any Sleigh Bells fan. The song “24” differs incredibly from their typical sound, but is great in its own right, hardly even noise pop with a soft alternative chorus. Overall, “Bitter Rivals” will satisfy fans, but appears to be a step backwards in the musical progression of Sleigh Bells as a band.
- Danielle Green
St. Lucia- “When The Night”
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Erw0XvaZ2zo 
Brooklyn-based St. Lucia meets the hype surrounding their debut with funky dream pop that will make you feel as if you’re dancing in some sort of futuristic tropical island paradise. St. Lucia’s two EPs, “St. Lucia” (2012) and “September” (2013), have earned them fame in the music scene for their beautiful and sophisticated song arcs. 
St. Lucia’s music succeeds in building a spirit within a song and then making it all pay off in the end. “All Eyes on You,” “The Night Comes Again,” and “Elevate” are perfect examples of their signature style of starting a song out with a slow groove and cranking it up into a glorious and most importantly satisfying conclusion. Not all of their music stems from a tropical background, either. There’s enough variation in their 11-track debut to make for a full repertoire of inspiration spanning several genres of music, from jazz (again, “All Eyes on You”) to psychedelic disco (“Wait for Love”) and modern electronica (“We Got It Wrong”/“September”). 
In the end, the “St. Lucia” EP generated a lot of hype for the band, on which “When the Night” greatly delivers, successfully producing tunes that are guaranteed to keep you hooked from start to finish. This is dream pop done correctly. 
- Alejandro Alvarez
thescene@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As college students, we are usually either hungry, tired, horny and/or stressed out. Under these 
conditions, our decision making skills are often clouded – let’s be serious, you didn’t need that 
cheesecake after your five course meal at TDR. 
So you ask your parents, friends and RAs for advice, but there are just some times you may be 
too embarrassed to ask someone you know certain questions. Other times, you just want an 
unbiased party to give their input. And that’s why we’re here. We want to help other young 
adults find their way through this crazy time called college. 
Jalen is a junior, double major in Communication and Sociology. He has no patience for 
stupidity, so he’s good at telling it like it is. His spirit animal is Beyoncé’s weave and his career 
goal is to be a Real Housewife (Beverly Hills or Atlanta, naturally).
Grace is a sophomore, double major in Literature and Sociology. She is probably either 
watching Weeds or screening her calls. The most played song on her iPod is “Nuthin’ But a G 
Thang.” Her fears include feet and ketchup. 


We’re no life coaches, but we’ve probably been in a lot of the same positions that you may be 
lost in. From feelings of homesickness, to time management or even just reevaluating your 
decisions from last weekend, we’ll get you through your trials and tribulations. Siri can’t give you
directions out of rock bottom, but we sure can.
You ask the questions by submitting a form anonymously for the protection of your identity (and 
often dignity), we answer them, you take our advice and then you’ve got it together.
Submit a question to the advice columnists by filling out the form below. All submissions are 
anonymous.
Loading…
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As college students, we are usually either hungry, tired, horny and/or stressed out. Under these 
conditions, our decision making skills are often clouded – let’s be serious, you didn’t need that 
cheesecake after your five course meal at TDR. 
So you ask your parents, friends and RAs for advice, but there are just some times you may be 
too embarrassed to ask someone you know certain questions. Other times, you just want an 
unbiased party to give their input. And that’s why we’re here. We want to help other young 
adults find their way through this crazy time called college. 
Jalen is a junior, double major in Communication and Sociology. He has no patience for 
stupidity, so he’s good at telling it like it is. His spirit animal is Beyoncé’s weave and his career 
goal is to be a Real Housewife (Beverly Hills or Atlanta, naturally).
Grace is a sophomore, double major in Literature and Sociology. She is probably either 
watching Weeds or screening her calls. The most played song on her iPod is “Nuthin’ But a G 
Thang.” Her fears include feet and ketchup. 
We’re no life coaches, but we’ve probably been in a lot of the same positions that you may be 
lost in. From feelings of homesickness, to time management or even just reevaluating your 
decisions from last weekend, we’ll get you through your trials and tribulations. Siri can’t give you
directions out of rock bottom, but we sure can.
You ask the questions by submitting a form anonymously for the protection of your identity (and 
often dignity), we answer them, you take our advice and then you’ve got it together.
Submit a question to the advice columnists by filling out the form below. All submissions are 
anonymous.
Loading…
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Health Center began to administer free flu shots for students, 
faculty and staff Oct. 7. Students can sign up for appointments through
the Health Center.
Appointments can be scheduled
● Thursday, Oct. 10
● Friday, Oct. 11
● Thursday, Oct. 17
They are available every 30 minutes during Health Center hours, which
run from 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday and Friday 9 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
The Health Center will be offering the standard dose trivalent shot, which attacks three strains of the influenza virus as “the most universal” vaccine, according to Edythe Cook, associate director of the 
Student Health Center. The trivalent shot is administered in the arm with a needle.
This vaccine can also be administered using a nasal-spray or intra-dermal shot, where the shot is administered with a shorter needle that pierces only the skin. These types of administration are not
available at the Health Center.
These techniques have not been approved for individuals with certain medical conditions such as asthma, according to the Center for Disease Control.
For more information or to schedule an appointment call the Student 
Health Center at 202-885-3380 or visit their website..
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Eagle keeper Billy Knutsen, seen here against Navy, made six saves against Bucknell
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Eagle keeper Billy Knutsen, seen here against Navy, made six saves against Bucknell
The Eagles’ men’s soccer team tied Patriot League foe Bucknell University 1-1 in double overtime on Oct. 12.
The Eagles got off to an explosive start. The Bison’s  (7-3-1, 2-1-1 PL) defense was in shambles for most of the half and couldn’t contain the Eagles (4-5-3, 2-1-1 PL). AU kept pressuring and broke through at 12:55. Freshman forward Joe Iraola fought off two defenders in the box and shot from left to right into the back of the net. He was assisted by junior midfielder Stephen Hauschild. The goal was Iraola’s team leading fourth of the season.
Head coach Todd West said he applauded the contributions of all the freshmen this season. Four of the 11 starters against Bucknell were freshmen and two other freshmen collected playing time as substitutes.
The Eagles dominated the first half, limiting the Bison to one shot on goal.  AU pressed the whole half and was aggressive while chasing the ball. The Eagles collected four shots on goal and five shots overall in the opening period.
The second half looked to be the controlled by Eagles as well. Bucknell scrambled to contain Iraola and senior forward Colin Seigfreid who both had two shots on goal in the second half. With seven minutes left, Bucknell’s freshman forward Andrew Leischner scored an unassisted goal past senior defender Cristobal Soto and senior goalkeeper Billy Knutsen. The ball seemingly made contact with Soto but then was deflected into the back of the net.
Bison’s late goal forced the game into overtime. AU had ample opportunity to win the game collecting two corner kicks in the first overtime, but the Eagles couldn’t capitalize and the game was forced into double overtime.
Second overtime only saw one shot, which was by Bucknell. AU finished the game with 14 shots, seven of which were on goal, but only one made it into the back of the net.
In the second half the Eagles allowed six shots on goal, which led to a goal. AU couldn’t close the door on Bucknell and allowed the game to go into double overtime and eventually end in a 1-1 tie.
Notably missing from today’s lineup was junior defender Conor Osborne, who is serving a one game suspension after being issued a red card Oct. 9 game against Navy. 
“We had to pull Stephen [Haschield] out of midfield, so it changes our midfield, changes our back four without Conor [Osborne], then our midfield changes without Stephen,” West said of the impact Osbourne’s absence had on the game. 
In Osborne’s position was senior Colin Seigfreid who regularly plays as a forward but today played the midfield position.
The Eagles will continue Patriot League play on Oct. 19 against U.S. Military Academy in West Point. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Romeo and Juliet” may look as flowery and lyrical as the text upon which it’s based, but it is a shallow and painfully faithful adaptation that drowns the semi-decent actors in extravagant costumes and settings.
Directed by Carlo Carlei (“Fluke”), “Romeo and Juliet” tells the story of the doomed teenage lovers in Renaissance-era Verona, where they struggle to their families’ decades-long rivalry.
The movie is frustratingly by-the-book. Ordinarily that would not seem like such a crime, except for the fact that everyone and their mother knows the story of “Romeo and Juliet.” The movie is so eager to stay true to its source material that it comes across as a poorly-produced school play, but with better set design.
The settings and costumes are rich and vivid, and are true to the setting of “Romeo and Juliet.” But that is probably the only upside to this film.
While all the actors look perfectly coiffed and dressed, they look rather lost when it comes to their roles in the plot. Some of them try valiantly, but most of them seem to resort to pantomime and grand hand gestures to show their emotions.
Most disappointing is past Oscar nominee Hailee Steinfeld. None of the bright fervor that she brought to her role in “True Grit” was in her portrayal of Juliet. She was young and sweet, but came across as so wide-eyed and innocent that her affair with the much older-looking Romeo (Douglas Booth, “LOL”) came across as more creepy than romantic. Booth too was incredibly lifeless in his role, resorting often to pouting and posing to fill up the time.
The young supporting actors weren’t much better. Most of the cast were essentially cardboard cutouts of usually colorful characters, with only Paul Giamatti (“Cosmopolis”) and Damian Lewis (“The Sweeney”) seeming to give some life to their characters of Friar Laurence and Lord Capulet, respectively. Lewis was especially impressive in what is essentially a throwaway role, concealing an intimidating gravitas beneath his somewhat comic exterior.
The film is tedious, but worse, it’s not original. Many complain about the surge of sequels and remakes that studios bring to the theaters, but none offend so much as this adaptation of “Romeo and Juliet.”
It makes no attempt to bring any originality or a new spin to the story. All the sappy lines are said with a straight face, all of archaic behaviors are accepted without fuss. The main roles are handed off to not-so-talented actors, who are given little room or direction to take the role beyond the pages. And the times they try are few and far between.
Essentially, the movie makes no attempt to entertain an audience who has seen this story a thousand times before.
“Romeo and Juliet” is so steadfast in its faithfulness to the original play that it forgets it is a movie. The film lacks imagination, it lacks the ambition a film needs to truly bring the magic of the story to life.
hbui@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Eagle had the exclusive opportunity to sit down with Thom Powers and Alisa Xayalith of The Naked & Famous backstage at 9:30 club on Oct. 7. This gig marked the band’s second night of sold-out stops in D.C. 
Trent Burns: How has the tour in support of the new album been going?
Thom Powers: Its been good. We had to iron out a few kinks when we first started, because we were jumping straight back into the same level of “show” we had when we stopped [the previous tour]. So it’s got to be quite streamlined, it’s very slick. You know like, it goes dark, it comes back and I’ve got a new guitar, and we start a new song (snaps) just like that. It seems really simple, when you see the whole show, but there’s so much small detail that you have to iron out to get confident in doing that. When you don’t do that it’s just in shambles, you know? It’s really awkward and the night just slows down. So it was pretty difficult to jump straight back into that, but two weeks in and I think we’re almost back to where we were in touring for “Passive Me, Aggressive You.”
Alisa Xayalith: It’s been exciting. I mean you can tell, from being up on stage, how many people have bought the album. Everyone’s been really receptive so far, and that’s always good because it’s quite scary when you’re playing new songs because not everybody knows them and sometimes people take a bit of time to warm up to them. You need to win them over all over again.
TP: And we thought it was funny, as musicians in general, you can get a very narrow-vision of what you’re doing in your own little world. And we were thinking about all the new songs; they’re all performable live. So we were thinking about this whole record, and it’s just come out (laughs), so we were going “oh shit, we can’t actually put people through a whole record every single night from start to finish”. And we’ve got so many songs that people already know, so it was a bit of a wake up call for us really. We had to actually figure out how and when to put the new songs into the set. That’s been challenging but fun.
TB: So has the overall experience of concerts and touring changed over the two to three years of touring for your first album?
TP: Yeah well, when we started we were just doing these small clubs and we were just this ‘small indie band.’ And then we got to playing stuff like South by Southwest.
AX: Much like the other bands we played eight shows in four days, and in between all those shows we had press, we had all these other things that were crammed in between the shows. It was just absolutely crazy, but fun. 
TP: So we went from doing that to slowly doing bigger shows, bigger venues, bigger audiences, more radio play and more videos. So it was growing all the time, and it got to the point where we were playing proper shows like this with a decent PA [system] and decent sized crowds. As a producer I started to get a really good idea of how the band works as a five-person unit. And that had a really big impact on the approach to producing “In Rolling Waves.”
TB: Were there any big differences in producing “In Rolling Waves”? You co-produced two of the tracks?
TP: Yeah, we worked with Justin Meldal-Johnsen and he was great. We just felt stuck, like we’d hit a brick wall. We were driving to the rehearsal studio every day, getting to work, and just sitting there going “what are we doing?” There was a stale element to those two tracks; we reproduced them 10 different times and still nothing. Justin came in basically to say “this idea is really good, keep doing that” or “this idea isn’t working.” So he was just this opinion, this voice outside of the group, who hadn’t been working on the music so he could just sit back on the couch and say “I don’t think this or that is working.” So he was really wonderful to work with, and it opened me up to working with someone else as a producer. It was a really eye-opening experience for me, it made me excited about the idea of working with other people on those terms: not because we felt like we had to but because we wanted to get past that wall and make things exciting for ourselves. 
TB: Was that the biggest challenge in making the new album, doing it mostly yourself?
TP: Well we did that with the first record as well, so it just felt like we were doing what we’d always done, except that we were able to use all the experience that we had to do it again. We weren’t feeling as naïve this time, like we were punching above our weight level, or whatever that expression is. That’s how felt making the first record, just that ambition to make an album and to put it out. To be a “real band” was a huge ambition. So after doing that we felt like we could do it again, but this time we wanted to take everything that we’d learned from the first experience of making the first album and touring it and base the new record on those experiences. 
TB: You relocated to Los Angeles while working on the new album, so was that weird having moved from New Zealand?
TP: Pretty weird, but at the time we were so used to it. We were just traveling all the time, so to me it doesn’t really matter where I am; it’s a bed, it’s an indoor area. So at that point it was an almost arbitrary decision. We’d had some good times in LA, it seemed cool, so we thought “alright, let’s go there.” 
AX: At the time we were deciding to move, it was wintertime in New Zealand. LA was sunny every day, and we thought why not trace the summer? Let’s go live in LA.
TB: Do you have a favorite experience from the time you spent writing “In Rolling Waves” and living in LA?
TP: You know I don’t really have favorite anythings anymore. I just can’t fathom the idea of that singularity, you know? I love music, how can I pick a favorite? Like, “What would like to eat for the rest of your life?” That’s ridiculous, I can’t do that, I don’t think life is like that, really. I don’t anything great works like that. I have so many awesome memories of the time we spent working on the record, but that’s an accumulative thing.
TB: Are you happy with the direction this new record has taken the band in? Is it something you’d like to continue with or will we see another radical change on the next album?
TP: I wouldn’t say radical, no. But I definitely think we’re happy with what we’ve been doing: taking everything we’ve done and saying “what do I know? What have I learned? What do we want to repeat or not repeat?” And I think music, or any creative discipline really, give you experience. And you get better at playing and performing and knowing what fits and what doesn’t. Your perspective becomes more refined, and hopefully that continues to happen for us. If that stops happening, if we’re just going through the motions, I think that’s when most bands decide to call it quits. When it becomes stale, it’s probably best to stop. 
The Naked & Famous are currently on tour.
thescene@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
