Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Despite a promising start, the Eagles women’s basketball team ultimately fell short to the Crusaders in a 63-60 loss on Jan. 5.
After the loss the Eagles (8-5,1-1 PL) are now behind the pack in the Patriot League, moving to second place as the Crusaders (10-3, 2-0 PL) stay in first.
The Eagles lead for most of the first half, only giving up the first Crusader lead with 1:31 remaining. The lead would change twice before the end of the half as Holy Cross entered halftime with a 29-28 lead.
Junior forward Shaquilla Curtis finished the first half with six rebounds, four defensive and two offensive. 
The Eagles finished the first half shooting total 35.5 percent from the field, 33.3 percent from the three-point range and 30 percent on the free throw line. There were clear missed opportunities in the first half that continued throughout the game, leading to the Eagles’ defeat.
The second half began with a missed AU jump shot, later followed by a three point shot by junior guard Jen Dumiak. The rest of the half would remain a roller coaster ride for the Eagles.
AU gained a 41-40 lead after a layup by junior forward Arron Zimmerman with 12:04 remaining. After going shot for shot Holy Cross tied it 49-49 with 7:59 left and eventually took the lead until around the three-minute mark. The score would be tied three times from that moment on.
With 37 seconds left Zimmerman made one of two free throws to tie the score 60-60. The Crusaders called time with 26 seconds left. After a missed jump shot by Holy Cross, the Crusaders collected an offensive rebound and take the lead 62-60 with 14 seconds left.
With the clock winding down, sophomore forward Abigail Fogg attempted a game winning three-pointers with five seconds left and missed. AU would make one last ditch effort by fouling Holy Cross with one second left, with hopes of getting the ball for one last time. The clock ran out before the Eagles could get off one more shot.
The last 12 minutes of play were a back and forth affair, but the Eagles had plenty of opportunities down the stretch. During the dozen minutes AU missed 11 shots and two free throws, while making eight shots and two free throws.
AU continues Patriot League play as they travel to Loyola (Md.) Jan. 8 to take on the Greyhounds.
jreyes@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction appended
Donald Myers, AU’s chief financial officer, died due to cancer on Jan. 6 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 68 years old.
Myers fought cancer for “a number of years,” according to a Jan. 7 memo from President Neil Kerwin.
Myers graduated from Shepherd College, now Shepherd University, in 1968 and joined AU’s administrative staff later that year, according to the AU website. He earned an Master of Business Administration in Finance from AU in 1978 and served as AU’s CFO, vice president and treasurer from 1982 until his death.
Myers contributed significantly to AU’s financial growth, increasing the University’s endowment from $5 million to $500 million and helping the University weather the economic recession, according to Camille Lepre, the assistant vice president for communications.
“[Myers was] responsible for the long-term financial health and stability of AU,” Lepre said.
During his time at AU, Myers led the initiative to designate AU as an arboretum as well as a sustainability plan to make AU’s campus carbon-neutral by 2020, according to Lepre.
Myers also oversaw the three most recent campus master plans, Lepre said, which include:
AU’s planned East Campus expansion
the McKinley Building renovation
the relocation of the Washington College of Law to Tenley Campus
Myers is survived by his wife, three children and four grandchildren, three who currently attend AU.
jangle@theeagleonline.com 
Correction: A former version of this story said Myers helped to increase the University’s endowment up to $700 million. It has been corrected to $500 million.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
