Sarah McBride, a former Student Government President and AU alumnus, received a Next Generation Award by Next Generation Leadership Foundation last month.
McBride never expected her story to receive national attention after she came out in 2012, she said. Her latest award, featured in Metro Weekly, adds to the list of accomplishments she has had since graduating from AU in 2013.
The Next Generation Leadership Foundation “is dedicated to inspiring, nurturing and mentoring LGBT youth and young adults, creating spaces for them to lead in a variety of fields, from business to politics to activism to arts,” according to its website. Each year, the foundation selects a panel of LGBT leaders in the D.C. area.
This panel then chooses four distinct individuals who have made significant contributions or have incredible potential based on their activities to make positive change in the community, according to Sean Bugg, executive director of the Next Generation Leadership Foundation. 
“Sarah has already accomplished a lot,” Bugg said. “When I was at Metro Weekly, we were already writing stories about Sarah’s experience at American University as she was making a big impact promoting and making people aware of transgender issues.”
All these initiatives that McBride had put forth aided the panel’s ability in choosing her as a recipient of the foundation’s award. She exemplified what the panel searched for in its selections by contributing to the LGBT community through her activism, Bugg said. 
“From my personal perspective and why I’m so glad that she was one of the awardees this year,” Bugg said. “If you listen to her speak and if you listen to the way she talks about issues and if you listen to the hope and optimism that she approaches life with, you understand that she’s going to go a long way.” 
McBride’s first public statement as Sarah came in the form of an op-ed for” The Eagle”:http://www.theeagleonline.com/article/2012/5/the-real-me, three years before the Next Generation award. 
Her op-ed made national news, drawing the attention of venues ranging from The Huffington Post to NPR. 
“It was sort of surreal,” she said. “It was surreal having what at one time was my deepest secret, the secret that I couldn’t even admit to myself totally for the longest time, it was surreal to see that on the front page of Huffington Post and to see it on sites across the country.”
Since then, McBride has become a leader in advocating rights for transgender people.
“One of the benefits of that coming out was that people saw my name and people read my story,” she said. “I think that the way that I came out definitely created some opportunities, and I think that it wouldn’t had to the degree that it has if American hadn’t been so supportive and welcoming and made it such a positive experience.”
One of these opportunities included advocating for Senate Bill 97, an initiative for a non-discrimination ordinance in her home state of Delaware. 
“I don’t think that I expected to be standing in front of the legislature speaking on a bill on helping to lead an effort on non-discrimination protection just a month after I graduated,” McBride said. “It was my time as [SG] president that showed me how to effectively advocate for ideas and that our best advocacy comes from our hearts and our values and that people respond to that.” 
Following McBride’s success with the passing of SB 97, she has gained distinct awards and recognitions. Alongside her Next Generation Award, she placed into the Trans 100 list earlier this year via the Trans 100 Team, a group that seeks to honor individuals in the transgender community who make a significant difference in the lives of transgender people. 
She also spoke at The Human Rights Campaign’s national dinner in 2013 where stars and activists such as Jennifer Lopez, the cast of “The Fosters” and AU professor Julian Bond attended.
“It was exciting to share the stage with all of those incredible individuals and to be able to talk about my story and my positive experience at American and the work that I had been doing in Delaware,” she said. “To be able to talk about that in front of four or five thousand people was really a great opportunity.”
Above all else, transgender people are still people, and she wants her audience to know that, McBride said.
“Trans people are complex people with the same feelings, emotions, dreams, aspirations, families and friends that everyone else has,” she said. “And I think that sometimes, as a society, we can tend to dismiss all of the other components, all the other humanity in people who are different than us and narrow in on that one component that is new or different.” 
Bearing this message, McBride now works for the Center for American Progress and Equality Delaware. She doesn’t want her work to exclusively focus on transgender issues or even LGBT issues, McBride said. Rather, she wants to continue to help establish the importance of intersectionality, similar to the work she advocated for as SG president.
“I think long term I want to make sure that I’m still giving back to my community, that I’m still trying to do work for not just LGBT people, but for people of every kind of background,” McBride said.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Fireworks during Independence Day in downtown DC. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Fireworks during Independence Day in downtown DC. 
The annual celebration of America’s declaration of independence from Britain has arrived. Whether you’re looking for a tourist attraction or an event off the beaten path, our guide to the 4th of July in D.C. has something for everyone.
Arts & Entertainment
Although the fourth is an American holiday, celebrate other cultures while you wait for the fireworks at the second week of the Smithsonian Folklife Festival, from July 2-9 . This year’s spotlight is on China and Kenya, and both nations have booths filled with art, food and cultural performances all day on the National Mall. 
Speaking of the National Mall, the annual Capitol Fourth Concert will take place on the West Lawn of the Capitol and on live telivision at 8 p.m. This year’s lineup includes artists old and new, like Frankie Valli, John Williams, Phillip Phillips, Jordin Sparks and many, many more. The event is free for all attendees.
If lyrics aren’t your thing, the National Cathedral is hosting its annual Independence Day Organ Recital at 11 a.m. Hear your favorite American classics performed in one of D.C.’s largest houses of worship and ask yourself, “What is separation of church and state?”
Music
If you’ve always wondered what it would be like to be admitted to Puff Daddy’s notorious White Party, here’s your chance (sort of). The DMV’s rap and hip-hop radio station, WKYS, is hosting their Independence Day White Out party at the Howard Theatre, complete with a performance by rapper and entrepreneur Yo Gotti. Tickets are a bit pricey — between $60-100 — but if you’re looking for an alternative to the traditional fireworks scene, this party is guaranteed to be good time. Doors open at 9 p.m., with the show starting at 10:30 p.m.
Not a big fan of gangsta rap? Not a problem. The self-proclaimed “America’s best birthday party,” the USA Birthday Dance Party at the Rock and Roll Hotel appeals to your eardrums and your wallet. The dance party, which takes up the first level of the venue located on H St. NE, is free all night. Host disc jockeys The Lothario and The Clown Prince, collectively The Borrowers, promise to play your favorite electro jams. Doors open for the show at 10 p.m., right when the party is set to begin.
Another free dance party option for the 21  crowd is the Coalbox Indie Dance Party at DC9. Although this dance party goes on every Friday night, hitting up a free dance party with cheap drinks ($2!) after a hot day celebrating the good ol’ U S of A might just be exactly what you’re looking for. Doors open when the party begins, 10:30 p.m., right after the fireworks are finished.
Lifestyle
For food, music, fireworks and a good ol’ American block party, stop by the Hill Country’s Backyard Barbecue on the N*ational Building Museum’s West Lawn* from 2 to 9 p.m., where Jeremy Steding, The Slim Kings (featuring Liberty DeVitto) and Jonny Grave & the Tombstones will be performing. Admission is free and although food and drinks are not, prices are moderate. 
The City Tap House is having a BeerBQ Battle 12 to 5 p.m., where tickets for samplers are only $10 and select beers are $5 all day. The cornhole competition is free, so sign up your team today!
Go by Second & L Streets, NE between 4 to 7 p.m. to join in on NoMa’s 4th of July Bash where you’ll find a live bluegrass band, moon bounces and face painting. Admission is free and the first 200 people will be treated to free hamburgers, hot dogs and watermelon.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
When you sit down to watch a Melissa McCarthy movie, you expect to watch her fumble around, saying profane and downright dirty things to people, but still find a way to cheer her character on. Unfortunately, her vanity project “Tammy,” fails to live up to that expertly crafted and hilarious trailer, even if it tries really hard to be the type of movie that audiences expect.
McCarthy stars as the titular character, who lost her job at a fast food restaurant after she hit a deer with her car and arrived late. When she gets back home, she walks in on her husband Greg (Nat Faxon, “The Way, Way Back”) cheating on her with the neighbor Missy (Toni Collette, “The Way, Way Back”) in the middle of dinner. She then packs her belongings and walks next door to her mother Deb (Allison Janney, “Bad Words”) to tell her she is skipping town. With a broken car and no money, Tammy is forced to let her alcoholic, diabetic grandmother Pearl (Susan Sarandon, “Ping Pong Summer”) come along with her. From there, they go on a series of misadventures on their way to Niagara Falls. 
The film was co-written by McCarthy with her husband Ben Falcone, the film’s director. The best thing about this film, and perhaps its only redeeming quality, is that McCarthy is very likable because she tries really hard to liven up the material. She works her magic to make the jokes funny, the emotions realistic, and the characters multidimensional. For instance, at the very beginning, when she walks in on Greg and Missy, she exclaims heartbreakingly “You never even cooked me dinner,” before jumping into a joke. It’s those little glances of vulnerability and self-loathing that makes McCarthy shine. 
But those traces of warmth are oddly misplaced in a film with no sense of tone and haphazard editing. “Tammy” strives to be funny and heartwarming at the same time, but none of the scenes connect in a meaningful way. At the crux of this problem is the film’s rendering of Tammy and her grandmother’s relationship. It’s never outlined properly, so when Tammy says wincingly sentimental lines like “You were my best friend,” it doesn’t resonate. Tammy herself is inconsistent: uncouth and uncaring one moment and suddenly wimpy the next. 
And for a film that has so many funny women in it, it uses them marginally and not at all in a flattering manner. Collette, a superb actress, does nothing but watch Tammy go crazy, while Janney and Bates have little to do even if they give good performances. Sarandon, on the other hand, finds little nuance in Pearl and offers little beyond variations of cantankerous, callous and cruel. 
McCarthy deserves the success that she garnered because she is genuinely funny, but she deserves better material than this. “Tammy” is a failure in conception and delivery, even when its star is really good.
“Tammy” (96 min, R) is in D.C. theaters today.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
