Director Liza Johnson began her feature film career with a movie about a female officer dealing with the personal turmoil of coming back home from a military tour of duty. “Return” ended up leading to her second feature “Hateship Loveship,” which is based on a short story by the Nobel Prize winning author Alice Munro. The film tells the story of the extremely introverted and empathetic character Johanna (Kristen Wiig, “Saturday Night Live”). “Hateship Loveship” finds Johanna eventually getting herself into an email correspondence with a crush, but the relationship that Johanna thinks she’s having through these emails is really one concocted by two high school girls.
Johnson took some time to chat with The Eagle’s David Kahen-Kashi about her film and female directors in Hollywood.
E: How did you arrive at this Alice Munro short story for a subject to make into a movie?
Liza Johnson: Actually, the screenwriter brought it to me. He had already written the adaptation. I think he arrived at it that way. It sounded like he and the production executive had been reading the book at the same time, and they were both really inspired by it. 
E: Do you find that it’s tougher to convey literary aspects about what’s inside a character’s head through film?
LJ: It’s just really different because in a movie the characters have to become legible through meaningful actions or dialogue. Of course, that story has a lot of meaningful actions in it, [but] it doesn’t have a ton of dialogue. I was impressed by the way Mark Poirier (“Smart People”), the screenwriter, found ways to fill in the kind of elliptical elements in the story, you know… So, I think, it was a project of making some of those ellipses in the original story come out on screen because they’re just really different art forms.
E: This is your first feature where you’re not writing and directing. Is there a difference between probably having an attachment to the script when it’s yours, or is it refreshing to have some detachment from the script?
LJ: I think it is different. I think it helped me in certain ways. I worked on it with Mark before we went out for casting and so I definitely feel invested in it and stuff. I didn’t feel remote from it. But nevertheless, I definitely had more distance than if I wrote it myself. I don’t know if it’s better or worse, but it definitely had some good attributes because a little distance can be a helpful thing.
E: The most striking element about “Hateship Loveship” is the casting of Kristen Wiig. Her performance is one that says a lot without saying too much. What was it like placing her in such a restrained role?
LJ: She’s a really smart person. She has one of the fastest, most reflexive intelligences of anyone I’ve ever met. I felt that it’s obviously the style of “Saturday Night Live” that she’s much different than in this movie. With “SNL” you have a really short time to create a character, and also it’s a comedy show, obviously. So she’s really operating at a very different register in this movie. But I felt that from her body of work that she has a lot of characters that address some of the same things that Alice Munro’s characters has. Alice Munro has comedy, but no one has ever called her a comic writer that I know of, but nevertheless, what’s underneath Kristen’s comedy is a lot of empathy or resonance with some of the things in this character, and I just thought that she would really understand the character.
E: Under any other circumstances it might seem like these characters might be unlikable, but in the film, it seems as though you’ve extended a lot of generosity toward them. How do you find a balance between finding their wrinkles and failures and giving those characters their redemption?
LJ: That’s such a nice question. I mean, I think that I feel empathy for all those characters and I think that Alice Munro does to like in her story the teenage girls come off more sympathetic than they do come off in my film. Although, I hope their sympathetic in my film as well, you know, because they’re also reacting out of embarrassment all the time. Where Sabitha is embarrassed because her dad’s embarrassing, and Edith is embarrassed because she doesn’t have as much money as everyone else. I don’t think it’s that they’re deeply mean people. It’s that they do a couple of mean gestures because they’re reacting off of their own embarrassment and their own feelings. I think that’s all how we really are. It’s not that we all behave heroically all the time or that we’re deeply evil, it’s just that as we encounter one another we get in situations where we either behave well or we don’t and to me that’s something good to try and have sympathy for.
E: There’s a motel that you shot at that looks familiarly like the one in “Dallas Buyers Club.” Is it the same one?
LJ: It actually is. In fact, they had the office next to us and shot that movie immediately after ours. So in truth, our motel is the one in their movie. It’s a great location, and I actually really liked that movie so when I saw it. We have a lot of the same producers, and I wrote to the producers [and] proposed a sequel where Johanna, and kinda some of the people who are alive at the end of “Dallas Buyer’s Club,” maybe they franchise [the movie] and shoot in South Africa.
E: Do you think there are ample opportunities for female directors in Hollywood?
LJ: Well, I can only say that I’ve been treated really well by the men and women that I work with. So I don’t have a lot personally to complain about, and I think that the people I know about working in Hollywood are interested in women and supportive of women. I think that it’s really helpful when there’s a movie like “Bridesmaids” or maybe “12 Years a Slave” is doing well, you know, because I think the trouble is people need to have more confidence that there is a marketplace for films about women.
For anybody who is themselves in a minoritarian subject position, or working in a minoritarian topics, I think it’s really helpful when there are films that kind of demonstrate there’s an audience and an economic reason for those movies to exist. I feel like that’s really the thing that we all need to keep working on. 
I’ve never had somebody…well once I’ve had somebody tell me that they didn’t wanna. Once I had a French company tell me they were already making a film with a woman this year so they were all good on women. With that exception, I think it’s more that people have to confidence in the marketplace that the marketplace does take an interest in women. It obviously does, women go to the movies all the time. So for me that’s what I hope for, not just for myself, but for others. 
dkahen-kashi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A crowd of mostly adolescent and pre-teen Iggy Azalea fans shoved and swayed on the dance floor at the Fillmore Silver Spring at the up-and-coming artist’s May 2 show. 
Sponsored by Monster Energy and Idol Roc Entertainment, the District stop gave fans high energy and trap-influenced pop. The show was a part of the rising star’s The New Classic tour.
The Fillmore’s was packed with significantly underdressed American Apparel-clad teens dancing to popular hits and belting out lyrics to familiar songs like“Turn Down for What” and “Get Low” before Azalea took the stage. Energy was high and the crowd was ready for Azalea to take her place on the well-crafted Miami Vice-esque stage. 
In-between the and Azalea’s appearance, fans started several half-hearted chanting rounds of “Iggy, Iggy” during the wait. After lighting was properly set and an emcee announced Azalea’s imminent start to the show, the crowd exploded with phones in the air ready to capture her first appearance on stage. When Azalea came out in full glory, she started the show with “My World” from her 2012 EP “Ignorant Art” and “[F***] Love” from her latest album “The New Classic.” 
Per her aesthetic, Azalea started the show with an evident trap influence mixed with rap and pop as she beckoned fans to “drop that sh*t” while performing the track of the same name from “Ignorant Art.” Throughout the show, Azalea tried to maintain the bombastic energy the show started with but seemed tired, frequently rotating between standing and sitting during the second half of the show. Despite her tired demeanor, Azalea flashed a genuine smile as teenyboppers chanted the chorus to her song “Pu$$y.” 
During the last half of her show, Azalea played popular tracks “Fancy” and “Popular,” which have put her on the map as an up and coming hip-hop artist. She successfully finished out the set with, arguably, her most familiar song “Work” to a highly enthused crowd.
jsmith@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU School of Public Affairs professor Robert Johnson is a busy man.
By day, he teaches courses in the Department of Justice, Law and Criminology (JLC), mostly on the topics of the prison system and social justice. 
When he’s not teaching courses, Johnson oversees and helps to develop a student-run publishing press about these same topics.
In 2006, Johnson was incorporating creative writing into one of his courses (“Prison Stories”) when he decided to expand this kind of work outside of the classroom. He found that the best way to get students to connect with prisoners was through reading their poetry. Roberts soon began writing poetry from the perspective of prisoners himself and encouraging his students to do so as well. By combining his experience in creative writing with his passion for justice in the prison system, BleakHouse Publishing was created.
The name of the press, Johnson said, reflects the bleak reality of human suffering and the human condition. For that reason, subject matter published by BleakHouse is not necessarily limited to literal prisons, but other situations that are conducive to the feeling of being trapped.
“The point of the press is to give people who normally don’t have a voice about the margins of society an effective voice,” Johnson said. 
Though Johnson is the founding editor and publisher, BleakHouse is an otherwise student-run organization. 
“In many ways, it’s kind of a uniquely driven student operation, powered by the enthusiasm of students and the talent of students,” Johnson said. 
Nora Kirk, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, is the chief development officer of the press. She is responsible for reaching out to the community outside of AU and bringing awareness to BleakHouse. 
“It’s millions of people that are a part of our population, and they’re just this hidden component that we don’t ever think about in our day-to-day lives. So I like to think of BleakHouse as a channel, or a way to express this almost forgotten population,” Kirk said. “I think these issues are so much better expressed, it’s so much easier to connect to them on a human basis, when they’re expressed through art and creative writing and literature.”
BleakHouse publishes annual issues of Tacenda Literary Magazine, an online graphic design magazine called The BleakHouse Review and an annual poetry anthology. All works feature the combined voices of AU students and incarcerated or formerly incarcerated writers. BleakHouse also has an online art gallery where the works of prisoners are digitally on display. 
Johnson, Kirk and the rest of BleakHouse intend to expand through collaboration with Free Minds, a book club aimed at young inmates, and through hosting a larger number of readings in the prison community. 
“There’s a certain amount of spontaneity about how [BleakHouse] will evolve, but its generally getting better and better over time,” Johnson said. 
_
Purchase copies of BleakHouse publications online or through contacting Professor Robert Johnson. _
tsackman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
An AU student caught the attention of Time, the Washington Post and InTheCapital after devising a new way students can easily trade or receive meal swipes by using Tinder.
Julia Reinstein, a junior in School of Communication and College of Arts and Sciences, created a Tumblr account called Swipe for Swipes after realizing there was a better way for students to find meals in the last stretch of the semester.
“It’s gotten so much bigger than I expected. Tons of students have put the Swipe for Swipes info in their Tinder bios, so it seems like it’s is really catching on. “ Reinstein said.
Swipe for Swipes may have garnered new users, but the Time, Washington Post and InTheCapital articles question if the system works. 
Washington Post writer Caitlin Dewey tried the system without success.
“After swiping through at least three dozen Tinder profiles, I encountered not a single meal offer or request,” Dewey said in her article.
Reinstein says that the system might not have worked for the writers at the Washington Post and InTheCapital because they did not limit their search to people in the AU and Tenleytown area.
“Unless the reporters specifically came to campus to test it out, the fact that it didn’t work for them means it’s working,” Reinstein said.
Despite not working for a few people, Reinstein’s says she’s seen many students use the system in the early stages.
“The first few days after I made the Tumblr, I would swipe through Tinder just to look for who was doing it,” Reinstein’s said in an email. “I found at least 30 people, but the idea spread so far after that I lost the ability to track who was actually doing it.”
Reinstein’s Tumblr instructs students to make an account on the dating app Tinder and change the information in the “About Me” section to “I need a meal swipe” or “I have spare meal swipes.” Then, students can be matched with other students that have meal swipes.
“Most students with excessive swipes are underclassmen, and many students short on swipes are upperclassmen – and most of the time, these groups don’t cross paths very often,” Reinstein said. “I figured if there was a way I could pair up students who don’t know each other for a meal, everyone would benefit – but how can students who don’t know each other find each other? Then it hit me: Tinder.”
Reinstein advertised the Tumblr account in the Facebook group ‘Free and For Sale’ used by AU students. 
Reinstein mentioned she has plans to find other ways Tinder could be useful outside of dating.
“I’ve thought a lot about how useful an app similar to Tinder would be for matching up people to split cabs,” Reinstein said.  “For example, if you’re at Union Station and want to share a cab to Dupont Circle, you could log in and find people to split one with. I want to invent this and name it Splitsville.”
jsmith@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
