The Eagles outscored the Brown University Bears 37-21 in the second half on Dec. 3 to take a decisive 66-49 win in Providence, Rhode Island.
Junior guard Jesse Reed led all scorers with 22 points, shooting an efficient 6-10 from the field, and he hit all of his three-point attempts. Junior center Zach Elcano scored a career-high 13 points and blocked two shots during his 38 minutes of play. Senior point guard Darius “Pee Wee” Gardner stuffed the stat sheet with eight points, eight rebounds, three assists, four steals and one block. 
Brown (3-6, 0-0 Ivy) raced out to a 17-9 lead at the beginning of the first half. The Eagles persevered, however, using a 17-3 run in the middle of the second half to gain a one point advantage going into halftime. 
"Brown has some good size and is a very good team,” head coach Mike Brennan said, according to a press release. “Our guys down low have worked very hard and did well for us tonight. We often talk about getting better every day, and even though we are playing several games in a short amount of time, I thought we did a good job of doing that tonight."
The Eagles (5-3, 0-0 PL) tightened up their defense in the second half, and Brown only hit 28 perent of their shots as a result. AU also converted 12 Brown turnovers into 16 points. 
Brown was lead by Leland King, who registered a double-double, scoring 11 points and grabbing 13 rebounds, and Cedric Kuakumensah, who poured in 17 points. 
mholt@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers resumed work on Dec. 1 to clean up and remove possible chemical munition on AU’s property, according to a memo released by President Kerwin’s Chief of Staff David Taylor.
The work is being done near the southwest corner of campus by Watkins Building and the edge of Jacobs Field at the University-owned property 4825 Glenbrook Road. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has previously unearthed World War I chemical munitions in this area while cleaning arsenic from soil over the last 20 years, The Eagle previously reported.
“This new phase of the project entails the exploration of an area where World War I era munitions were previously discovered,” Taylor said in the memo. “Tests conducted on munitions removed from this site indicate the possible presence of chemical agents.”
The cleanup will take place between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday within a containment structure with filtration units to protect the University against any potential leaks, according to Taylor’s memo.
Students and members of the AU community should not be at risk of exposure to chemicals during this process. The University has an alert system with sirens, strobe lights and an automated telephone and email notification system to notify the community if any unsafe conditions arises during the cleanup. 
“Given the nature of these materials, the Army Corps has implemented extensive safety precautions including a containment structure and filtration units around the excavation area to prevent the release of harmful chemicals into the environment in unlikely case of an accident, and monitors to detect any unusual airborne agent,” Taylor said in the memo.
Cleanup at 4825 Glenbrook Road was extended to 2017 during the summer, after weather conditions caused delays, The Eagle previously reported.
“[The] University’s response will continue to be based on ensuring the maximum level of safety for AU’s faculty, students, staff and visitors,” Taylor said in the memo.
shogan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU terminated its contract with the apparel company JanSport in October, after the company failed to sign an agreement that would hold its factories in Bangladesh to certain fire and building safety standards.
AU End Deathtraps advocated for AU to end all relationships with garment and apparel producers who had not signed on to The Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh. The accord is an international and binding agreement to protect factory workers, according to Sean Reilly-Wood, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences who is a member of Student Worker Alliance and part of the AU End Deathtraps coalition.
“We won our campaign,” Reilly-Wood said.
The University ended its licensing contracts with Paramount Apparel and Box Seat Clothing and suspended its partnership with JanSport in September, The Eagle previously reported. JanSport is a subsidiary of VF, which is a large corporation based in the United States that does some of its garment production in Bangladesh, Reilly-Wood said.
President Kerwin received recommendations to end AU’s contracts with corporations that had not signed the accord during the spring of 2014. The recommendation came from the University's Project Team on Social Responsibility, Business Practices and Service that was co-chaired by Linda Argo, who is the assistant vice president of external relations and auxiliary services.
The project team began the legal process of terminating its contract with JanSport on Oct. 9 because JanSport was not in compliance with the University's vendor code of conduct, Argo said by email. The process was complete by Oct. 29, according to Argo.
“I write to inform you that the legal process has concluded and our agent has terminated JanSport's license to produce AU-branded collegiate apparel,” Argo said in an Oct. 29 email to the coalition.
AU End Deathtraps is a branch of the national campaign United Students Against Deathtraps. AU’s branch is made up of a coalition of 12 student groups, including American Dream, Amnesty International, AU Gamers, Bhakti Vegetarian Yoga Club, Eco-Sense, French Club, Muslim Student Association, Queers and Allies, Student Worker Alliance, Students for Justice in Palestine, Students for Reproductive Justice and The United Methodist Student Association.
“Most students were supportive of the campaign,” Reilly-Wood said.
The group has been pressuring the University to end AU’s apparel licensing contracts with the three companies since Fall 2013. 
President Neil Kerwin released a memo to the AU community on April 21 that the University would end all contracts for AU apparel licensees with companies that did not sign the accord within the next 30 days, The Eagle previously reported.
“I received a recommendation of the Project Team on Social Responsibility, Business Practices and Service, to amend AU’s vendor code of conduct to address the concerns associated with the apparel industry in Bangladesh,” Kerwin said in the memo. “I have accepted their recommendation.”
Contract terminations with JanSport did not immediately take place after the 30 day window, because the University was still investigating its parent-company VF Corporation’s labor practices in Bangladesh, The Eagle previously reported.
AU End Deathtraps attempted to contact the administration after the announcement, but there was little communication between the administration and students, according to the press release. The coalition delivered a letter to President Kerwin on Sept. 5 concerning the lack of communication, The Eagle previously reported.
The year-long student action is seen as a victory for both students and Bangladeshi workers.
“This sort of campaign makes universities hold their contracts to the standards of the accord,” Reilly-Wood said.
shogan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU failed to overcome a slow start against the Dayton Flyers, the A-10 conference champions, and ultimately fell in four sets 25-22, 25-18, 23-25, 29-27. 
Despite playing in the NCAA Tournament for the second consecutive year, AU proved unable to conjure the same magical run that took them to the regional semifinals of the tournament in 2013. 
Junior outside hitter Allison Cappellino led AU with 15 kills and 21 digs, and senior setter Monica Smidova contributed 10 kills, 36 assist, and 19 digs. Junior outside hitter Sarah Katz recorded 12 kills and 10 digs. However, their efforts were not enough to carry the Eagles (26-7, 15-1 PL) past the Flyers (30-5, 13-1 A-10) and A-10 player of the year junior outside hitter Alaina Turner, who recorded a match-high 30 kills.
AU raced out to an early lead in the first set, but Dayton rallied to tie the set at 5-5, and neither team managed to separate themselves beyond several points. They traded leads several times before the pivotal point came with the set tied at 18. A kill from Flyers freshman middle blocker Amber Erhahon and two attacking errors against AU gave the Flyers a 21-18 lead, and ultimately helped them close the set, 25-22.  
The second set began much like the first, with the Eagles jumping out to an early lead only to be pegged back by Dayton in the final points. AU maintained the advantage in the beginning and stretched their lead to 14-11 on a service ace from Cappellino. A run of three straight kills by Turner, however, brought the Flyers back into the set, and the Eagles were unable to regain their initial momentum, scoring only four points for the remainder of the set. 
Despite trailing two sets to none, the Eagles continued to fight and jumped out to a 5-1 lead in the third set behind Smidova’s strong service game and a two kills by Katz. AU struggled to maintain control, however, and the Flyers briefly seized the lead, creating a chance for a 3-0 win. The Eagles fought back to tie the set at 18 all behind timely kills from senior outside hitter Kristyna Lindovska and senior middle blocker Kelly McCaddin. Smidova’s service game helped give the Eagles separation and a 21-18 lead in the set, and kills from Lindovska and Katz helped close out the set for the Eagles.
"I'm proud of our team, to battle our way back after game two," l head coach Barry Goldberg said. "Our offense started to come alive in games three and four, and it was a good battle back and forth. I'm proud of our team's effort in giving everything they had to be successful.”
As it had done in each of the previous sets, AU seized command of the fourth set early, but again were unable to permanently separate from the Flyers. After the Flyers tied the score at 4-4, the set was back and forth, with neither team leading by more than three points. Dayton seized control when they took a 19-16 lead and several attacking errors from the Eagles suggested they were rattled. 
However, after a timeout, AU slowed Dayton’s momentum and eventually tied the set at 20. The score remained close, but a series of Dayton kills after a 27-27 score finally sunk the resilient Eagles.
Despite the loss, the Eagles finished 2014 with a strong season record and several conference honors. AU captured its twelfth regular season and tournament Patriot League title, and eclipsed 20 wins for the ninth time in 10 years to return to the NCAA Tournament. 
The Eagles will lose 5 seniors from the 2014 squad, including Smidova, the Patriot League setter and player of the year, McCaddin, and Lindovska, first and second team Patriot League selections respectively. 
"We have to evaluate this team for what they accomplished,” Goldberg said. “At the end of this year, we're happy—not with the end result of not winning this match today, but with the end result of us being a battling team."
vsalandro@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
