Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction appended
Update: Jan. 11
Adel Ait-Ghezala’s body was recovered by a fishing boat on Jan. 11, according to a report by The National. 
Ait-Ghezala’s body was found approximately 3 kilometers from where he was last seen on Jan. 1. Family members confirmed Ait-Ghezala’s identity, according to the report. 
Col. Juma Al Falasi, director of the Dubai Police Search and Rescue Department said in the report that an investigation would be launched into the circumstances of Ait-Ghezala’s death. 
A Facebook page set up for spreading awareness about Ait-Ghezala also confirmed his death.
“It is with a heavy heart that we say rest in peace dear Adel,” the page said. “Thank you all for all your prayers and support through the rescue efforts. Adel will be dearly missed.”
Update: Jan. 5
As of Jan. 5, the United Arab Emirates Coast Guard is now putting full efforts into the search and rescue of Adel Ait-Ghezala, including the use of multiple helicopters, according to an email from Sajid Anwar, a friend of Ait-Ghezala.
“We can also now say that though UAE is doing an excellent job, we are hoping that UAE will request U.S. assistance simply so we cover as much ground as possible as quick as possible – time is absolutely of the essence,” he said in an email.
Original story
A School of International Service Ph.D. student has been missing since Jan. 1 when he went diving off the coast of Dubai and did not emerge from the water.
Adel Ait-Ghezala was diving with his wife and friends 20 miles off the Dubai’s coast when he went missing. He was visiting Dubai as part of his doctoral dissertation on tourism in the Persian Gulf, according to WUSA 9. 
As of Jan. 5, the United Arab Emirates Coast Guard have employed a helicopter, boats and divers to search for the 35-year-old as well as a privately rented helicopter, but have not yet located him, according to WTOP. 
Currently, the United Arab Emirates Coast Guard is leading the search and rescue efforts, according to 2010 SIS graduate student Sajid Anwar, a friend of Ait-Ghezala’s. However, there was little visible support coming from the United Arab Emirates, and rescue efforts would be more effective if there was additional assistance from the U.S. Navy stationed in the area, he said. 
“The United Arab Emirates is still using some resources, but is not continuing to use helicopters,” Anwar said. “There are dozens of small islands [in the area] where he could be located, but they can’t be seen without air support.”
However, the U.S. Navy cannot join rescue efforts without a request from either the Algerian or United Arab Emirates governments because Ait-Ghezala is an Algerian citizen, according to Anwar. 
“We’ve spoken with the U.S. Navy, and they are on standby for assistance as soon as a request is made either through the Algerian or United Arab Emirates embassies, but no requests have been made yet,” Anwar said.
Friends and family in the U.S. have created an online campaign for funds to hire private boats and air support to help locate Ait-Ghezala, he said. 
Ait-Ghezala taught classes in SIS, according to Lama Al-Arian, a junior in the School of Communication and a friend of Ait-Ghezala’s. 
“He has taught a couple of classes,” she said, “and is loved by teachers and his students.”
kmagill@theeagleonline.com
Correction: A former version of this story said the Algerian or United Arab Emirates embassies would have to make an order for the U.S. Navy to join rescue efforts. It has been corrected to say request. A previous version also stated Lama Al-Arian was a sophomore, not a junior. It has been corrected.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
