During their highly anticipated matchup in the Patriot League Semifinal on March 10, the second-seeded United States Military Academy and its offense took control of the game to beat AU 68-55 in West Point, N.Y.
Prior to the game on March 10, AU and Army already met twice in the regular season in two tightly contested games. Both games came down to the wire and both were by four points or less, with Army taking both regular season games.
The Eagles (22-9, 14-4, PL) had several offensive bursts throughout the game, but its efforts were not enough to overcome the Black Knights (24-7, 14-4, PL).
Army senior guard Jen Hazlett quickly dominated the game, scoring the first seven points for the Black Knights. After AU gained a 4-3 lead on a jump shot by sophomore guard Michelle Holmes with 17:35 remaining, Army responded with a 7-0 run that put it ahead by seven points and 14:36 to go in the half.
Although another jumpshot by Holmes stopped the Army run, the Black Knights continued their offensive streak. Hazlett pushed Army’s lead to double-digits, 19-8 with 11:46 still to play in the first half.
The Eagles battled back to within five points of the Black Knights on two separate occasions. However, each time AU attempted to start a scoring run, Army regained control of the game.
The Eagles went down with a fight. Just before the half ended, the Eagles went on a 6-0 run to bring itself to within six points of Army.
Despite their late first-half run, AU was unable to make any of its shots in the first four minutes of the second half. AU’s two consecutive turnovers helped Army to go on a 6-0 run and push its lead to 12 points with 17:30 left in the second half.
With 14:44 to play in regulation and Army up by 13 points, the Eagles forced a 13-3 run that pulled them to within three points of Army. The two teams exchanged scores until AU came within two points of Army with 5:16 left in the game due to a layup from junior forward Arron Zimmerman.
Hazlett proved to be too much as she increased the Knight’s lead with a three-pointer with 5:02 remaining. The Eagles could not force another scoring surge in the final minutes and fell to the Black Knights 68-55.
Army’s Hazlett notched a double-double with a game-high 19 points and 10 rebounds. AU senior guard Geleisa George and Holmes led AU with 12 points each.
kavancena@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU wrestling team will send No.10 125-pound sophomore David Terao, No.11 197-pound senior Daniel Mitchell and heavyweight senior Blake Herrin to the NCAA Tournament after the three qualified at the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association Championships March 8-9 in Philadelphia, Pa.
In total, four AU wrestlers reached the podium in the tournament.
Terao had a strong run to the finals of the 125-pound bracket. On Saturday, Terao opened the tournament with a 9-2 decision over Columbia’s Penn Gottfried before picking up the fall over Boston University’s Chris McGinley.
The following day, Terao picked up another fall in the semifinals against Jamie Franco of Hofstra University before losing a close 2-1 decision to Cornell’s Nahshon Garrett, giving Terao a second-place finish in the tournament.
At 197 pounds, Mitchell picked up a fall in the Round of 16 before dropping his quarterfinal match, placing him in the consolation bracket. Mitchell would go on to win his next three matches in the consolation bracket placing him in the third place bout where Mitchell would pick up a 15-1 major decision over Navy’s Paul Rands to claim third in the tournament.
Herrin would win both his Saturday bouts, including a fall over Alexander Henry of William and Mary in the Round of 16. Herrin dropped his semifinal match and then clinched his NCAA berth with a victory in the Consolation Semifinals before taking fourth place due a medical default.
AU’s final podium finish came from 133-pound sophomore Esteban Gomez-Rivera who started the tournament by upsetting the third seed, Navy’s Colton Rasche. After dropping a major decision in the semifinals, Gomez-Rivera picked up a Consolation Quarterfinals victory before dropping in the Consolation Semifinals. In the seventh place match, Gomez-Rivera beat Rasche again to claim seventh in the tournament.
In total, AU finished tied with Binghamton for seventh in the team standings while Cornell won the team title
Terao’s, Mitchell’s and Herrin’s season will conclude at the NCAA Tournament in Oklahoma City, Okla. March 20-22.
esaltzman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
