Correction appended
Cathy Lanier, chief of police for the Metropolitan Police Department, will discuss her work in McKinley’s Doyle-Forman Theater on Nov. 24 at 6 p.m.
The event, hosted by the Kennedy Political Union and AU's Office of Community Relations, comes on the heels of widely publicized police brutality in places like Ferguson, Missouri. Lanier will discuss the police’s role in creating safe communities at the event. 
Lanier has served as chief of police in D.C. since 2007. She previously worked in D.C.’s uniformed patrol and established the first homeland security and counter-terrorism branch of D.C.’s Special Operations division.
Lanier has criticized the Ferguson police in recent interviews, suggesting she would take a different approach to handling the protests.
“I wouldn’t bring an armored personnel carrier out as a show of force for a protest,” Lanier told WUSA 9 in August.
KPU’s previous speakers this semester included David Plouffe and Stephanie Cutter, Jose Antonio Vargas, Geena Davis and Chris Cillizza.
Note: The story has been updated to show that the Office of Community Relations is co-sponsoring this event.
mlieberman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Butterfly had always come naturally to Lucy Hernandez, but she has only recently begun to see renewed success in her natural stroke, after eight years of battling sternum growth problems.
"The fly is not a big problem," Hernandez said. "I've always had rhythm. Fly has always come naturally to me.”
Hernandez grew up a competitive swimmer, and she found herself topping the results from a young age. She continued to experience success in the pool, but at age 11, an obstacle emerged from the most unlikely and problematic areas: her sternum. A bulging bone in her chest “didn’t seem quite right,” but Hernandez ignored the issue in an effort to continue swimming. Her parents also failed to realize the severity of the situation until a 500-meter freestyle race in December 2008 left her nearly unable to breath.
“When I jumped into the pool for the 500, I started falling back quite a bit,” she said. “I had to  breathe almost every single stroke just to get air into my lungs. It was almost as if my chest was working extra because by the time I got out, my chest hurt to the point where I actually had to lay down for a while.”
She struggled to finish the race but competed for the rest of the meet, focusing on her shorter events. The competition marked the first time that her health interfered with her performance, and the incident brought great frustration.
In an attempt to tackle the growth malfunction herself, she wore a device that strapped the sternum closer to her chest, but the apparatus only brought more discomfort. She feared the possibility of having to stop swimming, but after consulting with her doctor, surgery loomed as the best logical option.
Under the Knife
Large amounts of anesthesia prevented Hernandez from remembering the exact details of her operation, but her dad has filled her in on most of the gory details.
“[He] said they had to basically shave off part of my ribs just to get [them] to the proper position for the sternum,” she said. “They had to break the sternum in order to reconstruct it like normal people would have it.”
Despite the extensive operation, she only remained in the hospital for four days. In the months following the surgery, however, Hernandez struggled with daily tasks such as carrying a backpack during school and moving around with ease. A swimmer by heart, she said staying out the pool was almost worse than the surgery itself.
“Those four months just sucked so bad,” she said. “I had no idea what to do with myself. I had way too much free time. I remember telling my mom, ‘Can’t I do gymnastics or something?’”
Hernandez returned to the hospital later that year to allow the doctors to remove the metal bar that held her sternum in place, but the two initial surgeries never stopped her from swimming.
She dove back into to the water two weeks after the second surgery with a positive attitude, and she managed to complete sprint practices without too much breathing difficulty. Adjusting to the repositioned sternum, on the other hand, presented a greater challenge.
“It felt weird, like I was almost missing something because I was used to having it out here,” she said, pointing to her chest where the sternum used to protrude. 
“I still have [the weirdness]. It’s  not hard to breath; it just feels weird because I don’t actually have much feeling in my chest.”
The mental recovery, however, required more focus than the physically recovery. Hernandez avoided the 500-meter freestyle, which was once her best event, and she began to focus on the shorter events that brought less pain to her body. 
She started to specialize in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke and butterfly races, and she raced competitively in high school with the hopes of pursuing the sport in college. 
Adversity returns
Hernandez continued to fight her way back to her best times, but her sternum issues returned two years later and further challenged her progress. A growth spurt triggered the bone to burst out of her chest again, and her doctor encouraged further surgery.
The third operation progressed with less severity; she spent only two months out of the pool and approached her recovery with a more understanding perspective.
“I went from trying to wake up in the hospital and get up to just lying there,” she said. 
A few months later, the doctors conducted a fourth surgery to remove the metal bar that held her sternum in place.
Life as an Eagle
Hernandez’s passion for her sport pushed her to continue swimming at the collegiate level despite her sternum struggles.
After being admitted to AU, Hernandez approached head swim coach Mark Davin, explained her goals and asked for an opportunity to compete on the Varsity team. 
“I just basically sat with [Coach] Davin in his office, and told him ‘I can do this. I am capable of doing this. I’ve been trying to do this for eight years,’” she said.
Although she never attended an official recruiting trip at AU, she accepted the challenge of collegiate athletics with a determined mindset, and Davin presented Hernandez the opportunity to act on her promise.
Over the past year, she has dropped over 20 seconds in her 200-yard butterfly fly, a stroke driven almost entirely from the chest.
Hernandez holds herself to a high standard, and she said she looks forward to her sophomore swim season with the expectation of continuing her success, but she remains fearful of her condition. 
“I’m not growing anymore, and unless I do something to really damage my chest, I don’t think [my sternum] is going to move,” she said. “But there is still that ‘what if?’ that kind of haunts me in the back of my brain.”
sscovel@theeagleonline.com
Full Disclosure:  Shannon Scovel is a member of the Au Swim Team.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The 2004 Patriot League Championship team walked across the AU turf during the halftime of the Oct. 4 men’s soccer game against the College of Holy Cross to celebrate the 10-year anniversary of their accomplishment. 
Each member of the team was called to walk to the middle of field as the crowd cheered.
However, there was one name that was saved for last. 
Shawn Kuykendall, the 2004 Patriot League offensive player of the year and draft pick for the local MLS team D.C. United, died March 12, 2014, after being diagnosed with a rare, incurable form of thymic cancer just eight months earlier. 
“He was one of the most passionate guys, and I think it really bled down from him to the players,” senior defender Jordan Manley said. “He would come in and get us all fired up and get us to love the game. He honestly brought it all.”
Kuykendall’s family was present among the crowd. His parents, Kurt and Sherry Kuykendall, are both graduates of AU, and Kurt Kuykendall was a goalkeeper for the soccer team. He earned honorable mention All-American recognition in 1973. 
Shawn Kuykendall is one of the greatest soccer players in the history of AU’s program. He is tied for the all time lead in assists, fifth in points and seventh in goals. He earned 29 assists, 75 points and 23 goals. Along with all of these accomplishments, Kuykendall also had the second most assists in a single season with 11. 
Kuykendall continued his soccer career after he graduated from AU and was drafted by local MLS team D.C. United. 
He only played 10 minutes during his career with D.C. United, but Kuykendall lived out one of his childhood dreams during his short time on the field. 
On July 29, 2005, perennial powerhouse English Premier League club Chelsea FC came to RFK Stadium in D.C. to play the United in an exhibition game. Kuykendall entered the game with 10 minutes left, and played against his favorite player, legendary Chelsea midfielder Frank Lampard. Chelsea won the game, 2-1.
When the final whistle blew, Kuykendall found himself on the field next to his idol. They exchanged jerseys, a common show of sportsmanship and respect in soccer. Kuykendall described the experience as one of the highlights of his career, according to an interview conducted by the USA Today. 
At halftime of the game, men’s soccer coach Todd West presented the Kuykendall family with a signed Frank Lampard jersey that the Chelsea player donated to the University. 
“The football family has lost a fine young man, and everyone’s thoughts at Chelsea FC are with you, your family and Shawn’s friends,” Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho wrote in a letter to the Kuykendall family.
Kuykendall joined the New York Red Bulls for the 2006 season, but he was let go after one year. He returned to coach at AU in 2010 as a voluntary assistant coach and was quickly promoted by head coach Todd West to a full time assistant coach where he stayed until 2013. 
“He’s like the son I didn’t have, from playing here and being an assistant coach, the Kuykendall family means so much to this program,” West said. “The Kuykendall family has been huge to this program and this institution. I always say I can’t do enough to thank them, so that was my small way to try to say thanks.” 
Kuykendall’s impact was not only felt by Lampard, Mourinho and West, but also by senior captains Jordan Manley and Stephen Hauschild. Both athletes played under Kuykendall during his tenure as an assistant coach, and they felt his presence every day at practice. 
“He was really intense,” Hauschild said. “He would play with us at practice and push us everyday to become better players.” 
On Saturday, when the Eagles faced off against the College of the Holy Cross, each player carried Kuykendall’s legacy by wearing his name embroidered on the back on their jerseys. 
To cap a near perfect day, senior defender Christian Robbs secured the win for the Eagles in double overtime with a volley that propelled his team past the Crusaders, 3-2. 
After the game, each of the Kuykendall jerseys worn by the players were subject to a silent auction. The sales brought in a total of $4,192, and proceeds from the event benefited Kuykendall’s foundation, Kuykenstrong and American University. 
Kuykendall created the Kuykenstrong foundation during the final months of his battle with cancer. This foundation partnered with the Georgetown University Lombardi Cancer Center to provide “financial support, resources and above all friendship to families at Georgetown University Hospital,” according to the Kuykenstrong foundation website. 
The team has fully adopted a “Kuykenstrong” mentality,  a philosophy that emphasizes the passion that Shawn exhibited for life and sports, and it has paid dividends on the field.
The Eagles have experienced great success throughout the 2014 season. Unranked in the pre-season, the Eagles put themselves on the map win an upset of previously-ranked No. 1 University of California Los Angeles during a tournament in New Mexico. Their win vaulted the team into the national spotlight and earned the Eagles a 12th ranked position in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCAA) poll, their highest ranking since the 2007 season. The team is currently ranked 20th in the nation. 
The Kuykendall family has a deep tradition of AU soccer success in their family. Kuykendall’s brother, Kris, served as the team’s co-captain of the team in 2002, and his brother J.P, class of 2008, also played soccer for the Eagles. 
There have been numerous tributes to Shawn Kuykendall since his death, including a Baltimore marathon relay group who ran in his honor and a “Kuykendall” night hosted by D.C. United. 
The front page of the Kuykenstrong foundation website, Kuykenstrong.com, has a picture of Kuykendall, dressed in a suit and playing an acoustic guitar. Along with this picture, there is a simple quote. 
“God has a plan. Live or die, I win.” 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I am not afraid of men. I am afraid of a lot of things—the dark, that parasite that crawls into your brain in hot springs, peacocks—but not men. I am a freshman in college in Washington, D.C., and I will admit that I walk by myself all the time and I am never afraid. I go places by myself at night that I definitely shouldn’t (don’t tell my parents), and I have never once felt unsafe. 
Recently I watched a documentary on rape in the Democratic Republic of Congo in my sociology class. I watched as women recounted being raped by groups of men, brutalized, sodomized with branches and the barrels of guns. These women often develop fistulas due to the tearing of their vaginal and uterine walls. They are left incontinent. Social pariahs unable to care for themselves and their children. In Congolese society, being raped is often a social death-sentence.  
I walked out of my class at 1:00 p.m. feeling ill. I needed to get off campus. My favorite pho truck was parked on 7th and G Street so I made my way to Chinatown. I got off the metro and headed towards a row of food trucks when suddenly a man grabbed me by the hand. His grasp was so firm that I thought he had broken my bone. 
“Hey, what’s your name?” he said.
“Hi...I’m sorry I have to go,” I managed to stumble out. 
I tried to keep walking but I was jerked back with force. He wouldn’t let go. He pulled me closer to him and put his other arm around my waist. He smelled like grease.
I started to panic. I was practically screaming, pleading with him to let me go but he was steadfast in his grip. About a hundred people were watching, but no one did anything.        I began to cry, he softened his hold on me for an instant and I bolted. I ran up to a group of businessmen and pretended to answer a phone call as my assailant calmly strode away. These men had seen what had happened but none of them said a word to me. 
In a daze, I ordered my beef pho and sat on the side steps of the National Portrait Gallery. Everyone was staring at me. They had all watched from their perch as one of the scariest moments of my life unfolded like it was some sort of Aeschylean drama, and now they watched me cry over a Styrofoam bowl of soup. I felt like some sort of modern Blanche DuBois facsimile, listless in high-waisted shorts and a striped sweater as my Stanley faded into the crowd. 
The reality is that I am considered “lucky.” I was not raped, I was not severely beaten and I have incurred no fistulas. My experience today was incredibly scary, but there will be no lasting damage. But does that make it okay? Is it acceptable that this man was allowed to walk right up to me and make me so afraid that I later cried and vomited in front of my favorite art exhibit? 
I am not afraid of men. I will continue to walk by myself whenever I damn well please. I will not be afraid of what’s lurking in the shadows. I am terrified, however, of anyone who says that he or she hates feminism. Anyone who thinks that women seeking to live in a world where being grabbed on the street isn’t considered “lucky” is some sort of an affront to men. Anyone who thinks that feminism is about women wanting to have their cake and eat it, too. Anyone who can deny that women disproportionately bear the brunt of poverty and conflict.   Anyone who can acknowledge that women face rape, genital mutilation and sexual humiliation as a product of war and still ask, “But what about men?” 
Equality is not a zero-sum game. By increasing the rights of women, nothing is taken away from the rights of men. By advocating for equal pay in this country and equal access to education in another, men do not suffer. The consequence of feminist success is not a militant-lesbian hegemony in which all bras are burned and men become untouchables. The consequence of feminist success is progress. 
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
