Alongside his latest work with animated dragons, Dean DeBlois is a Canadian film director, film producer, screenwriter, animator and editor. He co-wrote and co-directed the Oscar-nominated animated films “Lilo and Stitch” for Walt Disney Feature Animation and “How to Train Your Dragon” for DreamWorks Animation. His latest film, based on the “How to Train Your Dragon” book series, “How to Train Your Dragon 2,” will release in the states on June 13. The Eagle’s Emily Packer sat down with DeBlois to discuss the new film.
Eagle: The movie seems to be so different from the book series it’s adapted from, especially as the plot of the individual characters grow deeper.
Dean DeBlois: There are lots of fans of the books, and I’ve heard both supportive and negative comments about how we’ve deviated from the story line, but that was the task. Chris Anders and I were hired a good two-thirds into the production span of the first movie, and they were out of time. They tried to do a fairly faithful adaptation of the first book and it was just turning out to be a little too small and a little too young. We replaced the then directors, Chris Anders and I, and Jeffrey Katzenberg [CEO of DreamWorks Animation] just said look, I want a father-son story, I want a David and Goliath ending and I want a Harry Potter telling—go.
E: While the first movie had seven dragons, the second seemed to have hundreds of new and varying types. Were these adaptations from the book, or did you have to start from scratch?
DD: Most of them are just inventions. I think one of the genius things that Cressida Cowell [author of the book series] did was she created a world in which there are endless types of dragons and they all have their own personalities and their own attributes—so we just ran with that. There are no direct relatives to the dragons in the books in this second feature, but we had to create for ourselves a system in which we could build a bunch of them that could all move and be animatable but wouldn’t break the bank. So we came up with several different body types, tails and wings and claws, and you could add on to them: spikes, fins, nubs, with their own custom paint jobs. This gives the impression of thousands of different individuals because they are individuals. Then we had a bunch of new “hero dragons” like Cloud Jumper or the Big Wilder Beast.
E: The second film takes place five years after the first, and this time lapse is evident in both physical appearances and character development. Did you have a strong reasoning for such a large lapse in time?
DD: I did, because, if you think of the first movie, Hiccup’s problem was that he couldn’t kill a dragon. He wanted the respect of his dad, he wanted the admiration of the community and he wanted the attention of the girl he had a crush on, and he managed to get all of these things—and a super cool dragon—at the end of the movie. He’s a character without a problem, which is often the case when you start talking about a sequel. Often times it can seem artificial. I decided that maybe by going to a different crossroads in Hiccup’s life that it would be an organic problem in his coming of age, and a lot of people around 19 or 20 are kind of faced with that dilemma of who they are to become but also faced with the pressure of parents and family and community telling you what they want you to become. So kind of reconciling that, while still forging your own path. It seemed appropriate for Hiccup, a town hero, whose dad wants him to run the town of Berk, which doesn’t seem like a right fit.
E: “How to Train Your Dragon 2” carries a lot more emotional weight compared to the first, which really hinted at more of an emotional bond between people and animals, while the second seems to empower more personal bonds between characters.
DD: I think there was an opportunity to make the characters richer with more texture and go deeper into the emotional moments. I was very inspired by Star Wars as a kid, and “The Empire Strikes Back” stands as one of the great sequels of all time, and it did all of those things. It made the characters richer, the scope was higher and new worlds with cool gadgets and more humor. But I think it was daring, and we gave ourselves that same challenge. How do we take this new world and expand it—increase the fun and epic scale of it all? While also making you care about the dilemmas the characters are facing.
E: Do you think any of your surprising twists in the new film carry a risk?
DD: I think there is a definite risk. We’ll see if the world embraces them or condemns us for it. But for me I would love at the end of the day if this trilogy stands apart as being not only heartfelt but also daring. The sense of wonder is nice, but the moments I’m most proud of are the ones that bring people to tears. It really means they’re invested and care about our characters. 
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The University implemented changes to the Student Conduct Code to align parts of AU’s conduct code with the Violence Against Women Act of 2013’s sexual violence language, Vice President of Student Life Gail Hanson said in an email to the campus community on June 13.
The changes, proposed by the Conduct Advisory Board, come in response a series of leaked emails by disbanded fraternity Epsilon Iota in April. AU President Neil Kerwin approved the changes and they are being implemented immediately, according to Hanson. 
“AU’s new intervention strategies to address sexual misconduct are being guided by the recommendations from the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault and the Violence Against Women Act of 2013 (VAWA 2013),” Hanson’s email said.
According to Hanson’s email, new changes to the Prohibited Conduct section of the Student Conduct Code include:
In addition, the Student Conduct Code now includes physical assault, dating violence and domestic violence, according to Hanson.
The email is the first of three scheduled updates from the Office of Campus Life regarding the University’s response to the EI emails for the summer.
dlim@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU received national attention last spring, after more than 70 pages of text messages and email correspondence, allegedly sent between members of AU’s unrecognized fraternity Epsilon Iota, were leaked to students, media and faculty on April 16.
The documents are dated between May 2012 and March 2014 and do not appear to be a complete archive of correspondences between EI brothers during that timeframe. A former member of EI who reached out to The Eagle on the grounds of anonymity said that the leaked emails had been taken out of context.
The content of the emails and text messages fell into three categories:
EI is a former chapter of Alpha Tau Omega that was colonized at AU on Jan. 20, 1943 and disbanded on Feb. 19, 2001, for hazing and alcohol violations, The Eagle previously reported. 
An unknown individual with the email address “worthy keeper of the exchequer” leaked the documents. When The Eagle sent a request for comment by email to the sender the news staff received an error message stating that delivery to the recipient had failed permanently. The leaker has not been identified. 
The Eagle contacted 14 EI members who were potentially involved with illegal activities depicted in the leaked correspondences for comment by email. None of the brothers returned the requests for comment. The one brother who was reached by phone hung up on the reporter when she identified herself as a member of The Eagle.
A former member of EI, who spoke on the grounds of anonymity on April 22, told The Eagle that the language used in the leaked emails was “disgusting,” but that the emails selected by the leaker took the incidents out of context and portrayed them incorrectly.
The leaked documents prompted students to organize the coalition AU No More Silence, which delivered a petition to Chief of Staff David Taylor on April 24 during a protest concerning the University’s handlings of sexual assault. The petition demanded that the University take immediate action against the members of EI who were a part of the leaked emails and increase sexual assault education and survivor resources at AU.
Sexual violence called into question due to email contents
There were several references to potential sexual violence in the leaked emails, including allegedly suggesting rape as well as intoxicating female students beyond the point of consent.
AU defined consent multiple ways during the 2013-2014 academic year, but broadly the University states that the individuals involved in the sexual activity must be able to communicate effectively and be free to make a choice without the threat of force regardless of the type of clothing, intoxication level or acceptance of a date invitation.
Rape references date back to December 2, 2012 in the leaked emails. There was also a rape reference saved as a screenshot of an iPhone from an unknown date. 
In one email, a member of EI outlined his potential plan to host multiple drinking events in separate apartments in a March 20 email. He wrote that it would be easy for members of EI to have sex if the members got the girls they knew intoxicated and then swapped apartments with members the girls did not know.
Hate crimes and violence described in emails
Language that is offensive to the LGBT community was used repeatedly throughout the leaked documents. The leaked emails also document a potential hitting incident as well as members of EI allegedly lying in court and fighting on-campus.
A derogatory term towards the LGBT community was allegedly written on an individual’s face at the EI house while the individual was asleep, according to a Nov. 3, 2012 email. 
Six pages of EI rush shirt suggestions for an unknown year also make several derogatory statements against the LGBT community and lewd sexual comments.
May 2012 emails potentially reveal EI members covering up a situation where a brother pushed a female into a bush after she allegedly verbally and physically abuses the EI brother.
A brother who was allegedly a part of the situation wrote that the girl had been verbally assaulting the brothers involved and that one brother had slapped her “very softly” and she slipped and fell into the bushes. The brother then wrote that the girl was fine and that if he had wanted to hurt the girl, she would be in the hospital and he would be in jail.
An EI brother wrote, “You simply can’t hit a woman regardless of circumstances it[’]s completely f***ed up and quite possibly the worst reputation a man can have.”
The brothers allegedly planned to “feign ignorance” regarding the situation for the remainder of the 2011-2012 academic year, according to a May 2012 email. “It’s the end of school [tomorrow],” one brother wrote. “Everybody is leaving. Let it die.”
Drug use described and potentially photographed in emails
Adderall, pain killers and marijuana were among the controlled substances discussed in the leaked emails.
Brothers allegedly discussed using or acquiring marijuana five times:
An “everlasting green supply” in a Dec 2, 2012 email
A photograph of a male who is allegedly smoking marijuana outside the Child Development Center on AU’s campus in an Aug. 24 2013 email
A girl who could bake marijuana brownies in an Aug. 26, 2013 email
Access to an individual who can provide “dope” in a May 7, 2013 email
The need to recruit “american kids to smoke pot and drink beer” in a Jan. 14 email 
The brother in the May 7, 2013 email claims to allegedly have access to “bonafide Lucy,” which is a another name for LSD or acid.
Four emails also discuss the desire for and willingness to provide or swap other controlled substances for Adderall, which is a Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder medication.
“We are outraged by the reprehensible content of this material,” Hanson said in a memo to the AU Community. “It could not be more contrary to American University’s values and standards. Assault, sexual assault, bullying, underage and binge drinking, illicit drug use, misogyny, homophobia, and racism are antithetical to our values. We will address them head on.”
Staff writers Alejandro Alvarez and David Lim contributed to this report.
shogan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Courtesy of Mary Caroline Brazill 
It’s an achievement AU is proud of, even going so far as to plaster the statistics on the side of some shuttle buses. Mary Caroline Brazill, a rising senior in the School of International Service, and Eric Rodriguez, a recent graduate of the College of Arts and Sciences, have both become 2014 Truman Scholars. 
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation identifies students with a passion for public service and awards them $30,000 towards graduate school. Brazill and Rodriguez have joined the ranks of people like former U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano and senior CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin. 
AU has been home to 13 Truman scholars since 2000, including Brazill and Rodriguez. Around 600 candidates are nominated for the scholarship by their universities, according to the Truman Scholarship website. Out of those, 59 students became Truman Scholars in 2014. 
Mary Caroline Brazill
Despite a long history of public service, Brazill wasn’t initially sure that the Truman Scholarship was for her.
“I knew I wanted to do work in local communities in Sub-Saharan Africa,” Brazill wrote in an email, “and I had this image in my mind of Truman winners as very government, policy-level based.”
It wasn’t until she dug deeper into past scholars that Brazill decided to start the application process. According to Brazill, the initial application is 15 short answer questions and a section where the applicant identifies a flaw in a piece of legislation and proposes a solution.
Brazill wrote more than 10 drafts of her application before submitting it.
“About three-fourths of the way through, I ended up revamping the tone and emphasis of my entire application, which was simultaneously exciting and terrifying, but definitely the right decision,” she said.
It ultimately paid off. Brazill’s application was chosen for a panel interview, where she competed with eight people for the Pennsylvania scholarship. 
“I was really surprised at how many people were internationally focused— Arabic speakers, Chinese speakers and multiple students flown in from study abroad locations,” she said. “[I felt] unbelievably anxious and honestly a bit defeated. I thought I didn’t measure up.”
Brazill was at her internship with the Department of State. Late in the afternoon, she received a phone call from an unknow District of Columbia number.
“I ran to the back of the office in our big conference room, shut the door, took a breath and answered the call,” Brazill said. “President Kerwin was on the other end of the line, and he told me congratulations, that I had won! I remember letting out a bit of a scream— sorry, President Kerwin— and asking him if he was serious.” 
Brazill is no stranger to accepting awards. She spent the past year in Zanzibar, Tanzania as a 2013 Boren Scholar, where she became an advanced Swahili speaker. That time abroad helped solidify her commitment to working with local communities, she said. 
“I felt most valuable and most competent when I was interviewing local lawyers or holding an hour long workshop with secondary school students about human rights,” she said.
Before grad school, Brazill hopes to spend one to two years in Sub-Saharan Africa. After completing a graduate degree in human rights studies, she said she hopes to enter the non-profit sector and work on designing and implementing post-conflict programing.
“I know conflict resolution is complex, multi-dimensional and challenging,” Brazill said. “I was taught that there is always a solution; where there is a will, there is a way. Regardless of circumstances or emotions or obstacles, I was told that I had the ability to navigate the twists and turns and to find an answer.”
Eric Rodriguez
Eric Rodriguez, 27, is a first-generation college student from the Yakama Reservation in Wapato, Washington.
“I was born and raised on the reservation,” he said. “I grew up in the housing projects. That’s where [my family] still live[s], they’re still there.”
Rodriguez’s experience with public service started early. At 18, he became a volunteer firefighter and once he turned 21, a tribal police officer.
“It was basically just trying to change the philosophy of policing and being proactive,” he said. 
As a police officer, Rodriguez addressed issues like teen suicide and domestic violence. He realized he needed to get his degree when he went to tribal high schools and encouraged the graduating seniors to attend college. 
“One person asked me, ‘So where did you go to school?’ and I didn’t finish community college,” he said. “So I just knew I had to go back to school and finish my education, so I could make more of an impact.”
The best place to make an impact was at AU. Going to school in D.C. meant that Rodriguez could learn about how federal American Indian policies were developed, he said.  So two and a half years ago, over six years after he graduated high school, Rodriguez started at AU.
The Truman Scholarship is not the first award Rodriguez won as an AU student. In 2013, he was awarded the Udall scholarship for tribal public policy. From there, the Office of Merit awards suggested he look into the Truman Scholarship. 
“It kind of fit perfectly, because [public service] is what I want to do anyway,” Rodriguez said.
After sending in his application, the Office of Merit awards held mock interviews to help Rodriguez prepare.
“I think the mock interviews were more rigorous than the actual interview,” he said, laughing.  According to Rodriguez, the Truman interview was 20 minutes, with around eight people asking him questions.
Rodriguez graduated from AU earlier this May with a degree in anthropology and plans to go to law school this fall. Rodriguez wants to use that education as an in-house tribal lawyer. Tribal leaders go to attorneys to make decisions, he said, meaning that’s the best place to make a positive impact.
“It’s trying to bridge that knowledge of growing up, going through the customs and traditions and then having a legal background to be able to interpret that,” he said. “It’s being able to interpret traditional knowledge into a type of argument you can bring in front of a court.”
aseidel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Courtesy of Mary Caroline Brazill 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Courtesy of Eric Rodriguez
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Wailers, the band famous for backing world-famous reggae musician Bob Marley, took to the stage of 9:30 Club to perform their album “Legend” on May 29. The floor was packed, the balcony filled with fans, the stage full of as many instruments and musicians it could manage, and wafting smoke filled in the rest.
The Wailers, whose original members include Bunny Wailer, Peter Tosh and the iconic Bob Marley himself, are touring the U.S. to celebrate the 30th anniversary of its iconic album. Current members include Aston “Family Man” Barrett, Dwayne “Danglin” Anglin, and Kevin “Yvad” Davy. Keeping the legacy of Bob Marley alive, the band performed crowd favorites such as “One Love,” “Stir it Up,” “I Shot the Sheriff” and some earlier Bob Marley songs like “Jamming” and “No Woman, No Cry.”
The crowd reflected the era of the music’s time in their attitudes, age and dress, with a nostalgic energy that flowed through and out of the venue. Even if reggae music from a band formed in the late 1960s is not your style, the music was infectious to everyone. Fans young and old stood shoulder to shoulder beside intoxicated, tie-dye wearing fans screaming “One love!” with one finger raised proudly in the air.
The Wailers sang music straight from the man they adored and brought the legacy and atmosphere of Bob Marley back to life—if only for two hours. The band members sang straight from the soul and filled the room with many different drums, guitars, keyboard sounds and even an organ.
Today, bass player Aston Barrett continues the band’s worldwide campaign to promote peace, love and equality through the message of reggae and Rastafari, an African-based spiritual ideology that arose in the 1930s in Jamaica. Its campaign was evident in the conversation the band members had with their audience about loving one another straight from the stage, and a brotherly feel took hold of the entire room.
With nine players, three of them vocalists, the music rang loud and strong until the very end of their performance, and the only word that can best describe the show aligns perfectly with their final song: jamming.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
