The D.C. Black Theatre Festival is a 10-day long series of workshops, presentations and performances all related to the African experience. From June 20th-29th, artists, writers and producers gather in Mt. Vernon to produce original work. “Detroit Blues” is one of the pieces performed at the festival.
It’s the summer of 1967 and all hell is breaking loose in Detroit. “Detroit Blues” takes place on the porch of the Childs’ home; a black family dwelling within the city while it becomes consumed by pain and hatred. The story of the Childs is one of struggle in the workplace, discrimination at school and among peers and lack of opportunity to heal from great tragedy because of social oppression. 
This play offers a new perspective on the Detriot race riots, starting from the beginning of the riots and ending a year later. The Childs are an average family, not suffering from a lack of money or a lack of talent, but their lives contrast sharply with the white characters in their neighborhood. These differences can be seen in the daughter’s competition with her white classmates and her parents’ competition with white socialites. 
“Detroit Blues” reflects a family realistically during the Civil Rights era, but realistic does not always mean entertaining. The actors painted a descriptive picture of the race conflicts arising in Detroit through voice inflictions and storytelling. The hardships of the time are recognizable through conversation and phone calls, yet the audience remained slightly disconnected from it all because of the lack of action and stimulation. 
The only action within the play is sudden and short, with almost two hours of straight dialogue struck silent with one gunshot. The sound of the gun that echoed through the theater was so sudden and the darkness that followed immediately so eerie that the only sound afterwards was the sobbing of a child in the audience. The ending would have been brilliant if not for the poor buildup and the lack of explanation for the sudden death of a very important character. The audience seemed to leave that last scene with more confusion than shock. The action of the characters in the play up to this point had been free of direct involvement with the riots themselves, so it was hard to accept such a turn of events so quickly.
The setting of “Detroit Blues” is nostalgic with a tint of sadness, yet the characters tried with every bit of backbone they had to turn the stage into a symbol of change. Using the typical rebellious and hopeful teenagers—contrasted with tired, broken-down adults—this play is predictable and slow to watch. 
Nonetheless, the passion of those who participated in the final product is so evident in its lines and performances; the play itself can still be called a success. The story of a broken family living in broken times may be predictable, but it also leaves an audience thinking deeply about the message of racial discrimination. Conversation may not make for the most interesting play, but it definitely reflects the method of change Detroit needed in the late sixties. 
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” doesn’t disappoint and builds on its stunning predecessor.
When news of a planned reboot of the “Planet of the Apes” series arrived a few years ago, it was met with skepticism. After all, the previous attempt at reviving the franchise, with Tim Burton’s “Planet of the Apes,” was ghastly and unintentionally hilarious. Fortunately, “Rise of the Planet of the Apes” was spectacular because it provided a rich story that touched on themes of environmentalism and scientific ethics while the visuals and performances were compelling. This new film lives up to the first.
The film opens to a newsreel of the spread of the Simian virus, beautifully highlighted by the turning off of lights around the globe to indicate the destruction of the human race. The apes, led by Caesar (Andy Serkis), have successfully built their own home in the woods, domesticating horses, teaching their young ones how to speak and write in English and creating a safe haven for their kind. During one of their hunting trips, Caesar’s son, Blue Eyes, encounter a group of humans led by Malcolm (Jason Clarke), his wife Ellie (Keri Russell) and their son Alexander (Kodi Smit-McPhee).
The humans are revealed to have survived the virus, although only a few of them living in a colony in the old San Francisco. Because their fuel is running out, they needed to restart the river dam to generate power for their city with reluctant permission from Caesar. While some of the apes distrust the humans and desire to attack them, including Caesar’s close advisor Kabo and his son, Caesar does not want to cause war between the two groups.
The best thing about this film is director Matt Reeves’ incredible ability to sustain tension throughout the running time. The sound mixing and the score especially help in this case by always implying suspense and keeping the nerves frayed. Reeves is also a talented director of action sequences, capably employing long takes and interesting camera angles to keep audiences gripped. Meanwhile, the visual effects brought the apes to life with real feelings and emotions that made them similar to humans.
For all his fine successes in creating a visceral experience, unfortunately, he could not do anything to make the risible dialogue work in many instances. The actors are stuck spitting out words that are awfully obvious and painfully stupid. For instance, when Malcolm informs the group that “We have to give up our guns to the apes,” his wife responds with a confused look: “What does that mean?” Beyond the dialogue, the script poorly sketches these humans, making them very uninteresting and wasting the talents of great actors like Russell.
Still, the first film succeeded because of the audience’s connection to Caesar’s plight and that is still the case in this sequel. Serkis makes Caesar a compelling presence: his emotions—ranging from sadness to anger—are all too human and his distrust of humans contrasts with his lingering affections for them. The film also makes the other apes more interesting as individual characters than their human counterparts, with their interior headspace more sketched out.
Despite these flaws, “Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” is a successful sequel that capitalizes on what made the first film effective while continuing to be an emotional, gripping experience.
“Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” (PG-13, 130 min) will be released in D.C. theaters on Friday, July 11.
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
