February officially begins in terms of big box office releases with three new contenders and a smattering of independent releases. A couple of cold-blooded vampire school kids go head-to-head with grisled WWII art historians and blockbusting LEGO men. See what the critics had to say about this weeks offerings at the cinema.
1. The Monuments Men
George Clooney (“The Ides of March”) and his band of brothers including Bill Murray (“The Grand Budapest Hotel”) and John Goodman (“Inside Llewyn Davis”) seem to have hit up upon monumental wall of critical fury over the films profligate historical omissions, causing The Guardian to write a missive against the exclusion of Ronald Balfour. Some have even taken to flaying the score by Alexandre Desplat (“Zero Dark Thirty”) with Flavorwire’s Jason Bailey writing “when that information was revealed at the end of the film (it’s one of those movies that saves all the credits, except the title, for the end), this viewer was stunned. After two hours of wondering what hack was responsible for this obtrusive, garbage music, I certainly wasn’t expecting to see this six-time Oscar nominee’s name…” 
2. Vampire Academy
Mark Waters’ “Vampire Academy” was apparently so good that it opened cold, leaving scant critical consensus to be found. Even though the film was written Daniel Waters, whose “Heathers” outranks “Mean Girls” in notable and quotable snipes and insults, Film Racket’s Bill Gibron had some gripes with the film writing, “Hoping to catch a ride on that particular cash cow, The Weinstein Company is giving us an adaptation of Ms. Mead’s young adult “phenomenon, Vampire Academy,” he writes. “With a mythology so mangled that even J.R.R. Tolkein’s Silmarillion laughs at its ludicrousness, a stink bomb like this requires the devotion of a true fan to not only figure out what’s going on, but why we should give a bat’s ass in the first place.”
3. The LEGO Movie
Big things have small beginnings and the LEGO people in “The LEGO Movie” took over the box office this weekend. It helped that the film has garnered a strikingly large amount of good will and critical praise. Salon.com’s Andrew O’Hehir said, “What could easily have been test-marketed, corporate-processed crap, a branding extravaganza pretending to be a movie, instead becomes a surprisingly enjoyable and satisfyingly dense family entertainment that pays tribute to the spirit of free play and individuality.”
4. Big Bad Wolves
An Israeli thriller about a rogue serial killer committing a series of grisly murders conjures up little sympathy with The New York Times’ Manohla Dargis. She wrote, “In one of those ill-advised director statements included with the press material, Mr. Keshales and Mr. Papushado invoke the ‘existential anxiety’ that ‘serves as Israel’s foundation’ and promise that their movie will ask, ‘Does being the victim give you the legitimate right’ to become a vigilante? Nice try, guys. Although they toss in a sympathetic Arab character, his pacific presence is soon eclipsed by a tortured man’s agony. Is that the point? Is there a point? “
5. The Attorney
A new South Korean drama opens locally chronicling life at law school. The Washington Post’s Mark Jenkins wrote “‘The Attorney’ can be melodramatic, and first-time feature director Yang Woo-seok is not yet a singular filmmaker. But the movie is carried by its rousing pro- democracy message and a lively performance from the versatile leading man, whose credits include such notable Korean films as ‘The Host’ and ‘Memories of Murder.’”
6. The Broken Circle Breakdown
Belgium’s entry for the 2014 Oscars is an ode to bluegrass and all things American. RogerEbert.Com’s Joyce Kulhawik thought the film was fairly profound writing “It’s a wild scene of pain and desperation, and leads to the film’s equally shocking and final blessed moments, which take us back to the film’s beginning: Didier’s band of musicians hovering—sometimes in the background, sometimes nearby—like a cowboy chorus, singing the songs of life, as celebration, as benediction, as commentary, as pure emotional release, singing in the void for all they are worth, singing that somehow we will all get through it —unbroken.”
“The Lego Movie,” “The Monuments Men,” and “Vampire Academy” are in wide release. “The Broken Circle Breakdown” opens at the Avalon. “The Attorney” opens at the Cinemark Egyptian. 
dkahen-kashi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Chosun bowl at Sakuramen.
As diners stroll by Adams Morgan’s most popular shops and restaurants, they can hear loud music from Madam’s Organ, smooth jazz from Tryst and hip-hop throwbacks from an underground ramen bar. 
That last adage might sound out of place. A ramen bar has Aaliyah, Wu-Tang Clan and pre-“Magna Carta Holy Grail” Jay-Z on rotation? 
That’s what Sakuramen, a ramen bar in a basement on Adams Morgan’s busy 18th Street, is all about. Walking down the steep, eroded steps into the warm bar, you can see the intentional blending of cultures, music and food. Ramen noodles are traditionally Japanese, but Sakuramen makes a note to fuse different Asian foods into the restaurant’s bowls of broth, noodles and other goodies. 
My favorite dish every time I visit, usually to impress friends from home, is the Chosun bowl. The different flavors and culinary staples from Korea, Japan and China are all apparent in the bowl. Angus bulgogi steak, seasoned boiled egg, kimchi and nori (seaweed) blend Korean and Japanese foods in a bowl without muddling the flavors. The umami flavors of the steak and boiled egg stand by themselves and at the same time balance out the broth and nori.
For adventurous eaters, try the Tonkotsu Red bowl. Boiled pork is enough for me to call this dish a stretch. For those not used to the texture, take it slow. But once you get over the naked texture of boiled pork, you realize how wonderfully flavorful it is. The Tonkotsu Red also uses pork broth and ranges from not that spicy to outrageously spicy. I always go for the spiciest of flavors offered. The Tonkotsu Red bowl tries the taste buds but not in a way that prevents diners from enjoying their food.
I consistently bring out-of-towners to Sakuramen for the great location, warm atmosphere and even better food. Unlike typical American dining, Sakuramen uses long tables where diners face each other. This is a great way to meet people and feel connected with the surroundings. If you want a more private experience, there are some smaller tables around the restaurant.
Prices are fair for the quality of food you get as well as the heap of deliciousness in your bowl. Typically, bowls range between $11-$13.
Waiters are also a plus at Sakuramen. They are as cool as the house soundtrack and nice enough to help diners who know nothing about ramen, kimchi or nori.
Next time you’re on 18th, bypass the jumbo slice and take a chance on Sakuramen.
Price Range: $$
Metro: Woodley Park-Zoo/Adams Morgan
2441 18th Street NW, Washington, D.C.
_JM Eats (A Lot) reviews various restaurant hot spots, unique low-profile dives and neighborhood haunts every other Wednesday. _
jsmith@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
