Former First Lady Laura Bush speaks at a Bush Institute event celebrating International Women's Day.
Students have expressed mixed sentiments since The Kennedy Political Union and University Communications announced former first lady Laura Bush as the recipient of Wonk of the Year on Feb. 23.
Despite Bush’s political contributions, some students doubt her relevance to current events and to the University’s age and social demographics, Hannah Ross, a sophomore in the School of Communication, said.
 “Laura Bush may have made contributions in the past, but in the context of relevant or timely current social or political events, she has not been present,” Ross said.
KPU and AU Communications recognize Laura Bush as Wonk of the Year because of her education, health and human rights advocacy efforts according to Tyler Bowders, the director of KPU.
“Her use of the office of First Lady, humanitarianism, as well as her longevity in multiple areas of work was the driving force behind her selection as the Wonk of the Year,” Bowders said in an email. 
Jose Mejia, a junior in the School of International Service, said that Laura Bush’s work was not of the same quality as other recipients in the past but disagrees with those who believe Bush is inevitably bad because of her husband. 
“Laura Bush’s body of work is not on par with many of the other people who have been given that award like Anderson Cooper or Bill Clinton,” Mejia said. “The sentiment I do not share, that many of peers are espousing, is that Mrs. Bush’s last name automatically negates her achievements as First Lady or her unique viewpoint of being side by side with her husband.”
Tatiana Laing, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and co chair of the Ethnic and Cultural Coalition for Student Government, said she contacted KPU and AU Communications over the summer asking for a person of color to be recognized this year. 
“Both KPU and the administration were aware that I and many other students wanted a person of color for the KPU Wonk of the Year,” Laing said. 
Approximately 100 student requests for the Wonk of the Year were submitted and  recognized in the selection process, but those who made it into the final selection did not have availability in the spring of 2015, according to Bowders. 
AU Communications and KPU established the Wonk of the Year in 2012. The distinction is given to a public figure who embodies the characteristics of a wonk—someone who is a conscious, global citizen, according to AU’s description of the award.  
AU College Republican President Nicholas Hunt, a proponent of the Laura Bush Wonk of the Year decision, said he feels that republican views are often dismissed at AU. The invitation to speak at campus offers a precedent to Republican opinions, according to Hunt. 
“We are a campus based around the principle of diversity and inclusion, however when it comes to political identity, those terms seem not to apply. Republicans at American are consistently marginalized by faculty and students alike,” Hunt said. “By bringing a speaker of Mrs. Bush’s stature, I fully believe she will be able to be the voice of silenced Republicans at American University and convey the values and ideal the Republican Party stands for.”
Selection of Laura Bush concerned other student organizations who have felt ignored or disenfranchised by the university. 
Following student efforts to teach about privilege and race on campus, and the AU administration’s commitment to help, the decision to select Laura Bush as a representative of the year’s expert and impassioned person came as a setback, Laing said.
“I wanted AU to recognize that people of color can be experts, can give back to the community and are deserving of the title,” Laing said. “By not choosing a person of color, it isn't automatically a disappointment to me, but by choosing someone so irrelevant over a person of color, that's just insulting.”
news@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction appended.
Clarification: The following article reflects the opinions of the writer, not the entire paper. For student opinion on Wonk of the Year, please read the accompanying news article. 

	Some students and observers were unhappy with this year’s Wonk of the Year winner, Laura Bush. 
American University @AUSG names Laura Bush "WONK of the year" leaving more Qs on what a WONK even is any how Bush is relevant to wonkihood
— Kendall Breitman (@KendallBreitman) February 23, 2015
Ah yes! Laura Bush as Wonk of The Year. I have a lot of questions about this, but first, it's 2015. Can we get rid of Wonk Of The Year yet?
— Leslie Strain (@leslie_strain) February 23, 2015

	The Scene has compiled a list of candidates who we think should have won this year:



Flickr.com - Vassar College

In 2014: Proposed legislation that would take reports sexual assault and rape out of the chain of command by having military lawyers, rather than commanders, decide whether or not to prosecute military personnel accused of rape or assault and cosponsored a bill  that  would require colleges to provide more resources for victims of assault and to take disciplinary action on offenders.

In 2015: Plans to once again push the Military Justice Improvement Act, which was stopped by a filibuster last year.

Why they’d work: Gillibrand has been working hard all year as a junior member of Congress and is passionate about her chosen issue; she plans to continue pursuing her goal in the coming year and sets an example for aspiring politicians.



Flickr.com - Aronson Awards

In 2014: Conducted a year long investigation that exposed corruption in the coal industry, effectively forcing them to pay benefits to injured coal miners and their families.

In 2015: Joined BuzzFeed’s Investigative Desk.

Why they’d work: His dedication finding the truth led him to uncover a story that helped many families and he still has plenty of new opportunities ahead of him at a growing internet news site.

flickr.com- Alan Bowser

In 2014: The AU alum was elected mayor of DC.

In 2015: Supports free Metro fare for students (!)

Why they’d work: She got her Master’s degree at AU, so she is one of our own. She would also be the first person of color to win the Wonk of the Year Award, something many students have been calling for.



flickr.com - American History

In 2014: Fought to make healthier lunch options available to children in public schools and healthier options available to those in the Women, Infants, and Children Program.

In 2015: Introduced the Michelle Obama Nutritional Act in Congress, which would require the nutrition standards of lunches served in schools to be the same as those served under the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program.

Why they’d work: Michelle Obama’s has been working hard to make school lunches healthier since 2011 and despite controversy she will keep pushing further this year.



flickr.com - U.S. Department of State

In 2014: Advocated for ending the wage gap between men and women and condemned the use of excessive force by police officers.

In 2015: getting ready for a presidential run in 2016(?)

Why they’d work: Many AU students are already excited about the prospect of Hillary Clinton running for President and she is an amazing speaker.



flickr.com - LIVE from NYPL

In 2014: Wrote the think piece “The Case for Reparations” for The Atlantic, sparking a discussion about race and privilege in the United States.

In 2015: Owning debates on national television. 

Why they’d work: Coates was able to start a national conversation, something many people at AU hope to do someday. He is driven and confident and could offer a unique perspective.

jvozella@theeagleonline.com
A previous version of this article exaggerated the amount of people unhappy with the decision to name Laura Bush as Wonk of the Year.
Follow @jeanx16

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
