The Mary Graydon Center in 2015. 

	Weeks after a Student Government referendum passed overwhelmingly in favor of converting the third floor of Mary Graydon Center into student space, Vice President of Campus Life Gail Hanson says the University is in the pre-planning stages of creating the new space.

	Hanson announced to student leaders at a closed-door meeting on April 22 that President Neil Kerwin will soon move forward with plans to expand student life space in MGC to the third floor, Hanson and attendees including SG President Sasha Gilthorpe and former president Sophia Wirth said afterward.

	Hanson said in an interview with The Eagle that the University is beginning a process that is expected to span several years. The first step, she said, is that the University plans to hire a consultant next academic year to examine how the space might be used.

	“It’s very preliminary, but this is the first we’ve known that we’re getting ready to do the planning,” Hanson said.

	It is too early to know who will get to use the space, when the consulting process will exactly begin and where the classrooms and departments currently using office space will be moved. There are also many organizations who will likely make their case for space as Greek life and clubs face challenges in booking the little space that exists currently, the Eagle previously 
	reported.

	The space will likely not be ready until after East Campus is completed, according to Hanson, which is slated to open for fall 2016, although construction delays have put the project behind schedule, the Eagle previously 
	reported. Hanson said the renovation process will be similar to previous renovations in MGC.

	“The whole [second floor] was gutted and built out in a way that met our needs at the time…and we’ll go through a very similar process on the third floor,” Hanson said.

	 In 2001, the University renovated the second floor, which also used to house offices and classrooms.

	However, while the University is only in the early stages of converting the space, student leaders praised the announcement.

	“This has been kind of a decade in the making, if not more,” Wirth said. 
	Wirth campaigned throughout the year for more club, Greek life and student organization space.

	“I think this is a huge opportunity for students to really assess how they want their social and extracurricular space dedicated,” she said.

	In the April 
	SG elections, 97 percent of students voted in favor of expanding student space to the third floor. The SG Senate supported the referendum and made it a priority in their spring agenda. Undergraduate senator and general manager of ATV Geet Jeswani, who led the charge to collect 750 signatures to place the referendum on the ballot, is pleased the University is moving forward.

	“Seeing this thing through and seeing it actually happen is so great,” Jeswani, a senior in the School of Communication, said.

	Hanson said students will have the opportunity to give input during the consulting process, though she did not specify how. She also added converting the third floor of MGC was always one of the University’s goals.

	“In our space planning, it always was the case that the third floor of Mary Graydon, when we didn’t need it for student space, would become part of the University Center,” Hanson said. 
	University Center is the formal name of student life facilities, which includes the first and second floors of MGC.

	“And I’ve appreciated the student advocacy because that has helped to underscore just how important this is to students, but it was certainly the University’s intention to have that become University Center space as soon as possible,” she said.

MGC third floor (Cuneyt Dil/The Eagle).

	Undergraduate Senate Speaker Will Mascaro said he plans to make the third floor of MGC a priority again in the fall Senate agenda. His proposals include allowing the third floor rooms to remain unlocked during the night so that students may begin to use the space as they currently use the rooms on the second floor. He also wants to work with Public Safety to determine where security cameras would be required and how often patrols would need to happen on the third floor.

	“Our immediate priority is making that space available to students before it transitions fully over,” Mascaro said, adding that the Senate’s goal is to have unlocked rooms on the third floor by next semester. “The work right now is laying the groundwork.”

	Senior director of University Center and Student Activities Michael Elmore said he had some initial concerns with allowing unlocked doors on the third floor because of classrooms that have expensive equipment, but added “I understand what [Mascaro’s] looking for.”

	There are currently security cameras on the first and second floor, Elmore said, and the Office of Campus Life will work with Public Safety to add them to the third floor in the future.

	The Office of Campus Life will give a presentation to the University Board of Trustees Campus Life Committee later in May about student social space on campus in general, according to Elmore. MGC third floor may be brought up at that meeting.

cdil@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Seven days a week, 52 weeks a year, Tom Woermer is running.
The senior cross country and track athlete has been competing for the Eagles for the last three and a half years with hardly one day of off training. He totals over 100 miles a week and competes over 15 times during the academic year, all while balancing a full course load.
 “It’s the hardest part about our sport in terms of being a student-athlete,” Woermer said. “We are always in season, so we are always doing the maximum hours that you’re allowed to do for sports. It’s tough because we’re always traveling throughout the year. Figuring out how to make it fun is the most important thing.”
Woermer ran cross country and track during high school, but he said that he wasn’t entirely convinced that he wanted to run in college. However, after talking to head coach Matt Centrowitz and finding an interest in the CLEG (communication, law, economics, and government) major program, Woermer chose AU because it offered him the chance to pursue his academic passions and continue his sport, he said.
He saw success almost immediately on the track during his rookie season, dropping nearly a minute in his two mile race. While his times have continued to fall, his improvements have since been more gradual, and Woermer emphasized that improvement is a long-term process.
“The biggest thing I've learned is patience because for running, it’s been a four year progression of getting faster and being able to do more,” Woermer said. “If you have one bad season during the year, it’s about getting through all three seasons and just being patient and letting yourself progress…. [and] just knowing that it is a four year process, and it will all come together.” 
The biggest challenge facing him and his teammates who also compete in all three athletic seasons is the constant routine of practice and the lack of rest days, he said.
“People think that running is so hard because of the actual running, but we enjoy that,” Woermer said. “The hardest part is that sometimes you want to skip a day. You’re tired or you’ve been going at it for so long, and you need a break, but you just don’t get one.”
Although running is an individual sport, Woermer draws inspiration from his teammates and uses their support to help him stay positive during the heaviest training cycles. When asked about the highlight of his four years at AU, Woermer described the happiness he felt watching one of his teammates, Mark Leininger, break a school record in the 10k during the 2013 outdoor track season.
 “In our sport, you enjoy seeing other people do well because it gives you hope that it’s going to work out for you to,” Woermer said. “You’re working for four years, but in the blink of an eye it can all come together and you can have that great race. And when [Leininger] did that it was a perfect example of that.” 
Leadership and camaraderie helps Woermer and his teammates keep the sport fun as they train every day for the entire school year. Sophomore Corina Velazco, another AU runner who races cross country and track, agreed with Woermer about the importance of teamwork and said that she enjoyed her first year as a three-sport athlete last year because she found a mentor in a senior runner.
“I think that because everything was new, I was able to have a pretty good season,” Velazco said. “I also had a great senior leader, Julia Sullivan. I would just do whatever she did, and I had a lot of fun my freshman year cross country.”
Velazco later paired with Sullivan to break the school record in the 4x800 outdoor relay event along with teammates junior Kelseagh Budris and graduate Ali Tyburski.
“I love outdoor track,” Velazco said. “The feeling of the outdoor track is just great, and that’s kind of when you’re in your best shape, so it’s really exciting.”
Originally from Miami, Florida, Velazco spent the first two years of her high school athletic career specializing in the high jump and the long jump for the track and field team, but she switched her attention to mid-distance running events when she decided that she wanted to run in college.
“When it came to high school, I did want to pursue a sport in high school that could potentially lead me to pursue it in college as well, so I decided to stick with track and field, and that’s how I narrowed it down from all the sports,” Velazco said. “Around my sophomore year, my jumps weren’t as great to go to college for jumps, so that’s when I started trying new things, and everything kind of fell into place.”
And things fell into place fast. Velazco earned Patriot League Rookie of the Week honors twice during her first cross country season at American, and she earned team MVP honors for cross country as well. She has continued her success this season, earning a place on the all-time Top 10 list with her performance in the mile at the Armory Track Invitational on Friday, Jan. 30.
Both Velazco and Woermer will train every day for the remainder of the winter as they prep their bodies to perform at the final event of the year, the 2015 Outdoor Patriot League Championships on May 1 at the United States Military Academy. The meet will mark Woermer’s final race as a collegiate athlete, the end of a long journey of daily runs and grueling workouts.
But he doesn't plan to stop running.
“The great part about this sport is that there are tons of opportunities after college, you can still compete,” Woermer said.
Woermer has his eyes set on a marathon after graduation, but until then, he will just put one foot in front of the other with the hopes of ultimately scoring points at his final outdoor competition.
sscovel@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction appended. 

	While most of their teammates casually made their way back to the locker room after a long afternoon track workout, junior Kinnari Badger and freshman Brianna Belo stayed behind. The two athletes, both walk-ons at AU, spent extra time at practice, hoping to refine their skills and perfect their race strategies.

	Neither Badger nor Belo receive any scholarship money for their participation on the AU track team, but they invest 20 hours each week in their training with the hopes of achieving personal best times at the Patriot League Outdoor Track and Field Championships this weekend.

	At the Mason Spring Invitational on April 11, Badger and Belo both broke school records in the 200 and 400-meter races, respectively. Belo further lowered her record by .07 seconds at the Morgan State Legacy meet the following weekend.

	Belo, who specializes in sprint distances, described the meet as more of a mental challenge than a physical one. As a freshman, Belo said that she initially felt intimidated by the prospect of competing at the collegiate level, but she prepared herself mentally in order to “run her own race.”

	“Talking to my teammates and talking to my parents really helped me to mentally prepare,” Belo said.

	Belo’s extra work on the track also brought her confidence, and she credits her success to her strict discipline.

	“I think physically [it’s about], putting in as much effort as you can on practice days so that you practice hard but race easy,” Belo said.

		“I want to get my name out there as a freshman. Being a walk-on onto the team, no one really knew I was around." 
		
—Brianna Belo
	

	Badger, the second AU runner to break a record at the Mason Spring Invitational on April 11, participates in both the women’s track team and the AU cheer team.  Several days before the track meet, Badger traveled to Daytona Beach with the cheer team for a national competition, and she had to run during her trip in order to prepare for her upcoming races.

	“I trained while I was in Florida,” Badger said. “It’s all just mental to be honest. It’s not really on the track.”

	Both Belo and Badger stressed the importance of focusing on their own preparation instead of focusing on the competition.

	“Your body is capable of doing everything, but your mind stops you from that,” Belo said. “Not getting intimidated by the competition is a big one, and just running your own race.”

	While the two walk-on athletes exceeded expectations, Jim Belfatto, another freshman AU runner, also broke through personal barriers at the Mason Spring Invitational. Belfatto is not a walk-on, but his performance still stands out, as he qualified for the ECAC-IC4A Outdoor Championships with his time in the 1500-meter race. The ECAC-IC4A meet will be held at Princeton University on May 15-17.

	Belfatto’s six-second time drop also helped him earn his second GEICO-AU Student Athlete of the Week Honor.

	Heading into the meet, Belfatto devised a game plan with head coach Matt Centrowitz. He planned to hit certain times to match his season expectations.

	“Coach and I set up a goal to try and break 3:50.00, but I fell a little bit short,” Belfatto said.

	At the upcoming Patriot League Championships on May 1, Belfatto hopes to not only break 3:50.00 in the men’s 1,500 meters, but he strives to win the event as well. As for Badger and Belo, their goals for the season are to earn a spot on the podium at the Patriot League Championships. Belo, more specifically, wants to lower her 400-meter time down to the 56-second range, while Badger, who came to AU as a jumper, wants to continue running as fast as she has been.

	“I want to get my name out there as a freshman,” Belo said. “Being a walk-on onto the team, no one really knew I was around,” Belo said.

	Belo and Belfatto also earned team MVP awards at the AU Athletic Banquet last Sunday, April 26, for their performances during the indoor track season in the winter.

	The Eagles will compete at the Patriot League Championships on May 1 and 2 at the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York.
 Correction: A previous version of this story misidentified Badger's second sport. She is a member of the cheer team. A previous version of this article also incorrectly identified a quote about competing in Florida. This quote has now been properly attributed to Badger. 
sports@theeagleonline.com 


  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
