Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	Tucked away in the busy streets of Southeast D.C. sits one of the city’s popular independent bookstores, Capitol Hill Books.  Wedged in between two mundane buildings, the quaint bookstore lures bystanders in with its vintage charm and an immense exhibit of books through the display window.

	Upon entering, guests are greeted by a bewildering array of books -- everywhere. From nooks and crannies on the floor to toppling tabletops, volumes of books engulf the three-story shop.

	“It’s anything but neat,” owner Jim Toole said about the 24-year-old bookstore.

	If one is not careful, towers of books could easily fall, enclosing people whole.

	With this in mind, many brave visitors venture up the rickety stairs, with caution, to be presented with even more piles of second-hand paperbacks, hardcovers and antique leather-bound writings. Scouring through the cramped shelves, one will be eager to find a diverse collection of work, instead of your typical teen sci-fi or heartthrob novels. Ranging from a stack of Jodi Picoult and dissident authors to highly acclaimed classics, which included the likes of Jane Austen and Charles Dickens, the assortment of books can fulfill anyones inner bookworm.



	One of the many notes placed around the bookstore. Photo by Jenae Addison.

	Toole, who has worked at Capitol Hill Books for over 20 years, hand picks a large amount of the books rather than solely relying on donations.

	“People bring me a lot of crap. Instead of taking it, I go out and try to find high quality books that are cheap,” Toole said, “I find the best books from the dead.”

	On making your own selections from the unique assortment of books, make sure to adhere to the many “love notes” and signs scattered about which resembles Toole’s sarcastic tone, that warnes  “PAY AT DESK BEFORE LEAVING, THIEVES WILL BE DECONSTRUCTED!”

	Equipped with newly purchased books, one cannot help but get excited about the unconventional place in such a conventional city.

	There aren't many bookshops that seem to display their deep appreciation for literature while also personalizing the experience for its customers. However, as you leave the eccentric space of Capitol Hill Books, you realize that you have found just that.


	Address: 657 C St SE


	Metro: Eastern Market stop, Blue Line

thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Before I tell you this story, there are two things you need to know about me. First, I’m a pretty friendly person. I like to talk to people, I like to hear their stories. Second, I talk fast. Really fast. 
One of the most awkward experiences I've ever had started out in a Turkish bath. Weirdly, the part where I was sitting in a steamy room with a bunch of European women, naked (except for this weird cloth thing that covered my, uh, dölyolu as the Turkish woman called it) wasn't the awkward part. That part was fine. Everyone was relaxed, the steam was nice and the large Turkish women in their underwear scrubbing the other women weren't nearly as strange as I thought they would be.
There was one issue though. My friend Sam and I paid for the cheapest option—Turkish bath only. So I get into this room with all of these women, and I have no idea what to expect. I’ve never had a Turkish bath before, so I’m not exactly sure what it entails. It turns out, it basically entails what I described—sitting in a room full of steam with a bunch of naked women. The full service, on the other hand, entails lying on a hot platform, being exfoliated, rubbed with soap, and massaged. But I didn’t know that until I’d sat in the room full of steam for three hours waiting to be scrubbed and a Turkish woman came and yelled at me and kicked me out.
In spite of this, it was actually still a pretty relaxing experience - just one that took over three hours and left me dehydrated and tired. My friend Sam got sick of waiting for me and went out without me, and I ended up having beers with a French guy from our hostel. 
The next morning, I wake up. Sam is curled up, still in his clothes. It turned out he had an absolutely epic night. He stayed out ’til 5 a.m., met Turkish communists, philosophers and journalists. He talked about life and politics with the locals. 
As he’s telling me all about it, I can’t help it. I’m jealous. I’m jealous in that sick, sad, stupid way you get when something good happens to a friend of yours. It’s unbecoming. It makes your stomach churn a little bit, not even from the jealousy itself but because you feel bad about being jealous at all. It’s annoying. It’s not pretty. But it’s a part of life. 
I know that. So I decide that the best thing to do about it is to go have an epic night of my own and meet some locals. 
And that’s when the awkward part starts. 
I head into a bar by myself and go order a beer. Beers in Istanbul cost about 10 Turkish lira and I have….exactly 10 Turkish lira. Okay I think to myself, that just mean I’ll have to meet some people at this bar.
I go sit down and pull out my journal, trying to look nonchalant. And not like I’m out hunting for locals to talk to me. I peer over my paper, getting a good look around. Who should I talk to? 
I lean over to the person next to me and try to think of something to ask him. I draw a blank. Normally something just pops into my head but right now….nothing. Crap. 
“Hi-my-name-is-Shelby, I’m-new-in-Istanbul” I blurt out. I wince inside. It sounds fast even to me. The 30-year-old guy gives me an absolutely blank look. I doubt he even knows I said something in English, let alone what I said. 
“Hi. My. name. is. Shelby. I’m. new. in. Istanbul,” I say, as slow as I can, trying to pause in between every word. My efforts are greeted by….another completely blank look. 
“I….don’t….speak……English,” the guy eventually says. Right. I smile, and the guys turns back to his friends. I can’t tell if he was weirded out by the experience or not but I, for one, feel like an idiot.
So I turn to the guy on the other side and try again. This guy understands me introducing myself. He smiles. I smile. His friends look bored. He tells me his name, which I forget. And then….nothing. Everything else I try to say is met with some confusion. Because this guy also doesn’t speak English very well. 
I try a third time. And a fourth. And a fifth. 
Every time the same scenario, or something close to it, repeats itself. Within 25 minutes I feel like an idiot. And an jerk. And just uncharming. 
I feel like an idiot because I just got shut down talking to five different groups of people. Even though there were language barriers, the shutdown still happened the same way. We’d talk for a few minutes, an incredibly basic conversation. And then I would try to say something. And they wouldn’t understand. And I’d try again. Then we’d both awkwardly smile at one another. And I’d turn away and try again. I felt like a guy with a bad line, going up and down the bar, getting rejected repeatedly. I’m not charming without English. I’m awkward and I have nothing to say. And the conversations don’t happen. Or they peter out. 
But I feel even more like a jerk. Because I don’t speak Turkish. Because I speak English, the only language in the world where you can go up to bars and introduce yourself speaking it and be able to have an expectation that someone will be able to speak it too. Even when you speak English the way I do—really, really quickly. 
I feel horrible that I can’t quite figure out how to talk to people that don’t speak English well. And that I was even expecting to be able to. 
So I leave the jazz bar full of 30-year-olds where I’d spent my last 10 Turkish Lyra. And I head back to the hostel where there are kids my age who speak English. And I sit there and drink beer. And I sit there, still jealous that Sam is good at communicating at a speed less than a mile a minute, jealous that he was successful at talking to the Turks when I wasn’t. 
But here’s the thing about experiences you have while abroad. Every one of them is an amazing experience simply because it’s something you’ve never done before. Yeah, talking to the Turks would have been interesting. But trying to talk to the Turks was interesting too. I’ve never been misunderstood so many times in my life. I’ve always lived in countries where people speak English, where I’m the majority. And experiencing what it’s like to not have that? Well, it was unlike anything else.
My friend Gershom recently told me that power is when people adapt to you. And all around the world, people speak English. It shows the power of the conquerors, of imperialism, of the British Empire, of the American. I’ve spent a lot of time abroad wondering what it would feel like to be born some where other than America. And for about an hour in Turkey I got to experience it. What it’s like to have people who haven’t adapted to you. To have people rolling their eyes that you can’t speak their language. 
It’s panic inducing, it’s uncomfortable, it’s embarrassing, it’s strange. It’s even more awkward than a steamy room full of naked European women. And maybe it’s not as an epic of a story—but it’s a story that I never got to tell before. 
sostergaard@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A report released by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on March 10 has determined that there may be residual WWI munitions below the Public Safety Building. 
The report outlined updated plans for cleanup of the munitions in the Spring Valley area and on AU's campus.
Paul Chrostowski, an environmental consultant who has been working with AU and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on the cleanup efforts since 2000, said there were no immediate danger concerns. He did say, however, that there are questions about long- term remedial work. 
“We did have some questions and concerns about the report and issues that impact the South portion of the campus. There are some technical questions about the adequacy of the sampling that was done there and the amount of cleanup that is proposed. We have sent those questions to the Army Corps,” Chrostowski said. “This is not an urgent issue, it is a long-term issue.”
Property owners in the Spring Valley area were given advanced notice prior to the release of the report if the Army Corps determined that they may be affected by potential remaining munitions. The notice contained a timeline of future clean-up events and explanations about what the remedial investigation means.
“Homeowners who received notification called or came to the Advisory Board meeting and asked a lot of questions some about property and real estate value,” Andrea Takash, a spokesperson for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers overseeing the cleanup efforts, said. “We are continuing to work with them to answer questions, and the report is not final yet. We are still working with our partners, with the EPA and the District Department of the Environment to finalize their comments and assessment.”
The U.S. Army Corps will release the finalized remedial investigation after assessment from the EPA and the District Department of the Environment in late May. Following the finalized the remedial investigation report, a feasibility report will be published outlining what options for cleanup are available.
Following the release of the feasibility report, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with feedback from the public and landowner will recommend  a design plan for munition cleanup. 
“We offer recommendation about which alternative plan for cleanup is most effective, but then we look to our regulators, our partners, including AU and ask which plan works best for them. Once that is determined, an action plan is outlined. We would not be implementing that plan until the 2017-2020 timeframe,” Takash said.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	Rising star and shape shifting musician Raury brought his musical talents to U Street Music Hall on April 3. Fellow teenager and local rapper Ace Cosgrove, who 
	performed at AU last fall, opened the show with enthusiasm and youthful vigor that fit right in with Raury’s message. Raury came prepared with the stage presence of a diva and the lyrical content of an activist and a philosopher.

	Instead of worrying about the stresses of college, work or real life like most 18 year olds, Raury concerns himself with sold-out venues and massive festivals in Austin, Australia and Los Angeles. He has worked with industry giants like Joey Bada$$ and SBTRKT and even had a 
	collaborative meeting with Kanye last fall.


	The Atlanta-based songwriter is building a reputation as the 
	next big thing and knows how to use the Internet to his advantage. Raury’s iconic, wide-brimmed hat is seen all over his Instagram and rarely leaves his head. His overall image makes it clear that he is trying to stand out, but his meaningful lyrics and his ability to hover between genres is enough for him to distinguish himself as one of a kind.


	Cosgrove and two other members of the hip-hop group, Hostile Youth, opened for Raury. The local act brought energy, adlibs and dynamism to their hometown crowd.


	Cosgrove, a teenage MC from Maryland didn’t even need a stage, spending the majority of the performance crowd surfing or dancing with the concertgoers. He was impulsive, fun and his youthful determination to just let loose and dance paired nicely with his live band featuring an enthusiastic keyboard player and an improvising sax player.


Ace Cosgrove opens for Raury. Photo by Jack Stringer.

	Raury is a difficult artist to categorize in just one genre. From 80’s style rock on “
	Chariots of Fire,” to introspective rap on “Woodcrest Manor” to socially conscious protest songs like “Fly,” Raury does it all.


	Raury kicked off his set the same way he started his debut album “Indigo Child,” with the song “
	War pt. 1.” The song is a continuous repetition of the phrase: “We are together, we are the truth, we are forever, we are the youth.”


	A fittingly young crowd hung on every verse and reflected this generational pride. His band of idiosyncratic guitar players fed into the crowds’ vibes and even had a few solos—something not typically seen at hip-hop concerts.


	Raury’s performance was much more rehearsed than most rappers. Despite being only 18 years old, there was a stark contrast between the Raury’s well-rehearsed set and the sporadic performance of Cosgrove.


	While the performance lacked the same focus on having a good time that Cosgrove conveyed, Raury delivered an exceptional set with the assurance of an already seasoned performer. The Atlanta songwriter’s performance verified his status as up-and-coming musician who wants the world to know who he is and what he stands for.

thescene@theeagleonline.com



Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU’s Center for Environmental Filmmaking hosted its 10th Annual Spring Film Series in conjunction with the D.C. Environmental Film Festival from March 24-31 featuring short films by students, panel discussions with experts and film screenings.
The festival offered several opportunities to discuss controversial issues. On March 27, Disney resort designer Joe Rohde screened his film “The Leopard in the Land,” which followed him as he wandered Mongolia on his search for the snow leopard. Initially, his plan was to sell his landscape paintings to raise money for snow leopard conservation efforts, but he realized making a film would spread awareness further. 
Rohde said going to Mongolia was his lifelong dream, but nothing happened until he found a way to make the trip about more than himself. Protecting snow leopards became his motivation and kept him going despite the challenges.
“When it gets cold, you can’t back out,” Rohde said. “You promised someone you were going to do something, and that propels you forward.”
Students also played a prominent role in the festival. On March 31, students in School of Communication professor Mike English’s “Environmental and Wildlife Production” class presented its documentary “Chesapeake Villages” following fishermen on the Chesapeake Bay. The 16-week crew included 15 AU students.
“There’s always the film you want to make, the film you made, and the film you wish you made,” Nick Zachar said. “But I’m very satisfied with the film we made.” 
Later that night, Greenpeace co-sponsored the event and revealed the winners of their “Postcards from Climate Change” competition. The winning film was “Ballad of Holland Island House” by Lynn Tomlinson, an animated short from the point of view of the last house on a sinking island in the Chesapeake. Tomlinson’s process involved smearing clay on a glass base heated from below. 
The Ballad of Holland Island House from Lynn Tomlinson on https://vimeo.com">Vimeo.
While the festival offered many screenings, it also offered opportunities to think about the purpose of film. Stephanie Flack, executive director of the Environmental Film Festival, introduced a panel discussing the challenges of producing impactful films on March 26. The panelists were James Redford (son of legendary actor Robert), Jon Fitzgerald, Sheila Leddy, and Jody Arlington.
Redford, founder of the Redford Center, advised the audience to underestimate the intangible effects of documentaries. 
“If my film plants a seed of social justice in the audience, that can be as important as any tangible effect,” Redford said. 
Fitzgerald and Arlington discussed documentaries from different angles, with Fitzgerald bringing in examples from his work with the Hollywood Film Festival and Arlington addressing the policy side. Leddy, executive director of the Fledgling Fund, spoke about the importance of showcasing the local impacts of climate change.
“It’s especially important to target kids because the ideas stay with them, and the youth power the movement,” Leddy said. 
Attendees of this year’s festival had the opportunity to see work by students and professionals, as well as pieces on the local and global impact of climate change, and were left with the message that there’s still much be done to save the planet. 
amaier@theeagleonline.com


Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From now until April 26, the Shakespeare Theatre Company will be performing the unusual and spectacular musical play, “Man of La Mancha.” This means there’s only two weeks left for audiences to head to the theatre to be inspired, have their imaginations nurtured and dream the “impossible dream.” And if that doesn’t appeal to them, they can just head there to see an unforgettable play.
Telling Don Miguel de Cervantes’ story of heroism, imagination and optimism, actors are taking to the stage as Cervantes, himself, Aldonza, Sancho and of course, the mad and lovable Don Quixote de La Mancha. In the story, Cervantes is thrown into a prison cell during the Spanish Inquisition and rallies his fellow prisoners to perform a play. In the play, an elderly gentleman becomes so enamored with old tales of honor and glory that he convinces himself that he’s a brave knight, Don Quixote. He goes forth to conquer evil and right the world of wrongs, all in the name of the “impossible dream.” 
Directed by Alan Paul, “Man of La Mancha” dares audiences to dream alongside Quixote and brilliantly keeps up with major themes from Cervantes’ novel. Bouncing off the theme of imagination, the set demands the imagination of the audience and the characters, as it takes place all within the space of one prison cell, transformed with limited props into a Spanish Inn, a field of windmills and 17th century Spanish home. Expressing the theme of beauty, the use of color and lights illuminates the story of Don Quixote, even in the darkness of reality, or a prison cell. 
Anthony Warlow, playing both Don Miguel Cervantes, Don Quixote and Alonso Quixano (Don Quixote’s former identity), reflects the quixotic spirit that this play demands without fault. His talent in baritone singing does his songs justice, whether it’s the romantic and sweet “Dulcinea” or exciting and powerful “Man of La Mancha.” Opposite Warlow was the real shining star of the show, Amber Iman playing the part of Aldonza, Don Quixote’s lady love. A graduate of Howard University, Iman owns the role of Aldonza with her power and presence onstage, as well as remarkable vocal talent. 
Without argument, this play is a ten. Four hundred years since Cervantes’ first publication, the story is still relevant to modern audiences. Alan Paul’s production inspires just as the novel was meant to at its first publication, and never falters in its vivacity and spirit. Take warning, however, as the play’s catchy songs will get stuck in your head for days. Serenading your roommate at the end of the night is a definite possibility. All in all, “Man of La Mancha” is spectacular, a definite must-see. 
“Man of La Mancha” will run March 17-April 26 at the Shakespeare Theatre Company, Sidney Harman Hall, 610 F Street NW. Tickets start at $20.
dbourn@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Paying for school may not always be easy, but there are several opportunities for current AU students to receive scholarships they were not awarded at the beginning of the academic year.
The list of available scholarships is long, but each recipient is honored at a Celebration of Scholarships Luncheon hosted by the University. This year, the event was held on March 18 in the Mary Graydon Center according to the AU Alumni Association’s Facebook page.
While 85 to 90 percent of scholarships from AU are awarded upon admission, donations from alumni and friends of the University fund restricted scholarships for undergraduate students, Shirleyne McDonald, associate director in the Office of Financial Aid, said.
Through the Office of Development and Alumni Relations, donors set the criteria for the awards in their name. If the award is granted through a specific school at AU, the school can decide to use an application or simply choose the highest achieving student that meets the award criteria.
“Most of the scholarships are based on academic achievement or financial need,” McDonald said. “Actually, 60 to 70 percent of the awards are given by the Financial Aid Office because they’re related to need.”
According to McDonald, due to the stipulations of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, a student’s financial information cannot be shared with other departments within the University. As a result, it is much simpler for the awards to be granted to the best candidate without an application process.
“What usually happens is that all of the possible recipients are put into a database. Based on the correlation between the students’ academic achievement and financial need, the student that fulfills the award criteria the best is granted the scholarship,” McDonald said.
In addition to the aspect of financial need, students may need to pursue study in a certain field, reflect excellence in that field or plan to study abroad to be eligible for an award. Some of the scholarships are also specifically for upperclassmen or graduate students.
There are some scholarships available that students can apply for themselves, however. In addition to the stipulations for each scholarship, each school as its own requirements for applicants. Generally, students are required to remain in good academic standing or maintain a certain GPA.
Students are responsible for determining the effect that receiving a scholarship might have on the rest of their financial aid package.
“For tax reasons, most scholarships are only meant to cover tuition and fees,” McDonald said. “But if a student gets an outside scholarship, they can’t receive aid greater than their need. As a result, we would first remove or reduce any loans they were offered, then remove a work study, and then reduce the institutional dollars they receive or send back some of the scholarship money.”
McDonald said that outside scholarships that are not tuition restricted might not impact need.
Kelseagh Budris, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and a cross country and track athlete, was granted the Sam Albert Scholarship last year. Designated for sophomores and renewable for the next two years of their undergraduate study, she received $4,000 for academic and athletic achievement in addition to involvement with the community without actually applying for the award.
“I wasn’t aware this scholarship existed. I just got an email from the Athletic Department saying that I had won,” Budris said. “It’s a small scholarship, but I consider it the difference between spending the summer at a restaurant making that kind of money or participating in academic opportunities that could open more doors for bigger scholarships. And of course, everything helps.”
Disclaimer: Staff writer Jillian O’Donohoe is also a track athlete and teammates with Kelseagh Budris.
jodonohoe@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
