Director Andrew Bujalski’s unusual yet charming film “Results” takes on the world of personal trainers and their clients, addressing the relationship between physical and emotional strength. Trevor, played by Guy Pearce (“Memento”), owns the Power 4 Life gym in Austin, Texas, a gym that promises to help clients achieve four things: physical, mental, emotional and spiritual power. He has a tense relationship with Kat, played by Cobie Smulders (“How I Met Your Mother”), a personal trainer at his gym who is also his ex-lover. For both of them, fitness and healthy living is a way of life.
The two characters find their intense fitness culture challenged by the recently divorced Danny, played by Kevin Corrigan (“Grounded for Life”). Overweight, self-indulgent and lazy, Danny hires Kat to help him improve his physical health. The audience soon learns that Danny inherited a large amount of money when his mother died, and he spends it carelessly in an attempt to cure his boredom and depression. He constantly posts ads on Craigslist, offering $200 in exchange for services like TV repairs, an obvious excuse for companionship. 
Superficially, “Results” sheds light on the world of personal trainers and their clients, but at its core, it’s a film that centers around the feeling of loneliness. Trevor’s dedication to his dream of expanding his business has distanced him from his family and relationships. Kat’s intimidating and aloof nature makes it difficult for her to open up to those she cares about, and her aggression drives people away. Danny’s inability to move on from his wife has caused him to isolate himself from others, leaving him lonely and depressed. 
“Results” humorously gives insight into a world many people know little about, but the audience will have a hard time caring about this aspect of the film because the characters are all so unlikeable. Viewers never learn why some characters act the way they do, and this makes understanding their emotional transformations at the end of the film difficult. 
Bujalski introduces interesting secondary characters but never explores them in depth. Anthony Michael Hall (“The Breakfast Club”) plays Grigory, the Russian self-proclaimed “kettlebell master,” but he receives little screen time. Giovanni Ribisi (“Ted”) plays a sleazy and unprofessional commercial lawyer, but he also seems absent from the film. Bujalski could have developed these characters to further flesh out the film. 
Kat and Trevor tentatively work on mending their relationship, but it’s clear this won’t be easy, and Danny works to slowly move on from his divorce. Unfortunately, other than these plot developments, “Results” fails to provide any substantive results by the conclusion of the film. Kat is only slightly less aggressive than before, Trevor is still overly attached to his dream of expanding his business and Danny still seems rather pathetic. The film leaves the audience with merely a shimmer of hope that these hopeless characters will improve their lives.
Grade: C+
“Results” (R, 105 min) is now playing at the Landmark E Street theater.
 amaier@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU Housing and Dining announced a $500 gift card incentive for the first 50 students to cancel housing assignments in a June 4 email to all students with a fall housing assignment. 
The offer also includes a temporary removal of the $500 housing termination fee in an effort to accommodate the waitlist for on-campus housing. The offer is only available until June 18, and the fee will return after that date, according to the email.
This is the second time that Housing and Dining has attempted to entice students to cancel fall housing assignments. On May 4, Housing and Dining offered its first incentive for students to move off campus by waiving the housing termination fee but did not initially offer  Visa gift cards to students who opted out of fall housing before a May 29 deadline.
“This year we have had an increase in demand for on-campus housing from returning and new students,” Sasha Gamburg, the Assistant Director of Operations for Assignments and Dining, wrote in an email. “Because of the increased demand for housing, we were not able to accommodate all students seeking housing.”
AU Housing and Dining explains the housing shortage on it’s website. “AU is retaining continuing students and enrolling first year and transfer students with greater success than ever before. We are also retaining more students in the residence halls as a result of their satisfaction with the experience. However, the university's current housing inventory is not sufficient to keep pace with this rapidly increasing demand,” according to the AU website.
The amount of cancellations needed to accommodate students on the waitlist changes daily, according to Gamburg. She would not give specific numbers when asked about the cancellations by The Eagle.
It is also too early to determine how many students will be living in triples, she added.
With the current offer, students who cancel their on-campus housing after the June 18 deadline will be required to pay the $500 termination fee. So far, some students have terminated their on-campus housing. Though Gamburg would not say how many have canceled housing, it is not enough to accommodate those waiting for on-campus housing,  she said.
Incentives to increase on-campus housing termination have been used in the past under high demand for housing.
“A gift card incentive has been used during periods of high demand for campus housing, as recently as seven to eight years ago,” Gamburg said.
Lisa Beck, a junior in the School of Communication, said she and her roommate are not looking for off-campus housing because they expect to receive on-campus housing assignments.
“AU hasn’t notified us about [our place on] the waitlist,” Beck said. “We are pretty sure we are going to get off the waitlist.”
Historically, larger percentages of returning sophomores, juniors and seniors have opted for off-campus housing, though in recent years more students have requested on-campus housing, Gamburg said. In addition, Housing and Dining has had to previously waive housing termination fees because of increased demand for on-campus housing, Gamburg said.
Allie Erenbaum, a junior in the School of Communication, decided to maintain on-campus housing for the fall semester despite the incentives. She thought the waived termination fee was a good method to accommodate campus housing demands.
"I have always thought the $500 cancellation fee for housing has been a bit too high and often leaves students trapped in housing they may not end up wanting or needing,"  Erenbaum said.
ksaltzman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
