The widely popular Netflix television show “House of Cards” is loved by Capitol Hill and White House junkies nationwide, but there’s another place on Pennsylvania Avenue that might be getting its own fictional web series: The John A. Wilson Building.
The Wilson Building, where the D.C. Council and mayor work, is the center of the new teaser for a web series named “The Council.” In a promo video, fictional councilmembers take turns trying to show the audience who's really the bigwig (or who has the bigger ego). The teaser was first reported by City Paper. 
The politicians in the video even refer back to the District’s darker days in the 80s and 90s, with mention of “the time this city turned into a ghost town at night” and how it was “filled with crackheads [and] prostitutes.” The teaser ends with a faux-Godfather logo. The filmmaker behind the project is Paul DeVeaux. 
According to this Instagram post, the web series will come out in the fall. The actress playing mayor Dorian White describes the series as a “steamy, sexy, scandalous webisode.”
 #actinglife I play DC Mayor Dorian White in Paul DeVeaux's steamy, sexy, scandalous webisode "The Council". Based on all the undercover, backhanded dealing that goes on inside the city council, this webisode (Fall 2015) will leave your mouth open, jaw hanging and you'll undoubtedly want more. Paul played African Man in Zoo (Volkerschau) Yes, he is the man with the white fedora directing me and Altorro Black in a pivotal scene of the Council. #indieartistsrock
A photo posted by Monda Raquel Webb (@littleknownspc) on Jun 28, 2015 at 3:53am PDT
From the YouTube video’s description: “The Council is an upcoming web series best described as ‘The Wire’ meets ‘Dallas.’ Over the course of several episodes, we will watch learn and empathize with the political power brokers (and wannabes); explore the political and personal motivations of the fictional members of the DC City Council.” 
cdil@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.




	Pay day just got sweeter (pictures of money/flickr).

	D.C. joined an exclusive group of jurisdictions nationwide that have a minimum wage above $10 on Wednesday.

	Employees in the District must lawfully be paid at least $10.50 per hour, and tipped workers must also earn pay that is equal to that amount when tips are included. The wage hike is a part of a 
	plan signed into law last year by then-Mayor Vincent Gray to increase wages in steps; it increased to $9.50 last July and it will end at $11.50 next year.

	Mayor Muriel Bowser commemorated the new wage increase alongside District officials and the owner of a small grocery store in Northeast Wednesday morning.

	“With this increase in minimum wage, there are more people on the pathway to the middle class in Washington, D.C.,” Bowser said. “We’ll make sure that every business follows the rules so all people working in the District have the same opportunities.”

	As the minimum wage continues on its path to $11.50, a group of activists are making the pitch for it to rise further, to $15 by 2020. As Martin Austermuhle reports in WAMU 88.5 radio, labor activists want the proposal 
	decided at the ballot box, and the D.C. Board of Elections considered testimony for such a ballot initiative on Wednesday.

	The wage hike also comes as the D.C. Council voted to trigger 
	tax cuts — for just about everyone, except those earning over $350,000 — earlier than planned on Tuesday, to go into effect this September rather than February 2016. Councilmembers agreed current revenue projections by the District’s chief financial officer indicate the time is right to bring down previous tax hikes.

cdil@theeagleonline.com



Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
