In a matchup against its highest-ranked opponent this season, AU emerged victorious and held on to an NCAA Division I Top 25 ranking Friday evening. Facing No. 17 Hofstra University at Reeves Field in the first game of the Capitol Cup, sophomore forward Joel Hart secured two goals to lead the No. 21 Eagles past the previously undefeated Hofstra Pride (4-1, 0-0 CAA).
Like their blowout wins last weekend versus Howard University and the University of Pennsylvania, AU came out strong against Hofstra with an early goal in the seventh minute by Hart. The center forward tapped the ball into the net after receiving a low cross from senior defender Jordan Manley.
The rest of the first half went back and forth, with AU (6-0, 0-0 PL) pressing high at times but also occasionally looking off-balance due to an onslaught of chances from Hofstra’s attackers. Despite a shaky defense and the absence of senior captain Liam Robley in the latter part of the first half, the Eagles entered the break with a 1-0 lead. Senior goalkeeper Dylan Hobert helped the Eagles keep a clean sheet by stringing together a series of big saves toward the end of the first half.
“The early goal always helps and takes some of the pressure off,” head coach Todd West said.  “The other team then has to come off maybe a little more than they want to, so those early goals are big. Dylan Hobart made an unbelievable save, he push[ed] one off the post, so it’s very close to being 1-1 at the half.”
The second half opened with similar pace and intensity, but AU capitalized on Hofstra’s high press line and doubled its lead when Hart fired a shot into the upper right corner with a pass from Robley.
“After we scored the first goal, I thought we became a little relaxed and fatigued, but we did well to finish the half 1-0 up, and we managed to continue that into the second half and get our second goal,” Hart said.
The Eagles continued their lethal pairing of high scoring and a well-disciplined back line to repel the Hofstra attacks. West said he credits his back four players and is thankful for the upgrade in attacking he has seen this year.
“Our back four is good, our back four is athletic. Liam Robley and Dale Ludwig are a handful in there together,” West said. “We were playing defensive midfielders as forwards [last year] and were very smoke and mirrors. This year I’ve got two, if not three, real target forwards, and Joel Hart with two goals proves that today.”
AU has surpassed all of its opponents this year and continued this dominant streak against Hofstra, who previously defeated No. 15 Syracuse. The Eagles face Fairleigh Dickinson University on Sunday to finish up the Capitol Cup before leaving next weekend for a tournament in New Mexico.
“Being in the Top 25 is always going to be a pressure, but you know, we just take it as another game and one game at a time,” Hart said. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With rain pounding down on her royal blue uniform, freshman forward Rafaela Rubas found herself in front of the Yale net this afternoon at the exact time her team needed her.
Rubas, who hails from Vienna, Austria, slid an unassisted shot past Yale junior goalkeeper Emilie Katz in the 56th minute of the game to put her team on the scoreboard and elevate the Eagles to a 1-0 victory at Jacobs Field.
“It was just a lucky goal really, but it’s great,” Rubas said. “It was a really important goal to get since we really wanted to win this, and we had possession the whole time, so I’m just glad that we got the win.”
The Eagles (4-1, 0-0 PL) controlled the pace of play for nearly the entire match and outshot the Bulldogs 16-6, despite the rain. Yale (1-2, 0-0 IVY) prevented AU from converting on all seven of its shot attempts in the first half, but the Eagles ultimately came back in the second half to push past the Bulldogs’ back line with help from Rubas, junior forward Natalie Konerth and sophomore forward Leah DiGiandomenico. The trio leads the team so far this season in points, and head coach Steve Jennings praises Rubas, Konerth and DiGiandomenico for their chemistry on the field.  
“Rafaela scored a great goal today, and she’s been a real force defensively and setting people up, so it’s been a fun thing for us to watch her play with the line of Pip [Konerth] and Leah, so that’s been a good thing,” Jennings said.
Konerth recorded three shots on goal, and DiGiandomenico registered one of her own as well.
The Eagles continued to fire at the Yale defense all throughout the game and doubled their shot total in the second half, even as the weather conditions worsened. With six minutes remaining, lighting interrupted AU’s offensive attacks, and the teams sought shelter in the Watkins building adjacent to Jacobs Field.
Anchored by sophomore Angela Virtu and senior midfielder Isabel Terwindt, the AU defense stopped Yale’s offensive efforts to convert on a tying goal, even after the weather delay.
Virtu, who earned distinction as a member of the 2015 Preseason All-Patriot League Field Hockey Team, also added three shots on goal for the Eagles, displaying her versatility on both sides of the field.
AU senior goalkeeper Kate McBeath, another member of the Preseason All-Patriot League team, recorded two critical saves in net to preserve the shutout and secure the win.
The Eagles continue their early season non-conference schedule with a game against No. 8 University of Maryland tomorrow at 3 p.m. in College Park, and Jennings said the game will be another chance to gauge his team’s progress this season.  
“I think today we had to just kind of adapt and play to the conditions, and so we’ve worked hard all week to improve from last weekend, and we’ll see what tomorrow brings,” Jennings said.
sscovel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
