
	Start off fancy this weekend with classical chamber music and feminist art. After that, take off those dresses and button downs and lose some inhibition at an audience interactive performance. A person can’t be put together all the time and can’t always be crazy. So why not be a little of both?


Library of Congress Chamber Concert


	Put those books down, put on some nice clothes and head over to the Library of Congress for a chamber music concert. This concert will feature a collaboration of classical musicians, including violinist Daniel Hope, pianist Wu Han and cellist David Finckel. The majestically old venue coupled with works by Brahms and Schumann will make students feel timeless, transporting them back to the 1800s. Best part of it all? It’s free! Get your tickets fast before they’re sold out. And if students can’t get their hands on a ticket in time, the Library of Congress will offer rush tickets two hours before the performance.


When: Friday, April 10, 8 p.m.


Where: Library of Congress, 101 Independence Avenue, SE


Metro: Capitol South, Orange and Blue Lines


	Students who like feminism, art and AU professors should check out The Feminist Art Movement panel at the Hillyer Art Space. AU art professors Helen Langa and Ying-Chen Peng will take part in this panel. Langa has an expertise in American art, and Peng focuses on modern Chinese art history. They will join artist Jesse Harrod to discuss the history of feminist art and controversial art in museums and galleries. Because the folks at Hillyer understand the hunger that prevails college students, they will provide free coffee and pastries at the event. Show up to the event with $5 for entree, an open mind and a critical eye for art.


When: Saturday, April 11, 11 a.m.


Where: Hillyer Art Space, 9 Hillyer Court, NW


Metro: Dupont Circle, Red Line


	Brian Feldman created this performance titled “txt” (pronounced “text”) to provide an interactive experience to his audience. In “txt,” the protagonist receives his lines from the audience’s tweets. The audience can tweet anything to the performer, and the performer will have to recite every single absurd tweet during the 45 minute show. Don't have a Twitter account? Don’t sweat it. The show will provide each audience member with an anonymous Twitter account to use. Students might think anonymity and social media are a catastrophic duo (and they are), but catastrophe can be exhilarating. The show costs $20 for adults and $15 for students. Buy tickets online in advance.


When: Sunday, April 12, 6:45 p.m.


Where: American Poetry Museum at the Center for Poetic Thought, 1922 Martin Luther King Jr Ave., SE


Metro: Anacostia, Green Line


frodriguez@theeagleonline.com


General Script

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Famous for psychedelic tunes and dynamic live stage performances, Dan Deacon will bring the same colorful experience to 9:30 Club on April 11.
Deacon’s newest album, “Gliss Riffer,” explores the union of electronic music and innovative vocals, taking listeners on a vibrant musical adventure. Popular tracks “Feel the Lightning” and “Learning to Relax” reflect Deacon’s buoyant energy and infectious imagination. And ultimately, the combination of vocals and instrumentals in the songs gets listeners up and dancing. 
Don’t be fooled—Deacon’s music is far from the typical electronic music expected at a club. Instead, his tunes encapsulate an explosion of experimental techno and sonic design that sounds like a trip through a colorful world of auditory hallucinations in the best way.
“Whenever you make electronic music, you’re always listening for new sounds,” Deacon said in an interview for The Daily Progress. “A new texture you’ve never heard before is more exciting than a new rhythm.” 
Early in his career, Deacon played at makeshift venues, where he became known for performing in the middle of the dance floor to have a more interactive experience with his audience members. Although he has now moved to playing at large theaters and stages, Deacon still tries to create a responsive and two-way experience for listeners.
Audiences will be pleasantly surprised by Deacon’s ability to conduct a dance party from the stage or crowd, and should expect a night filled with richly layered electronic tracks and dance-worthy melodies. 
Dan Deacon will be playing at 9:30 Club on April 11. Tickets are $15, doors open at 10 p.m., all ages welcome.
thescene@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	Every week, this column will review a D.C. gym and one or more trial classes.

	With finals week approaching, getting off campus to workout seems impossible. If you need to clear your mind but don’t have the time to take the Metro downtown, check out Sport & Health gym in Tenleytown.

	The gym has many locations, with two in Tenleytown alone. The Northwest club offers group fitness classes, nutrition and weight management programs, personal training, free weights, cardio equipment, circuit training and child care for parents who want to workout.

	Membership pricing changes based on monthly and seasonal promotions. Usually, the monthly rate is $45 with an optional addition of four hour long personal training sessions at $99. The membership includes free use of cardio equipment, weights and group classes.

	Make sure to try out the variety of group fitness classes offered including zumba, pilates, yoga, body pump, cycle, club strength and more. You can check out the class offerings and schedule on its website.

	The website has a special feature, which shows ratings of the classes it offers based on intensity level from low intensity of 200 like yoga to high intensity of 500 like bodycombat. This is a very helpful tool when determining what group classes work with your personal abilities.

How is the gym?

	Sport & Health Northwest has a large cardio area upstairs with a variety of ellipticals, rowing machines, stationary bikes, and treadmills. There are also two group fitness class studios and a studio for cycle classes.

	Downstairs, the gym offers a full circuit training area, a variety of free weights and a section for floor work. There are also locker rooms available with showers.

	More than enough equipment is available at Sport & Health, and it never seems to get overcrowded.  The staff does not walk around the floor, but they always seem to be in the offices, eager to answer any questions.

Try this Class

	The Club Strength class was one of the best group exercise classes I have ever attended. The class was set to upbeat music, and incorporated every muscle in your body, in addition to cardio.

	Club strength used major cardio, a step, weights and a mat for floor work. After a variety of squats, burpees, weight lifting and sit ups, the class left participants sore but extremely satisfied.

	Zumba combined Spanish influenced music and an hour of fun, constant dancing. The Sport & Health Zumba classes were small, with only five or six students.

	The Zumba class was very laid back, and the instructor reassured the students at the start to do their own thing and modify as needed. The instructor was extremely fun and easy to follow.

	The yoga class was more difficult than expected. The class focused on strengthening your body, and less on relaxation and breathing compared to other classes I have attended.

	The yoga instructor didn’t seem to want new students in the class at all, and though he was quick to help other students, he neglected struggling new students. I wouldn’t recommend this class unless you’re comfortable with advanced yoga techniques.

Tips to know before you go

Address: 4001 Brandywine St. NW Washington, DC, 20016

Metro Stop: Tenleytown on the Red Line

thescene@theeagleonline.com

General Script

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Coming down from the high of releasing an album less than 12 hours before its D.C. show, Reptar lit up U Street Music Hall on April 2.
Fellow Atlanta natives Breathers started the night early on with a synth-heavy setlist, followed quickly by Baltimore outfit Sun Club. Sun Club proved to be an impressive surprise. A little pop-punk and a little singer-songwriter, it knew its way around a stage and easily grabbed the audience’s attention with spontaneous and fun energy. Its EP “Dad Claps at the Mom Prom” is definitely worth a listen. 
Reptar’s show was just as chaotic and quirky as promised. Starting the set with old favorites like “Rainbounce,” it quickly got the crowd singing and dancing. The band also played several new tracks from its recent album “Lurid Glow,” which was released on April 2. New favorites included “Ice Black Sand” and “Cable.” 
The heavy bass and strong electronic undertones created the perfect environment for impromptu mosh pits and a case of crowd surfing encouraged by Graham Ulicny, vocals and guitar. Ulicny got off the stage and sang with audience members twice, making the show feel all the more intimate. 
While Ulicny frequented the crowd, William Kennedy shredded the keyboard and highlighted the vocal range and capabilities of the band. The live brass and woodwinds added an entire other dimension to the already layered and complicated sets that Reptar seems to have mastered. 
Reptar gave its all on stage and their fans ate it up. Drawing a young crowd, the show remained light-hearted and fun. The set was unapologetically discombobulated and a little bit insane, but concertgoers loved it. The stage presence of this Georgia squad was electric and catching, and the audience was noticeably full of smiles. 
In the world of self-made music, Reptar’s rapid success is admirable. Built from the ground up and quickly gaining a following, the band has stayed humble and true to itself in a way that will only help it moving forward. 
The show as a whole was unconventional and feel-good, and the small venue lent an added intimacy to the otherwise energetic setting. Reptar is anything but forgettable, and its show offered a prime example of why the young band remains steadily on the rise. 
thescene@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.


	Mayor Muriel E. Bowser presented her $12 billion budget proposal to the D.C. Council on April 2 (Cuneyt Dil/The Eagle).

	Mayor Muriel E. Bowser wants to increase the D.C. sales tax to fund affordable housing and initiatives aimed at fighting homelessness in the city, she said on April 2.

	Under the 2016 budget proposal Bowser presented to the D.C. Council, the citywide sales tax would rise 0.25 percent percent to 6 percent total. She defended the tax hike as a necessary measure to end homelessness in the city by 2025 and to provide $100 million of funds for affordable housing. Bowser also wants to close D.C. General, the city’s largest homeless shelter in Southeast, which has been plagued by 
	poor sanitation and safety concerns.

	“In addition to having to close a $190 million budget gap, we also wanted to live up to the expectations of residents to invest in new priorities,” Bowser told reporters after meeting with the Council. “And what we heard time and time again is that we have to dedicate $100 million every single year to affordable housing, we have to close D.C. General and we have to end homelessness. The additional revenue will allow us to do that.”

	The sales tax and a separate parking tax — raising a total of $26 million — will likely face some resistance in the D.C. Council. The Washington Post reported the 
	Council rejected a similar sales tax increase last year, and Council Chairman Phil Mendelson told NBC 4 after Bowser presented her budget he does not support raising taxes.

	The proposed tax increases would help fund a $18.7 million down payment on a homelessness prevention program intended to act as a 
	crisis response system. There is also $40 million in the proposal to close D.C. General and set up new homeless shelters spread out across the city, Bowser said. The proposals come after Bowser’s promise in her State of the District address to end all homelessness in the city by 2025.

	“It is going to help us ensure homelessness in the District is rare, brief and nonrecurring,” Bowser said on April 2.

	The $12 billion balanced budget proposal keeps in place 
	middle class income tax cuts made last year under former Mayor Vincent C. Gray. The budget’s increase of 3.2 percent in spending is the lowest in at least four years; last year the budget grew by 4.7 percent. 



	The proposal fully funds Metro, partly through the parking tax increase of 4 percent, ensuring no fare increases or service cuts to the region’s public transportation agency. The stalled streetcar project also gets $355 million over six years to start service on H Street and to eventually extend service to Ward 7 and the Georgetown Waterfront. After 
	uncertainty earlier in March over whether she would continue with the streetcar project, Bowser pledged in her State of the District address to begin streetcar service and expand it from its currently planned location.

	“The parking tax is dedicated to [transportation] improvements,” Bowser said to reporters, adding, “and yes, I am willing to make the argument to the Council.”

	Other funds include $5.1 million to pay for 2,800 body cameras for Metropolitan Police Department patrol officers; $98 million for improvements on roads, alleys and sidewalks over six years; and improvements to a handful of parks and public schools. To address increased enrollment at city schools, the budget includes $31.4 million for both public and charter schools.

	Bowser also looked to cut slack in agency spending. The University of the District of Columbia’s funding is cut 5 percent, and her budget proposal shows savings of $35.3 million from efficiencies.

	“We also looked to every cluster of the government to contribute to solving the budget problem,” Bowser said. “And we challenged the agency directors to do more with less.”

cdil@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
