For the AU wrestling team, Sunday’s dual matches against Virginia Military Institute and Harvard were all about redemption.
The Eagles rallied Jan. 11 to earn back-to-back victories against the Keydets and the Crimson with scores of 31-13 and 22-19, respectively after losing to University of Oklahoma on Jan. 8.
“Ultimately, these guys came out wanting to get these wins,” Moore said. “We were really upset with how OU went as a team, and they took that to heart and came out and they changed that today. I’m very happy.”
No. 18 ranked David Terao Jr. started the afternoon strong for the Eagles in his first match, earning a technical fall with a 16-1 win over VMI sophomore Dalton Henderson. Freshman Josh Terao followed his brother’s success with a technical fall of his own in the 133-pound weight class, taking down VMI freshman Hunter Starner 16-0. Sophomore Tom Page and junior captain John Boyle also pinned their opponents in the 149- and 157-pound weight class respectively.
The Eagles built off their momentum against the Keydets and progressed through their second match against Harvard with early wins.
The Crimson sacrificed an early six points when they declared a forfeit in the 125-pound weight class, and Josh Terao expanded AU’s lead with a 10-1 win over Harvard senior Ryan Osleeb.
“In the Harvard match again we came out with the same fight and vigor, but unfortunately, in some of our later matches, we started trying to hold on, and we got through it, but we need to learn from that, and I think we will.”
Page earned his second win of the day when he took down Harvard junior Patrick Hogan in 6-0 fashion. He initiated attacks and wrestled aggressively en route to his victory, and Moore praised Page’s ability to recover from his loss against University of Oklahoma on Jan. 8.
“Tom’s young, but we just haven’t had the consistency when he stepped on the mat, and today he rocked that in both his matches,” Moore said. “So he fought the little positions and that’s really what we’ve been focusing on. If Tom was in a bad place in the past, he wasn’t going to fight out of it, and today he fought through it.”
Boyle also brought the Eagles a win after pinning his opponent in 10 seconds.
“John Boyle, he’s our captain, he’s our leader and they guys look to him, and he brought a fire out,” Moore said. “He was really upset with the OU match…and really he didn’t wrestle to his potential, and that really lit a fire in him.”
Boyle, who was named Ameritel Corporation Wrestler of the Match, took a more offensive approach in his matches against VMI and Harvard than he did on Thursday night versus Oklahoma, and his aggressive tactics helped guide him to victory.
“From Thursday, during that match, I wasn’t very offensive, so Teague, Kyle and Coach Perry focused on just get to my shots and take an offensive position the whole time,” Boyle said. “The past couple days we’ve just been working on firing off shots.”
Harvard earned wins in the 165-pound weight class and the 174-pound weight class, but AU sophomore Jason Grimes ended the Crimson streak by defeating junior Michael Mocco in a tightly-fought 6-5 battle.
The Eagles lost the final two matches of the night, as No.11 senior James Fox and senior David Ng claimed victory in the 197 and heavyweight divisions.
AU returns to the mat on Jan. 16 when they battle Navy in Annapolis, Maryland at 7:00 p.m.
“We’ve got navy on the road, and [they’re] always going to bring a tough squad, and then Sunday were coming back in our gym, so we just take this one match at a time and one athlete at a time, and we’ve got some great things that we can work on from this weekend and today’s matches so we’re back to work tomorrow,” Moore said.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Senior guard Darius ‘Pee Wee’ Gardner’s ability to hit shots at crucial moments helped the Eagles propel past the Colgate Raiders 71-69 in double overtime.
Playing under the pressure of the ticking clock, Gardner found the basket twice in the final seconds of regulation to push the tightly-fought game into overtime. His leadership and agility continued to shine during the extra minutes, and his final assist to junior forward Marko Vasic helped secure the last two points of game for AU, bringing the Eagles their fourth home victory.
Junior guard Jesse Reed added an additional 21 points for the Eagles, and he hit a hot streak at the end of the first half to help his team secure a 32-27 lead heading into the break.
 “There’s openings there from my teammates helping me out a little bit, and I got a couple lucky rolls with some shots, but I was just doing whatever I could to keep us in the game and get us into halftime when Pee Wee could get back on the court and give us some more leadership on the court,” Reed said.
The Eagles maintained the lead for the majority of the second half, but the Raiders kept them on their toes. Colgate drew within a point of AU when senior guard Damon Sherman-Newsome hit a three-point shot that brought the score to 49-48 and threw the fans into a frenzy. Chants of “de-fense” filled Bender Arena, but Colgate continue to rise. Senior center Ethan Jacobs hit a three-point and converted on two free throws two minutes later to put the Raiders ahead by four with eighteen seconds to play.
“[He’s] a weapon,” AU head coach Mike Brennan said in reference to Jacobs. “He can score inside too, so it’s not like you can put a little guy on him. So he’s one of the unique centers in the league and he proved it tonight by the way he shot the ball.”
Jacobs finished the night with 15 points, but AU countered his strong shooting with fluidity and perseverance.
Gardner lit a spark in the gym when he sent his 13 seconds remaining, and he brought the crowd to their feet. His shot pulled the score within one, but he risked losing his momentum and the chance for victory when he committed his fourth personal foul, and brought Colgate junior forward Austin Tillotson to the line. Tillotson sunk his first shot, but missed the second. Gardner ran with the ball and sank a final field goal to send the game into overtime.
Jacobs earned the first two points in overtime, but AU senior center Kevin Panzer responded by draining a three-point shot that gave the Eagles the lead. After five minutes of back and forth basketball, the two teams headed into another round of overtime.


Vasic came off the bench strong for AU in the second overtime, and he snagged an immediate rebound, sent the ball over the head of the Colgate defense and drained a two-point basket. AU extended their lead to five points after a three-point shot from sophomore forward Charlie Jones, but Colgate kept things close with a field goal and a free throw to complete a three-point play. Vasic closed out the game with a shot off an assist from Gardner that found the back of the net and brought AU the win after 50 minutes of even basketball.


“I thought our guys competed and did a good job,” Brennan said. “I think all games are going to be like this, and you’re going to win some, you’re going to lose some. We got lucky tonight.”


The Eagles continue conference play Jan. 13 in Bender Arena when they take on Lehigh University at 7:30 p.m.


sscovel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After a disappointing loss against Loyola Maryland, the Eagles bounced back against the previously undefeated Colgate Raiders 71-69 in double overtime on Jan. 10. AU fought through a nail-biting thriller where the lead went back and forth 13 times in 50 minutes. The game marked the first time the Eagles surmounted 70 points in a single game this season. 
Five observations from the critical win: 

1. Darius “Pee Wee” Gardner comes up big again
In his two years at AU, 5’9 senior guard Darius “Pee Wee” Gardner has had a flare for the dramatic. On Dec. 20, he hit a game winning layup with half a second left against Mount St. Mary’s to bring AU back from behind to take the win. Pee Wee once again played like the biggest man on the court against Colgate. Down by four points with only 13 seconds left in regulation, Gardner hit a three-point shot to bring the Eagles within one point of the Raiders. After Colgate converted on one of two free throws, Gardner sank a clutch layup with three seconds left to send the game into overtime. While “Pee Wee” is only third on the team in scoring with 10.8 points a game behind Jesse Reed and John Schoof, his poise and ability to get to the rim has made him the unofficial go-to-guy in tight situations.

2. The re-establishment of Kevin Panzer
After missing six games due to a foot injury and illness, senior forward Kevin Panzer had his best game since returning in the game against Holy Cross. In his first two games back against Holy Cross and Loyola, Panzer played a combined 22 minutes and scored just three points. Against Colgate, however, Panzer played 32 minutes and while scoring just seven points, he hit a huge three-point shot in the first overtime to give AU a brief one point lead. The Eagles missed Panzer during his injury, as he adds experience, long range shooting, and most importantly, front court depth to a team that has a very thin front line. Panzer is still working his way back into shape, but his big play against Colgate will hopefully be a positive sign of things to come.
3. Expanding the rotation
Head coach Mike Brennan is known for keeping a very tight rotation. Schoof, Reed and Gardner lead the country in minutes played per game. On Jan. 10, Reed and Schoof played the entire 50 minutes, while Gardner sat out eight minutes due to foul trouble. However, while Brennan has kept his rotation as tight as six players, he opened things up a bit against Colgate. Sophomore Jalen Rhea, who usually only comes in if there is foul trouble, got some meaningful minutes on Jan. 10. Unfortunately, Rhea picked up two quick fouls himself and was forced to head back to the bench for the rest of the game. Sophomore guard Justice Montgomery also played in the first half after Gardner picked up his second foul. Like Rhea however, Montgomery went back to the bench after bloodying his lip, and, like Rhea, he didn’t see any more time for the remainder of the game. Going forward, it will be interesting to see if Brennan continues to use players like Rhea and Montgomery to give the starters a little bit of rest. It’s a long season and expanding the rotation will not only give the stars more rest but also help to give the role players more confidence moving forward.
4. AU’s dependence on three pointers.
“Live by the three, die by the three” is a common saying in basketball and the 2014-2015 AU team embodies the phrase. AU is a team that loves to shoot three-pointers and while there are many great shooters on the team, some nights the shots simply don’t fall. The Eagles fell to Loyola on Jan. 7, after shooting a mere 3-15 from beyond the arc, and even in their close win over Holly Cross, AU hit only two out of 12 three-point shots. Against Colgate, however, AU found the net with greater consistency, hitting 8-19 three-point shots. All in all, the Eagles rely heavily on the three ball with teams more accustomed to defending the princeton offense and not letting up backdoor cuts. If AU wants to repeat its success from last season, the three-point shot will need to be there on a consistent basis.
5. The balance of the Patriot League
If anybody knows about surprises and upsets, it’s AU, after being picked ninth in the Patriot League last year and ultimately winning the tournament. This year may be even more unpredictable with an incredibly balanced league and no true favorite. AU, who was projected to finish first, has struggled to find consistency and currently sits at 2-2. Meanwhile, Colgate, who was projected to finish eighth, was the last team to lose a conference game and sits atop the conference in a three way tie for first with a 3-1 record. The Patriot League is the only Division 1 Conference in college basketball that does not have an undefeated team or a winless team in conference play. This is a very wide-open league where anybody can beat anybody on any given day, no matter if they are home or away. The Patriot League is not as top-heavy as it was last year and AU will have its work cut out for them if they want to make it back to the NCAA tournament. The Eagles look to get over the .500 mark in conference play for the first time this season against Lehigh on Jan. 14 at 7:30 p.m. in Bender Arena. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
