Take a break from complaining about midterms (rather than actually studying for them) and explore D.C. during this long weekend. Fall break is a great time to go home and see your childhood dog, but if you stay in D.C., here are some fun activities happening near you.
Eighteenth Street Lounge’s 20th Anniversary 
One of D.C.’s nightlife mainstays celebrates its 20th anniversary, kicking it off with a four-day event featuring nearly 15 artists such as Thievery Corporation, Sam Burns and Nickodemus. Single day tickets are $21.15, and three-day passes are $58.17. All patrons must be 21+. 
When: Thursday, Oct. 8 to Sunday, Oct. 11
Where: Eighteenth Street Lounge, 1212 18th St. NW
Metro: Farragut North, Red Line
Opening of Lines, Rhythm and Life
Eunhee Park Dickerson’s oil paintings were inspired by the unseen realities of daily life. The subtle nuance in colors and the peaceful balance of form in her abstract work will put your midterm stress on the backburner. The event is free. 
When: Tuesday, Oct. 6 to Monday, Nov. 9 
Where: Waverly Street Gallery, 4600 East-West Hwy. #102, Bethesda 
Metro: Bethesda, Red Line 
Opening of “Gauguin to Picasso: Masterworks from Switzerland”
Prolific art collectors Rudolf Staechelin and Karl Im Obersteg worked together in creating a collection of art from the early 20th century. This fall, The Phillips Collection displays more than 60 celebrated paintings from their collections by 22 world-famous artists. Student admission is $10. 
When: Opens on Saturday, Dec. 10 until January
Where: The Phillips Collection, 1600 21St., NW
Metro: Dupont Circle, Red Line
Taste of D.C. 
Find your old favorites and try something new at the 50 restaurants participating in this year’s food festival. Tickets are $20. 
When: Saturday, Oct. 10 to Sunday, Oct. 11
Where: Pennsylvania Avenue between 3rd and 7th streets NW
Metro: Judiciary Square, Red Line
Steve Bryne at DC Comedy Club 
D.C. Improv welcomes TBS’ “Sullivan & Son” comedian Steve Bryne this weekend. Enjoy food, drinks and laughter. Tickets are $20. 
When: Thursday, Oct. 8 until Sunday Oct. 11 
Where: D.C. Improv 1140 Connecticut Ave. NW
Metro: Farragut North, Red Line 
A John Lennon Birthday Tribute 
Thirty-five years later and John Lennon’s impact on music and culture continues. The Hamilton welcomes talented artists to honor Lennon’s death, including David Kitchen, Laura Tsaggaris, Luke Brindley, The Sweater Set, Alex Vans, Billy Coulter, Karl Straub, Bill Williams, Ed O’connell, Yy Braddock, Lea, Tom Lofgren and Mike Smith. Tickets are $20-$30. 
When: Saturday, Oct. 10
Where: The Hamilton, 600 14th St. NW
Metro: Metro Center, Red Line
kpappas@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Professors held a protest outside the Katzen Arts Center in front of visiting prospective students and families on Friday, highlighting inequalities for AU’s food service and housekeeping staff.
The participants circulated flyers at the event from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. They included comparisons between service worker and AU employee benefits, including access to free classes, free tuition for children or tuition exchange programs as well as retirement accounts. Food service and housekeeping workers do not receive these benefits.
The disparity in benefits for service workers and University administrators’ dismissive response to requests for improved worker treatment are key problems, according to Jim McCabe, a retired American University Professor and who has helped organize the petitioning and a blog on the issue.
“[Workers] should be able to retire with dignity. So far the AU administration has not taken that moral stance.We would like AU to provide some supplement to their retirement plans,” McCabe said.
AU hires contractor companies to manage food services and housekeeping, which oversees worker employment, treatment and benefits. This began in the 1980s, and since then, service worker needs have been handled by companies like Marriott, Bon Apetit and currently, Aramark.
Following initial contracts awarded to Marriott, workers were provided tuition benefits to enroll in classes, McCabe said. However, after a few years those benefits were revoked. In addition, over the 25 years Marriott worked with AU, they did not offer worker pension plans.
“Now, [workers from that time] also can’t retire,” McCabe said. “These older workers didn’t get any retirement benefits from 1982 to 2005.”
AU could easily supplement these workers with the funds needed to retire with a safety net, according to McCabe.
Carolyn Gallaher, a professor in the School of International Service, said the poor treatment of workers does not align with the University’s mission statement.
“The University has the power to say we want our workers to receive a better wage or better work benefits. AU has multiple ways to address these issues and so far we have not seen them take action,” Gallaher said. “These workers are in their 70s and they only have $11,000 in the pension plans.”
Chris Simpson, a professor in the School of Communication, attributed worker inequalities in part to racial and ethnic distinctions.
“You can walk through the quad and you can see very distinct color and ethnic distinctions [as to] who has what jobs,” Simpson said. “It is completely obvious. AU needs to treat its employees decently and address the ethnic segregation that is prevalent at this university.”
ksaltzman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
