From left to right: Jack Cassell, Provost Scott Bass, Chair of the Board of Trustees Jeff Sine, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Treasurer Doug Kudravetz and Vice President of Student Life Gail Hanson answer student media questions during an interview for the 2014-2016 budget.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Over the weekend, the calendars changed from February to March, representing the return to March Madness for college basketball players and fans alike.
The women’s Patriot League basketball tournament began March 4 with games between Loyola University (Maryland) and Lafayette University at Lafayette and Boston University and Colgate University at Colgate. By virtue of their 16-2 conference record, the AU Women’s Basketball team earned the top seed in the tournament and a bye into the quarter-finals. AU’s top seed secured home court advantage for the Eagles throughout the tournament and ensured that the road to the Patriot League title will go through Bender Arena.
The Eagles will begin their quest for their first NCAA Tournament bid in program history on Friday, March 6 at 7 p.m. against Lafayette. The Eagles defeated the Leopards twice in the regular season, winning both games comfortably by double-digits. Prior to defeating Loyola (Maryland) in the first round of the Patriot League Tournament, Lafayette had lost four of its final five regular season games.
AU didn’t learn its opponent till Wednesday night leaving the team one day to game plan. 
“You want two days to get ready for whoever you're playing and we only going to have one but it is the third time that you play so in some ways it’s good because they only have one day to get ready for us as well,” head coach Megan Gebbia said, “And they just played so you gotta hope they are a little bit more tired than we’ll be.” 
The Eagles held Lafayette under 40 percent shooting in both of their regular season meetings while forcing the Leopards into an average 15.5 turnovers. Senior forward Emily Homan leads the offensive charge for the Leopards, averaging 16.9 points-per-game and 7.8 rebounds-per-game. Homan recorded 15 points in the 63-44 Jan. 17 loss to the Eagles and notched 24 points and 12 rebounds in their 74-58 defeat on Feb. 14. In their first round matchup against Loyola (Maryland), Homan was limited to eight minutes because of foul trouble, but sophomore forward Ashley Lutz recorded a double-double, with a career-high 14 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Leopards to a 58-46 victory.
The Leopards could give the Eagles trouble on the offensive end, as Lafayette boasts the second-best three-point defense in the league, only allowing opponents to shoot 29.1 percent from behind the arc. The three-point shot is strength of the Eagles, the second-best three-point shooting team in the conference, who shoot 32.7 percent from behind the arc. The Leopards rank in the bottom half of the league in scoring offense, scoring defense, field goal percentage and field goal percentage defense.
AU carries a strong wave of momentum into the Patriot League Tournament, winning all eight of its games in the month of February, including a hard-fought victory against second-place Army 45-42 on Feb. 21. During the eight-game winning streak, AU limited opponents to 48.5 points-per-game and averaged a margin of victory of 12.4 points. 
Overall, AU has the second-highest scoring offense in Patriot League games, averaging 63.4 points-per-game. They also boast the third highest scoring defense, allowing 53.3 points-per-game. The Eagles have the highest field percentage offense and defense among Patriot League teams, shooting 44.3 percent-per-game while allowing opponents to shoot only 35.5 percent-per-game. In addition, AU also has the most efficient offense in the league, with an assist-to-turnover ratio of 1.4. 
The Eagles are led offensively by senior guard Jen Dumiak (17.1 points-per-game), junior forward Michelle Holmes (10.9 points-per-game) and senior forward Arron Zimmerman (9.7 points-per-game), who all rank in the top 20 in scoring in the Patriot League. Dumiak also leads the league in assists-per-game (6.1) and free-throw percentage (92.5) and is second in overall field goal percentage (51.5) and was named Patriot League Player of the Year on Wednesday. Holmes and Zimmerman were named to the Patriot League third-team while senior guard Shaquilla Curtis was named Defensive Player of the Year.
Permitting AU can reach the Patriot League final, which will take place on March 14, they will face potential matchups against Army or Holy Cross, the only teams to beat the Eagles in league play this season. Army bested the Eagles 68-60 on Jan. 24 in West Point while Holy Cross topped AU 67-61 on Jan. 31 in Bender Arena. Both losses were characterized by poor AU shooting and an outstanding individual performance from Holy Cross and Army athletes. In the loss to Army, AU shot 40.4 percent from the field and guard Kelsey Minato torched the Eagles with 26 points and six rebounds. Against Holy Cross, the Eagles shot 36.7 percent from the field while forward Raquel Scott notched 31 points and eight rebounds for the Crusaders. 
However, before the Eagles can concern themselves with potential opponents in the Patriot League final, they must first navigate their way through their quarter-final matchup Friday night at Bender Arena.  
“Getting our team ready to be prepared for anything that can be thrown at them is the key.” Gebbia said. “For our players its bringing the effort and energy every game.” 
vsalandro@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	There are enough burger shops in this world, but there aren’t enough grilled cheese shops. For now, it looks like Melt Shop (located near the intersection of 19th Street and L Street, near the Farragut North Metro stop) is the only carb and dairy spot D.C. needs. And who doesn’t love grilled cheese? Four of The Eagle’s staff were more than enthused to collaborate on a grilled cheese tour at the downtown shop. Check out each of our mini-reviews below to see if Melt Shop is right for you.


Lifestyle editor Jordan-Marie Smith, Truffle Oil Sandwich, Shop Tots



	Arugula, truffle oil and havarti make the Truffle Oil grilled cheese sandwich. Shop Tots and Sriracha on the side. Photo by Jordan-Marie Smith.


	After waiting, ever so long, for the rest of the team to arrive, I promised myself I would order anything I wanted--no matter the price or obviously high caloric content. If I had my way, the fried chicken sandwich, chili tots and a milkshake would be on the above roster. Alas, I watched my wallet and waistline and settled on the Truffle Oil grilled cheese and shop tots.


	Havarti, truffle oil and arugula mesh well for the simple sandwich, but the butter soaked into the bread is what hit my tastebuds first. You’d think that oil on butter might complicate the experience, but neither distracted from the other. Even though I could easily consume three servings of my favorite All-American sandwich, I wanted to savor the Truffle Oil sandwich because that’s exactly what it was — savory.


	The Shop Tots, at around $3, were unavoidable. I am all about tots. These were crispy, rich and buttery. The outside is perfectly crunchy and took me back to public school days when the arrival of tater tots was a worshipped occasion. The inside was meltingly wonderful, but a tad soft. Tots are close to perfection.


	Sidenote: I did have a few cheese tots from Bryan and I was not a fan at all. It tasted like fake cheese, cheese whiz. I’ve never had cheese whiz, but I’m assuming that people are okay with it? At least Aly Seidel, a Philly native, was okay with it. They love fake cheese.



	Lifestyle assistant editor Freddy Rodriguez, Classic with Grilled Chicken, Shop Tots



	Classic grilled cheese sandwich with grilled chicken. Photo by Freddy Rodriguez.


	Nothing brings a team together better than cheese and bread. So when we decided to try out a new grilled cheese restaurant, my mouth salivated from knowing that I would not be eating alone. Finally, I would have people around me during my dining experience.


	This group aspect attracted me to the establishment at first, but after filling my stomach with Melt Shop’s classic grilled cheese with grilled chicken and tater tots, I felt a different attraction to the restaurant.


	Once we received our food, I allowed myself to attack the sandwich, essentially forgetting to converse with the friends around me.


	As I bit into the Classic, I inspected the contents of the grilled cheese. Melt Shop made this sandwich with toasted sourdough bread, cheese, butter and pleasantly surprised me by adding mayonnaise and roasted tomatoes. I also ordered my sandwich with grilled chicken. I couldn’t deal with simply ordering a plain Classic— a boy needs his meat. The contents literally gushed into my mouth as I took bite after bite. The cheese and butter gracefully flowed over my taste buds, leading to an explosion of tastefulness in my mouth. Some may call this explosion overwhelming — I call it intoxicating.


	The sandwich engulfed me to the point that I stopped talking to my team and focused only on the impressive grilled cheese on hand. I’ve had plenty of grilled cheeses throughout my life, but I’ve never had one this good.


	As for my order of tots, I tasted nothing particularly special. Melt Shop sprinkled parmesan cheese, which did add to my already cheesy experience, but a touch of parmesan can only go so far. The tots pleasured me, but they didn’t move me like the main course.


	Sidenote: I also had a few of Bryan's fake cheese tots, and I actually enjoyed them. They reminded me of something you might eat when you just really want something heavy.



	Features editor Aly Seidel, Grilled Chicken



	Grilled chicken, sans roasted tomatoes and truffle mayo. Photo by Aly Seidel.


	Melt Shop was a letdown.


	I don’t want to say that but it was. Online reviews were solid, menu looked delicious— as I piled into the N6 bus with my friends, there was little doubt in my mind that I was going to have a delicious Friday night.


	Unfortunately, that’s not how it panned out.


	I ordered a grilled chicken sandwich- which,
	 according to the menu, was supposed to include grilled chicken, Havarti cheese, roasted tomatoes and truffle mayo. I got two out of four. My sandwich was both mayo and tomato-less, which was my first, but not last, disappointment of the night. The cheese was cold, coagulated and didn’t stick to the chicken. In a restaurant called Melt Shop, there seemed to be a severe lack of, to quote my colleague Freddy Rodriguez, “gooey-ness.”


	I looked over at my friends’ sandwiches — Arugula! Truffle oil! Caramelized onions! — and felt the pangs of jealousy. Or maybe that was hunger. Either way, I had obviously made the wrong menu choice. They chowed down, gushing effusive praise while I wished for a time machine to go back and order the BLT.


	I added ketchup (my foodie heart reeling the entire time) and even Heinz couldn’t save this sandwich.


	Sidenote: I tried both the Shop Tots and Cheesy Tots. Shop Tots were crispy and buttery but not much to write home about. The parmesan cheese blend sprinkled on top didn’t do much to assuage my middle-school lunchroom flashbacks. I liked the Cheesy Tots better. The thick, Velveeta-like cheese overwhelmed the tots, which was fine by me.



	Multimedia editor Bryan Park, Classic, Burger Melt Sandwich, Cheesy Tots



	The Classic Melt. Photo by Bryan Park.


	Knowing that I would be visiting a grilled cheese restaurant in the evening, I was okay with starving myself prior to making the trip. And my ravenous hunger was well worth being able to taste a few selections of Melt Shop. Upon reaching the store, I ordered the classic, burger melt and cheesy tots. It was twice the amount that everyone else in the store was eating, but from my experience they were missing out.


	The classic is exactly what you expect from the simple yet perfect grilled cheese sandwich: Crunchy, buttery toast that melts in your mouth, and mixes beautifully with the soft cheese on the first chew. An excellent choice for anyone visiting Melt Shop longing for that nostalgic childhood flavor.



	The mighty Burger Melt, a hybrid between a burger and grilled cheese. Photo by Bryan Park.


	The burger melt was the highlight of my visit to Melt Shop. The selection on the menu caught my eyes because I had never even thought of combining the classic burger and grilled cheese together. But boy, did it work. With a soft beef patty, caramelized onions, aged cheddar and pickles nestled between two slices of crunchy sourdough, the explosion of flavor from this hearty sandwich made it a sad ordeal when I eventually had to down the savory contents.  Easily one of the best sandwiches I have ever eaten.


	The cheesy tots were something I ordered in order to fill out those small pockets of room that I knew were going to be present in my stomach after eating the sandwiches. Everyone else was eating tots, so I thought I’d go the extra mile by ordering some cheese on them. I was fairly surprised when I received my tots, as it looked quite messy with a mountain of cheese sloppily poured over the tots. It was far more cheese than I had anticipated, and the taste also confirmed that cheese was overwhelming the flavor of the tots. The cheese itself was too rich, and at one point I felt that I had simply order cheese, with a topping of tots. In hindsight, ordering the normal tots might have been the better choice.


@Psjmarie - jsmith@theeagleonline.com


@alyseidel - aseidel@theeagleonline.com


@freddywantsfred - frodriguez@theeagleonline.com


@BryanPark - bpark@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This is a rewrite of a previous Staff Editorial on the topic of tuition that has since been removed from our website for factual inaccuracies. We wanted to rewrite this article because we have a lot of thoughts on the tuition process, and instead we wrote an article on the politics of the situation and turned it into a misguided personal attack. Everyone at this school pays tuition, and we feel that we need to speak out on this important topic.
Tuition is a hotly contested issue at AU. It is also a complex and nuanced topic, with no clear right and wrong answer. Inflation is inevitable, but students' incomes do not always rise with inflation. The school is investing heavily in new construction, but some students will not be able take advantage of those opportunities if their tuition rises higher than they can pay.
In our last staff editorial on this topic, we naively focused our criticisms of the process that determines the new budget on Student Government Comptroller Abby Dunn, who in reality is trying to represent the students’ wishes as a member of the University Budget Committee.
Instead of taking the tempting bait by going after SG on this issue, we needed to focus on how these decisions, made by the University Budget Committee, President Neil Kerwin and the Board of Trustees, affect students. Many of us have known people who have had to leave AU because they could no longer afford rising tuition. AU has a reputation as a school so expensive that only well-off students can attend, and raising the tuition only further limits the socioeconomic diversity of the student body.
Just because we acknowledge these facts, it does not mean that anyone involved in the budgeting process is a bad person or has any intention of harming students. On the contrary, it is likely that everyone is not only trying to keep costs down as much as possible, but is also attempting to ensure that we will continue to enjoy great new facilities and programs.
This issue is not one that can be unraveled overnight and certainly not by the Eagle staff. We understand that SG is doing everything in its power to represent the students. By joining the Education Not Debt Coalition, SG showed that its members are passionate about keeping tuition as low as possible, while also being realistic by proposing a 2.7 percent increase (which would be the lowest increase in the last decade).
Ultimately, the focus in any discussion of tuition hikes should be on the students affected by them. This issue is incredibly important to many AU students who are currently unsure if they will be able to come back to school next year, and they deserve better than petty attacks on those who are trying to advocate for them. -E
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.


	Set above Georgetown and nestled among unassuming residences, Dumbarton Oaks’ museum and gardens exude mysteriousness and grace.

	Originally owned by Queen Anne and later the residence of U.S. senator and former Vice President John C. Calhoun, the Oaks have a long and colorful history, according to the museum’s website. Charlotte Baer and Jerald Goldberg, two volunteer docents shared their thoughts on the museum.

	"You meet an incredible amount of people, with so many interests, young and old, scholars or not, the museum is a wonderful place," Baer said.

	The magic of the Oaks is undeniable. Doubling as a museum, the estate is home to a Renaissance style music hall, the Pre-Columbian Pavilion, an extensive Byzantine art collection, and a collection of rare books dispersed amongst the multiple libraries. The museum is small but its grandeur is astounding and well maintained. Baer and Goldberg  have volunteered at the Oaks for nearly a decade and 25 years, respectively.

	“The museum has a special environment,” Goldberg said.


Music Hall original fireplace, where U.N. foundation began. Photo by Katie Burke.

	The museum’s floor-to-ceiling windows usher visitors into modernity, while housing centuries worth of art. The Byzantine collection, starts off the museum with jewelry, icons, silver, gold and gemstones from anywhere between 330 AD to 1453 AD. It then flows into the Pre-Columbian menagerie. Housed in a maze of glass, the Pre-Columbian exhibit holds some of the most ornate and unique art originating in the Americas. The next room is the Music Room, the birthplace of the United Nations Charter. In this room a group of diplomats came up with the ideas and philosophies behind the United Nations. Dimly lit with a large piano and chairs scattered around the room, it is easy to see how a group of diplomats would fit right in. The room leads to the rare books collection. Although it is not open to the public, there are still books and blueprints that can be seen.

	If the interior museum is magical, the gardens are ethereal. Connected to Rock Creek Park’s trails and sprawling over 53 acres, the gardens are quite unlike anything else. With sloping brick pathways, hidden fountains, reading nooks and hundreds of sculptures tucked away, the grounds are ideal for both adventuring and relaxing.


Dumbarton Oaks greenhouse. Photo by Katie Burke.

	Another must see is the greenhouse. Between the main house and a courtyard lies a small glass room bursting with life - from lemon trees to dainty purple flowers, the greenhouse gives a hint of warmer days during the winter months.

	The museum is a self-described hidden gem and that’s not wrong. This winter, the museum is open 11:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and the gardens are open 2 to 5 p.m., both with free admission. Starting March 15, the gardens will have extended hours and small entrance fee, $5 for students and $8 for everyone else.

Metro: 32, 34, 36 Metro buses from Tenleytown to R Street

Address: Dumbarton Oaks

  1703 32nd Street NW

@uncomfortablekt - thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.


For those of you who will still be in the District during spring break, here are some events that will kick off your week of freedom in the best ways. These events are also great ways to get to know people outside of the AU bubble. 
Guerrilla Queer Bar at TBA
You know an event is cool when the venue can only be announced hours before. This Friday, The Welcoming Committee will take over a “typically straight” place in the District and make it an LGBTQA spot. The Committee is known for doing this in Atlanta, Chicago and Boston. The first of every month, The Welcoming Committee takes over a straight bar. For now, that location is unknown but check back here for more information. Join the hundreds of rowdy queers for a good time. 
When: Friday, March 6, 9 p.m.
Where: TBA, sign up here to be in the know
Metro: Based on the TBA location 
Shit.
One of AU’s own seniors, the woman who started #KancelitKerwin, is putting on her one-woman debut production at the Katzen Arts Center. Rosemary Cipriano has quite a sense of humor and is putting it to good use to talk about Long Island, life and love. Join Cipriano in the Studio Theatre for this free event. For one reason or another, you’ll be talking about “Shit.”
When: Friday, March 6, 8 p.m.
Where: Studio Theater, AU’s Katzen Arts Center
Cumbia Reggae Party with Kickoman at Haydees Restaurant
Get in touch with D.C.’s underground reggae scene with its very own Latin reggae band Kickoman. The band is set on marketing itself as reggae, but the night is sure to include ska, funk, psych-vibes, merengue, salsa and hip-hop. For those of you who are new to D.C. or are seniors that haven’t lived yet, this is the perfect way to get out of your comfort zone with an open mind and hip-shaking moves. Free.
When: Saturday, March 7, 10 p.m.
Where: Haydees Restaurant, 3102 Mount Pleasant Street NW
Metro: 96 from Tenleytown
Lafayette Gilchrist's New Volcanoes at the Dance Institute of Washington
Lafayette Gilchrist hails from D.C., lives in Baltimore and is finally returning to the stage to get the Chocolate City in touch with its Go-Go roots. He’ll be playing new tunes, so it’ll be interesting to see what he has to debut. The Allyn Johnson Trio will join Gilchrist on the stage. Tickets can be found here. 
When: Sunday, March 8, 7 p.m.
Where: The Dance Institute of Washington, 3400 14th Street, NW
Metro: 96 from Tenleytown
@Psjmarie - jsmith@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
