The AU Eagles broke their two game winning streak on Dec. 28, falling to the Wake Forest Demon Deacons 77-64, despite a standout performance from senior guard Jen Dumiak.
Dumiak, who has been previously recognized as the Lids Team Sports Patriot League Player of the Week, earned her 1,000 career point in the non-conference match-up, becoming only the 17th player in AU history to earn such an honor. She recorded 21 points, six rebounds and five assists against the Deacons, and her efforts also moved her within six rebounds of entering the list of AU’s top five most career assists by a single player. Dumiak was recently recognized as the GEICO AU Student-Athlete of the Week, and she surpassed 20 points for the third consecutive game.
Junior forward Michelle Holmes contributed also 14 points and seven rebounds, and senior forward Arron Zimmerman added 13 points for the Eagles (5-6, 0-0 PL) .
AU started the game brightly, scoring the game’s first six points, and they trailed by only four points midway through the first half. However, the Demon Deacons (8-5, 0-0 ACC) slowly pulled away and built a 16-point halftime lead.
The Eagles chipped away at the Demon Deacons’ lead in the second half cut the lead to single digits several times. A three-point field goal from Zimmerman with less than five minutes to play made the game 66-58. Wake Forest responded with consecutive baskets from senior forward Dearica Hamby, and AU was unable to mount one final comeback. Hamby led the Demon Deacons with 24 points and eight rebounds.
Ultimately, a landmark personal day for Dumiak was not enough to carry AU to a third straight victory.
AU was plagued by turnovers as the Eagles turned the ball over 13 times in the first half, and 20 times in the game. AU shot the ball efficiently, making 45.3 percent of its field goals, but the Eagles only hit 16.7 percent from the three point line. Conversely, the Demon Deacons shot an even 50 percent from the field and 33.3 percent from behind the three-point line.
vsalandro@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Under a new partnership with the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting, two AU students will be awarded the opportunity to report on an underreported international issue of their choice.
One School of Communication student and one student from the University at-large will be chosen for the international reporting fellowship and awarded $2,500 to cover expenses. Staff and journalists from the Pulitzer Center will mentor them throughout their time, and students’ work will be featured on the Pulitzer Center website. SOC will also host campus visits by Pulitzer Center journalists.
SOC announced the partnership on Dec. 22, and the school is now a member of the Pulitzer Center’s Campus Consortium initiative. The Consortium partners with 21 schools and works to create awareness about international issues.
AU’s Center for Latin American and Latino Studies will be a contributing partner to the initiative, according to the SOC announcement.
cdil@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
