Photo by Carol Highsmith / Flickr
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Photo by Carol Highsmith / Flickr
With Fourth of July quickly approaching, thousands of tourists will flock to the District to celebrate America’s birthday. For visitors and locals alike, D.C.’s historic monuments and memorials make the city an ideal location to display patriotic spirits and enjoy Fourth of July festivities. To plan your ideal Fourth July celebration, follow these suggestions from the Scene. 
National Independence Day Parade
Start off the Fourth of July weekend right with the National Independence Day Parade. The parade will host a variety of guests including servicemen, military personnel and marching bands from all over the country.
When: Saturday, July 4, 11:45 a.m.
Where: Constitution Avenue and 7th St. NW
Metro: Metro Center, Red Line
Washington National Cathedral
Join the National Cathedral staff for their annual Independence Day organ concert. Arrive early for a family-friendly day filled with fun music and marches. Stick around in the evening to catch the annual firework show, which will hold your gaze until the end of the night. The Cathedral’s location makes it easy to spot the fireworks without having to face the crowds of Washingtonians and tourists in the National Mall.
When: Saturday, July 4, 11 a.m.
Where: 3101 Wisconsin Ave., NW
A Capitol Fourth Concert
Fourth of July festivities continue at the U.S. Capitol with A Capitol Fourth. The 35th annual concert features the National Symphony Orchestra, a live cannon fire provided by the United States Army and much more. Gates to the concert open at 3 p.m. and the show begins at 8 p.m.
When: Saturday, July 4, 3 p.m.
Where: West lawn of the U.S. Capitol
Metro: Judiciary Square, Red Line
Lincoln restaurant
For a patriotic American dining experience, make sure to stop by the Lincoln restaurant for their delicious American cuisine. The restaurant’s 4th of July menu offers a variety of traditional dishes including classic apple pie and savory BBQ. 
Where: 1110 Vermont Ave., NW
Metro: Farragut North, Red Line
Old Ebbitt Grill
Head down to Old Ebbitt Grill and try everything from their acclaimed seafood to their tasty sandwiches. Located two blocks away from the President’s Park and the White House, the establishment creates the perfect patriotic ambiance for customers.
Where: 675 15th St., NW
Metro: Metro Center, Red Line
Arlington Memorial Bridge
End Independance Day at the Arlington Memorial Bridge, an all-time favorite place for D.C. locals to watch fireworks. Located next to the Potomac River, visitors will witness the colorful spectacle of the nation’s fireworks from an amazing view that overlooks the Potomac River. 
Where: Washington, DC 20418
Metro: Arlington Cemetery, Blue Line
jaddison@theeagleonline.com
Follow @jenaeaddison
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.


Then candidate for mayor Muriel Bowser at the 2013 Palisades parade (crystalndavis/flickr).

	It’s not as exciting as an election year, when mayoral and D.C. Council candidates crisscross town to march in July Fourth parades to earn votes, but you still have a chance to meet the mayor and other lawmakers in this year’s celebrations.

	These are the six parades and block parties Mayor Muriel Bowser will be attending tomorrow, courtesy of her public calendar.

10 AM -- Capitol Hill 4th of July Parade at Barracks Row

	Location: Barracks Row: 8th Street, SE & I Street, SE

11 AM -- 49th Annual Palisades 4th of July Parade and Picnic

	Starting Location: 3600 Calvert Street, NW

	End Location: 5200 Sherier Place, NW

12 PM–3 PM (Mayor’s Arrival TBD) -- F.R.E.S.H. Fourth of July Block Party at Bruce Monroe Park

	Location: Bruce Monroe Park: Georgia Avenue, NW & Irving Street, NW

12 PM–3 PM (Mayor’s Arrival TBD) -- F.R.E.S.H. Fourth of July Block Party at Truesdell Elementary School

	Location: Truesdell Elementary School: 800 Ingraham Street, NW

6:30 PM–9:30 PM (Mayor’s Arrival TBD) -- F.R.E.S.H. Fourth of July Block Party at Oxon Run Park

	Location: Oxon Run Park: 1stt Street at South Capitol, SE

6:30 PM–9:30 PM (Mayor’s Arrival TBD ) -- F.R.E.S.H. Fourth of July Block Party at Marvin Gaye Park

	Location: Marvin Gaye Park: Fitch Place at Division Avenue, NE

cdil@theeagleonline.com


Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
