Darius "Pee-Wee" Gardner during game vs Bucknell Feb. 28 
The No. 6 seeded AU Eagles fell short tonight in a heartbreaking thriller, 65-63, to the Lafayette Leopards.
It was a cinderella story that ended incomplete. The Eagles, after losing five of their last eight regular season games and virtually every big man on their roster, surged in the beginning rounds of the Patriot League tournament. First, AU upset No. 3 seeded Lehigh, on the road, then upset No. 2 seeded Colgate, on the road, to get the chance to defend their Patriot League title. Before AU could punch their ticket to their second consecutive NCAA Tournament, they had to go through No. 4 seeded Lafayette, a team the Eagles beat twice in the regular season. 
Destiny seemed to be on AU side when the Eagles battled back from a once 13 point deficit to lead 55-53 with five minutes left to play. The Leopards, however, did not falter and continued to hit clutch shots in the final minutes of the game, like they had all game, to secure their first NCAA Tournament appearance in 15 years. 
"It was a great effort by our guys. It's what they did all year, led by John Schoof and [Darius] Pee Wee Gardner. They determine what kind of team we are, and you saw what kind of team we were tonight. We just fell short," Brennan said to aueagles.com
The Eagles and Leopards began the game trading shots and turnovers. Over the first four minutes both teams collected two turnovers each. The Leopards thunderous sold out crowd at Allan P. Kirby Sports Center may have played a part in AU’s early uncharacteristic turnovers. The Eagles would go on to turn it over three more times in the next six minutes, for a total of five turnovers in the first 10 minutes. Even so the score only had AU down two, 17-15. 
After another series of bad passes, unbalanced shots and missed layups for the Eagles, the door was opened for the Leopards to go on a 6-0 run. Over the the run the Leopards took a 23-15 lead and held the Eagles scoreless for six minutes. 
Sophomore guard Charlie Jones broke the drought with 6-0 run of his own, scoring back-to-back 3-pointers with six minutes till half, to bring the Eagles back within two points. Following Jones, junior guard Jesse Reed provided the only other Eagle points the rest of the half coming off a 3-pointer and a free throw. AU was unable to get their offensive going went into the halftime 34-25. 
The Leopards made sure it was a bad day for the Eagles to have an offensive slump, as Lafayette shot an incredible 68.4 percent in the first, going 13-for-19 and 3-of-6 from beyond the arc. The Leopards dominated in the Eagles inside in the first collecting 20 points in the paint, most at the hands of sophomore guard Nick Lindner. The second year player paced the Leopards in the first with 16 points. 
In the second half the Eagles looked to limit the Leopards inside, but Lafayette took advantage of the different defense spacing and quickly shot off two three-pointers to extend their lead to 40-27, a 13 points lead with 18 minutes to play. 
With a little less than 10 minutes to play the Eagles began to rally. Down by 10 points junior guard playing center Marko Vasic, made a layup, then Jones followed with a completed layup and-1 and finally senior guard Schoof layup completed the Eagles 7-0 run. Although senior Gardner wasn’t directly scoring the points, he was the man who, as he had all season, orchestrated and commanded the floor to lead the Eagles back to within three points. 
After a Lafayette timeout, Lidner provided his team with a three-pointer and breathing room, at least for a couple seconds, as Gardner came right back and made three-pointer of his own. 
With a little more than five minutes to play AU took its first lead, 54-53, since the first half. During this four minute rally the Eagles forced the Leopards to turnover the ball six times. 
As time ran down the Leopards kept making clutch three-pointers. A pair from Seth Hinrich and Zach Rufer gave the Leopards a 59-55 lead with 2:16 to play. 
However, Gardner was not going down without a fight, with 1:06 to play he banked a three-point shot to have the Eagles within one. 
With 0:38 to play, and the shot clock less than that, the Eagles down three points went to AU’s greatest three-point shooters in program history Schoof. Everyone in the arena held their breaths as the ball floated through the air, inches off the mark. The Leopards we’re able to rebound and pick up a foul. 
While Lafeyette looked to inbound with 13 seconds left, Gardner drew a holding foul to send Linder to the free-throw line, to ultimately putting the game out of reach with two made free throws. 
In the final second of Gardner’s AU career the senior leader sent off a three-point shot from long range to close out a 65-63 loss. 
Gardner finished the game with 13 points, a game high seven assists and two steals. In Schoof’s final game as an Eagle, he scored 10 points, going 4-for-11 and 2-of-5 from beyond the arc. All of the Eagle starters scored in the double digits and played all but one minute of the game. Junior guard Jesse Reed reached the 1,000 point milestone, while Vasic led the Eagles in scoring, just missing a double-double, accumulating 15 points and game high nine rebounds.
jreyes@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	For the first time since the 2003-04 season, the AU men’s and women’s basketball teams will play in the championship game of the Patriot League Tournament in the same year.

	This season the women's basketball team dominated Patriot League play, winning the regular season championship and securing the No. 1 seed heading into the tournament. The men's basketball team, on the other hand, faltered in conference play and finished in sixth place. However, both teams now have the chance to end their season with a league title.

	Both head coaches have been at AU less than two years, and each has each secured the Patriot League Coach of the Year honor in that brief time.

	Within the first two weeks of his career as AU’s athletic director, Billy Walker 
	hired Mike Brennan as the head men’s basketball coach, a decision that last year helped the Eagles earn their first NCAA tournament appearance since 2009.

		Taking a selfie on the court after we won is legendary to say the least lol pic.twitter.com/LmZMALbRg7


		— Jesse Reed (@JJReed14) March 14, 2014


		The dance card is filling up! American joins the party as Patriot League champs, first NCAA tourney bid since 2009. pic.twitter.com/p287c2xfKW


		— SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) March 13, 2014


	The team’s success inspired an increase in student support, and when the University organized a trip to Milwaukee for the first round of the 2014 NCAA tournament, students filled the fan bus.

		Ready to purchase your tickets to Milwaukee!? The line is ready, ticketing starts TOMORROW at 8AM! Spots limited. 
		pic.twitter.com/hBjldhFBpS


		— AU Blue Crew (@AU_BlueCrew) 
		March 18, 2014


		Greeting the AU Fans and alumni at our hotel in Milwaukee! Go Eagles! 
		pic.twitter.com/ltcyEjfz2t


		— AU Dance Team (@AUDanceTeam) 
		March 20, 2014


	This year, players and fans alike will make a similar trip to Easton, Pennsylvania on March 11 for the men’s Patriot League Championship game. AU will take on the No. 4 seeded Lafayette Leopards at 7:30 p.m.

	“Men’s basketball is kind of the flagship program without having football,” Walker said.

		AU fans are psyched! 
		#LetsGoAU pic.twitter.com/IEnwFmwLjT


		— American University (@AmericanU) 
		March 20, 2014


	The men’s team, 
	picked first in this year’s Patriot League preseason poll, struggled early on and dropped their league opener to Bucknell University 57-47 on Dec. 31.

	The team recovered, however, and picked up a string of home wins in January against Holy Cross, Colgate and Lehigh. Senior guard Darius “Pee Wee” Gardner made 
	national headlines when the Eagles topped Lafayette on the road on Jan. 17, and Gardner recorded his third game-winning buzzer-beater shot in less than a month.

		Great article by 
		@NicoleAuerbach about our team in today's @USATODAY. http://t.co/G3WsAoEtgD pic.twitter.com/5Jx4IYOcLq


		— Scott Greenman (@Coach_Greenman) 
		January 21, 2015


		Another close win tonight! Shoutout to my brother 
		@Slimetime24 for yet another game winner!
	

		— Jesse Reed (@JJReed14) 
		January 15, 2015


	AU closed out the regular season with another loss to the Bison on Feb. 28, and they finished the year with a 8-10 conference record to land a sixth seed in the Patriot League tournament.

	Despite their rocky start, Brennan’s Eagles have earned the opportunity to reclaim their preseason number one ranking tonight in the tournament championship. Junior guard Jesse Reed continues to shine for the Eagles, racking up 38 total points in the first two games of the tournament. AU has also relied on junior center Marko Vasic to fill in for injured centers junior Zach Elcano and senior Kevin Panzer. Vasic recorded 35 minutes and 13 points against Colgate on March 8 in what was only his fifth starting appearance.

		Starters about to be introduced. Minutes away from game time! 
		pic.twitter.com/YR6cfqbroD


		— AU Men's Basketball (@AU_MBasketball) 
		March 8, 2015


	Wonder Women

	The women’s basketball team also looks to take home a league title this weekend at Bender Arena when they play No. 6 Lehigh for a chance to punch a ticket to the Big Dance.

	The Patriot League recently honored head women’s basketball coach Megan Gebbia as Patriot League Coach of the Year on March 3 for her success in leading to Eagles to a 16-2 conference record. Gebbia boasts a 30-6 conference record in her first two seasons at AU.

		Of course gotta show some love for the best boss in America 
		@CoachMegGebbia winning PL Coach of the Year! #proudeagle pic.twitter.com/DnGKmBLOxf


		— Emily Stallings (@em_stall20) 
		March 3, 2015


		Thank you everyone for your support!!So proud of our team's many accomplishments!! Still one more goal left to achieve!! 
		#finish #proudcoach


		— Megan Gebbia (@CoachMegGebbia) 
		March 3, 2015


	The second-year coach challenged the team at the start of the season with high-profile games against Big-10 powerhouse University of Maryland, local rival 
	George Washington and Ivy League standout team Princeton University. Maryland and Princeton both hold top 15 rankings nationally.

	“We wanted to schedule up because when you get into the NCAA you’re playing a team like that, and you don’t want that to be the first time you’ve ever played an opponent like that because you're going to get killed, and that’s not what you want,” Gebbia said in a press conference earlier this year. “You want to be able to compete once you get there.”

	The women’s basketball team pulled out big wins against Gonzaga University and the University of Oregon during their Thanksgiving Shootout Tournament in Las Vegas.

@AU_WBasketball hit the jackpot in Vegas, defeating both Gonzaga & Oregon!!! #WinningBig #CashinOut #LetsGoAU pic.twitter.com/bORQW5CB6Y


		— AU Blue Crew (@AU_BlueCrew) 
		November 30, 2014


		REALLY LOVING VEGAS! 
		#photobombingWhackos #HeartbreakKids #DumiakAllTourneyTeam @ABassetti pic.twitter.com/UuTsKNuiQa


		— Nikki Flores (@naflores22) 
		November 30, 2014


	AU looks to build off its experience against tougher schools earlier this year to make history on Saturday.

	“It’s a great group of personalities meshing together and really caring about one another,” Gebbia said in a press conference earlier this year. “I’ve been a part of many teams, and I really believe this is a special one.”

		We goin' to the 'Ship! 
		#JustWon #Squad #AUWBB @CoachMegGebbia @AUCoachColl @em_stall20 pic.twitter.com/ODfGBMtFoH


		— Nikki Flores (@naflores22) 
		March 10, 2015


sscovel@theeagleonline.com


Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
