Bryce Harper, Daniel
Murphy, Wilson Ramos and Stephen Strasburg will represent the Washington
Nationals in the 2016 MLB All-Star game. The four selections tie a franchise
record for the club.
Harper, the 23-year
old reigning National League Most Valuable Player, earns his third career
start. Second-baseman Murphy and catcher Ramos will serve as reserves while
Strasburg rounds out the star-studded NL pitching staff.
Harper, while showing
significant decline from his hot start to 2016, earns his fourth overall
All-Star selection. For Murphy and Strasburg, this marks their second All-Star
game selection, while Ramos earns his first All-Star nod.
Harper finished April
with a .286 batting average and nine home runs. Since April, Harper’s batting
average has not gone above .274, and he is currently batting .258.
Murphy leads the
National League in batting average and hits, and has statistically better
numbers than the fan-voted NL second base starter Ben Zobrist of the Chicago
Cubs. Zobrist is one of five Cubs voted as starters for the Midsummer Classic.
Murphy’s selection
marks the second consecutive season the Nationals have signed a future All-Star
in the offseason. Murphy signed a three-year, $37.5 million deal in the
offseason after spending his entire career with the Nationals’ NL East rival,
the New York Mets. In the winter of 2014, the Nationals signed pitcher Max
Scherzer to a seven-year, $210 million dollar contract. Scherzer represented
the Nationals in the 2015 All-Star game.
Strasburg will return
to the All-Star game for the first time since 2012. Strasburg is currently 11-0
with a 2.71 ERA in 99.2 innings pitched. Strasburg will return to his hometown
of San Diego, California, the site of the All-Star game.
Ramos is having a
career year, currently batting .335 with 13 home runs, three home runs shy of
matching his career high.
jreyes@theeagleonline.com











Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The city’s annual free Folklife Festival pays tribute to traditions around the world through music, cooking, storytelling and more. This year’s festival highlights various cultures and their global impact with three intriguing programs: Basque: Innovation by Culture, Sounds of California and On the Move. Sunday marks the end of this year’s celebration, so be sure to stop by and explore handmade works at the festival’s marketplace, enjoy some authentic cuisine or wind down at an evening concert. 
When: July 7 through July 10, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Daily evening concerts start at 6:30 p.m.)
Where: National Mall 
Metro: Smithsonian Station, Orange Line 
Have you captured the perfect Instagram shot at the Renwick Gallery’s WONDER exhibition yet? If not, this weekend is your last chance. Three of the exhibit’s wildly popular installations are leaving the museum after Sunday, with only two artists’ work remaining indefinitely. Admission is free, so don’t miss your opportunity to immerse yourself in this mesmerizing artwork. 
When: 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. daily
Where: Renwick Gallery, 1661 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Metro: Farragut North Station, Red Line
Celebrate the importance of democracy at this free event held by the Smithsonian American Art Museum. Listen to live musical performances by local artist Tarica June and bluegrass bands Steep Canyon Rangers and Seldom Scene, express yourself on a community mural, register to vote and much more!
When: July 9, 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Where: Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Renwick Gallery, 800 G Street NW
Metro: Gallery Place/Chinatown, Red Line
If you’re in need of a weekend getaway, make the trek to Merriweather Post Pavilion for live music and fresh air at the first ever Merryland Music Fest. The lineup includes acts such as The String Cheese Incident, Ben Harper, Grace Potter and other noteworthy artists. Ticket prices vary from $75-$125 for single day passes and $125-$200 for admittance both days. 
When: July 9 and 10, doors open at 12:00 p.m. 
Where: Merriweather Post Pavilion, 10475 Little Patuxent Pkwy, Columbia, MD
Metro: Car necessary
ljakiel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I love cooking.
On a recent campaign trip working the field for a U.S. Congressional race in North Carolina, I came to realize that there are few things that are more relaxing than coming home from a long day on the trail and pouring my heart and soul into preparing a meal. Being that this foray into adulthood was the first time I would be straying from sourcing the majority of my food from the loving kitchen of my mother -- who I maintain has a red sauce that would rival Lidia Bastianich’s -- or the on-campus dining services, I was a bit confused when it came to purchasing groceries. So, as soon as I grew tired of eating Buffalo Wild Wings and North Carolina (read: bad) pizza for dinner, I took a trip out to the local big-box grocery store and began picking out what I would be eating for the remainder of the trip. 
I made a bee-line right for the produce as soon as I got to the store. I was picking out some green beans and South Carolina peaches to put in my cart when I turned around and was faced with one of the most difficult decisions of my life. 
Zucchini: $1.09/lb. Organic Zucchini: $1.91/lb.
I was torn. Do I appeal to my sense of fiscal conservatism and pick up the cheaper zucchini whose long list of unpronounceable chemicals would likely render me barren and disease-ridden (as says everything I have learned growing up as a hip youth)? Or do I bite the additional costs and purchase the organic product? 
Despite my overwhelming desire for radioactive armpit hair, I bought the organic zucchini.
Later that evening, with a belly full of zucchini gratin, and an even more satisfying sense of moral superiority, I let curiosity get the best of me. I Googled what exactly it meant to be “certified organic.” 
I found myself on the United States Department of Agriculture’s website, reading the guidelines for admittance to its National Organic Program. I expected to find that there was a long list of chemicals on its no-no list. There was. I was sure that I was going to find strict guidelines restricting how the farmers grow their organic produce. There were. 
With a little further digging, I found out that every single pesticide on the list of prohibited chemicals are very rarely used. In fact, the “natural” chemical counterparts that are commonly used as alternatives to the “bad” chemicals that are on the list are equally as toxic, which is to say, not at all toxic. Aside from all of that, The Wall Street Journal identified another flaw in the National Organic Program: the farms in the program are not required to report testing of their pesticides in any regular manner. Instead, they are just subject to “surprise” tests. This is as if you and I went through our entire careers at American University just receiving pop quizzes every so often, not regular exams during midterms and finals. 
Ineffective and nonsensical guidelines aside, the sheer cost of becoming “certified organic” would surely put the mom-and-pop blueberry patches that dot New Jersey farmland in the red. Why would they undergo that economic strain for a title that, in essence, means that they use more expensive pesticides that are just as toxic as the cheaper variety? 
It is time to abolish the National Organic Program and stop wasting taxpayer dollars on an ineffective program, and deluding the American people into thinking that they have to buy more expensive produce in order to be healthy. Instead of trusting a seal, let’s introduce our neighbors to local farmers to supply them with romaine lettuce and beefsteak tomatoes. I’m sure that they would be happy to explain to their customers the philosophy of their farming practices, and the actual use of those “evil and toxic” pesticides.
Annamarie Rienzi is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle. 
arienzi@theeagleonline.com
Follow @annamarienzi
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
