Each week, The Dynasty will highlight the top
sports stories in Washington D.C. 

The D.C. sports scene was quiet for the week of
June 6 with only one team in action. Major League Soccer’s brief hiatus means
that the Washington Nationals are the only D.C. team to see the field until
D.C. United takes on the Fort Lauderdale Strikers in the fourth round of the
U.S. Open Cup on June 15.  

The Nationals, however, provided plenty for D.C.
sports fans this past week by scoring over ten runs in three straight games
while extending their National League East division lead over the New York Mets
to three games. Washington batters combined for seven home runs in this
three-game stretch and star right fielder Bryce Harper, who endured an extended hitting
slump during May, registered seven hits for the
Nationals. Another positive for Nationals was the performance of ace Max
Scherzer, a winner in the 11-4 victory over the Chicago White Sox on Wednesday.
Scherzer’s seven innings in which he only surrendered five hits marked the
fifth time in his last six starts that Scherzer has pitched beyond the seventh
inning. In his second season in Washington, Scherzer is finally putting
together the performances Nationals fans expected when the team paid the
Detroit Tigers $210 million for the 2013 Cy Young winner.

While the Nationals are experiencing success on
the field, they are also hoping their first round draft picks Carter Kieboom
and Dane Dunning can follow in the footsteps of former first rounders Bryce
Harper, Stephen Strasburg and Anthony Rendon. The Nationals received those
picks as compensation for the departure of pitcher Jordan Zimmermann and
shortstop Ian Desmond during free agency. Kieboom, a high school shortstop from
Marietta, Georgia, is the younger brother of Spencer Kieboom, a highly rated
catching prospect in the Nationals organization. Dunning, a right-handed
pitcher from the University of Florida, offers flexibility as he has appeared
as both a starter and reliever for the Gators.  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
