TW: This article contains links to disturbing imagery that may be harmful to you.
In wake of recent incidents involving police brutality and the unnecessary deaths of Black people, information spread quickly across different social media platforms. The time in between Alton Sterling’s death on July 5 and Philando Castile’s death on July 6 was less than 24 hours. In this incredibly short period, photos and videos circulated the Internet rapidly. A quick Google search for either of the two men’s names immediately displays the word “video” next to it in the result suggestion. Upon viewing the search results, many of the visuals are extremely disturbing and graphic in nature. The mass circulation of these visceral images beg the question: does sharing media of slain Black people encourage positive change? Or is it counterproductive and traumatic to members of the Black community?
As in many circumstances, the answer lies somewhere in the middle. The intentions behind sharing this kind of content are generally good; activists believe that exposing the true horrors of America’s law enforcement will motivate the larger population to take action. However, the trouble with this logic is that it assumes everyone who sees an image of a Black corpse doused in blood will be appalled and inclined to protest. 
People who believe in revealing the truth behind what really goes on in America through graphic imagery probably didn’t expect to see the dead body of Alton Sterling, arms outstretched and eyes rolled back, on a major news outlet. This week, New York Daily News unveiled a highly disturbing and disrespectful cover that depicted Sterling minutes after he was murdered by a police officer in Baton Rouge, Louisiana for selling CDs. The headline boldly reads: “His hands were empty.” But the impact of this cover says so much more than the tragic truth that Sterling was unarmed.
Photographing dead bodies in contemporary America is considered a taboo. Undoubtedly, photos of dead bodies exist and it is not unheard of that a magazine has gotten their hands on said photos with the intent to publish them. It remains, nonetheless, culturally insensitive to circulate images of dead people, especially when they have been brutally murdered. So why did the New York Daily News editors think it would be a good idea to depict Sterling, a father of five and beloved neighbor, as a bloodied shell of the person he once was 5 minutes before? 
Less than 24 hours after Sterling was murdered, another video surfaced of a murdered Black man at the hands of a trigger-happy police officer. Set in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, girlfriend Diamond “Lavish” Reynolds shakily holds her phone in front-facing camera mode. As she pans over to the body of what was once her boyfriend, Philando Castile, she calmly says, “Officer, please don’t tell me he’s dead. Please, no! Don’t tell me he’s gone, Lord.” 
While this video was filmed to preserve the safety of Reynolds and her four-year-old daughter, sitting in the back seat when the shots were fired, I am still uneasy about its mass circulation. There is something unsettling about seeing many of my non-Black friends sharing the video, because it feels like America’s collective indifference toward the lives of Black people is being shoved in my face. I know none of this is true and I’m sure the intentions of non-Black people are not to personally offend me. Regardless, this is still a question that has continued to rattle around in my skull.
I’m still not sure if I believe that sharing these images means that we’re desensitizing ourselves, or if it means we are merciless in our methods of consciousness-raising. There is no easy, painless solution for dealing with police brutality in our country because this is not a light subject. The senseless killings of unarmed, innocent Black people is deeply rooted in our country’s history and is still clearly prevalent today. 
We make progress when we remember that we are not the only ones advocating for change. A movement consists of many individuals, each with their own suggestions, ideas and lists of triggers. To prevent spreading trauma among the Black community, there are ways to censor the images and videos when people first click on a post. If someone is interested in viewing the hidden content, as Google’s popular searches would suggest, they can click on it and be able to see it. By adding a bit of censorship to the media we share, we can still spread our disgust for the murders in a way that is still cognizant of other people’s mental health.
There may be people on your social media who believe that sharing graphic images will awaken the humanity in people chanting “All Lives Matter.” However, there are certainly many Black people who experience second-hand, maybe even first-hand, trauma from viewing this triggering content. Fighting for justice was never meant to be sugar-coated, but it doesn’t hurt to be mindful of other people’s mental health in the process. 
Nobody has the ability to end police brutality overnight, because if we could, we would have solved it decades ago. Moving forward, we need to remember that compassion is one of the most crucial virtues that we must cultivate in times like these. 
Shelby Moring is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences and a columnist for The Eagle.
smoring@theeagleonline.com
Follow @floreashelby
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Still from "The Innocents," out July 8. 
Trigger Warning: This review includes mentions of sexual assault. 
Set in the bleak winter after the end of World War II, “The Innocents” follows the story of Mathilde Beaulieu (Lou de Laâge), a French Red Cross nurse treating survivors of concentration camps in Poland. When a panicked Benedictine nun begs her for help, Mathilde discovers a convent filled with pregnant holy sisters. As she is drawn further into the disturbing mystery surrounding the nuns, Mathilde fights to save their lives and their unborn children.
The tragedy that the nuns experienced is slowly revealed at the start of the film, and becomes heavier with the knowledge that it occurred in real life. Mathilde learns through veiled hints from the nuns that months earlier Soviet soldiers invaded the convent and repeatedly raped the women, leaving seven pregnant. It’s a piece of history that’s rarely discussed and often forgotten. During the liberation of Poland, mass acts of sexual violence were often committed by Soviet soldiers against Polish women. The story of Mathilde is loosely based on the true experiences of Madeleine Pauliac, a French doctor who assisted a group of nuns attacked by invading soldiers.
Faith plays a central role throughout the movie, as the nuns struggle with reconciling the trauma they have suffered and the religion in which they believe. While some nuns find that what little faith they had disappeared after the attacks, others grow closer to God. Yet all are affected by a pervasive sense of shame, a feeling that is almost encouraged by the overly devout Mother Superior (Agata Kulesza). In one striking scene, a nun is overwhelmed by her apparent sins and refuses to let Mathilde perform a checkup on her pregnancy, instead bursting into tears and pleading that she doesn’t “want to go to Hell.” The nuns’ trauma is portrayed with sensitivity, and the conflicting emotions they experience are both realistic and compelling to watch play out. 
Mathilde prefers science to religion, smokes cigarettes, knocks back shots of vodka and carries on an affair with her supervisor throughout the movie. In stark contrast to Mathilde are the Benedictine nuns, who are bound by their vows of chastity and dedicated to a life of serving Christ. The nuns refer to life beyond the convent as “the outside world,” and live in near isolation in the middle of a forest. What little contact they have with villagers is cut off even more because of their fear and shame in their conditions. While Mathilde is dubious of the nuns’ way of life and struggles to understand their religion, she slowly grows closer to the nuns as she continues to aid them. Mathilde is selfless and loyal, prioritizing the safety of the nuns’ unborn children above even her duties with the Red Cross. When she cleverly saves the monastery from being searched by a group of soldiers, the nuns overwhelm her with their hugs, kisses and gratitude. 
Despite dealing with a disturbing part of history, “The Innocents” never feels heavy-handed. The dark subject matter is lightened by characters like Samuel (Vincent Macaigne), the Jewish doctor who gently teases and supports Mathilde throughout the movie, and Irena (Joanna Kulig), a nun who giggles with and confides her lack of faith in Mathilde. There is beauty in the film, too - scenes filled with a cappella Latin hymns sung by the nuns, or showing tender moments between the new mothers and their children. Although loose ends are almost too perfectly pulled together at the end, “The Innocents” is overall a strong film, providing a layered and moving portrayal of a harsh piece of history. 
Rating: A
“The Innocents” opens Friday, July 8 at Landmark’s Bethesda Row Cinema.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

AU students are on the go year-round, and that only intensifies as the temperature gets warmer and the spring semester ends. From political conventions in California to volunteer trips in South America and beyond, summer takes students away from AU and into the world around them. This summer, the Eagle is launching a summer series chronicling their adventures. Join us as we publish a new story weekly on how students are spending their summer #AwayFromTheNest before they return to campus in the fall.
Rising senior Grace Palo is enjoying her summer with an internship at the radio station WMAL, a political and news broadcast station serving the D.C. and Washington metro area. The job is helping Palo gain valuable skills for her double major in broadcast journalism and political science, and is giving her a sense of the real-life time crunch of news radio. Last week, The Eagle had a chance to talk radio, politics and deadlines with Palo over e-mail as part of our #AwayFromTheNest summer series.
EAGLE: What motivated you to take on this internship this summer?
GP: Well, I started this internship because it was such a great opportunity. A lot of internships I've noticed are really just getting coffee or shadowing people, which don't get me wrong, you learn a lot doing that, but here I'm actually doing the things I want to do when I graduate. I interview people, I pitch story ideas, I write news stories for our website and that air on the radio. It was just too good of an opportunity to pass up in terms of learning and getting experience.
EAGLE: What skills are you hoping to gain from your internship?
GP: I have a hard time interviewing people, so that's my biggest focus. I really want to learn how to have a pointed, successful interview that I know I'm going to be happy with when it's over. I tend to get anxious and flustered and forget my focus when I'm asking questions, so I'm hoping to improve that here. Plus, working on a turn around rate is helpful. Radio has a deadline every hour, so I need to be productive and do it well, quickly. 
EAGLE: What are you hoping to explore in the field of radio?
GP: Right now I'm learning about political news radio shows, which is pretty cool. Eventually I want to learn more about being a radio music DJ and breaking into more general radio shows. I don't know what focus I want to take yet in radio, but I really enjoy being here and learning everything I can. There's so many options to go with that I don't see myself being disappointed with whatever I learn.
EAGLE:  How will this internship build on what you’ve learned at AU?
GP: Well, this semester I took a class called Digital Audio Production, and I can honestly say that if I had not taken this class before I started here, I would have fallen flat on my face. Writing 30 second news stories and sticking to a time limit, but doing it productively and nailing the points you want to hit is a lot harder than it seems. A lot of my journalism classes at AU have taught me the style of writing or the focuses I need to have, but really being here and having the deadlines and need to be done quickly has really made me apply what I've learned at AU to my job. 
EAGLE:  What excites you about being able to work in radio?
GP: I like the flexibility and the infinite options. It’s not like a TV news story where I need footage of each person or story. Sometimes setting up in person interviews or getting to a specific site is extremely difficult or impossible in the time limit that you have, but radio gives a lot more flexibility. Like, for example, I interviewed Gary Sinise (Lt. Dan from Forrest Gump) before Memorial Day weekend! I never would have been able to set up an in person interview with him with the hectic schedule, but he found time for a 10 minute phone interview. It was just a really awesome opportunity, and because it was a phone interview and not somewhere specific, we ended up varying enough for me to have two stories that went in completely different directions.
EAGLE: Have you held any other internships? If yes, how is this one different?
GP: This is my first time interning in a radio/journalism style workplace. I've really focused on my Political Science side before this year, interning at Americans for Tax Reform and on Capitol Hill in the House, so this is completely different. Radio is political, but in a unbiased sort of way. We're covering the stories and interviewing people, we're not pushing any agendas. It's also more laid back than my political internships have been, which being a busy college kid makes me infinitely happier.
Grace Palo is a rising senior in both the School of Public Affairs and the School of Communication.
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
