Jazz in the Garden
The National Gallery of Art holds unique musical performances every Friday evening all summer long as part of their Jazz in the Garden Series. This week’s featured artist is jazz drummer Creative Love Happening. Stop by the free concert and de-stress in preparation for your weekend. 
When: Every Friday until Sept. 2, 5:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Where: National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, 6th and Constitution Avenue NW
Metro: Gallery Place-Chinatown Station, Red Line 

Baltimore Symphony Orchestra: “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone” 
If you’ve already finished reading “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child,” go back to where the magic began and watch the first film alongside a performance of John Williams’s epic score. Remaining tickets for Friday’s show start at $55, so don’t miss out on this unforgettable experience if you’re a “Potter” enthusiast. 
When: Friday Aug. 5 at 8 p.m. 
Where: The Music Center at Strathmore, 5301 Tuckerman Lane, North Bethesda
Metro: Grosvenor-Strathmore Station, Red Line 

“Ratatouille” at Union Market Drive-In
It’s not summer without a trip to the drive-in, and Union Market’s D.C. Drive-In Theater is screening “Ratatouille” this weekend. Admission is $10 per car and free if you’re travelling on foot or bike. Food and drinks will be available to purchase from Union Market vendors throughout the film. 
When: Friday Aug. 5, gates close at 7:45 p.m. and film begins at 8:00 p.m. 
Where: 305 5th Street NE
Metro: NoMa-Gallaudet Station, Red Line 

MidCity Dog Days
Head over to 14th and U Street this weekend for the neighborhood’s 17th annual Dog Days Sidewalk Festival. Admission is free and over 70 businesses will offer exclusive discounts and promotions all weekend.
When: Saturday Aug. 6 and Sunday Aug. 7 
Where: 14th and U Street NW
Metro: U Street Station, Green Line 

Movies on the Potomac at the National Harbor
Throughout the summer, the National Harbor plays free outdoor movies in the Plaza every Sunday evening. Gather your friends, blankets and chairs this weekend for a scenic screening of the Disney favorite, “Cars,” and be sure to check out their schedule of films playing until Sept. 25. 
When: Sunday Aug. 7 at 6:00 p.m. 
Where: National Harbor, Fort Washington, MD
Metro: Southern Ave Station, Green Line, then NH1 bus to Waterfront Street and Potomac Passage stop 
ljakiel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
