Representatives from CDI talk to students at the Involvement Fair on the Quad in 2016. 
The Center for Diversity and Inclusion
is preparing for this fall’s Intergroup
Dialogue, a seven week program aiming to bring identity issues on campus to
the forefront through group discussions led by student, staff and alumni facilitators.
 
There are six dialogue groups running
this semester, covering topics such as race, gender, sexuality, nationality,
culture and societal inequalities, according to Coordinator of Dialogue and
Diversity Programs Michelle Strange. The weekly sessions, which are set to
start the week of Oct. 3 and go until the week of Nov. 17, are open to all in the AU community who
complete an application by Sept. 18.
 
“Each group has a specific theme
but what is important to know about dialogue and any group is that regardless
of the theme, each group works in an intersectional lens, so we talk about
multiple issues simultaneously,” Strange said. “If you are sitting in class
thinking, ‘I really want to talk about issues of identity,’ and you are looking
for spaces to talk about issues of identity, issues of difference, you are not
alone, so do it with us.”
 
Participating
in the program allows students to hear different perspectives and gain unique
insight on the topics discussed, according to Graduate Coordinator of Dialogue
and Diversity Programs Mary Stone Hanley. Every effort is made to ensure each
group is made up of a diverse set of participants so that a variety of
perspectives can be heard.
 
“It’s an opportunity to build
community, to interact with others, to ignite your imagination and creativity,
to ask questions and to find questions you didn’t know were there, to find
other people who are questioning and to be of service,” Hanley said.
 
The discussions provide space for
deep self reflection as well as reflection on larger social issues like the
influence of appearance on identity and collaborating with people from
different racial, ethnic, and socio-economic backgrounds. These conversations
are especially important for first year students who may be searching for a
place to process the new environment they are in, Strange said.
 
Belén Bonilla, a sophomore in the
School of International Service and a facilitator for one of the dialogue
groups, “Exploring Social Inequities and Privileges on Campus – What Is Our
Role?” sees the upcoming discussions as an opportunity to talk about problems
students face on campus. She hopes that participants become aware of existing
issues they may never have thought about in depth so that they can then find a
way to make a difference.
 
“We all come to AU from a million
different backgrounds, but at the end of the day, we all came to AU and we all
have something to offer,” Bonilla said. “When we don’t promote a diverse and
inclusive campus, we perpetuate the exclusion that takes place outside the safe
space that AU strives to be.”
 
There has been ongoing outreach
to try to get faculty members to incorporate Intergroup Dialogue into their
courses, with some allowing students to earn credit by participating in the
discussions, according to Strange. The center is always looking for new faculty
to join the conversation and hopes the list of interested members continues to
grow, she said.
 
“Faculty really enjoy being able
to give students ways to apply what they are learning in the classroom in a
different setting,” Strange said. “So for the faculty that have added dialogue
to their syllabus, they are really happy with the outcome, specifically because
it is a seven week program so it is sustained conversation and not a one time
program where students can talk about their learning which in some ways can be
limiting.”
 
According to the center’s
Graduate Coordinator of Education and Training Sean Furmage, the dialogue
coordinators would like to improve upon finding participants who are committed
to the program throughout its duration, which could be achieved through
continuing outreach to faculty to promote Dialogue in their classes.
 
“People who participate often
participate again and they often come back to facilitate,” Furmage said. “It’s
an experience that they haven't always had. They haven’t always had that space
to have a conversation like that.”
 
Chika Ekemezie, a sophomore in
the School of Public Affairs and the undergraduate coordinator of outreach and
community building for the center, said that having spaces for healthy
discussion is part of what is needed to create an inclusive University,
especially after social media posts targeting minorities surfacing last
academic year that caused frustration among many on campus. Being involved
with Intergroup Dialogue is part of the solution in creating an accepting
environment moving forward, according to Ekemezie.
 
“There’s only so much learning
you can do out of a book or even watching a video, but seeing people and
hearing their experiences, it’s really something that can’t be replicated,”
Ekemezie said. “You have to go out there and do it.”
rsarkar@theeagleonline.com

Clarification appended: The original story stated that students were the program facilitators. It has been clarified to also include that staff and alumni can act as facilitators. The original story also stated that applications were open to all; it has been clarified to say that applications are open to all in the AU community.


Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Representatives from CDI talk to students at the Involvement Fair on the Quad in 2016. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On Labor Day, Phyllis Schlafly died at age 92. 
Immediately in response to the conservative icon's passing, the intolerant wing of the political left erupted in applause. Tweets arose, ranging from ecstatic approval of her passing, to disappointment that she lived such a long life, to one tweet which expressed hope that Mrs. Schlafly was murdered. 
Charming.
I won’t even feign surprise at
this animalistic behavior, as it mirrors the type of joyus celebration that occurred after the passing of
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia earlier this year. After this most recent
instance, it seems clear that seeing the human side of someone who you disagree
with is an idea that the left finds abhorrent. I find it highly ironic that a
group that so nobly and passionately fights for the equality of all people
seems to forget about the different types of opinion that exist alongside the
different classes, races, creeds, etc. However, in this condemnation of the
left, I do not mean to excuse anyone of my own party who may, in the future,
celebrate the inevitable eventual passing of people like Trevor Noah or Lena Dunham.
But I will not be one of them.
There is little substance to the
hasty justification that Mrs. Schlafly does not deserve respect because, as
many on the left hypothesize, she spent her entire life mercilessly working to
“oppress” her fellow women by vehemently opposing the Equal Rights Amendment
(ERA). It is her right as a citizen to disagree with this proposed amendment to
the Constitution--and to oppose it vocally. She did so respectfully, and mostly
on the legitimate grounds that she
believed that the amendment would take more rights away from women by forcing
them into the draft.
Being opposed to drafting women
is a position that is still held today, as an amendment to the federal budget that
would have required women to do so just narrowly passed the Senate but failed in the House back in June. Schlafly’s position, as
one might guess, has grown increasingly unpopular with time; I will acknowledge
that she set the gender equality movement back a substantial amount. It is
perfectly reasonable to disagree with her position, or even to hate her. I’m
not suggesting that you attend her funeral, wear black for the rest of the week
or celebrate her life in any way. I simply find it mind-boggling that people
are so quick to celebrate the end of a life.
While I’ll admit that I certainly
do not have any great love for Phyllis Schlafly’s opposition to the Equal
Rights Amendment, as a budding activist myself, it is hard not to credit her as
being one of the top political activists of her time. There is a very important
lesson that people of all political opinions can learn from her. With her work
against the ERA, she showed how one woman can change opinion on a “sure thing”
piece of legislation with sheer willpower,
political prowess and rhetorical might.
Sure, it might be easy to get
swept up in the celebration of one of your least favorite talking heads. Just
remember that she is someone’s mother.
Annamarie Rienzi is a junior in
the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle.
arienzi@theeagleonline.com

Follow @annamarienzi
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Acclaimed songwriter Devonté Hynes - better known by
his moniker Blood Orange - is set to stun D.C. fans on Sept. 13 at The Lincoln
Theater. The London native gained international attention in 2007 while writing
and producing for a variety of artists ranging from Florence + the Machine to
Theophilus London.
Hynes will feature songs from his most recent release, “Freetown
Sound,” his third full-length album as Blood Orange. The record has received
positive reviews, and for many represents a deeply personal attempt by the
musician to grapple with the growing racial tensions wracking the country. Pitchfork called it “more expansive than 2013’s
stellar ‘Cupid Deluxe,’” and notes that “Freetown Sound” moves forward from
Hynes’ previous work, “packing funk and 80s R&B into a coherent set.” The
album features a diverse cast of guests, including slam poet Ashlee Haze, Nelly
Furtado and award-winning writer Ta-Nehisi Coates. While their presence will be
missed during the performance, fans of Blood Orange’s infectious blend are sure
to enjoy the show.
Doors open at 6:30 p.m.
Tickets are
still available.

 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
