Syrian dissident and activist Ahed Al Hendi spoke to AU students about raising awareness for the Syrian refugee crisis and his work to help refugees during an event hosted by the Kennedy Political Union on April 11. 
In his opening remarks, Al Hendi, who founded the pro-democracy organization Syrian Youth for Justice and spoke on behalf of the Help Syria Now group, made clear the difference in the freedom of speech between Syria and the United States.  
“If we were in Syria, we would all be arrested,” Al Hendi said. “Because over there, it is illegal to listen to different ideas.”
Al Hendi was a student activist in Syria living under President Bashar al-Assad’s regime and participated in a series of protests for greater freedom of expression. He said that many liberal students were arrested and banned from the country for speaking out and that many of the protests were violently squashed. 
Al Hendi said he was arrested in 2007 for allegedly logging into certain websites that were forbidden by the Syrian state. He was held for 40 days as a political prisoner and escaped to the U.S. after he was released. Since then, Al Hendi has worked to connect with both Syrian refugees and civilians still living under the Assad regime. Some of this work involved sending cameras and providing internet access to Syrians in order to record the government crimes against civilians, according to Al Hendi. 
The Syrian Civil War that arose after the Arab Spring in 2011 has resulted in the arrest and killing of  thousands of students in colleges and universities across Syria for chanting for freedom, according to Al Hendi.
“Atrocities in Syria are the most heinous crimes of the century,” Al Hendi said. 
Al Hendi also said that the recent attacks on cities around the world by ISIS and other extremist groups have given rise to extremist right-wing groups in both Europe and the U.S., with both kinds of terrorist groups presenting dangers to Syrian refugees seeking safety. Negative portrayals of Syrians are also amplified by social media, and have resulted in a greater need to empower moderate voices in Syria to speak out, Al Hendi said.
In an interview with the Eagle, Al Hendi also spoke about the U.S. presidential race and comments made by Republican candidates on immigration and the treatment of Muslims. Al Hendi said that he remains optimistic about the policies that will result from the election.
“I think that the majority of Americans are welcoming [towards refugees],” Al Hendi said. “And I don’t think the Constitution will allow [the president to ban Muslims from entering the country or refuse to accept refugees].”
Al Hendi urged students who are interested in the Syrian crisis to go to syriastory.org to sign a petition and learn more about the issue.
“As a student, I believe in the power of students,” Al Hendi said. “I believe we can bring a lot of change.”
bpark@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
According to the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, 95% of those who have eating disorders are between the ages of 12 and 25 and 25% of college-aged women engage in binging and purging as a weight management technique. 
Ray Uyeda, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, organized the “Learning to (Self)Love” event in order to raise awareness about disordered eating and unhealthy eating habits, issues which are pervasive on college campuses. The event, which took place on April 11 in the Battelle Atrium, exhibited art pieces by college-aged women that were inspired by women’s relationships with body image and self love. 
“I planned this event because I am deeply passionate about changing the conversation around and stigmatization of disordered eating and diminished self image,” Uyeda said. 
Uyeda said that throughout her life, she has struggled with self image and body image and has experimented, to varying degrees, with anorexia, bulimia, orthorexia and over exercise. 
She wanted to host this event because while she feels disordered eating is, for the most part, recognized as a serious health issue, she doesn’t believe a good enough job is done in terms of educating one another on the consequences of disordered eating as a mental health issue. 
“Throughout the project’s execution, I spoke with many women about their personal experiences regarding food, image, body, and mental health,” Uyeda said. “I found that while most women discussed the same underlying factors that impacted their disordered eating or negative relationship with their bodies, we all expressed and dealt with the consequences in very different ways.”
Uyeda said she hopes those attending the event learn three things. First, she hopes they understand that disordered eating is a complex and multifaceted issue. Secondly, she hopes the people learn that disordered eating is a public health issue that significantly decreases the quality of life for those who have suffered from it. And third, she hopes that people reflect on their own relationship with their bodies and self love. 
Carly Ferreira, a senior in the School of Communication, had a piece on display called “Control.” She said she struggled with an eating disorder from the ages of 9 to 18, and when she came to college she was concerned that things would continue to spiral out of control. However, she said she found that the opposite happened - she became better and learned how to accept her body for the way it was. 
“For the first time in my life, I didn’t want to think about food or counting calories or dieting - I wanted to be free,” Ferreira said. “Creating art during my freshman year helped me figure out that I wanted to break free from the eating disorder that controlled my life for so long.” 
At the event, the Center for Discovery, AU Counseling Center, AU RecFit and Be Here Now Yoga all had tables with information on self-care, receiving treatment for disordered eating and how to exercise healthily. 
Meghan McCann, a health and wellness education coordinator at AU’s Wellness Center, said that AU has many resources for students with eating concerns, disordered eating behaviors or eating disorders. These resources include confidential counseling, referrals to off-campus resources and AU’s registered dietitian Jo-Ann Jolly. 
“It is important to note that treatment for eating disorders often involves a team of professionals, including therapists, physicians, and dietitians, and coordinated, intensive care,” McCann said. “AU cannot always provide that level of care, but certainly the staff at AU and the Wellness Center will do everything in our power to support students struggling with these issues.”  
amaier@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
