
Lauren Crisler, a finance major and junior forward on the AU women’s basketball team, is having a breakthrough season both as a student and as an athlete.
Last season, Lauren appeared in all 33 games for her team, starting in one and averaging 4.8 points and 3.1 rebounds per game. Crisler also received her second consecutive Patriot League Academic Honor Roll selection last year.
This season, Crisler has been a crucial part of AU women’s basketball, averaging 9.4 points and 6.6 rebounds in her team’s 30 games. She also started and nabbed seven rebounds in AU’s recent 61-53 win against Boston University in the first round of the Patriot League tournament. 
Today, Crisler will help lead her team into the quarterfinals of the Patriot League tournament, as the Eagles take on second-seeded Bucknell on the road at Sojka Pavilion at 7 p.m.
“I think that it is a breakthrough season just because I feel like I know my role better on this team this year and going forward for next year,” Crisler said. “I know that I need to put points up on the board and make great defensive stops. I’m not a role player anymore. So, I think it’s been a good season so far.”
Crisler recorded two consecutive double-doubles during the regular season against Lafayette and Holy Cross. After 30 games, Crisler leads the team both in scoring and rebounding.
In addition to her achievements on the court, Crisler’s academic success also helps her stand out. She was recently named to the CoSIDA Academic All-District women’s basketball team in recognition of her scholastic achievements and has also received school-wide recognition as the AU Student-Athlete of the Week in January. Additionally Crisler also earned a spot on the Academic All-Patriot League Team.
The North Wales, Pa. native said she began playing intramural basketball when she was around eight years old, and her family has influenced her love for the game.
“My dad always coached my teams when we were younger, so that was really fun,” Crisler said. “I think my parents really got me into basketball.”
Her mother was a basketball player in college, which Crisler said inspired her to play at the college level. Crisler’s two brothers also play basketball: her older brother for an intramural league and her younger one for his high school team.
“My youngest brother is a freshman in high school right now. He’s 15 years old, and he’s 6’6. So, he’s huge,” Crisler said.“It’s funny because when I was still in high school, we would always play one-on-one, and I would always be able to beat him because he was shorter. But now when I go home, and we play each other one-on-one again, he kills me, and it’s a tough game every time.”
Crisler said her younger brother also provides constructive feedback on her play when he attends her games.
“He’ll always give me pointers and tips,” Crisler said. “Even though he’s younger than me, and I have experience playing the game for longer, he still brings things to my attention that I would never think about, which is really helpful. I’ve been super interested in following his journey throughout high school basketball.”
While her family inspired her love for the game, Crisler said she also looks up to confident, dedicated women in sports, including U.S. Women’s National Team striker Alex Morgan and Mixed Martial Arts fighter Ronda Rousey.
“Alex Morgan is one of my favorite players,” Crisler said. “Ronda Rousey also inspires me because she’s such a strong, powerful woman and has a great voice in women’s sports.”
Rousey, in particular, stands out to Crisler as a woman to be admired because of her toughness, commitment and mental focus.
“[Rousey’s] dedication to her sport, her fight and the mentality she has that she’s not going to lose to anyone, that really inspires me,” Crisler said.  “I think that seeing other people work extremely hard at what they do and be committed makes me want to do the same for my sport.”
Due to the departure of several seniors last year, AU head coach Megan Gebbia expected Crisler to step up this season as a leader for the AU women’s basketball team.
“Before the season, Coach Gebbia and I were talking about how I would have to contribute much more on the court this year,” Crisler said. “I was also thinking about how important it was going to be for me to lead the team as well.”
Crisler has taken on the challenge by playing arguably her best season so far and being a mentor for many of her younger teammates, demonstrating the same quality of leadership as her sports heroes.
“I think that as a freshman it’s easy to get down on yourself or lose confidence in what you can do,” Crisler said. “So, it’s important as an upperclassman for me to reassure them. It’s important for me to say to them that they’re here for a reason, that they were recruited to a Division I school for a reason, that we know they’re a good player, and we know what they can do on the court. It just takes some time to adjust to the college level of playing basketball. Just reassuring freshman and letting them know you have confidence in them is one of the biggest things you can do for them.”
Crisler said her new role has improved her confidence as a player and has been a good learning experience for her.
“I think that it’s been a cool role to step up into, and it’s something that I haven’t had to do on this team before this year,” Crisler said. “It’s been an interesting journey, but I think I’ve learned a lot and that my leadership has definitely improved throughout the year. It’s nice to have the other people on the team looking up to me and being able to know what I’m doing so I can help them out.”
Reflecting on the season and her career as a whole, Crisler acknowledges the challenges of balancing academics with her vigorous athletic schedule, but she said the rewards outweigh the sacrifices.
“These three years have definitely been fun, but it’s been a grind,” Crisler said. “Going into my senior year, I just need to remember that this is going to be the last time with my teammates and that group of girls. I just really have to focus on enjoying it and having fun, just enjoying playing the sport that I love. It’s going to be over soon enough. And hopefully if we don’t make it to the Patriot League championship this year, which I think we will, we can do it next year, my senior year, which will be nice.”
sports@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Yung Lean ft. Lil Flash: “Fantasy”
Yung Lean dropped “Fantasy” as a single off of his sophomore album, “Warlord,” which was released Feb. 25. Lean remains one of the most eclectic and unpredictable artists across all genres, earning himself a strong underground following and mainstream attention. The teenage rapper talks about drugs, killers in the street and other hip-hop tropes in his latest song. “Fantasy” includes production efforts from fellow Sad Boys, Yung Gud and Yung Sherman, and the music is reflective of their previous work, further cementing their place as the premier Swedish trap-beat producers. 
Kaytranada (edit): “Sharpness”
Groovy bass, precise instrumentation, sharp vocal mixing and smooth delivery characterizes “Sharpness,” as Kaytranada proves once again why he is the best at what he does. By bringing a fresh take to a great song by Jamie Woon—while acknowledging what made the original song great in the first place—this song represents the best a remix can ever hope to be. 
Kirby: “Loved By You”
When Leon Bridges released “Coming Home” on his SoundCloud account around a year ago, it was mostly picked up by small music bloggers who all realized there was something really special about this song. Since then, Bridges has had more mainstream success. “Loved By You” has the same feel to it that Bridges’ debut song had. Both are pure soul tracks that sound like music from decades earlier and both come from extremely talented artists with the full backing of major labels (Roc Nation for Kirby; Columbia for Bridges). Who needs indie credibility when you can make music as pure, as moving and as excellent as this?
Saba: “Soap Box”
“Soap Box” can be summed up in one word: fire. Saba went off on this song, taking the opportunity to spill out all his grievances and silence anyone who has ever doubted him. His voice and production reminds listeners that this Saba is the same Saba that collaborated with Chance the Rapper on “Angels.” Beyond that, however, “Soap Box” is far from angelic. The chorus starts with, “I set a fire to the flames in hell,” and Saba adds the line, “You are not a person/ You look like a serpent with a plan that’s parallel to poverty/ I’m perpendicular.” 
Mesita: “Epilogue”
This week, the Denver-based indie-rock band, Mesita, released the epilogue to an old relationship. It’s a song about finally coming to peace with a breakup and the newfound ability to make new memories that comes with that. Not everything is perfect, and an ex-lover will never disappear from memory, but overall, things are good. Mac Demarco-esque guitar and honest lyrics make it a quirky, almost relaxing track. It’s a fitting end to the five-track EP, “Small Table” which was released for free earlier this month. 
jstringer@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
While some martial arts classes may be costly, AU Public Safety offers free self-defense classes to all members of the AU community. 
The classes utilize the Rape Aggression Defense Systems of Self Defense, a program taught at locations around the world. In D.C., Catholic University and Howard University also offer versions of the program.
According to Lt. Rima Sifri, the coordinator of AU’s R.A.D. program since 2007, AU has offered these courses for over 15 years. R.A.D. is mainly targeted at women, but there are R.A.D. programs for kids, men and seniors as well. 
All instructors are campus police officers who have gone through R.A.D. instructor school, according to Lt. Sifri. 
AU Public Safety offers a women’s course, a men’s course and a gender neutral course. There is no substantial difference in course material between the three, and Public Safety recommends the course to everyone according to Lt. Sifri. All courses are a safe space for participants. Anything said is confidential, and the instructors aim to create a supportive environment for anyone willing to share their experiences with the class. 
The regular R.A.D. course takes 12 hours and is taught through four classes, but Public Safety also offers mini-courses that are just two hours long. 
“We recognize you’re busy,” Lt. Sifri said. “We figured doing a mini-class was better than nothing.”
According to Lt. Sifri, the mini-courses are a quick overview of the larger course. They include a short lecture presentation and basic instruction on defensive stances and strikes. 
Jen Fletcher, a junior in SPA, took the short course through her sorority, Sigma Delta Tau. 
“We went over basic self defense, such as how to make yourself look bigger, getting out of a hold, and we did ‘how to look for signs that so one is going to be aggressive” Fletcher said.
According to Fletcher, the short course was a good refresher for women already familiar with self-defense, but it was not enough for someone without previous experience.
“I think doing the full version would be more beneficial,” Fletcher said.
That said, Fletcher felt the short course was better than no instruction at all.
“It was very informative. I had never done anything self-defense based, so it was good to get a brief introduction to it,” Fletcher said.
The longer courses include a more in-depth presentation and instruction on strikes, as well as instruction on chokeholds, ground defense, or defending yourself after being pushed to the ground, bear hugs and what to do if an intruder enters your home. Participants are also given more time to practice and master techniques in the longer courses. 
Additionally, participants in the full course get to try out all the techniques they learned in simulations. According to Lt. Sifri, “aggressors” and participants don protective gear and engage in confrontation simulations. Participants are meant to revert back to their training in previous sessions and use appropriate techniques to defend themselves. 
According to Sifri, the full course takes 25 people, and usually more than 25 sign up, so there is always a wait list. However, only about 20 show then they taper off as the class continues. “We’ll have 10 at the end and they do the simulation” Sifri said.
Participants are free to come back and retake the course if they feel that they need to practice more, haven’t mastered certain techniques, or even just want to try the simulation again. According to Lt. Sifri, there is a lifetime return policy.
“There are no do-overs in life, but there are do-overs in this class” Lt. Sifri said.
cwexler@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
An Aramark worker’s ban from campus was lifted Feb. 11 after she was fired and removed from campus by AU Public Safety on Jan. 28.
Josselyn Ebanks, known to many students as the woman behind the Tavern’s Bene register, came to campus early that Thursday to work a double shift, she said. Instead of working at Bene, she was asked to start at Global Fresh, where she was to work the register. Around 3:30 p.m., her managers asked her to leave her station to help stock the P.O.D. Mini Mart in the Mary Graydon Center.  
“I was going to leave the register by itself, so another person who works the register just had arrived, so I asked her. I tapped her on the shoulder, like when you ask somebody something,” Ebanks said. “She was talking with somebody else so I said, ‘Excuse me,’ and I tapped her on the shoulder, and I said, ‘Are you staying on the register?’ She just looked at her shoulder, and she started yelling not to touch her.”
The scene caught the attention of her supervisors, and Ebanks was asked to logout of the register, follow her bosses and talk to her supervisor Maria Kimball, she said. 
Supervisors came back with Public Safety officers who told her that she was barred from campus, according to Ebanks.
“They didn’t explain that much,” Ebanks said. “They just said that they needed to go do an investigation and barred me from campus.”
Aramark and the University did not reply to Eagle requests for comment.
School of Public Affairs senior Carlos Vera, who serves as head of the Student Worker Alliance and is the founder of the workers’ rights campaign, Exploited Wonk, said that in Ebanks’ situation, the contract between the Aramark workers’ union Local 23 and the University was not followed.
“The main issue here is not whether she tapped her arm or pulled it or whatever. Obviously we stand behind her, but that’s not the issue here,” Vera said. “The issue here is that there’s a contract. If something’s not in the contract, it can’t happen. Basically there’s a grievances system that management has to adhere to. And that’s something that they agree with the union. There’s nowhere in the contract where it says you can call Public Safety.”
Article 28 in the contract, which is effective through May 31, 2016, spells out the terms and conditions for the discharge and disciplinary action of Aramark employees. 
“The Company shall have the right to discharge or lay off any associate for just cause, including but not limited to, failure to comply to reasonable rules and expectations of the Company,” according to the contact. 
The article also states the union member must be clearly told of the reasons for any discharge or layoff. The exceptions to this rule include any discharge that occurs as a result of intoxication, fighting or drug use. 
If an investigation reveals that an employee experienced discharge for an unjust reason, he or she may be “reinstated to his/her positions without loss of seniority and shall be compensated for the time lost, if so instructed by the Arbitrator.” 
Article 28 does not include a section on the procedure for removing or barring an employee from campus, and Vera said that the use of Public Safety to remove an employee is “humiliating.”
“They wouldn’t do that to a faculty. They wouldn’t do that to a staff member,” Vera said. “There’s so many other things I [can] think of how they’re [contracted workers] treated so much differently. I tell people that I get that they’re contracted, but that shouldn’t be an excuse to treat them like they’re less than human beings.”
Vera believes Ebanks was targeted by Aramark supervisors after she filed grievances against a former supervisor which ultimately lead to her termination. According to Ebanks, the supervisor, Jackie Wilson, threatened her multiple times during the spring 2015 semester and slashed her tires twice while her car was parked in Bender Pavilion during a shift.
“Since she got a supervisor fired that was very close to other supervisors, she’s had a big ‘X’ on her back,” Vera said.
Last semester, supervisors tried to write Ebanks up a warning for going to the water fountain to get some water, Vera and Ebanks said. 
“I am only supposed to do the swipes,” Ebanks said, explaining her reasoning for taking the water break. “But I serve, too. I do the two things. I’m only supposed to do one thing, but I do everything.”
It gets hot in the Bene area because of the lights, so she said she needed to get some water. 
“They just find ways to nitpick,” Vera said. “Frankly, it’s not just me saying this, but I would say Josselyn is very popular with students. Students love her. There’s two things you know you’ll always get with her, and it’s kindness and a smile.” 
Ebanks said she believes her involvement in the workers’ rights movement makes her a “target” among her supervisors, too.
“I tried to speak up for me, and they don’t like it,” she said. “You have to be an obedient worker, I believe.” 
After two weeks off of work, Aramark management offered Ebanks her job back and Public Safety lifted her ban from campus, Ebanks announced Feb. 11 in a Facebook video posted from Vera’s account. 
“The issue here isn’t what happened that day, per se, but just the bigger issue of who wants to be in a workplace where they’ll just call the police,” Vera said. “It’s very dehumanizing.” 
Vera and Ebanks agreed that there needs to be a more well-defined process for terminating employees.
“We are using the police force to criminalize workers,” Vera said. “Even if it was something more serious or whatever, there’s still a process. And I think that’s the key.” 
bevans@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Mellow mushroom offers a variety of pizzas, hoagies, salads, calzones and more for those looking for a casual meal or a fun, eccentric atmosphere.  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
