AU Recreational Sports and Fitness launched a new Weight-Loss Club this semester aimed at helping students and AU faculty and staff members who want to start living a healthier lifestyle.
The club provides its members a comprehensive guide to change unhealthy lifestyle choices, starting with two full fitness assessments measuring resting heart rate and blood pressure, a body composition analysis, cardiovascular and muscular endurance and flexibility, according to AU RecFit’s website. Members will also receive ten one-hour workout sessions with a certified personal trainer and a one-on-one consultation and nutrition class with AU’s registered dietitian, Jo-Ann Jolly.
Many of AU RecFit’s current fitness programs, such as Women on Weights, have been aimed at people who have already been exercising. According to Allie Jackson, the adjunct instructor for RecFit who started the program, the Weight-Loss Club is targeted at those who may not have stepped into the world of good health before.
Jackson said that the club is meant to create a safe space for those wanting to change their lifestyle but may not feel welcome in the gym.
“I want it to be a group of people that can rely on each other to reach their goals because weight loss is hard. A lot of people fluctuate and don’t have that social support that they need,” Jackson said.
Programs like the Weight-Loss Club are signaling a change in the style of programming for AU RecFit. More courses will be designed for small group training of niche groups rather than trying to host one huge class to fit everyone.
“What I’m trying to do is just make small groups and small programs that target specific people, and I think that’s become more successful for us here, just because AU is such a diverse population,” Jackson said. 
For a new program, Jackson said she is pleased with the response of the AU community. The first morning session, held on Jan. 25, included six participants, meeting Jackson’s desired cap. She hoped to run an afternoon meeting as well but could not receive enough commitments from interested students to host the second session. The club will run in two sessions, with the first in progress and running until March 4. The second session will run from March 14 to April 22. Meetings with the personal trainer occur on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:15-8:15 a.m. or from 12-1 p.m. Costs for a six-week session are $276 for AU RecFit members and $306 for faculty and staff non-members.
The start of the club coincides with AhealthyU’s Why Weight 8-Week Weight Loss Kick-Start, a program encouraging faculty members to pair up and support each other as they try to achieve a specific weight loss or maintenance goal. The program began on Feb. 1 and will continue until March 25.
Jackson said she has faith in the participants and hopes that this changes their lives for the better.
“I would love to see them start on a routine and have exercise become a part of who they are and not a chore that they have to do,” Jackson said. “With Jo-Ann, I would like for them to learn healthy eating and that they don’t have to starve themselves to lose weight.”
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With the completion of the new Washington College of Law’s Tenley Campus, the school’s former location, now known as the Spring Valley Building, will become home to a number of administrative offices as well as the School of Education and the School of Professional and Extended Studies. 
A project team spent the last few months planning which departments and offices would be best suited to move to the Spring Valley Building in fall 2016, according to a November 2015 press release to the AU community. The current proposal lists 18 departments and/or offices that could move to the building in the fall, but it notes that this plan could change and more departments could move as well. 
“Plans are under way to renovate floors to maximize efficiency by providing a combination of arrangements and shared offices facilities,” said David Dower, assistant vice president of planning and project management, in the press release said. 
Construction and renovations on the building are expected to begin in March or April, according to the press release, pending the finalization of the plan in March. All departments scheduled to move to the building will do so over the summer and will operate out of that location by the start of the next academic year. 
Since students and faculty will still need to access the building next academic year, a shuttle route will continue to operate to service the location. However, according to Alef Worku, the shuttle operations and maintenance manager, it is unclear what the exact route will be since the routes may be modified due to the opening of the Washington College of Law and East Campus. 
AU is currently working with a private transportation specialist to plan or modify shuttle routes for fall. These specialists will conduct a study of AU’s current systems and propose recommendations for routes, stops and schedules, according to Worku. 
“We fully expect that the red route will return in some capacity once the Spring Valley Building is occupied,” Worku said in an email. “The study will help us look at metrics to make a sound decision.”
For now, Worku said the current red route shuttle schedule, which went into effect after students protested its abrupt discontinuation, will remain in place with buses operating every 30 minutes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:15 p.m. 
All departments scheduled to move to the Spring Valley Building as of the November 2015 press release are listed below: 
 
ehartleb@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In 2004, CNN published an article predicting that CDs ‘would soon go the way of vinyl,’ but little did they know, vinyl records would make a comeback. The D.C. Record Fair, held Jan. 31 exhibited this resurgence.
Data from Nielsen Soundscan reveals that record sales have increased 52% in the last year, and even more surprisingly, digital sales have decreased. 
For some 'audiophiles,' music lovers addicted to the sound, vinyl represents the purest form of recorded music. In today’s world of music and movie streaming, physical forms of media such as books and DVDs have suffered from low sales, but recent statistics show that “old-school” formats, such as vinyl, are starting to surge again in sales. This fresh demand for seemingly ‘retro’ goods brought the D.C Record Fair into existence. 
On the morning of Jan. 31, District residents and guests wrapped a line around the block of E & 9th streets NW where local bar Penn Social hosted the D.C. Record Fair. The fair, sponsored by The Vinyl District, Som Records and DC Soul Recordings, is a bi-annual event that has kept wax enthusiasts coming back since 2008. 
For only two dollars a ticket, attendees were granted access to hundreds of bins of new, used and rare presses of albums spanning genres and decades. Some dealers acted fastidious, carefully sorting albums by artist name and properly sleeving each record with care. Others dropped dusty crates on a table with the word “rock” taped to the front with the expectation that treasure hunters would find what they wanted. 
Sometimes, these hunters did. A few years ago, my fingers were gray with dust after thumbing my way through the aisles. I stumbled upon a record I had been searching for for so long that I had completely given up. I slowly pulled the record from its spot and looked around. Am I on TV? Did someone else see this? Will they snatch it out of my hand? No, it was mine,The Rocky Horror Picture Show soundtrack! A fishnet clad Frankenfurter printed directly on the LP was staring back at me. For an affordable price I took him home and have never looked back! 
One might ask, “Why not just buy it online?” It is the thrill of the hunt that brings both collectors and vendors out of bed on Sunday morning. 
Greg Wells, of Richmond, Virginia  held down a sunny corner for his sixth DC Record festival as a vendor. 
“A lot of people will bring me whole collections,” he said of how he gets his inventory, “I do the same thing everybody else does... flea markets, estate sales, stuff like that. I look at this as an ever rotating library.”
Downstairs, one avid collector clutched her recent purchases while a friend continued to browse. Her small stack ranged from Boy George to Genesis to the Beatles. There was something for everyone at this year’s DC Record Festival, and there will be more for the next round later this year.  
thescene@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
