AU’s graduate student workers voted Monday to form the District’s first union for working graduate students, following months of discussion with administrators. 
The students will join Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 500, which also represents AU’s adjunct faculty, according to a press release issued Monday by the union group.
Graduate students had been meeting since September to discuss some of their concerns, including fair pay, better benefits and stricter protection against unprofessionalism such as stalking them on Facebook from supervisors. On Feb. 1, a group of the students filed for an election to unionize. Monday’s election passed with a vote of 212 to 40, and the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) will certify the results after seven days, according to the union’s press release. 
“[Monday’s] victory came after a long process of listening to the stories and concerns of graduate student workers at American University,” Scott Patrick, a first-year doctoral student in government and comparative politics, said in the press release. “Forming a union was never about quick fixes to issues, but about creating a space for developing long term solutions to issues like economic and academic uncertainty."
Now that the group’s unionization efforts have been approved, they will soon conduct surveys and focus groups to determine where students’ priorities lie, Patrick said. Later, they will discuss these results with University administrators.
Patrick supports the unionization because he believes that sitting down with the administration will improve working conditions, such as not working overtime without being paid, and not accepting “barbaric” treatment, such as being inappropriately reprimanded by supervising faculty.  
“I truly believe that this will be a collaborative process, focused on strengthening the academic mission of American University,” Patrick said in the press release.  
Some University administrators have expressed reservations about campus-wide unionization because they feel that graduate students who work are doing so as part of their education, Dr. Jonathan Tubman, Vice Provost for Research and Dean of Graduate Studies, said in an interview with The Eagle. However, Tubman said the administration plans to respect the graduate students’ wishes.
“The University does not intend to file a legal challenge to the election results. Graduate students are highly valued in our community,” Tubman said.
Since AU’s adjunct professors are already represented by the SEIU Local 500, Tubman said he expects a smooth transition for the graduate students as well.
“Negotiations are going to move forward,” Tubman said.  
AU’s adjunct professors organized a union with SEIU Local 500 in 2012 to have more say in the terms of their employment, said adjunct professor Kamal Beyoghlow, who teaches in the School of Public Affairs. Beyoghlow is the representative of all adjuncts for SPA. 
He also said that he does not anticipate any challenges with the newly formed campus union.
“The administration on campus has been extremely helpful to adjuncts and I believe they will be extremely helpful to graduate students as well,” Beyoghlow said. “We have a very constructive relationship with management and the administration.”
While Patrick sees AU as the beginning of a bigger movement in higher education, Beyoghlow thinks that the management on campus is very progressive compared to other schools in the D.C. area. 
“The University has been really advanced and have been very responsive to adjuncts for this area of the country,” he said. “I don’t see any problems moving forward with them.”
sdolezal@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Murray Bessette, Adela Lan, Larry Liu, Burton Wides and Ning Xianhua take their seats as they discuss the recent events in China. 
Scholars and activists gathered at AU on March 29 to discuss political persecution, organ harvesting and human rights in China. 
Murray Bessette, director of academic programs at the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation, hosted the panel of speakers that included Adela Lan of Initiatives for China, Larry Liu of Falun Dafa Information Center, Burton Wides of Human Rights Legal Counsel and Ning Xianhua, a former political prisoner in China. 
Jason Lin, a sophomore in the School of International Studies, created the event to shed light on China’s political persecution, censorship and organ harvesting. 
“In light of China’s ongoing violations of human rights, I felt compelled to speak out against the regime and bring together scholars and activists to reveal a narrative to the AU community, often censored abroad or self-censored as a result of pressure from Chinese soft power,” Lin said. 
China’s organ harvesting trade involves forced organ harvesting or political prisoners and minorities to be sold on the black market. 
“In September 2013, the Organ Transplant Institution for Peking University told China Economic Weekly that the hospital conducted 12,000 liver and kidney transplants within the particular year,” Liu said. “All of the organs were from prisoners sentenced to death.” 
Liu said that the Chinese government claims that only 10,000 organ transplants occur per year. In 2007, only 169 hospitals were licensed to conduct organ transplants. More than 600 hospitals had conducted them without a license, he said.
There are two components of organ transplants in China that are very different from the process in the rest of the world and signal abnormalities in China, Liu said. 
Liu said that the first component is that transplants require a very short waiting time of weeks or even days, which he said could only be possible with a large bank where organs can be harvested from. The second aspect is that there was not an organ donation program in the country until 2013. 
Ning Xianhua, a former political prisoner, is very familiar with what prison life is like in China. “I have been detained many times and arrested five times,” Xianhua said. 
In 2013, due to his involvement with creating human rights groups, Xianhua was arrested and placed in jail. Xianhua said the conditions there were dismal; he received soup that was almost water as food, would have to sleep on boards, received very little daylight and was denied visits while in prison due to his political activity. 
“The treatment there was very inhumane,” Xianhua said. “I had a black bag over my head during all of the investigations and only allowed to wear underwear or whatever they gave us.”
Wides, a representative from Human Rights Legal Counsel, described the situation in China as a brutal dictatorship, oppressive and a nightmare for ethnic minorities. 
“No independent minded person can go to bed in China feeling comfortable,” Wides said. 
He expressed that Americans that are not familiar with the issue have no idea of how extreme the situation is. One of the reasons for this is how much power the Chinese government has on what people hear, see and read about China. Wides described the government as having great control over what information is released. 
“As a society of people who can speak freely and live without fear of political persecution, it is our responsibility to ensure that others have the same because just like them, we had generations of activists and revolutionaries that have worked to secure the liberties that we presently have,” Lin said. “It is time for us to pay it forward.”
Fatima Tariq, a freshman in the School of International Studies, was glad to see the discussion panel taking place at AU. She believes that such panels give insight to what is happening in the world and make her grateful for her surroundings, as well as her rights. 
“Humans work to improve their lives, but for people in developing countries such as China, it’s contradictory,” Tariq said. “Working improves their economic lives, but impacts their rights as humans.”
The discussion panel was followed by a screening of the movie “The Bleeding Edge,” which provides insight about organ harvesting. 
For those who would like to help, Lin suggested becoming up to date on human rights violations in China, and reaching out to nonprofits such as China Aid and Initiatives for China to get involved. 
“We can reach out to our elected officials to take a stand against these atrocities abroad and work towards advancing human rights in China,” Lin said. 
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Murray Bessette, Adela Lan, Larry Liu, Burton Wides and Ning Xianhua take their seats as they discuss the recent events in China. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
