Parade marchers dressed in rainbow attire are cheered on during Pride Parade 2016.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Pitches be Trippin' perform at a concert in spring 2017. 
Pitches Be Trippin’, one of AU’s all-female a cappella groups, performed their final spring semester concert, “The Glo Up,” on April 21 in the Kay Spiritual Life Center. The concert was broken up into three parts, each centered around stages of a relationship: the makeup, the breakup and the glo-up. 
The group took the stage dressed in all-black and started off the makeup part of their show with songs like Rihanna and Mikky Ekko’s “Stay” and Martin Garrix and Bebe Rexha’s “In the Name of Love.” 
They moved on to songs with darker themes for the breakup stage, like “Gemini Feed” by Banks, “Before He Cheats” by Carrie Underwood and “Bills, Bills, Bills” by Destiny’s Child. 
The final glo-up part of the show featured songs about being an independent woman, including “You Don’t Own Me” by Dusty Springfield and “Shoutout to my Ex” by Little Mix. 
“This semester has been crazy productive,” said Olivia Henry-Jackson, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences. “Despite all of our other commitments, we worked hard on 14 new songs for the concert — I was so excited to show off our exciting setlist and hard work.” 
At the end of the concert, senior superlatives were given out with some light teasing  of the graduating members. The group then invited Pitches alumnae to join them in singing a final song called “You Gotta Be” by Des’ree. Throughout the concert, group members were laughing and dancing with each other, and the superlatives brought some members to tears. 
“We all have so much love for each other and we’re all about empowering women,” said Sarah Maghlouth, a sophomore in the Kogod School of Business. “I feel empowered by these ladies every single day, even outside of rehearsal.” 
amaier@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
