Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Every spring when Student Government elections come around, I typically take the time to skim through the candidates’ platforms to get a sense of where elections are heading and what the candidates support. I am by no means a SG wonk – I typically agree with the assessment that SG is more similar to House of Cards than a functioning governing body – but I do like to be an informed voter and have a general sense of what is going on. 
Over the past three years at American University, my passion has been sexual violence prevention and fighting for sexual assault survivors. I have taught Empower AU, Step Up, planned the annual Right to Party Consent carnival, served on the Greek Wellness Coalition  and interned in the AU Wellness Center. Because of these personal, hands on experiences, I would consider myself knowledgeable and well-read on this issue. And that is why I was incredibly disheartened to see multiple inaccuracies on SG platforms in regards to this issue. 
When you speak on behalf of survivors, you should know what you’re talking about. When you run on a platform for fighting sexual violence, you should be informed on specific community needs. When you run for student government president advocating for survivors, you should know that we don’t need to create a Sexual Assault Awareness Week – because we already have an entire Sexual Assault Awareness Month in April. 
I won’t call out any one candidate or even blame them – I am sure anyone willing to invest this much time into running for a position this large is doing so with good intentions and goals. However, when it is clear that you not only didn’t do your homework, but you’re advocating for policies that are already in motion, it demonstrates a lack of care and respect for survivors. These are two qualities that are bare minimum for a SG representative. 
Yes, candidates should run on bold ideas, but they also need to engage with student activists, leaders, faculty and staff already entrenched in these communities on these issues. Throwing around words like diversity, inclusion or violence prevention may get you the votes you need to win a position – but taking the time to actually listen to communities gets you the votes you need to succeed.  
We are most effective as a community when we are listening to one another and allowing people to speak from their own experiences. A good ally – and a good candidate – is one that can truly listen to others. They should solicit feedback and information from campus experts and those with personal experience, instead of acting like the definitive voice on an issue. I ask every candidate considering a position to take the time and do this hard work of listening to other voices and amplify them. Do what you can to foster an environment that will address the needs communities are asking for instead of providing solutions to problems we don’t have or taking credit for ideas that aren’t your own. 
Oh – and also show up to Sexual Assault Awareness Month. 
McKenzie Wilson a senior in the School of Communications.
edpage@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU Student Government announced a change to the Student Conduct Code on March 3 that includes specific language on handling identity-biased attacks.
The Student Conduct Code now says in Section 16 that “significant factors” in determining sanctions will include “evidence that the respondent’s conduct was motivated by bias towards an individual or group on the basis of real or perceived, race, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, age, disability, ethnicity, veteran status, or sexual orientation.” 
The heads of this change were Director of the Student Advocacy Center junior Will Mascaro and Director of the Diversity and Inclusion Working Group junior Lauren Lumpkin. The process for this change started with Mascaro and Lumpkin, was reviewed by the Conduct Office, then sent to Vice President of Campus Life Dr. Gail Hanson, after which AU’s legal team was consulted and then the change was officially added to the code, according to Mascaro.
The change is a result of the biased attacks against black women on campus last semester, Mascaro said. The idea to change the Conduct Code to protect students against identity-motivated attacks came about in May 2016 when Mascaro became director of the Student Advocacy Center. 
“Students should care because now if a student is a victim of a identity-motivated attack, they will know that the perpetrator of that attack is held fully responsible to the full extent of the conduct code, to the full extent of the conduct of their actions,” Mascaro said. 
Mascaro and Lumpkin released a video on Friday that details the change. This means that biased motivation will now be considered a factor in conduct cases. 
With the policy already changed,  this means when perpetrators of acts such as this week's misogynistic posters that were hung across campus are caught, it will be titled as an identity-biased attack in front of the conduct code. 
Mascaro previously wrote an op-ed in The Eagle in September 2016 about why he believed that the AU's Conduct Code needs language on hate crimes. Language like this has never been in the Conduct Code before, Mascaro said.
“No longer will an incident of writing a racial slander on a whiteboard be considered simple vandalism,” Mascaro said in an interview with The Eagle. “They did it because of the identity of the person that owned the whiteboard.” 


Lumpkin said motives behind these types of incidents will be a part of the conduct process handled in the future.
“When you go through the conduct process, we're going to take into consideration that the victim's identity was targeted - and that will impact sanctioning,” Lumpkin said. 
In November 2016, Mascaro and Lumpkin presented a joint-report to Student Government after speaking with students across campus. The two worked mainly with the Black Student Alliance and AU’s chapter of the NAACP, but also reached out to the Muslim Student Association, South Asian Student Alliance, Latin American Student Organization, League of United Latin American Citizen, Women’s Initiative in Student Government, Queers and Allies and the Asian American Student Union. 
“We really wanted to make sure that the proposals we were making were rooted in ideas and issues that community members had and believed in,” Mascaro said. 
According to Mascaro and Lumpkin, these organizations were given the opportunity to look at the draft report and make changes on it before it went public. SG executives also had the chance to look over the draft, including President Devontae Torriente, Secretary Kris Schneider, and Chief of Staff Josh Gutmaker, according to Lumpkin.
“We tried reaching every stakeholder we could,” Mascaro said.
This change is just one of three policy recommendations mentioned in the report. The second recommendation calls for establishing a full-time staff position that specializes in investigating biased attacks. 
Lumpkin said this position would operate similarly to the Title IX Coordinator. The investigative position is dependent on the new budget because it would take money from the university level, so Mascaro said he wants the Office of Campus Life to encourage the budget committee to set aside money for an investigative authority position or other staff members to specialize in investigating these incidences. 
He said the requesting process for funds is ongoing and the team is “making the argument” for funding the position. They have not yet set a date to submit this proposal.
“I always believe if we are going to have to deal with the increased tuition rates that the university and the board of trustees owes it to us to see more of that money is going to be invested back into students,” Mascaro said.  “And one of the ways to do that is to invest it into the Office of Campus Life.”
The third recommendation asks that the Office of Campus Life regularly reports biased-related incidents on campus to students to keep them informed. 
“We think that the community deserves to know what's happening on campus; the good, the bad and the ugly,” Lumpkin said.
Both of these recommendations have been brought to and considered by Gail Hansen and are “moving in a positive direction,” Mascaro said.  
“This is a huge victory, and it's the fire we needed to push us through the rest of the semester,” Lumpkin said. 
Mascaro agreed and said that this change will better reflect the AU community. 
“The way we hold students responsible for their actions is a reflection of the character of this university,” Mascaro said. “So, if we choose not to hold students responsible for blatantly identity-motivated attacks, blatantly racist actions, that’s a reflection on who we are as a community and who we are as a school.”
lcalitri@theeagleonline.com and mcarrasco@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Calif., addresses students at an event co-sponsored by the Kennedy Political Union and AU College Democrats.
At 70-years-old, African-American Congresswoman Barbara Lee still hopes to “save the world.” The representative of the 13th district in California spoke in honor of Women’s History Month on Thursday night at an event arranged by AU College Democrats and the Kennedy Political Union. 
Lee was born in a segregated city, El Paso, Texas, in 1946. She said she remembers the days when abortions weren’t safe or legal, and when white people wouldn’t sell or rent homes to black people.
Lee, however, was not always politically active. As a young woman, she refused to register to vote.
“I said no, I’m a revolutionary,” Lee said.
Lee enrolled in Mills College with two small children, on public assistance, to study social work. As a community worker with the Black Panther caucus, Lee invited Shirley Chisholm, the first African-American woman elected to congress, to speak. Chisholm, dismayed by Lee’s skepticism, urged her to “bring a folding chair to the table,” and register to vote.
“She said no, you’ve gotta get on the inside,” Lee said, who went on to work for Chisholm’s historic presidential campaign in 1972.
Lee attributes her strength to her “very modest, very matter of factly,” activist mother -- the first of twelve students integrated into the University of Texas at El Paso.
“She said… don’t you dare think you’re not as good as another guy,” Lee said. “You’d better fight to let them know you’re here to stay.”
Congresswoman Lee arrived an hour late to the event because she was held up by a vote in the House of Representatives.
“This is what happens on Capitol Hill: you get late votes,” Lee said. “Thank goodness we got out!”
Most students waited the extra hour, eager to hear the congresswoman speak.
“If everyone was more like Lee, the world would be a better place,” AU senior Nick Guthman said.
Lee advised students to follow their conscience, and to know their “bottom line.”
For Lee, that’s war. She made a name for herself as the sole representative to vote against the Iraq War in 2001. Lee has continued to rally against war to this day.  
Sophomore Shaan Chilukuri pointed to Lee’s pattern of voting against the status quo, like the Patriot Act of 2001, as proof of her “anti-establishment, trailblazing” political style. 
“The military has enough money,” Lee said. “They’re wasting it. They want more funds to take it away from schools and education to build more missiles and more bombs. That’s not how you create world peace.”
Lee has also co-sponsored legislation to create a U.S. Department of Peace. The legislation, which has accrued 30 co-sponsors, would examine alternatives to war and violence.
“We have a Department of War, why not have a Department of Peace?” Lee said. 
In terms of the new administration, Lee was irate. She dismissed Paul Ryan’s knowledge of healthcare and criticized President Donald Trump’s plan to cut foreign aid by 36 percent. 
“I see what this Trump administration is doing, trying to roll back all of the gains that my mother and my grandfather and my ancestors fought for,” Lee said. “We’re not gonna let that happen.”
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Whether it’s a shortage of funds, a lack of time or simply the desire to stay in D.C. that keeps you from travelling this spring break, there are plenty of things to do to make your staycation a blast. After all, Washington D.C. is a city full of fun (and often free) things to do. 
Check out some special exhibitions
Take a day to be a tourist and explore some new museum exhibits that often have free or discounted admission for students. 
Check out the free Bettina Pousttchi: World Time Clock exhibit at the The Hirshhorn Museum which includes artworks of clocks taken in 24 different time zones. You can also check out the highly praised Yayoi Kusama exhibit “Infinity Mirrors,” where the artist channeled her mental illness into her art.
“9/11”, an exhibit in the Newseum that explores the difficult events of 9/11, is worth the discounted $22.45 admission price. The National Gallery of Art also currently has the free exhibit “Della Robbia,” which highlights colorful sculptures from the Italian Renaissance era. 
Go see a movie
Sometimes popcorn just tastes better in a movie theater and there are several films being released over spring break. Keep an eye on what is showing at your local movie theater and check out The Eagle’s Silver Screen section for reviews of recent movies. Make sure to have your AU I.D. for a possible student discount as any AMC theater will offer reduced price tickets for students. Check out our schedule of releases over spring break:
Take an exercise class
It’s time to work on those muscles that we have all been meaning to since January. The gym is always a classic option, but if you want to keep things interesting, take an alternative exercise class. There are plenty to choose from in D.C., such as Soulcycle, Pilates, yoga, Barre, pole dancing, Zumba and salsa dancing. 
Take Zumba, samba or belly dancing classes at Jordan’s Paradise. Check out these occasional free drop-in classes. Usually, five classes cost $70, with the first drop in class at $30. Find discounts for classes on Groupon or get the buy one get one class free deal. 
Start your day off early with Soulcycle on 14th Street or in Georgetown. Get your first ride for a reduced price at $20 or purchase multiple classes in advance for a discount.
If you want an option closer to campus, try Zengo Cycle on Wisconsin Avenue. One class costs $24 and there is a discount for $15 during off-peak hours of 7:15 a.m., 07:30 a.m. and noon. 
Try out a cuban salsa class at Dance in Time at the Emergence Community Arts Collective studio on Saturdays at 12:45 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. All levels are welcome. The first class is free and the rest is discounted for students at $10. 
Take Barre classes at Barre3 at Union Station or Georgetown either in the either in the morning or evening. It includes a full body workout with $26 for one class, or new members can purchase three classes for $40.
Take a hike
While this may require you to venture a little further, it will be worth it. Check out the beautiful and serene scenery at Sugarloaf Mountain, only 40 minutes away from campus. If you like adventure that takes some effort but pays off in the long run, venture two hours away to the Overall Run Falls. But, if you want to stay closer to campus, there is always the option of visiting the National Arboretum by taking the Blue or Orange line to the Stadium-Armory station.
Pack a picnic
This year, the cherry blossoms are predicted to be at peak bloom over spring break. Grab a few friends, pack some lunch and embrace nature in the many great picnic spots near campus. D.C.’s Meridian Hill Park, located by Adams Morgan, is the perfect spot for a quiet picnic by the reflecting pool and the largest fountain in North America. 
Also closeby is the Hillwood Estate, a beautiful mansion with botanical gardens that guests can explore, which has a suggested $10 donation fee from students. March is “Orchid Month” at the estate and it offers exhibitions on site as well as floral design workshops. Check out the full schedule of events here; there is something to do almost every day. 
Attend the Cherry Blossom Festival
The Cherry Blossom Festival runs from March 15 until April 16. Get the week started by visiting the Tidal Basin welcome area, open daily starting March 15 until April 2 from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m, where you can find souvenirs, food and books, with performances from noon to 6 p.m. 
You can also splurge on the Pink Tie Party Fundraiser, an evening affair with entertainment and gourmet food made by the best chefs in D.C. on March 16 at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center. Finally, make sure to take advantage of this $14 Cherry Blossom boat tour for two.
offcampus@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
