The National Museum of Women in the Arts opens a new exhibit this weekend. Photo courtesy of Wikimedia.
Happy fall break! If you’re staying in D.C. for the long weekend, there are plenty of ways to entertain yourself, from a mural unveiling to an arts festival. 
The Wharf Kickoff Celebration
The Wharf on the Southwest Waterfront officially opens to the public on Thursday, and the celebration will last all weekend long. Head to the waterfront for fireworks everyday, live performances and the chance to explore all of the new shops and restaurants. The weekend concludes with sunset fireworks on Sunday. Admission to The Wharf is free.
When: Schedule of events
Where: 690 Water Street SW
Metro: Green line, Waterfront - SEU Station 
Magnetic Fields: Expanding American Abstraction, 1960s to Today
The National Museum of Women in the Arts has a new exhibit opening on Friday, featuring the abstract artworks of 21 black women artists. Pieces on display include prints, sculptures and more, with artists like Mary Lovelace O’Neal and Maren Hassinger showcasing their work. Admission is $8 for students, and the exhibit runs through Jan. 21. The museum is also free on the first Sunday of every month, so be sure to take advantage of that. 
When: Friday, Oct. 13 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Where: 1250 New York Avenue NW
Metro: Red line, Metro Center Station 
Tenleytown Mural Dedication and Ribbon Cutting Ceremony
An event happening right around campus this weekend is the unveiling of a new mural in Tenleytown, where D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser will be in attendance. Drop by the ceremony for live music and dance performances, free cake, food trucks, a chance to win gift cards to local businesses and more. The first 100 attendees will also receive a Whole Foods gift card, so get there early! 
When: Saturday, Oct. 14 at 11 a.m. 
Where: 4425 Wisconsin Avenue NW
Bethesda Row Arts Festival
Head to Bethesda on Saturday or Sunday for an arts festival where 190 artists will have their work for sale. Visitors can purchase paintings, jewelry, photographs and so much more, all while listening to live music as they explore all of the unique pieces on offer. Admission to the festival is free. 
When: Saturday, Oct. 14 and Sunday, Oct. 15 from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Where: 4950 Elm Street, Bethesda, MD
Metro: Red line, Bethesda Station 
Illuminasia Festival
As part of the reopening of the Freer and Sackler Galleries, the Smithsonian's Museums of Asian Art, the Illuminasia Festival celebrating Asian cultures takes place on Saturday and Sunday this weekend. Wander through a food market, participate in interactive demonstrations, enjoy live performances and more. All events are free to attend, and the art galleries will be open to visit throughout the festival. 
When: Saturday, Oct. 14 from 5 p.m. to 12 a.m. and Sunday, Oct. 15 from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: 1050 Independence Avenue SW
Metro: Blue, Orange or Silver line, Smithsonian Station
ljakiel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
