Student Government President Taylor Dumpson, right, addresses interim Vice President of Campus Life Fanta Aw and University President Neil Kerwin at a community meeting on May 2. 
On May 1, the campus awoke and a new American University Student Government president, Taylor Dumpson, began her first day in office. The same day, the campus community confronted a direct threat against the black women of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated, a historically African-American sorority. As a member of that sorority, Dumpson potently replied, “We must use this time to reflect on what we value as a community: that bigotry, hate and racism cannot and will not be tolerated.” 
The Eagle agrees wholeheartedly. We pledge our support to the black women of American University, who have a right to an unassailed academic experience of safety, support and success. 
We acknowledge that black students were sold an experience at AU that the University has not sufficiently provided and that the University continues to market black bodies without evenly prioritizing those bodies upon their matriculation. It is one thing to directly market the campus to students of color, with leading programs such as the Frederick Douglass Distinguished Scholars program. It is another thing for the campus community to be unsafe for students of color, exacerbated by a lack of AU alerts for hate crimes. 
Thus, we support students’ efforts to pursue justice. The issues we are experiencing are endemic; some University staff have been here for many years and have yet to fully acknowledge nor effectively heal our campus community in their tenures. If our campus community has arrived at the point of the involvement of the FBI, then it behooves us as a community to recognize that this trajectory is unnatural and unsustainable. 
The Eagle is discouraged that it took a hate crime to make key University staff such as lame duck President Neil Kerwin, Provost Scott Bass and Public Safety Executive Director Phillip Morse to show up. We are hopeful that the incoming University president, Sylvia Burwell, will break with the negligent precedent set forth by the previous administration. 
Kerwin inopportunely spoke about healing at the town hall; we hope that, conversely, Burwell will provide concrete, preventative measures to protect and productively facilitate black students’ experience at AU. In an ideal world, the incoming administration will publicly disseminate the results of meetings with students, keep The Eagle informed in a timely manner and prioritize the sincere concerns of students before personal feelings, regardless of the tone in which the concerns are voiced. University staff were hired to perform their job duties, none of which involve tone policing, assaulting students of color or delaying action. 
We at The Eagle would like to publicly reaffirm that our editorial board is an equalizing, inclusive forum of debate and discourse. As student journalists, we will continue to speak truth to power, pursue the facts and push for freedom of information between the University administration and the student body because this issue matters, to us and to our community.
Thus, in the words of Kerwin, know that The Eagle and the American University student body remains committed to the principles of diversity, inclusion, common courtesy and human dignity. Anyone, including University staff, who does not feel the same or cannot effectively deliver upon these principles does not belong here.
edpage@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU's Department of Public Safety offers a safe escort service to any University owned property. However, it does not offer the service to any non-University off-campus locations, such as the popular Berkshire apartments on Massachusetts Avenue. 
Every year, AU takes on another class of intelligent, capable students who seek to make their new home in our safe campus community. Eagle Summit orientation sessions and prospective student tours heavily push the idea of AU’s neighborhood being a safe-haven bubble from the general D.C. metropolitan population. However, this is juxtaposed by the fact that AU’s on-campus residence facilities are simply unable to accommodate all students due to physical space limitations. 
This problem manifests most prominently in the droves of upperclassmen and even underclassmen who are ‘forced’ to move to off-campus housing, at locations such as the Berkshire apartments and the Avalon at Foxhall. This is important as look at the methods, intentions and limitations of AU’s “Safe Escort” service. Currently, Public Safety defines the AU community in terms of property that the University owns rather than the people who populate that property. These places are the only ones that AU police will escort students to if they feel unsafe. Even for the hundreds of students who live in nearby off-campus housing such as the Berkshire or the Avalon at Foxhall, they are not entitled to a safe ride home. 
The Eagle finds this fact troubling when put in context with the recent increase in local crime that has affected students in these off-campus areas, as students are left with few options to get home safely if they find themselves in an insecure situation. Further, when The Eagle interviewed University officials and questioned Public Safety’s decision not to provide such a service, we were given incomplete responses that revolved around the subject of tight budgets, and that a financially feasible option for providing safe rides/escorts home has not arisen. 
But, what kind of lackluster response is this from an institution that advertises itself as a hotbed of innovative solutions? This is especially unbefitting when other D.C. schools, including Georgetown University and George Washington University, have implemented solutions to this exact problem.  Brainstorming among our own staff, The Eagle thought of potential solutions, such as rerouting a shuttle bus to take students down Massachusetts Avenue during nighttime hours. Do we have to wait until profound tragedy strikes before the campus community is allowed to sit down and brainstorm how to solve an important community issue? Shouldn't we be proactive rather than reactive?
Philip Morse, the Executive Director of Public Safety, is a figure who has been largely absent from these discussions that pertain to the job he is paid to do. While our staff is appreciative of Director of Public Relations Kelly Alexander, who is designated to speak on behalf of AU Public Safety, this is a letter from a group within the community directly to Morse and his department. When you are ready to discuss with the campus community how the AU police department plans to deliver on the security they promise to students, the AU community -- all of the AU student community, both on-campus and off -- is here, ready to speak with you. The Eagle calls upon the University administration to acknowledge this issue, inform the campus community and make strides toward our own wonky AU solution. 
-E
edpage@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
