Nelson is one of four returning players to have logged significant minutes from the 2016 team.

	Sophomore point guard Sa’eed Nelson had a lot of responsibility as a first-year player last season for the men’s basketball team. Nelson consistently led the team in almost all statistical categories every game, and quickly emerged as a leader.

	And as the 2017 season kicks into full gear, Nelson remains one of the few holdovers from an Eagles team that looks much different than the one that took the court 12 months ago. He’s likely to bear even more responsibility as a sophomore.

	Nelson ranked highly in the NCAA in many statistical categories last season, including averaging the third most minutes per game (37.5) in the nation. As a true freshman, Nelson started all 30 games at point guard and led the Eagles in scoring with 14.9 points per game.

	At the end of the season, Nelson earned a spot on the Patriot League All-Rookie Team for his performance in his first collegiate season. However, the amount of time spent on the court combined with leading the team took a toll on Nelson, he said.

	“Freshman year was definitely different from high school. The change of speed of the game is different, practicing longer, and lifting in general. We didn’t do that in high school,” Nelson said. “It was just a rough season, a long season. It was different for my experience and a new type of feel.”

	Despite Nelson’s breakout statistical season, AU struggled collectively. The team lost senior center Leon Tolksdorf to a knee injury early in the season, limiting the team’s frontcourt depth. Injuries forced 6-5 senior Charlie Jones to play center for long durations during the season and AU ranked 346th out 351 Division I schools in points scored per game.

	Nelson and freshman Mark Gasperini were both bright spots for Brennan, whose team finished with an 8-22 record and ninth out of ten teams in the Patriot League. AU isn’t predicted to do much better this season -- the Patriot League 
	preseason poll, which surveys the conference’s head coaches and sports information directors, predicted that the Eagles will finish ninth again, coming out ahead of last place Lafayette.

	Despite the challenges facing the team, Nelson is looking to build and learn from the lessons of his freshman year and help the Eagles achieve more success in the 2017-18 season.

	“This season, we’re more prepared for it,” Nelson said. “We’ve got a lot of new guys, new faces, freshmen on the team. I think they are ready for it [the season]. So I think it will be a good season.”

	Nelson, Gasperini, junior forward Matt Cimino and junior guard James Washington are the only returning players who played a significant role in the 2016 season. Delante Jones, Lonnie Rivera, Andrija Matic and Alex Paquin 
	all transferred from the program in the offseason, leaving the Eagles roster bare heading into the summer months. Brennan’s team will feature seven freshmen and is one of four teams in Division I basketball without a senior on its roster.

	Nelson knows, even as a sophomore, that he will be expected to serve as a leader for the younger players on the team. Freshmen Jesse Little, Sam Iorio, Drew Lamont and junior transfer Cheikh Diallo will all be in a similar position to Nelson a season ago and expected to contribute heavily in their first season with the Eagles.

	While he acknowledges how unusual it is for a team to have so many young players on the roster, Nelson is excited for what the new faces can offer for the Eagles in the season ahead.

	“It was a little different [to have so many new players]. It was still refreshing, with them coming into their freshman year, they’re going through what we went through,” Nelson said. “I’m glad we got this new bunch, they’re really good as a group.”

	Based on Nelson’s performance as a freshman, Brennan has a higher set of expectations for his point guard. He is looking for Nelson to serve as a resource for the younger players and lead by example on the court.

	“I tell him [Nelson] all the time that I don’t view him as a sophomore. You know, he’s experienced enough, where he should be like an upperclass-type leader,” Brennan said. “He’s been doing a good job with that, helping young guys with the offense and through practice.”

	Brennan hopes Nelson can help the new players by offering his knowledge, having gone through similar experiences less than a year ago. This leadership will prove crucial, as the inexperience on the Eagles roster likely means several freshmen will play a meaningful role for the team this season.

	“I think they will all contribute at some point, so it’s just a matter of everyone continuing to improve each day,” Brennan said. “You know, they won’t know when their time is coming, but when it comes, I know they will be ready.”

	Despite the high expectations for his sophomore season, Nelson said he is ready to get out on the court and do what comes most naturally to him: playing the game he loves.

	“I haven’t played since the last game of last season. I just want to get out there and play again and travel again,” Nelson said. “It’s exciting to me to travel and play games in new places.”

bdarin@theeagleonline.com

This article originally appeared in December 2017 print edition of The Eagle.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	Most students probably do not think about accessibility very often, but for many, it poses a challenge on a daily basis.

	Students with physical disabilities interviewed by The Eagle are generally happy with the help that the Academic Support and Access Center (ASAC) provides. 

	But AU has not done enough to address campus accessibility issues outside of ASAC. Many complain that buildings are not as physically accessible as they should be, or are extremely cumbersome to enter.

	Specifically, Hurst Hall and the East Quad Building lack adequate options for students with disabilities. Neither building offers access via ramp or elevator. Although Hurst is equipped with a lift, it is awkward and inconvenient.

	Even going to the bathroom can be a struggle in Hurst Hall, where all bathrooms are located in the basement and are only accessible via the stairs. For many students who have a physical disability or challenge, this is an extremely difficult obstacle. The Eagle staff implores administrators to listen to students and remedy this issue.

	Of course, there are steps students can take before each semester begins to ensure that they will not be inhibited by the campus buildings. Students have the option of discussing their schedules with ASAC to make sure their classes are in locations they will not have any trouble accessing due to their disability.

	Unfortunately, some students who would benefit from these resources are not aware of them. We hope ASAC will find ways to reach these students through community outreach efforts.

	The Eagle staff would also like to acknowledge that not all disabilities are physical. Our story focuses on students with physical disabilities, but other types of disabilities -- including mental, emotional and educational -- bring their own set of challenges on campus. Many students experience these types of disabilities at the same time.   

	Often, students need time to adjust to what accessibility looks like in college. They may be used to a more personal accommodation, such as extra time for exams in an empty classroom like they may have experienced in high school. But at AU, similar arrangements may occur in a crowded or busy classroom instead.

	Technology could very effectively assist students who are audio or visually impaired. Such technologies are essential for the education of those students, and it is incumbent upon the University to accommodate them.

	The Eagle also recognizes that students have a role in creating an inclusive community for students with both visible and invisible disabilities.

	Students with disabilities are too often on the receiving end of dirty looks or mumbled comments when they take an elevator over the stairs. It is unacceptable for anyone who wants to make our campus more inclusive.

	There is no reason we should be judging each other’s disabilities. The Eagle encourages students to suspend their judgement, resist jumping to conclusions and to treat their peers with kindness. Students should lend a hand when they can and make AU a more comfortable and inclusive learning environment.

	The University has the potential to be much more accommodating to students with disabilities.  While many people may not consciously consider disabilities when they imagine inclusivity, they are just as deserving of our attention as any. Moving forward, it is on us to make that inclusivity a reality.

opinion@theeagleonline.com
This article originally appeared in December 2017 print edition of The Eagle.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
