Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Frederick Douglass Distinguished Scholars Program is hosting a multimedia event, “Through Refugees’ Eyes Summit,” on April 15 to create awareness about the many refugees around the world. 
The event will include a panel moderated by University Chaplain Rev. Mark A. Schaefer and will feature AU students who are refugees, Professor Tazreena Sajjad from the School of International Service, a representative from Refugees International and Alhareth Rashad, a former refugee camp aid worker. 
After the panel, the event will continue with a banquet catered by Mozaic Kitchen, a nonprofit organization that hires refugees from the Middle East. 
Hana Manadath, a freshman in the School of International Service, said the Frederick Douglass Distinguished Scholars are hosting the event after visiting refugee camps in Greece. 
“After we came back from Greece, we didn’t want to see everything we saw in the refugee camps and not do something about it,” Manadath said. “We thought it would be an injustice to the people that we saw.” 
Refugees’ experiences will be reflected through a photography exhibit featuring the works of Abdulazez Dukhan and Hassan Alhomse. Through their photography, Dukhan and Alhomse are able to give a glimpse into the daily life of refugees and their living conditions. 
The gallery will also feature some photos Manadath has captured at the refugee camps.
Syrian handicrafts will be on sale as well as henna tattoos, and spoken word poet Meriem Ziad will perform at the event later on in the day.
Sophia Celeste Vos, a sophomore in the School of International Service who also visited Greece, said the scholars wanted to fundraise for an organization that has made a significant difference in the lives of refugees and their living conditions.
“It is a privilege to be exposed to other people’s trauma and use that in a way to impact in some way,” Vos said. 
All of the proceeds from the event will benefit the nonprofit SCM Medical Missions, which aids refugee camps in Greece and North Africa. Donations can also be made here. 
Through Refugees’ Eyes Summit will take place on Saturday, April 15 at 12-5 p.m. in the Katzen Art Center. Free admission. 
arts@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
No single exhibit is the same at the AU Museum inside the Katzen Arts Center, and with over six new exhibits ranging from towering wooden structures to a redesign of the Mayan alphabet, Katzen’s spring collection is a must see. 
The museum showed off its new work at a spring opening reception on April 1. 
On the first floor, attendees were blown away by Foon Sham’s exhibit “Escape.” Divided into two parts, the indoor installation is a castle-like sculpture stretching 36 feet high and made completely from wood. The outdoor sculpture is a 62 feet long tunnel-like structure designed to trap light either inside or outside of it depending on the time of day. Sham said he designed the sculptures as a type of political interpretation. 
“It symbolizes the Mexican-American border,” Sham said. “It is meant to show that you can still escape even with a wall.” 
Sham’s exhibit is open until Aug. 13.
Elzbieta Sikorska’s exhibit “Time Stands Still” provides a contemplative view of nature. Sikorska does not have one objective message in her pieces -- instead, they are about causing the viewer to think more deeply about their connections with time. Sikorska’s exhibit closes May 28.
AU is also participating in a city-wide exhibit showcasing the “Stations of the Cross,” with locations across the city each showing one station. “Stations of the Cross” are 14 stations that depict, through images, the story of Jesus Christ on the day of his crucifixion. The First Station depicts Pontius Pilate condemning Jesus to die while the last Station depicts Jesus being placed in the tomb after he has been crucified. 
Katzen contains Station 12, which depicts Jesus’ death on the cross. AU is collaborating with a variety of other locations throughout the District, with each showing one station. Station 12, painted by Fernando Botero, is also supposed to represent the pain of prisoners at Iraq’s Abu Ghraib prison. The painting is part of Botero’s series on the prison, and will be at Katzen until April 16.
Carlos Luna’s exhibit Green Machine features over 65 different pieces portraying the stories and fables of Cuba. Luna combines all types of materials such as tapestries, metal sheets and natural materials to make his art. The collection closes on May 28.
Two artists, Sharon Wolpoff and Tammra Sigler, collaborated to create the “Geometry and other Myths” collection, which is open until May 28. Their individual artworks are unique yet contain some similarities. Siegler’s pieces all have a foundation in geometry, but the emotion behind them is revealed upon a closer look. Wolpoff’s pieces are the opposite in that their emotion is apparent from the very beginning, while the geometry is more hidden.  
Another exhibit that premiered were pieces completed by first and second year AU master of fine arts students. The exhibition is divided into two parts; the first section lasts until April 19 and the second section is from April 29 to May 28.
Whether you are going to Katzen for homework or class make sure to take some time and check out the new exhibits, they will not disappoint. Check the museum’s website for information on upcoming events and programs. Free tours are offered every Friday at 11:30 a.m.
jreilly@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Professor Gregg Harry presents on the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory. 
When prospective students think of AU, some might picture the School of International Service building or a campus overflowing with political science students. A picture of science labs complete with microscopes and long white coats might not come to mind. 
While the AU science programs may not be as well-known, they are strong, successful and growing, as 589 undergraduate students are currently enrolled with primary or secondary majors in the sciences. This includes the construction of a new life sciences building slated to open sometime in 2020. It will be built where the Asbury parking lot is currently situated. 
Senior physics major Zach Waldron said the environment within the science department is fun and welcoming. 
“The science department is very small, close-knit. All the professors go by their first names, they’re all very personable people,” Waldron said.
When he entered AU as a freshman, Waldron didn’t expect to pursue a major in physics. Instead, he planned to major in psychology, history or philosophy, but then took physics as a general education course and changed his mind. 
Since starting physics, he has worked with NASA on heliophysics, tutored AU physics students and assisted with a Physics 100 course. 
Peter Starr, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, said many AU students also find themselves drawn to the sciences.  
“The biology major in particular has grown a lot, the B.S. in Public Health has grown, neuroscience is now at 51 majors, so we’re beginning to get a real critical mass of science undergraduate students,” Starr said. 
Ulysses J. Sofia, associate dean of research for the College of Arts and Sciences, said there has also been a growth in funding in the science programs, including money from the National Institute of Health and the National Science Foundation. 
“The provost has several times made large allocations of [University] funds available to help buy core facilities, instrumentation that will be used by multiple faculty members, to get them some of the basic instrumentation so they can apply for more grants,” Sofia said. “The grant activity in sciences has gone up by many factors since this growth started nine years ago. Many more of our scientists are getting funded from more agencies than we were [then].”
Funding for research is important for faculty members such as Gregg Harry. Harry is part of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory, which works on detecting gravitational waves. Gravitational waves are predictions of Einstein’s theory of gravity and are caused by large astronomical objects such as black holes. Last February, LIGO observed gravitational waves for the very first time, confirming Einstein’s 1915 theory and attracting international attention.
Harry works with undergraduate physics students in a small lab on campus conducting research on properties of the mirrors used in the detectors of gravitational waves.  
“Understanding the mirrors and the optics [of the gravitational wave detectors] is really crucial, so we have samples of mirror material and things like that that we can characterize, and try and come up with better materials and understand the materials we do have,” Harry said.
Before coming to AU in 2011, Harry did research at MIT. While there, he missed interacting with students and decided to come to D.C. to teach. Harry has since seen a continuous growth in the science programs at AU and thinks that will continue to happen in the coming years.
“A lot of the people that are being hired are very active in some very cutting-edge fields,” Harry said. “A lot of the new faculty are bringing some very exciting research to campus. There’s also talk of a PhD program in the life sciences, which is crucial for doing impactful research.” 
Dean Starr said that there is currently one PhD program in the sciences, but the provost has talked about adding one or two more once the life sciences building opens and is able to support another PhD program.
Starr believes new facilities on campus will impact the growth of science at AU, as the current resources have become inadequate to sustain the level of predicted growth. 
“While we have grown the size of the science faculty quite remarkably over the last nine years, we are now at a point where we really don’t have the facilities to grow the science faculty anymore,” Starr said. 
He noted that the new Don Meyers Technology and Innovation Building on East Campus will become the home for several of the science departments and bring the faculty and students closer together.
The expansion of the sciences will allow AU to compete with the facilities and programs of similar universities and will give science students plenty of opportunities to expand on their education. 
“We’re bringing ourselves up to what our peers are of our size. We did an analysis and looked at other schools that have the same undergraduate population that we have and said, ‘Okay how many people do they have in physics, in chemistry, in biology?”, Sofia said. “We said, ‘how big are we supposed to be compared to these other schools that we would like to be like?’”
Olivia Bell and Erin Swartz, both juniors majoring in biology, noted how the smaller size of the program has allowed them to work closely with professors, but acknowledged that new facilities are needed.
“I knew I wanted to do science coming into college, and what drew me to AU was the fact that it was a smaller school and the department was smaller, so the aspect of getting a closer bond with professors was appealing,” Swartz said. “But Hurst [Hall] is so old and it has poor facilities, so a new building is needed.”
“Research brings in money,” Bell said. “In order to get funding and build a good relationship with donors, you need to have stronger hard sciences. The departments are expanding which will promote happier faculty and students and will also attract more prospective students.”
adonohue@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
