The Public Safety Building, pictured in 2016, will be demolished this summer. The AU police department will move to a new building on East Campus. 
The Public Safety building, located on the south end of campus behind Anderson and Letts Halls, will be demolished this month, according to memos released by AU officials. The public safety department began operating out of its new home in the Meyers Technology and Innovation Building on East Campus on May 17, per tweets posted by the department’s official Twitter account. 
AUPD is moving! On 5/17, all operations will transition to the Myers Building. Stay tuned for a community open house. pic.twitter.com/24Qm4Lbx5U
— AU Police (@AUPublicSafety) May 11, 2017
  	David Dower, the University’s assistant vice president of planning and project management, wrote in a May 15 memo that the demolition will begin on or about June 1. Another memo sent out on May 19 by Dower and Vin Harkins, the University’s assistant vice president of facilities management, listed the demolition project as beginning on May 20 and lasting through July. 
 	Dower said in an email that June 1 was the official start date of the project.
 	“The university anticipates that this work will take several weeks and require the staging and use of heavy construction equipment at the site,” Dower wrote in the May 15 memo. “Because of this work, members of the AU community should anticipate an increase in traffic in that area and the Fletcher Gate.”
 	A 2015 report released by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) revealed that there are likely residual World War I munitions buried beneath the Public Safety building. During World War I, AU was used as a testing site for military weapons, including ammunition and chemical weapons. Following the war, land owned by the University was used to bury hazardous materials and remaining munitions, The Eagle previously reported.
 	The University is not demolishing the building based on a recommendation from ACE, said Chris Gardner, a communications official at the Baltimore District of ACE. Kelly Alexander, AU’s director of public relations, said the University notified ACE in May 2016 that it intended to demolish the building in conjunction with the opening of East Campus and wanted ACE to finish its remediation work required for the area.
“The Army Corps allocated funds in its current budget for the [building’s] remediation work and is in the process of developing the work and safety plans for this project,” Alexander said in an email.
 	“While we did not make any recommendations for the fate of the building [to university officials], we are coordinating with AU on the impending tearing down of the building so we can remediate the site in conjunction with the removal of the building,” Gardner said in an email.
 	Following the demolition, Dower wrote in his May 15 memo that AU expects ACE to conduct additional remediation activities in the area during the fall 2017 semester. Gardner said that these remediation activities will include support to construction crews during the removal of the existing facility “in the event that any remnants of past military use are encountered by crews on the site.”
 	“Once they get to the foundation, we would plan to have our crews carry out the rest of the removal,” Gardner said. “Once the foundation is removed, we would work to excavate a great deal of the material below the foundation as we work to remove debris. Our crews will also sample the soil, testing for any potential contaminants that could stem from past military activity and removing any contaminated soils.”
 	The timeframe for the removal project depends on what ACE encounters at the site, Gardner said. In the 2000s, Gardner said his organization cleared debris from areas adjacent to the Public Safety Building and expects to find more debris underneath it. He estimates the effort will take four to six months.
 	“How long it will take will ultimately depend on what we find, but the intent would be to remove any debris and to sample and remove any contaminated soil as quickly and efficiently as possible,” Gardner said.
 hsamsel@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Like many other fans, I anxiously awaited Lady Gaga’s latest release, a single titled “The Cure.” The week before I had immersed myself in the melodies of her previous album, “Joanne,” an album that had seen my tears, desperation and ultimate revival after a recent breakup. I thought her new song would bring me into the next stage of healing, yet I was shocked at the emotional regression that the track displayed. While I do not know the intentions behind Lady Gaga’s art or her creative process, I can only speak to how it made me feel and what I think hints at a larger issue. 
The song harkens back to the dancey, pop infused style of “Artpop” but its melodies distract from the striking lyrics. Gaga sings, “If I can’t find the cure, I’ll fix you with my love/ No matter what you know, I’ll/ I’ll fix you with my love/ And if you say you’re okay/ I’m gonna heal you anyway.” The rest of the song is a variation of these lines, telling the story of a person who believes that their love is enough to cure their partner from whatever emotional or personal issues they are facing. The notion that love can heal people is beautiful and noble and, in an ideal world, it is one that I would want to be true. However, if we operate under the misconception that you can fix another person with sacrifices and will power then we are sending the message that mental illness is not really an illness. 
I often see the romanticization of mental illness plastered across the internet. While certain social media sites and blogs can be releases for those unsure of how to communicate their depression, the idea of hating oneself or even tenets of suicidal ideation is displayed in a way that is meant to be wistful or grunge. The reality is that there is nothing easy or wistful about having a mental illness or loving someone with one. 
Like any physical illness, those who suffer from depression or anxiety have symptoms, such as difficulty concentrating, fatigue or irritability. It is far too easy to internalize these involuntary actions and grow frustrated with them or yourself. Taking too much responsibility for another's symptoms creates a toxic relationship dynamic. However, if you love someone it is not easy to separate yourself from what they are thinking or feeling. The National Alliance on Mental Illness suggests that the most important thing you can do is be a part of a community of empathy and validation that surrounds them. 
Loving someone isn’t easy. There is no handbook or beginner’s guide and when you’re young it can be scary, especially if your partner struggles with mental illness. In a culture where mental illness is romanticized and even fetishized, it can be difficult to grasp the consequences and magnitude of what it means to be in a relationship with someone who is struggling. If there are two things that I have learned to hold close to my heart, they are you can’t make projects out of people and someone else’s mental health should never be a priority over your own. 
jgagnon@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
DC Soccer Supplies sells various soccer equipment, training gear and uniforms in Tenleytown.
Wearing the proper athletic gear is important when it comes to safe and efficient exercising. Sometimes that means having a lucky pair of running shoes or the right pants that are sure to let your thighs breathe, keeping the sweat down there to a minimum. If you manage to look a little fashionable while doing it, it’s a plus! Whether you’re willing to go all out with the big athletic brands or you are looking for something simple that you can find locally in D.C., we’ve got you covered. Here’s a list of some places to look during your next athletic wear hunt.
Fleet Feet Sports
As you can probably guess by the name, this shop is dedicated to runners. However, at Fleet Feet Sports, there is more than just running shoes. Swing by if you’re looking for the proper attire for taking a stroll in the summer heat with tanks and shorts, or prepare yourself for a breeze with half zips and track pants. The store carries popular brands including Adidas, Nike, North Face and Under Armour, and prices tend to range between $30 to $200, depending on what you’re looking for.
Where: 1841 Columbia Rd. NW
Metro: Red line, Woodley Park/Adams Morgan Metro station
DC Soccer Supplies
For all you soccer players out there, this store is for you. Not only can you get whatever equipment and accessories needed for the sport, but also various cleats and training gear. The shop has received generally positive reviews online even though some may say it’s on the pricier side. However, according to the website, what once was a $35 jersey was put on sale for half the price, showing how easy it is to find deals regardless of popular opinion. 
Where:4839 Wisconsin Ave. NW 
Metro: Red line, Tenleytown Metro station
Pacers Running
Another shop for runners, Pacers Running, carries even more of the accessories needed to get the most out of a weekly jog, or typical 5K. In addition to the usual running shoes and apparel, the store also carries GPS running watches and style options catered to those living in D.C. with D.C. flag gear. This includes the Adidas Adizero Adios D.C. Flag Limited Edition sneakers for $151, so be sure to get them before they’re gone!
Where: 1821 14th St. NW
Metro: Red line, Dupont Circle station
G&T Sports Center
Be sure to visit G&T Sports Center for a place that allows customization of sports wear to cater to you! The store specializes in embroidery and carries gear for various sports including basketball, football and soccer, as well as other apparel that is suitable for the gym. 
Where: 3913 14th St. 
Metro: Yellow and green lines, Georgia Ave. Petworth station
Take advantage of the sun being out and run on over to grab your gear today.
cjames@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
