Racism. A word with so much power, it often is avoided in discussion by those who aren’t well versed in what it means. No one wants to be labeled as a racist. Two polarizing views saturate the media.  The left criticized for slandering those they see as racist and the right, on the other hand, argues that racism doesn’t exist in contemporary America. Of course, these statements are generalities, no one statement  can inhabit all persons who subscribe to a certain ideology. Nonetheless, the issue I often in encounter when discussing racism is the argument for or against the validity of reverse racism. 
According to Dr. Michael Norton, a professor at Harvard Business School, and Dr. Samuel Sommers, a professor at Tufts University, reverse racism can be defined as “ anti-White bias.” Although at first glance this definition would imply that there is racism against white individuals, this implication is completely false. Racism itself is fundamentally based in power, it benefits only the group holding the power and does so by enforcing a racial hierarchy in many ways, both subtle and forthright. 
The white population in the U.S. holds both power and majority. With that in mind, it begs the question of how people go about claiming reverse racism. It begins with education. People have been improperly educated on racism and what it truly means. While the education system has introduced this term to us at a young age with good intentions, it is not explained properly and is overly simplified. People grow up believing discrimination, prejudice and hate crimes are synonymous with racism. However, while discrimination, prejudice and hate crimes are often used as tools by society to recreate and reconstruct racism, they are not bound to racism. They can be employed by individuals who are not reconstructing racism, but other forms of oppression or marginalization. 
Recently, a group of black teens assaulted a mentally handicapped white male due to conflicted motives, but there was clear evidence of an anti - Trump and anti - White sentiment. The attackers can be heard saying, “ F--- Donald Trump,” and “ F--- white people.” Definitionally the acts of these individuals were discriminatory as they abused an individual based on his race. Therefore, definitionally, the crime committed was a hate crime. However, this attack was not part of a racist construction as the assailants are incapable of being racist due to their marginalized identities.
The issue with this current discussion over the validity of reverse racism is that racism has been misinformed to the majority of Americans. Racism enforces and reinforces a socially constructed and institutionally engrained power structure. People who don’t benefit from this power structure cannot be racist due to their own marginalization. By classifying racism as synonymous to discrimination and prejudice, people are lead to believe that anyone can be racist. The attackers in Chicago are capable and culpable of being discriminatory, prejudicial and of committing a hate crime. But, their acts were not racist. Racism is an act that only belongs to whiteness. 
As a white person myself, I understand how this topic is rather daunting. I benefit from this constructed racism that I have discussed. However, it is important for me and all white people to aid in its deconstruction, examining and pushing it into discourse that allows us to see the error within different perspectives on the topic of racism. It is essential for this conversation to continue and that every person feels heard. In a time of great polarization people often aren’t willing to communicate. We must be certain that our communication does not hinder our societal progress and instead we must strive to make a more inclusive and welcoming world. 
Michael Lucatorto is a freshman in the School of Communication.
edpage@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

This article originally appeared in The Eagle’s December 9 print edition.
Looking back on this election, it has been a rough year and a half to be a Republican woman. Facing ridicule from every side, listening to your party’s nominee criticize women and trying to choose between compromising your values and voting for necessary change at the ballot box was maddening.
However, it is over now. The next President of the United States will be Donald Trump, and it is time for the nation to face that reality and move forward with a positive agenda for change.
Although I did not vote for or support Donald Trump during his presidential run, I wish him the best in office and I truly hope he governs well. Praying for his failure at this point does not hurt his reputation, but the American people as a whole. That is why we must be cautiously optimistic: we must support him and guide him on a path toward righteousness while at the same time be willing to criticize his administration when necessary.
Further, President-elect Trump will be complemented by both a Republican House and Senate, not to mention 33 Republican governors, 26 states under the control of both GOP executive and legislative branches and six state legislatures controlled by Republicans with Democratic governors. This is the GOP’s moment, and the party must deliver if it wants to maintain and grow party support in 2018 and 2020.
To do this, I recommend the following conservative policy proposals to limit government power, control spending, cut government waste and prove that success can be achieved under a Republican government.
Step 1: Reform the criminal justice system
One of the most corrupt institutions in American government is the criminal justice system. It is designed to over-incarcerate low-level, nonviolent offenders. Upon leaving prison, these offenders cannot successfully find a job due to their criminal records and become dependent on less-than-legal means to make ends meet. Often, they are reincarcerated and enter a viscous cycle known as “recidivism.” 
This issue disproportionately impacts minority groups, and it must be stopped. Moreover, the entire system costs a tremendous amount of unnecessary tax dollars (an additional $42 million in 2017 from FY2016) and needs to be consolidated and reformed immediately. To address these issues, a bi-partisan coalition of representatives has already proposed several bills to reform them.
Another way to improve the criminal justice system would be to expand programs that assist ex-felons in finding jobs after leaving prison. Companies like Apple, Hilton Hotels and Chick-fil-A hire returning citizens to begin reintegrating former felons into society. By using public-private partnerships with these and other companies and vocational organizations, the government can prevent the cycle of incarceration from continuing to plague our system, destroy the family and consume our tax dollars. 
Step 2: Simplify the tax code and loosen ridiculous regulations
There are areas in Trump’s tax proposal where taxes among certain higher-level income groups will be higher than under Clinton’s plan, according to the Urban-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, a center-left tax policy group. This is significant because Clinton claimed she would use taxes to crack down on the upper class.
Scholar Leonard Burman notes, “Trump’s 33 percent top rate kicks in at a fairly low income level for singles: $127,500 in 2017.” The Trump tax plan could generate more levels of revenue. It would remove personal exemptions and tax breaks which would consolidate the current 74,608-page-long federal code, making it more fair. If he implements this plan, it will cut the burden of taxpayers while not letting off the wealthier economic groups from contributing a sizable amount of income in taxes. 
It would also consolidate and simplify the tax code. By simplifying the code, this would allow Americans to better understand how the federal government collects tax dollars. If Trump goes through with implementing this plan, it would save Americans a lot of time, money and headaches trying to understand all the loopholes and tax breaks in the system of which big businesses take advantage.
Step 3: Create an environment inclusive to all Americans
Often, the political left claims that the GOP is waging a “war on women.” However, 42 percent of Donald Trump’s voters were women, especially college-educated white women, 49 percent of which voted for the billionaire. This happened despite Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s emphasis on Trump’s history of bragging about sexually assaulting women. The monumental question is why these women still voted for him, and unfortunately, I don’t think we’ll have an answer until we actually ask these voters. Usually, these types of allegations kill political careers, such as was the case with Anthony Weiner. And yet, it has not derailed Trump.
The GOP needs to emphasize the benefits of limited government for minorities. While protections are necessary to ensure that discrimination is prevented, all people can be most empowered by freedom, not the state. The GOP has this platform, but it does not use it. To better project this ideal, Republicans should be more open to comprehensive immigration reform that opens the door to increasing legal immigration. Further, women could greatly benefit from voluntary Personal Care Accounts that encourage financial saving for leave time. Pre-tax dollars would be saved in this PCA, and it would be used to replace or supplement income during periods of leave. This would help the problem of paid leave or medical issues. Women and minorities in the GOP also need to be louder and prouder, stand up in the name of limited government and run for office.
Although I remain cautiously optimistic, I truly hope that the Trump administration is successful in its endeavors-not just for Republicans, but for all Americans. If he fails, we will all have to live with the consequences.
Krista Chavez is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle. 
kchavez@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This article originally appeared in The Eagle’s December 9 special edition.
*Correction appended
Students, faculty and student organizations are joining forces to work to create a potential food pantry at AU for students who suffer from food insecurity.
Food insecurity is not limited to those who may go years without access to reliable food sources— sometimes it just means not knowing where your next meal will come from for a semester, month or even just in the next week. The United States Department of Agriculture defines food insecurity as "consistent access to adequate food is limited by a lack of money and other resources at times during the year."
Emily Dalgo, a senior in the School of International Service, is the founder of the initiative to bring a food pantry to campus that began this semester. After dealing with food insecurity herself in the beginning of the fall 2016 semester, Dalgo discovered how helpful a food pantry could be at AU.
“[I] was going through a really rough time in the beginning of the semester, transitioning jobs and also my family was unable to help out [financially] for a month. I didn’t really know how I was going to be getting my next meal and it was just a really stressful time,” Dalgo said. “So I talked to faculty members and they also didn’t know how to help me and that was how I realized, and they realized too, that we didn’t have a service on campus that was really accessible for people [when they are food insecure].”
The problem with food pantries in the area is that many require D.C. resident status and are only open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Dalgo said. Most AU students are not D.C. residents, nor do they have time during class or work to go to a food pantry. 
Dalgo began the initiative to start a food pantry on campus by creating a survey to get a general understanding of whether there is a need for it based on how others were dealing with food insecurity. Dalgo has received over 400 submissions from the survey.
“Right now over 50 percent have responded and said that at some point of their time at AU, they’ve been food insecure,” Dalgo said. “And food insecurity is essentially just not having access to food at all times and not knowing your next meal.”
College of Arts and Sciences senior Alix Braun agreed with Dalgo on the necessity of creating a food pantry and is working with Challah for Hunger, a student organization that bakes and sells challah for MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger, At AU on their Campus Hunger Project. The goal of the Campus Hunger Project is to engage with students and gather data on food insecurity, according to Braun. Once data is collected, the project hopes to create an assessment to tackle hunger on college campuses nationally. 
“While hunger and food insecurity [have] serious implications and impacts on the health and wellness of children and adults everywhere, it is particularly unique to battle this issue while in college,” Braun wrote. “Especially at American, where the sense of social justice activism is competing with a sense of elitism and entitlement, the disparity between those who can afford in excess and those who cannot afford at all is palpable. Without a consistent source of nutritious food, students are suffering to survive academically and socially.”
Sameer Chintamani, a senior in SIS and a columnist for The Eagle, agreed as well and wrote about it in an October column for the paper. Chintamani mentioned how the George Washington University opened a food pantry for its students this October, along with George Mason University and the University of Maryland, College Park. 
“As college students, we are told to do well in class by ensuring that we are following a healthy lifestyle and making healthy choices when eating,” Chintamani said in his column. “It’s time for a change and for AU to look into the issue of food insecurity at AU and offer a permanent solution, such as establishing a food pantry.”
Additionally, Dalgo has received support from other students, faculty and organizations. Dalgo is currently working with Dr. Fanta Aw, assistant vice president of campus life, to create a case for the administration on establishing a pantry on campus.
“It is clear that this is a social justice issue and that from my perspective, most students shouldn’t be in a situation where they’re having a challenge getting food and not being able to get that,” Aw said. “So whatever it takes on our end to try to meet the short term need while looking at a long term solution, we will look at that and each case is different.” 
Aw currently works with those students who suffer from food insecurity by directing students to resources around D.C. and working with the financial aid office, like getting students more financial aid, as well as trying to help students deal with what is creating their food insecurity. 
Aw believes that there is more to solving hunger on campus than just creating a food pantry, but agrees in addressing the immediate need and finding out long term solutions. 
“I think a food bank will get us to a more systematic way of addressing some of that, but I also have been saying to folks I think we need to be looking at a comprehensive approach to food insecurity,” Aw said. “The food pantry is one element of it, but it’s not necessarily the end all, be it all… And what that comprehensive approach might look like is something that we need to research.”
Dalgo has also received support and is working with Student Government senator and School of Public Affairs senior Jonah Wolff. 
As senator, Jonah Wolff emailed the survey to over 3,000 students to create a more concrete case for a pantry. Wolff has past experience working with MEANS Database, a food recovery system to help food banks reduce wasted food from donations, as the organization’s director of public relations.
“The problem of food insecurity is that it impacts students, even at institutions like ours, and sometimes, in fact, especially at an institution like ours,” Wolff said. 
Dalgo has also received interest from organizations that deal with food insecurity to become coalition members and facilitate goods or needs to begin this pantry, including Nourish AU, a student organization at AU that combats poverty through social entrepreneurship, as well as Challah for Hunger and MEANS Database. 
Dalgo hopes to begin officially establishing the food pantry and getting donations for the pantry itself from students, staff or faculty by the end of the semester. If the food pantry plan continues, Dalgo hopes the pantry is donation based, whether it be through students, faculty or other organizations, student run or nationally.
According to Dalgo, a lot of students would prefer the pantry to be in the Mary Graydon Center, suggesting there might be room for it on the third floor. Aw hopes the food pantry space will allow students to maintain their dignity while being in a common place where any student could find. 
Dalgo says she has received concerns about the pantry, but she says most of them stem down to students not being aware of the possible hunger AU students might face.
“People just don’t realize others are going through [food insecurity] because there’s a huge stigma and silence around money,” Dalgo said. “A lot of AU students are very wealthy and very lucky to come from families that can support them and I know that they do appreciate it often, but it also comes from the downside of not seeing other people don’t have that.”
mcarrasco@theeagleonline.com
Correction: The original text of this story incorrectly stated that the organization Challah for Hunger baked challah that was donated to the American Jewish World Service. It has been corrected to say "MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger."
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
