Lana Del Rey performing on her Paradise tour in Miami in 2014.
On a warm afternoon in the middle of summer, pop and alternative music lovers will turn to Lana Del Rey for relaxation and fun.
Her slow, sultry voice pulls people into her music and her apathetic tone makes people forget about their problems. Del Rey’s style mimics that of a 70’s hipster flower child with her breathy and raspy low notes combined with her angstful, melodramatic lyrics. Her music seems perfect for any teenage dirtbag or college student seeking some rebellious and calming tunes after arguing with their parents about money.
However, her music is also trash. I know it is a bold statement, but listen to my case. 
Her lyrics are focused around drugs and men not loving her back, be it about her dad or her ex-husband that ran away. She milks her daddy issues to the point that it is not sad anymore, it is just annoying. 
Two of her most popular songs are about the men in her life. Blue Jeans is about her ex-husband that ran away from her and Off to the Races is about the man in her life suffering from drug addiction. In Off to the Races, she talks about her man owning her, and explicits states that he is not a good guy: “My old man is a bad man but I can’t deny the way he holds my hand / He loves me with every beat of his cocaine heart.”
To make it worse, she glorifies abusive relationships. Lana is the lyrical queen of unhealthy relationships. In her song, Ultraviolence, she glamorizes these toxic relationships: “I can hear sirens, sirens / He hit me and it felt like a kiss.” She even dedicates an entire song about unhealthy sexual relationships and power dynamics called F**ked My Way to the Top. Many of Del Rey’s lyrics are promote abuse, addiction and toxic relationships. For a list of more, look here. 
She fantasizes substance and drug abuse by singing about it in at least half of the songs on one of her most famous albums, Born to Die. Additionally, she promotes addiction and glamorizes death. In an interview, she said that she wanted to be one of the greats, like Amy Winehouse, and the only way to do that was to die. She explicitly states that she wants to die in her song, Dark Paradise: “Your soul is haunting me / And telling me / That everything is fine / But I wish I was dead (dead like you).”
Many people resonate with this type of music and the lyrics she proclaims, thus explaining her massive following. Many Del Rey fans talk about the relatability of her songs and the beauty in her honesty and transparency. SIS rising sophomore Andrew Morgan, a self-proclaimed die-hard fan, said, “I love her because she uses her own style of music and is much more relatable and interesting than most artists these days.” 
However, are these relatable lyrics really something we want people relating to, or more importantly, something we want people reminded of while listening to the chorus of Lana’s new song? 
One of her self proclaimed biggest fans, CAS rising sophomore Magdeline Vasatka, calls Del Rey her “cocaine princess.”
Another fan, SPA and SOC rising sophomore Camille Perrault, claims that she only listens to Del Rey when she is depressed, and would never listen to her when she is happy. An artist that I can only resonate with when I am sad or lonely, or worse, an artist who’s music is going to make me even more sad than I already am… is that really a great artist?
Relatability is not the only thing keeping fans with Del Rey. Her fans believe she is genuine and admire her glamorous hippie aesthetic. SIS rising sophomore Jarrod Jeffcoat, said, “Lana Del Rey isn't contrived like most popular artists - she's authentic. She reminds me of the faded glamour of the sea side.”
Now, maybe it is just me, but I see right through this feigned “authenticity.” Her look is too much on many levels. Too much hipster. Too many flowers. And finally, too many pouty lips. Lana’s default emotion is attractively sad, and she intentionally tries to look seductively morose. Moreso, how can someone be glamorous, relatable, and authentic all at the same time? Well, they can, if they are faking something.
The “authentic” Lana look goes back and forth between sullen and sassy with an emphasis on looking as apathetic as possible. Her act of trying to look like she does not care irritates me more than her unbearable singing voice, which is pretty bad in and of itself. 
In her recorded songs, her voice sounds like a complaining and annoyed teenager rolling her eyes at her parents. In her concerts, her voice sounds like grunting or someone who is trying to shakily hold back vomit while singing at the same time. If you think I am being harsh, listen here. 
Now, here is where I will admit where my disdain for Del Rey dervies from. I was a Del Rey fan. That was until I saw her at Lollapalooza in 2016. I had heard reports of how bad her live performances were, but I did not fully believe it until I heard her uncomfortably off-pitch low notes and awkward shifts to her piercing high notes in person. She was so atrocious that I left after 20 minutes of her performing, and 20 minutes of hell that was. 
A performer that cannot perform live is a bad performer. Plain and simple. If you still don’t believe me, buy an overpriced concert ticket, and suffer through her ear shattering and uncomfortable performances yourself. 
Del Rey is an overrated, wannabe hippie that glamorizes drug and substance abuse. And on top of that she cannot even sing. But hey, she does write some catchy lyrics: “Will you still love me when I’m no longer autotuned and faking my hipster attitude?”
music@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Neil Kerwin, Joe Vidulich, Karim Marshall, Dorothy Mejia and Alexis Bawden at Kerwin's inauguration as AU's 14th president in February 2008.
Over the last several decades, a quiet steady hand has left a mark on our idyllic campus in Northwest Washington, guiding the lives of thousands of young people passing through to success and with hopes of achieving the impossible. For ten years now, as our university president, Dr. Neil Kerwin, SPA/BA ’71, has led AU to new heights in its goal to educate, inspire, and through its students and alumni, leave a lasting positive impact not just locally, but globally.AU, now more than ever in its history, is recognized the world over as a top-tier institution. Demand for undergraduate admission has never been greater – nor more selective. The admit rate is almost 20 percent lower than just two years ago. As a testament to American University’s commitment to academic rigor, now just one in four students is admitted. 
In addition, thanks to an intense focus on scholarship and research, AU joined respected institutions such as the College of William and Mary and Dartmouth College in the R2 research classification, as granted by the Carnegie Commission. 
The university has expanded its facilities by an astonishing 1.5 million square feet. Some of the most recent facilities include our new law school campus at the Tenleytown Metro station and the soon to be completed residence halls and Don Myers Technology and Innovation Building on the east side of campus. 
Our endowment — which has grown by more than 100 percent in the past 10 years — combined with our improved bond ratings are a testament to the university’s financial discipline. This thoughtful fiscal management has given AU the ability to offer more financial aid, fund more scholarships and initiate exciting new programs that are supportive of our strategic plan.
American University is undoubtedly better because of the leadership of Neil Kerwin. 
President Kerwin enabled us to think differently about ourselves and our university. He challenged us to dream higher and loftier, to demand more of ourselves, and to commit to a career of service and purpose. Although his tenure is ending, his belief in AU’s bright future will become his legacy and a guidepost for future AU leaders.
Dr. Kerwin has been a transformative leader for American University, and on behalf of our 125,000 global alumni, we thank you, Neil, for your unrelenting work to improve our alma mater and through doing so, the world around us.
Joe Vidulich, SPA/BA ’08, is the president of the American University Alumni Board.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
