Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sophomore outside hitter Shannon Webb goes up for a kill in the Eagles match against Iowa at the AU Volleyball Classic Sept. 16

	A balanced offense from the AU women’s volleyball team allowed the Eagles to cruise to a 25-14, 25-10, 25-22 victory against the Bucknell Bison, Sunday at Bender Arena. Eight Eagles recorded kills and the team finished the match with a 0.479 hitting percentage.

	“We played them on the road [on Oct. 13] and it was a competitive match,” head coach Barry Goldberg said. “But in our home gym, we’ve got the fee for it. We’re getting into the end of the year and starting to get into a groove and understand how to play together.”

	The Eagles (24-7, 15-1 PL) jumped out to a quick lead in the first set with a five-point run propelled by the service game of senior outside hitter Hoakalei Dawson. Outside hitters Aleksandra Kazala and Shannon Webb paced the Eagles attack in the opening set, recording six and five kills respectively. AU never trailed in the set and held Bucknell (14-14, 8-8 PL) to an attacking percentage of 0.103.

	AU carried its momentum into the second set, immediately going up 17-4 and preventing the Bison for recording two consecutive points the entire set. Kazala and Webb continued to lead the offensive attack for AU combining for 10 of the Eagles 16 kills in the second set.

	The Bison played the third set much closer, and the teams traded points for the majority of the set. The Eagles were able to pull away late in the set and closed out the match with a kill from senior middle blocker Erin Schwarz.

	Kazala finished the match with 17 kills and eight digs and Webb added 13 kills and eight digs. Schwarz recorded a season-high eight kills and junior setter Kennedy Etheridge contributed 45 assists for the Eagles

	“It was a good win, a good start -- as we came out strong and controlled a lot of the game,” Goldberg said. “It was certainly an important win to keep our momentum going as we come into hosting the tournament next weekend”

	The Eagles return to action Nov. 18 for the semifinals of the Patriot League Tournament, where they will face Lehigh at 2:00 p.m. in Bender Arena. AU, the top seed in the tournament, defeated Lehigh in both of their regular season matches.

	Prior to the match, seniors Dawson and Schwarz were honored for their four years with the program. Dawson was named the Patriot League Libero of the Year (awarded to the league’s top defensive specialist) her sophomore season before an injury forced her to miss all of her junior season. She currently ranks eighth in program history in digs. Schwarz, who missed a half of her sophomore and all of her junior year due to knee injuries, ranks in the top 10 in program history in blocks-per-set.

	“They’ve struggled through some moments, both of them,” Goldberg said. “But I have a lot of admiration for both of them, because of the things they’ve had to struggle through for their four years and continuing to persevere.”

vsalandro@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The latest shows and movies coming to a screen near you. 

	When Quentin Tarantino’s “
	The Hateful Eight” came out in 2015, it was lauded as a grand success. Tarantino was able to craft a unique murder mystery spanning 167 minutes with only one major set piece. For all intents and purposes, it was a cinematic triumph. While “Murder on the Orient Express” seems to take note of Tarantino’s success, it fails to even come close.

	A remake of the 1974 film of the same name, “Murder on the Orient Express” follows detective Hercule Poirot (Kenneth Branagh, who also directed the film) as he investigates a murder on -- you guessed it -- The Orient Express, a luxury train transporting him to his next endeavor. While the mystery unfolds, the diverse cast of characters becomes intertwined as a much more intricate plot is revealed.

	“Murder on the Orient Express” is a well-acted mess. It is a whodunit that implicates everyone, confusing and frustrating the viewer right until the bitter end.

	A cast including 
	Johnny Depp, Daisy Ridley,  Michelle Pfeiffer and at least a dozen other equally established actors is not to blame for the film’s failures, which can instead be attributed to the sheer size of the cast itself. While all of the actors are distinguished in their own right, the fact that there are a dozen recognizable characters competing for screen time makes it difficult for the viewer to keep track of all the evidence without literally taking notes.

	The Orient Express’ set production and costume design were convincing. The ornate design of the luxury train as well as the authentic costumes were certainly impressive, however, the merits of this film stop here.

	The dialogue was more frigid than the air outside of the Orient Express itself. Poirot had a penchant for attempting to lighten the mood with humor, which almost always fell flat.

	Most strikingly, Caroline Hubbard (Pfeiffer) does nothing more than implicate herself the entire film. This is very uncharacteristic of Pfeiffer, an acclaimed actress with such film credits as “
	Scarface” and more recently “Mother!”. While her negative performance in itself is an anomaly, it is far more likely that this is a writing or directing flaw.

	As mentioned before, the film somehow managed to feel both too long and not long enough. It tries to fit far too much into its 114 minute runtime -- failing to fully flesh out many subplots along the way -- and the quality of the film was well below any sort of standard to the point where it felt like it was just dragging along.

	While all characters were initially introduced boarding the Orient Express, some didn’t make another significant appearance until the last 30 minutes of the film. This created a great deal of confusion when it seemed that these characters were integral to the greater plot of the film, but had taken a back seat throughout.

	The film finally concludes with the mystery explained -- in the most confusing, unfulfilling way -- and then solved. Additionally, the final scene concludes with Poirot making a very unorthodox decision regarding the case that goes against all of his tightly-held beliefs, and is completely implausible from a law enforcement standpoint.

	During the film’s final moments where the murderer is revealed, the filmmakers try to shoehorn in a grandiose philosophical message about justice that is unconvincing given the quirky, relatively light-hearted nature of the rest of the film.

	“Murder on the Orient Express” was clearly trying to accomplish far more than it had time for. Even with what was given, the philosophical undertones surely would have been lost to the viewer as they couldn’t put aside their disappointment for this stiff, uncreative film. “The Hateful Eight” was able to accomplish a great deal with more or less a single set piece, all-star talent and a enticing narrative. “Murder on the Orient Express” was dealt a similar hand but folded far too quickly.

	Grade: D

life@theeagleonline.com

	Murder on the Orient Express was released in theaters November 10
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

	When sophomore Nuha Vora first arrived at AU, she didn’t know many other Muslim students.

	She connected with a group of girls in the spring of her freshman year at a Muslim Student Association meeting. Now, they attend Friday prayers, study and spend time together, she said.

	“It’s people I didn’t have to explain my whole identity to, because a lot of the friends that I met here, they’ve said to me ‘you’re the first Muslim friend that I’ve had,’” Vora, who is now the club’s communications director, said.

	MSA’s goal is to give every Muslim -- regardless of which denomination of Islam they follow -- a home on campus, said Ammarah Rehman, co-president of the club.

	Three percent of the class of 2021 -- 34 students -- identified as Muslim in a campus-wide survey, making it the sixth most popular religion for this year’s freshman class. However, MSA  and the broader Muslim community at the University lack funding and prayer spaces. Campus restaurants also don’t serve Halal food. Combined, this makes it difficult to build a connected Muslim community at AU, Rehman said.


	Muslim Student Association lacks funding

	The Muslim community at AU does not have a national parent organization or full-time campus workers. The only religious groups with paid staff are Hillel (Jews), Chi Alpha (Christians), Catholics and Methodists, said Reverend Mark Schaefer, the University’s chaplain and leader of the Kay Spiritual Life Center.

	This is because each group is funded by parent religious organizations, not the University. Shaefer and Jennifer Baron Knowles, Kay’s assistant director who is currently on maternity leave, are the only two Kay employees paid by the University, Schaefer said.

	“The Muslim community is in kind of a special position because they’re a larger community, but without the same kind of resources that the other communities provide,” Schaefer said.

	They have no paid imam who leads their prayers, Rehman said. Two imams -- Imad-ad-Dean Ahmad and Ghiyath Nakshbendi -- lead Muslim prayers for students on a voluntary basis.

	MSA, a group outside of Kay, is technically a club, said Michael Elmore, senior director of University Center and Student Activities. However, since it is also a religious group, Schaefer advises MSA as needed. Kay will also fund some of MSA’s events, including iftar dinners during Ramadan, Schaefer said. Without a parent organization, MSA is sometimes left to advocate and raise money for itself.

	“I don’t think this is happening because we’re Muslim, but we do feel discriminated against,” Rehman said. “We know it’s not personal, but due to the lack of resources we have, we just feel as if there’s not a lot we can do.”

	Like other campus clubs that do not fall under Student Media or Student Government, the Muslim Student Association receives its funding from AU Club Council (AUCC). AUCC received about $234,000 for this academic year, said Cheyenne Oberther, coordinator of student involvement in University Center and Student Activities.

	As of Nov. 8, about 140 clubs can receive funding from that pool. MSA’s biggest expense of the year is their Eid Banquet, which costs about $2,000, Rehman said.


	MSA’s annual Eid Banquet moved last minute

	Each year, MSA organizes an Eid Banquet to mark the end of Ramadan, the Islamic holy month of fasting. It’s one of the two major religious holidays celebrated by Muslims, Rehman said.

	Since the club couldn’t organize the event earlier in the fall semester, this year’s banquet took place on Sept. 30. Rehman booked McDowell Formal for the banquet in August 2017 and nearly 150 people attended from AU and other local universities.

	However, Hillel, the campus Jewish organization, also booked McDowell Formal to break the fast after Yom Kippur, Judaism’s holiest day of the year. They booked it during the University’s advance scheduling period, where campus groups that book large, annual events can reserve a room before the University opens reservations to the rest of the campus, Elmore said. The room has a Kosher kitchen, a requirement for Jewish dietary laws.

	The day before, Student Activities recognized the accidental double booking. Elmore learned about it during the “Enough is Enough” rally on Sept. 29, he said. Hillel couldn’t move their items after sundown because of religious restrictions and therefore needed McDowell Formal, Schaefer said.

	“Space is at such a premium around here,” Elmore said. “It isn’t a question of who is more important than anyone else, it’s a question of how did the process work.”

	Ultimately, Student Activities moved the Eid Banquet to East Campus. No one group was at fault, Rehman said. However, she said it highlighted a lack of resources and the need for an advocate for Muslim students at AU.

	Student Activities covered the cost of the East Campus room -- which requires payment for a reservation -- and reimbursed MSA for the price of the food, Elmore said.

	“We have no presence on campus and then when we mess up, it makes us look sloppy,” Rehman said. “No one knows what happened. To them [attendees], it’s ‘you’re moving this event again.’ It just makes us look sloppy.”


	Lack of Halal food forces some Muslims to avoid campus meat

	Halal food is cuisine that adheres to Islamic law, as defined in the Quran. For meat to be considered Halal, the animal must be conscious at the time of slaughter, according to an article published in “Meat Science.”

	MSA recently launched a petition calling for Halal food options on campus, which students shared on Facebook with the hashtag “#AUEatsHalal.” Rehman said she’s working with Fanta Aw, vice president of campus life, to improve availability of Halal food.

	As a freshman, Rehman said she went to Subway and just ate vegetarian sandwiches -- or tuna -- to avoid eating non-Halal meat. Most of her friends buy Halal meat separately or just give up on it and eat whatever is available, Rehman said.

	“Halal-only doesn’t exclude anyone else from eating it either,” Ahmad said. “When it’s not Halal, we are being excluded from eating it.”
Junior Awais Ahmad, a transfer student from Bellevue College, described standing in the omelette line in the Terrace Dining Room, where a cook might use vegetables, bacon and cheese to make the dish. Eating pork is strictly forbidden by Islamic law. Ahmad accidentally ate pork last semester, which was “extremely difficult,” he said.


	Absence of a designated social, prayer space for Muslim students weakens sense of community

	There are rarely religious conflicts in Kay, Schaefer said, but the small size of the building means there are often disagreements over space.

	“We were built in 1965, when religious diversity meant Protestant, Catholic and Jew,” Schaefer said. “That was as diverse as it got in 1965.”

	Most offices inside Kay have two occupants as opposed to one, Schaefer said. There is a Muslim prayer room, where students can pray for any of the five required prayers per day. The prayer room is closet-sized and can only fit about 10 people at a time. MSA holds Jum’ah -- Friday prayer -- there weekly.

	The lack of space makes it difficult to build a sense of community, Rehman said. Schaefer said he hopes to repurpose spaces in Kay to make more room for Muslims to pray and gather.
Ahmad either prays inside the prayer room or in his bedroom on his prayer mat, he said. Lately, he’s been able to get home in time to pray, so he hasn’t used the room in Kay often this semester.

	“I just wish it was larger so we could go and pray at one time together,” Ahmad said.

	Ahmad is an Ahmadi Muslim, a minority denomination at AU. He attended an Ahmadi mosque in Bellevue, Washington, before transferring to AU. The prayer services here cater to Sunni Muslims, making it difficult for him to participate in religious observations through MSA, he said.

	However, Ahmad said he appreciates the community that MSA provides.

	“We all have something in common,” Ahmad said. “We pray the same way, we believe in essentially the same things, so it isn’t difficult to make connections there.”

	crozen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
