American University has been notified of a new suspected mumps case by the D.C. Department of Health, David Reitman, the director of the Student Health Center, announced Friday. This brings the total to seven mumps cases reported at the University. 
Mumps cases have also been reported at Catholic University and Georgetown University. The D.C. Department of Health told the Washington Post that the cases appear to be connected.
Two of the seven cases at AU now have “laboratory confirmation” of the mumps diagnoses from the Department of Health, Reitman wrote. He added that the remaining five cases are classified as “probable diagnoses.”
All but one case involve students who live off campus, Reitman wrote. The student with the most recent case is a resident of Leonard Hall and has been isolated, he said. Those who have been in close contact with the student have been notified and have received guidance from the D.C. Department of Health
“Every student with suspected Mumps was fully immunized,” Reitman wrote. 
Currently, all students under age 26 must show proof of vaccination against the mumps at 1 year old and 5 years old, unless they have a specific medical issue. Reitman noted that the University has been in “daily contact” with the D.C. Department of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to determine if any students meet the criteria for a third mumps vaccine. 
“Currently the CDC is only recommending a third booster dose for individuals thought to be at high risk of catching mumps,” Reitman said. “At this time, they have determined that the student population as a whole is not considered to be high risk and subsequently they are not recommending that we offer the third vaccine.” 
The most common symptoms of mumps include fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness, loss of appetite and swollen salivary glands, according to the CDC. Symptoms typically appear 16-18 days after infection, but some people with mumps get very mild or no symptoms and may not know they have the disease at all, according to the CDC.
Mumps spreads through the transmission of saliva or mucus “from the mouth, nose or throat of an infected person,” according to a fact sheet by the D.C. Department of Health. Reitman recommended that students avoiding kissing and sharing drinks or eating utensils to prevent the spread of the illness. Frequent hand washing is “also an important way to protect yourself,” Reitman wrote. 
Students who exhibit any mumps symptoms are encouraged to contact the Student Health Center for guidance. 
brcummy@theeagleonline.com and hsamsel@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The clocks have turned back and the afternoon sunlight is dimming earlier and earlier every day. Winter is fast approaching, even if the abnormally warm weather still has me questioning if I’ll need a coat when I leave in the morning. This time of year comes with delights such as  Pumpkin Spice Lattes, holiday celebrations, cozy sweaters and warming comfort foods. For many of us, however, it also brings about a type of yearly depression known as Seasonal Affective Disorder. 
Seasonal Affective Disorder, or SAD, is directly related to the changing seasons. The majority of people with SAD experience symptoms that begin in late fall and early winter. If you suffer from winter-time SAD, you might notice difficulty concentrating, feelings of hopelessness, depression, excessive sleepiness and changes in your appetite, like craving more carbohydrates. 
If you identify with these symptoms, you are far from alone. SAD affects between 10 and 20 percent of people. Women are diagnosed four times as often as men. Younger people tend to have a higher risk for the disorder than older adults, which means college students are at higher risk. If you already suffer from depression or bipolar disorder, your risk for SAD goes up. 
It can be easy to assume that these feelings are just an unfortunate but necessary side effect of the winter months. In truth, SAD results from a chemical imbalance in the brain, which is why it is so important to stay in tune with your body so that you can treat your symptoms and start to feel better.  
SIS Sophomore Hannah Wilson-James spoke with me about her own experience with SAD. Hannah is from Santa Cruz, California, where winters are much milder than here in D.C. Her symptoms became more severe when she got to college, describing the experience as “a freezing and thawing process, like as everything gets grey and cold I feel more numb, and then in spring I feel like I wake up again”. 
“I think a lot of it has to do with the lack of light--the days seem to blur together without a strong distinction between day and night,” Wilson-James said. 
SAD lamps are a popular treatment for those with Seasonal Affective Disorder. They are inexpensive light-therapy boxes that you can sit in front of every morning in the fall and winter months for about 30 minutes to give yourself a dose of artificial sunlight. Researchers believe these light boxes cause a chemical change in the brain that lifts your mood and eases depression symptoms. 
A recent episode of the popular show, “Broad City,” saw the typically spirited Ilana Wexler feeling more and more sluggish and depressed as winter creeps in. She uses a SAD light that works as a quick-fix, giving her a boost of energy to go about her normal daily activities. Wexler explains how she has been decreasing her antidepressant dosage for months in hopes of living a more “natural” life, but she is clearly struggling with symptoms that her SAD light is not capable of fixing on its own. 
“You know what? I should just increase my medication in the winter,” Wexler said, recognizing the shortcomings of using the light box alone to treat her SAD. “I was trying to decrease [antidepressants] to feel ‘pure and strong’ or something; but that’s just shame and stigma.” 
For some people with milder symptoms of SAD, light therapy is a very effective treatment plan. For others, the best way to deal with the cold winter months is to pair light therapy with prescribed medication. While symptoms of SAD tend to be similar in those that suffer from it, that does not mean all treatment plans look the same. What is important is to figure out what works for you.
Wilson-James and Wexler have done the necessary self reflection to decide what avenue of treatment is right for them. As college students, this can be a difficult task because our lives tend to be extremely busy with not enough room for self care. In cases of SAD (and pretty much everything else pertaining to our mental and physical health), listening to our bodies and caring enough to take the steps to help ourselves is crucial. 
As much as I might protest, the hours of daylight continue to wane as we move towards winter. As D.C. residents, we know the city can be a cold and grey place at this time of year. If you are experiencing feelings of depression, you may be suffering from a very common and treatable condition. There is no shame in seeking out help when you recognize you are not feeling well.
Olivia Richter is a senior in the School of Communication and College of Arts and Sciences. She is a staff columnist at The Eagle.
orichter@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In the visual spectacle war that is the music industry, experimental multi-genre music producer, electronic musician and Los Angeles-based DJ Flying Lotus stakes his claim once again with a new 3D tour.
Making his stop at Echostage on Nov. 5, Fly Lo, a true renaissance man, played a tight set of music that he’s created  for other artists and himself. The set ran for exactly an hour, likely due to the effort required to create the stunning, trippy, 3D visuals that accompanied the music.
The set was primarily full of moody, nocturnal tracks that had lots of electronic embellishments. Shifts in the instrumentation would set off dramatic visuals on the board behind Fly Lo. He even did a few cuts from his rapper alter-ego, Captain Murphy, pushing him out from behind his booth and toward the front of the stage.
These songs easily got some of the biggest reactions of the night. However, they were moments where both the musical and visual moments were equally engaging. Ultimately, Fly Lo’s song selection did little to spark the crowd’s enthusiasm or excitement, despite his inclusion of some fan favorite Kendrick Lamar collaborations . 
Sure, the transitions between the tracks were impeccable. However, outside of a few cuts that appeared on projects with Kendrick Lamar, there just wasn’t all that much for people looking to get loose to enjoy. The show consistently forced you to choose between standing still (to make sure you got the full range of effects with your 3D glasses), paying close attention to the experimental and glitchy beats, and trying to groove.
While it is as clear as ever that Fly Lo has a good sense of where the most interesting rap, electronic and experimental music is going, it is also just as apparent that the technology is not quite there to make a 3D concert worth going to see. 
growell@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The biannual Emoriyum food festival will take place at Union Market this weekend. Photo Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
The end of the semester will be here before we know it, so take advantage of the weekend by entering foodie heaven, supporting independent artists or learning how to make zines. 
Museum Shop Holiday Market
November is the perfect time to start planning your holiday gift giving, and the Strathmore Mansion will bring together museum shops from around DC for a market this weekend. The International Spy Museum, the Kennedy Center, the National Museum of Women in the Arts and other organizations will all be in attendance to help you find the perfect gift for whoever you’re shopping for. The market is free to attend, but a $10 donation is encouraged. Donations and purchases support Strathmore as well as the market participants. 
When: Friday, Nov. 10 and Saturday, Nov. 11 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sunday, Nov. 12 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Where: 10701 Rockville Pike, North Bethesda 
Metro: Red line, Grosvenor-Strathmore Station 
The Emporiyum DC
The biannual Emporiyum DC food festival returns to Union Market this weekend with over 100 vendors and plenty of opportunities to eat, drink and shop. Swizzler Foods, Poke Pape and Avocaderia will all be in attendance, to name just a few of the unique and delicious places to check out. General admission tickets vary from $15-25. 
When: Beginning Friday, Nov. 10 at 6 p.m. and ending Sunday, Nov. 12 at 4 p.m. 
Where: 1309 5th Street NE
Metro: Red line, NoMa-Gallaudet U Station 
Crafty Bastards Arts & Crafts Fair 
Crafty Bastards returns to Nationals Park for its 14th year this weekend. Washington City Paper's annual event brings together the work of over 200 talented local artists for visitors to explore. Whether you’re interested in handmade jewelry, clothing or decor, there’s something for everyone to discover. Tickets purchased in advance are $6 for one-day admission or $10 for both days, or you can purchase onsite for $8 or $12. 
When: Saturday, Nov. 11 and Sunday, Nov. 12 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Where: 1500 South Capitol Street SE
Metro: Green line, Navy Yard Station 
Spills: A ZineFest
Channel your creative side right on campus this Sunday at ZineFest, a free event hosted by AmLit. Learn all about zine-making, bookbinding and Adobe InDesign, or hear from The Doula Project and MelaNation. If that’s not enough to convince you, there will also be free Chipotle! 
When: Sunday, Nov. 12 from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Where: Butler Boardroom
ljakiel@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The biannual Emoriyum food festival will take place at Union Market this weekend. Photo Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The latest shows and movies coming to a screen near you. 
“Wonder Woman” was a smash hit at the box office, but is that enough to permanently change things for women in Hollywood?
The film made $103.1 million in its U.S. opening weekend and has since grossed over $800 million globally, as of October 2017. It was not only a financial success, but a critical one as well. The Rotten Tomatoes audience score clocked in at 89 percent and Metacritic lists a score of 76, with “generally favorable” reviews.
And that’s not all. With Patty Jenkins as its director, the film is now the highest-grossing live-action film directed by a woman. Ever.
This is a big deal, as Hollywood is famously male-centric with a long history of gender discrimination. According to a report from San Diego State University’s Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film, women directed only 7 percent of the top 250 movies in 2016, down from 9 percent in 2015.  The Center has been studying this topic since 1998, when women still only made up about 9 percent of directors.
So, why is it so hard for female-driven films to get made? And will the enormous success of “Wonder Woman” help more female directors land major movies? The Eagle spoke to several American University professors for their take on these questions.
Hedging their bets
Caty Borum Chattoo is the director of the Center for Media & Social Impact at American University. Before coming to AU, Borum Chattoo worked in Los Angeles for years and is well-versed in entertainment industry marketing.
“There’s a long-standing marketing myth in Hollywood that films that are directed by women will be seen only by women,” she said. 
The myth also holds that men will go see movies directed by men, and they’ll bring along their girlfriends.
Borum Chattoo said that this myth is why we see movies like “Spiderman” and “Superman” released in the summer, with “the idea being that we need young men to buy into a movie in order for it to be responsive to the marketplace.”
Randall Blair, associate professor of film, television and video production at American University, said that a big-name male actor who has never directed before in his life would get an opportunity to direct much faster than a woman who has already directed a handful of successful low-budget films.
“[Hollywood is] doing everything they can to hedge their bet. And their bet’s huge,” Blair said. If a big-name actor is starring in a film he directed, that’s a built-in promotional platform that will, if nothing else, open the film for the weekend.”
The opening weekend at the box office is critical. Studios predict how well a film will do by crunching the opening weekend box office receipts. If the reception is poor, studios will most likely pull the movie from theaters.
Hollywood is, of course, a for-profit business. Money talks. If studios think movies directed by men will draw larger audiences, they’ll continue to make movies directed by men. And if a movie directed by a woman does well, perhaps that will lead to more opportunities.
“I think that ‘Wonder Woman’ is an excellent example of a real watershed moment,” Borum Chattoo said. “We’ve known for a long time that women can direct all different types of films, not just because they’re women but because they’re people. So I think we will see more action films directed by women.”
Kind of the most powerful superhero
Hollywood blockbusters, especially superhero movies, are typically marketed to young men with disposable income who will go see a movie multiple times. 
“The male 18-34 demographic is the sweet spot for most of those things,” Blair said.
Yet this superhero film not only attracted men and women, but also young girls. Director Patty Jenkins said in a “Variety” video that she’s excited to think “Wonder Woman” may inspire young women.
“Watching this generation not only embrace a character I love but embrace the message she stands for, into their soul, is so incredible,” Jenkins said in the video.  
Borum Chattoo agreed with this sentiment, and said her nine-year-old daughter saw her first superhero movie because of Wonder Woman. But, perhaps more importantly, her son saw the movie, too. His response to the film was that “Wonder Woman is kind of the most powerful superhero.”
Borum Chattoo said the film is universally loved, and “it’s equally important that boys get that message.”
Boys seem to be getting the message. Jenkins received a list from her producer in June, and shared it on Twitter. It was written by a kindergarten teacher, cataloguing her students’ reactions to “Wonder Woman.” Among the many positive reactions, one boy who had previously been obsessed with Iron Man asked his parents for a Wonder Woman lunchbox.
When men direct and create female characters, they’re often one-dimensional. Borum Chattoo said that Wonder Woman is a fully-realized character who is not only beautiful, but smart and powerful. That’s an important message for little girls.  
“I think we still socialize girls to think, ‘you can be the smart one but not the cute one’ or ‘you can be the social one’ or whatever and that’s just not how women exist in the world,” said Borum Chattoo. “Why is that a binary we need to fall into?”
The future for women in film
A “Wonder Woman” sequel is already in the works, with Jenkins set to earn between $7 and $9 million as its director, a record salary for a female filmmaker according to Variety.
Another female film director, Sam Taylor-Johnson, is hopeful that the success of “Wonder Woman” will boost other female film careers.
“We are making progress, but we still have to kick down the doors to get our voices heard and still have to keep fighting for things. With ‘Wonder Woman’ and the other great films directed by women, it’s a start, and I’m hoping it will get a little bit better,” Taylor-Johnson told Vanity Fair.
Blair said that, while challenging, there are ways women can help other women in film. 
“The best thing that people like Patty and others can do is keep trying to leverage their success and hopefully bring others along,” Blair said. He mentioned other directors and showrunners, such as Shonda Rhimes, that continue to do that and work with the same crew on various projects.
As mentioned previously, money talks. The 2016 MPAA Theatrical Market Statistics report showed that “three of the top five grossing films in 2016 attracted majority female audiences.” If that trend continues, perhaps Hollywood will take note and allow more female directors the chance to direct big budget features.
life@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
