The season of the summer blockbuster is upon us. That overcrowded action-film-packed time of the year where most movies feel distinctly similar and clichés run amok at cinemas across the country. Gear up for the latest superhero flick, or get ready for another heart throbbing rom-com. Then, there stands “Sorry to Bother You,” a movie that is so crazy and wild, so fresh and new, that it could perhaps provide a cure (if only temporary) to that blockbuster fatigue.
I can guarantee you this: “Sorry to Bother You” is the definition of one of a kind, truly a unique and zany movie that must be seen to be believed. It’s a decent spectacle that charts its path through satire, science fiction, mystery, romance and so much more. All at once it attempts to take down capitalism, shed a light on labor strife, be critical of advertising, open up dialogues on the nature of art and comment on the current state of our media. In its attempts to do all of that, however, it achieves only mild success: it’s a jack of all trades, but a master of none.
The film centers on the exploits of Cassius Green (Lakeith Stanfield), an unemployed down-on-his-luck resident of Oakland, California as he struggles to make enough money just to get by. His girlfriend Detroit (Tessa Thompson) is an artist and sign-swinger extraordinaire. Without giving away too much of the plot, Cassius finds himself propelled into the seedy underworld of telemarketing where he learns he has a gift of having a “white voice”: a voice that allows him to mask his race while on the phone, allowing him to become a bigger and better seller.
Director Boots Riley has really gone out of the box with every aspect of this film. From that one crazy idea, a seemingly endless supply of wacky ideas unfold for the viewer, some with a brilliance rarely seen in films, others landing incredibly flat. The humor is somewhat similar: it walks the line between inventive fun and bland simplicity.
But while its ambition might get in the way of its greatness, the performances are solid. Stanfield does a well enough job shouldering the main role, but the real standout is Thompson as his girlfriend Detroit. She is the vehicle through which Riley comments on the state of art and Thompson plays her character wonderfully, mixing humor with seriousness at just the right time. She dominates the screen and takes life in front of the camera in a way her co stars don’t. By no means does she divert attention from the main attraction, but she is a welcome sight on the screen that is sure to delight. Also of note are some small and light appearances of Terry Crews and Danny Glover. Armie Hammer plays a spectacularly wacked out zany super villain that will leave fans of “Call Me By Your Name” heartbroken and stunned (in the best way possible).
Above all, “Sorry to Bother You” is fresh and new. It demands the attention of those who are willing to try something new beyond the faded superhero procedural and summer blockbuster craze. While it doesn’t accomplish all it sets out to do, it’s wildness and craziness will stick with you well after you leave the theater. Director Boots Riley has done what few directors these days do: he’s taken some risks in the creation of his film. That should be a well enough reason to give this a try.
Grade: B+
life@theeagleonline.com

 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The United States’ treatment of indigenous peoples is one of its paramount national sins. The release of “Woman Walks Ahead,” a film that attempts to grapple with this scar on American history, seems deftly placed two days after the country’s symbolic birthday.
What ensues however is a haphazardly executed film loosely based on true events that fails in gracing the viewers with any message deeper than “how we treated the Natives was bad.”
Jessica Chastain plays artist Catherine Weldon, who takes a trip to North Dakota’s Standing Rock Reservation in order to paint the Lakota Chief Sitting Bull (Michael Greyeyes). The only redeeming quality of this film is the fact that the Lakota people are portrayed by predominantly Native American actors, a feat that is seldom even attempted. The film shouldn’t be applauded for doing the bare minimum, however.
Weldon, recently widowed, makes it clear from the beginning that she values her independence more than most things. This never comes across in the film, however. If this was director Susanna White’s attempt at creating a feminist work of art it failed in that respect, as Weldon, instead of signalling independence, disrespects Lakota traditions and embarrasses herself at almost every turn.
At absolutely no fault of Chastain’s, Weldon isn’t even the runner up to the most interesting character on screen. Sitting Bull is portrayed as a charismatic, if not brooding character in this film, and equally intriguing is Colonel Silas Groves (Sam Rockwell), a veteran of the infamous Battle of Little Bighorn, where Chiefs Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse led a massive assault against Union forces, subsequently obliterating them.
Groves is given an arc somewhat similar to Captain Joseph J. Blocker (Christian Bale) in last year’s “Hostiles,” a film that despite its significant flaws demonstrates the complexities of the relationship between Native Americans and the military that removed them from their homes. Like Blocker, Groves is unequivocally racist. When writer Steven Knight attempts to give Blocker any sort of redemption, it immediately falls flat. Whenever he appears on screen he is nothing short of disgusting both toward Sitting Bull and Weldon. His laughable attempt at redemption toward the end of the film is completely unjustified, given his history with the Lakota people.
The goals of “Woman Walks Ahead” are almost entirely unclear, as the actions of Weldon and Sitting Bull at the center of the film are ultimately made futile by the last ten minutes.
“Woman Walks Ahead” is a deeply troubling film about one of America’s great national tragedies. What it works best as is a watered-down, visual precursor to the events that transpired at Wounded Knee, where the Lakota people were mercilessly slaughtered by the same men who had fought them years earlier at Little Bighorn. 
The commanding performances of Greyeyes and Chastain, albeit in poorly-written roles, are the only things that save “Woman Walks Ahead” from complete disaster. Even with these performances, the film does little more than leave the viewer sad and disappointed.
Grade: D
“Woman Walks Ahead” was released July 6, 2018
bermer@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
