Students meet outside of Hillel's office in Kay Spiritual Life Center.
On February 27, American University Police Department officers removed anti-Semitic posters from campus. The flyers contained the hashtag, #AIPACgohome, and an Operation Homeland logo. The Eagle spotted the flyers on the School of International Service building at about 2 a.m.
First, The Eagle strongly affirms its support for the Jewish community at American University. 
The posters addressed AIPAC, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. AIPAC is a large bipartisan, pro-Israel organization. Beginning last Sunday, more than 18,000 pro-Israel supporters attended the conference, according to the event’s website. Many of them are Jewish.
A critical observation of the posters, however, reveals they offer a targeted, hateful anti-Semitic message disguised by anti-Israel sentiment. The University has a large Jewish population. Twelve percent of the University's class of 2022, for example, identifies as Jewish, according to a breakdown provided by the Kay Spiritual Life Center. The posters, which list the name of a group of white supremacists connected with Richard Spencer, clearly target Jews and not exclusively Israel. 
As these events happen, it seems that the University’s response and consequently the student community response decreases. Formerly, hateful events like these -- such as the Confederate flags hung on campus in September -- elicited town hall community meetings. But, no longer does that seem to be the case. In an interview with Fanta Aw, vice president of campus life, The Eagle learned that the University’s primary strategy is to deny attention to white supremacist groups hanging posters like these. They do so with the advice of the Anti-Defamation League.   
Our staff agrees that the University should deny oxygen to white supremacist groups. Town halls, for example, provide too much attention to these groups. We also look forward to learning more about anti-Semitism through University-hosted seminars. 
However, the school has not been transparent about this shift away from town halls. They did not publicly announce why they neglected to host a town hall after the anti-immigration posters were hung in January and after the anti-Semitic posters were hung in February. In the case of the anti-Semitic posters, the University opted to host discussions on anti-Semitism instead of a town hall. Publicly, however, the University produced a rapid, cookie-cutter memo after the anti-Semitic posters were hung. This only reinforces the image of an administration that is disconnected from the student body. Through our reporting, The Eagle knows that the
University is acting on anti-Semitism behind the scenes and has published that information. However, the school is not publicly communicating their actions clearly. 
This can make Jewish students feel undervalued because it seems like the University isn’t taking bigotry against them as seriously as other forms of hatred. In the coming weeks, we hope the University will publicly explain the criteria for a town hall meeting and what makes this particular anti-Semitic postering (in addition the anti-immigration posters) different to the student body. We also hope they will further explain their strategy to deny these white supremacist groups the attention they seek.
Additionally, students feel left out of decision-making discussions, treated solely as assets rather than active members of change in the community. Jewish community members should be consulted on how the University moves forward from these anti-Semitic posters. Jews are as worthy as any other marginalized group of the University’s attention.
The Eagle recommends that University improve its communication with the student body, specifically the Jewish community, about their approach to anti-Semitism and white supremacist postering as a whole. They could do so through face-to-face conversations with students. Burwell recently wrote, “It truly takes a village to build a more inclusive community.” These events are no exception. It is time to include more student voices in the building process and be transparent with your actions.
-E
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The 2018 Founder's Day Ball was held on Saturday at the National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
Students celebrated AU’s 125th anniversary at the National Museum of African American History and Culture Saturday night. 
Two-thousand tickets were distributed through Eventbrite, plus hundreds more through raffles and giveaways, Kris Schneider, student government secretary, said.
“I think Founder’s is a celebration of where we are, where we’ve been, but most importantly, where we see ourselves going,” Schneider said. “This year’s selection is highlighting where we see ourselves going for the next 125 years.”
The event took place following controversy over the decision to host it in such a sensitive space.
Joselyn Hamilton, a sophomore in the School of Communication, was worried about students drinking before the event. However, she was happy to see most students visit the museum respectfully. 
“I don’t think I saw many people who were drunk or anything so that made it a little bit easier,” Hamilton said. “I saw a lot of people enjoying themselves, viewing the museum, really respectful and I didn’t expect them to be, so that was kind of pleasant.”
Students danced in the museum’s lobby, and a mix of new and throwback hits kept the dance floor packed throughout the evening. Barbeque was served along with macaroni and cheese balls, which were popular with students. 
All levels of the museum were open to students to explore as well.
For Hamilton, the experience was deeply emotional on the bottom floor, which showed the brutal journey of African-American history, including slavery, violence, segregation and pain. It was annoying to see some people giggling and playing around, Hamilton said.
“I understand we’re here to celebrate Founder’s, but you have to take into consideration the location of where we are and the gravity behind it,” Hamilton said.
Christina Fluharty, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, didn’t attend because she felt it would be offensive to the black community.
“I totally disagree with the idea of a party being held there,” Fluharty said. “It should be more of a place to respect, reflect and spend time thinking about what happened in African-American history.”  
Vyette Tiya, a junior in the School of International Service, was aware of the controversy surrounding the event, but said that she was grateful for the opportunity to attend.
“I’m here because every chance to come to this museum is worthwhile,” Tiya said. “It’s a great time to be here with people you’re close with and those who you love. It makes the experience all the better.”
Other students thought having the ball at the museum was a great opportunity for students to educate themselves on African-American history, said Caroline Mayer, a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences. 
“It conveys a great message about unity, acceptance and understanding,” Mayer said.
Although Hamilton said student government attempted to make the ball an educational event, she said she wished there was more emphasis on decorum and explaining the reasoning behind the location choice.
“They should have framed it in a way to make sure that everyone went in with this mindset,” Hamilton said. “Be respectful. The purpose of us picking this location is to restore some of the balance between of the racial issues on campus, but they didn’t really do that.”
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As a college student, it seems like someone is always throwing up from drinking too much. Whether it’s that random girl on my floor or a friend from class, someone is always pushing their limits. Sometimes, it’s a one-night issue. The person just drank faster or more than they should have. But sometimes, someone is regularly drinking too much, too fast and putting themselves at risk. The first few months of the school year were filled with flashing red and blue lights on the Letts-Anderson quad.
Empower AU and “Think About It” discussed binge drinking at length with the class of 2021. Most of us brushed the lessons off or ignored them for being too dramatic, but there are still plenty of people binge drinking. Either the lesson didn’t stick, or they choose to binge. Whatever the case, AU has a culture of heavy drinking, whether students recognize it or not.
According to Pritma “Mickey” Irizarry, director of the Student Wellness Center, data from the spring 2015 National College Health Assessment (the next iteration of the survey is now available to a random selection of students) says binge drinking is defined as five or more drinks in one sitting. When asked if they had participated in this behavior in the last two weeks, 43.9 percent of AU students said they had, Irizarry said. Nationally, 33.1 percent of students reported binge drinking at least once within the last two weeks. 
“It’s possible AU could have even higher rates of binge drinking on campus, because men typically drink more than women; the survey percentage of respondents was lower than AU’s actual percentage of men,” Irizarry said.
Obviously, the difference between the national average and AU is staggering. AU students also drink alcohol regularly at higher rates. In fact, 76 percent of AU students drink regularly compared to a 60 percent national rate. Why AU has these issues is murky, however.
“There are different risk factors, and some are protective while some aren’t,” Irizarry said. 
Protective factors are characteristics of a university that would help curb heavy drinking, as oppose to risk factors that may increase heavy drinking. For AU, protective factors such as lack of a football team and off campus Greek houses don’t seem to help. 
“More homogenous schools typically have higher rates of alcohol use, and AU is majority white institution which could contribute,” Irizarry said. 
Gender balance on campus also usually helps lower rates of campus binge drinking, but “that doesn’t seem to help our numbers,” Irizarry said. 
AU has only slightly higher rates of mental health issues on campus, but that tends to have a small correlation nationally, Irizarry said. Overall, with the many factors that can be used to determine why a school has high drinking rates, AU doesn’t have a definitive answer. 
“These factors, and some we may not be aware of, are coming together in a perfect storm to create these high numbers,” Irizarry said.
Whatever the cause, this is a real issue students have to deal with. The Wellness Center and Office of Campus Life recognize the seriousness of the issue. There is a plan for starting a task force using a model similar to the Sexual Assault Working Groups in the fall of 2018. Apart from administration taking this more seriously, students have to take some of the responsibility.
I don’t think drinking is an inherently bad thing. But when students binge drink, they put themselves and those around them at risk. Having a good time at a party isn’t worth a trip to the hospital or even just throwing up all night. Binge drinking is part of the campus culture. It’s up to students to try and change it. Whether that’s encouraging people to stay in their limits or safer drinking habits like eating beforehand, this needs to be peer-to-peer. Students may be tired of hearing the same message over and over from the school, but we need to say it to each other too. The student life experience should be more than blacking out every weekend.
For students who were randomly selected to answer the National College Health Assessment survey this year, I would encourage you take the time to answer it. The current information on binge drinking is three years old, and it’s important to know what is happening on campus now. The Wellness Center can only do so much without a high response rate. Solving the problem is much more difficult when there’s little information.
Binge drinking is a pervasive and dangerous part of university culture in the United States. AU is no exception. It is time that we actually practice the safe drinking habits we’ve been taught. It is time to do more to change the culture.
Samantha McAllister is a freshman in the School of International Service and a columnist for The Eagle.
smcallister@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
