The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
In our new series, “Who is AU?” The Seagle will profile a new student every two weeks, in an attempt to highlight the hopes, dreams and aspirations of our diverse student body that hails from all corners of the New York tri-state area. We want to know more about the real you, and also the administration needs more propaganda to entice naive and innocent high school students. 
Freshman Rebecca Hernandez is super mean for absolutely no reason, but she wrote her admissions essay about kindness. Now, she hopes to be an inspiration to other prospective students who are actually complete jerks but want to fool admissions.
“I told my high school guidance counselor her baby was ugly, so she got mad and wouldn’t help me with my college applications,” Hernandez said. “I was totally on my own, and I was honestly in a really dark place.”
So she “gambled” that her service trip would suffice for acceptance into American.
“But then I was like, those losers in admissions would eat up a bunch of crap about how my mission trip to take selfies with orphans in Sierra Leone changed my worldview on capitalism,” Hernandez added.
She was right. Admissions did eat it right up, and she was not only accepted but offered a place in the honors program and a half-tuition scholarship. Hernandez reports that she “totally knew those half-wits” would love her essay. Following her acceptance, she posted the exact amount of scholarship money she received on Facebook so her friend who got rejected from every school except North Dakota State could see. 
Admissions counselor Deborah Heard says that she loved the complete and utter selflessness and philanthropy that Hernandez displayed in her admissions essay.
“I was really blown away,” said Heard. “It’s rare that we come across an essay in which the student speaks so genuinely and from the heart. When she launched into a lengthy description of how the malnourished orphans were fascinated by the glitter in her iPhone 10 case, there wasn’t a dry eye in the room.”
“I dropped my phone in a well and made one of the kids get it for me,” Hernandez said. “The glitter case was the only way they could spot it through the piles of toxic sewage.”
Hernandez’s former friends say that, at first, they thought she was a decent person. 
“She seemed kind of shy and quiet at first, so I started talking to her,” said freshman Gabby Shelley. “But then she told a homesick girl that her parents were better off without her, and I realized what a stone-cold person she really was.”
Hernandez’s classmates and professors also report being completely blindsided by her calculated insults and taunts. At first, she appeared to be a diligent, if not reserved and quiet student. All that changed the third day of class when she told her writing professor to “@#$% off” when he called on her. 
“I was kind of in shock,” English and literature professor Gary Kane admitted. “She seemed so nice. She really had all of us fooled on that one.”
Hernandez continues to inspire those around her through her creative use of curse words at inappropriate times, taking money from homeless people and her general cold and dismissive attitude. 
“You always hear that you have to get amazing grades, do community service and be the president of a dozen clubs if you want to get into a halfway decent college,” Hernandez said. “My mission is to show people that you can be yourself, trip blind people and still get a great education. Never let anyone tell you that being conceited, cruel, and selfish  is going to hold you back. I’m living proof of that.”
Bobbie Armstrong is a sophomore in the School of Communication and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
barmstrong@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Jorge Goyco Diaz and Juliana Delgado, the vice president and president of Underrepresented Students in STEM (USS), at the Student Involvement Fair in September. 
Juliana Delgado, a senior biology major, thinks AU does a great job of providing opportunities for STEM students. The problem, she said, is that students don’t know about them. 
That’s one of the issues Delgado hopes to solve with Underrepresented Students in STEM (USS), a new club on campus that aims to support students in educational environments and the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) workforce through mentorship and guidance to its members. 
Additionally, the club will focus on providing financial support to underrepresented students who wish to continue a STEM education. Delgado co-founded USS with her academic mentor and professor Meg Bentley.
“A lot of times underrepresented students already feel limited in the STEM field, so we want to provide them with that extra push,” Delgado said.
Delgado and Bentley said it was important to understand that underrepresentation in STEM includes people of color, women, veterans and disabled people.
Within the University, Delgado and Bentley noted, any student in STEM is underrepresented academically on campus due to the high concentration of students in the School of International Service and School of Public Affairs. SIS boasted 1,867 undergraduate students in 2017-2018, while SPA had 1,521 students pursuing bachelor’s degrees, according to AU’s 2017-2018 academic data reference book. About 713 students in the College of Arts and Sciences were pursuing a degree in the STEM field in the same year.  
Bentley said AU has put a large focus on expanding representation of diverse faculty members, which is beneficial to the mission of USS as it helps empower underrepresented students. 
Faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences Dean’s Office are asking for a STEM audit, Bentley added. This audit would determine how many members of the STEM faculty at AU are part of underrepresented groups, Bentley said.
“We have underrepresented STEM faculty, but we can always do better,” Bentley said.
Delgado said that 99 percent of USS members are currently underrepresented in some way in the STEM field. This is in part because USS uses a broad range of factors to define the term underrepresented, including but not limited to: age, disability, sexual orientation, culture, geography, experience and thinking style.  
USS hopes to start a scholarship fund through donations in order to financially support its members. The DC NASA Space Grant Consortium, which is based here at AU, is just one organization that USS hopes they can work with to create a scholarship fund, Delgado said.
Although underrepresentation is the focus of the club, it is not a requirement to join, Delgado said.
“If we can get any student, represented or underrepresented, supporting other STEM students, I think we’ve done a job well done,” Delgado said.
eseymour@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
