Applications t
Applications are now open to join El Águila, The Eagle's Spanish section, for the spring semester! Applications are due by 11:59 p.m. EST on Feb. 13. El Águila is looking for staff for its News, Life and Opinion sections. Click here to apply! 
Got questions? Email joinus@theeagleonline.com
Interested in covering events on campus, podcasting, interviewing local politicians, covering AU's Division I sports teams or savoring the cuisine in a delicious new restaurant for a review?
You’ve found the place to do all that and more — plus a great community of people to join. Any AU student, including graduate, law and Washington Semester students, is welcome to get involved with The Eagle. In addition to developing skills and producing content you are passionate about, alumni often leave saying working here was the best part of their college experience because of the friends they were able to make and how rewarding they found being a part of The Eagle. Former Eagle staff members have gone on to prestigious internships and jobs at The Washington Post, Bloomberg, the National Journal, Cooking Light, NBC News, NPR, Baltimore Sun Media Group and more.
The Eagle has served as the paper of record for the American University community since 1925. In addition to publishing daily content online, The Eagle also produces one special print edition every semester. Full-time staff members attend editorial board meetings and news shifts in the office each week, in addition to writing articles, taking photos or other assignments as needed.
Besides full-time staff, students can also get involved at The Eagle by being contributors! Any undergraduate or graduate student can contribute. That includes bilingual students interested in taking part in our Spanish article initiative. You’ll produce content for any of The Eagle’s departments: news, life, sports, opinion, online and multimedia. Prior journalism experience is not required. Each section has weekly pitch meetings. There, you can meet the editors, pick up an assignment and get started. It’s a small time commitment and you can start whenever you’d like by attending a pitch meeting.
Who can join The Eagle?
Anyone who attends American University, including graduate, law and Washington Semester students, can get involved with The Eagle! The Eagle looks for a range of experiences, skills, and perspectives, and no prior journalism experience is needed.
What sections is The Eagle hiring in for the spring semester? 
The Eagle is looking for photographers, copy editors, opinion columnists, news reporters and staff for our Spanish section, El Águila. 
Can I still get involved in The Eagle even if the section I am interested in isn't hiring?
Yes, you can! Email that section's managing editor for more information about how to get started.
Can I still join The Eagle if I don't have any journalism experience or am not a journalism major?
Yes! The Eagle is a teaching newspaper and we'll teach you everything you need to know to get started. We welcome and encourage students from all backgrounds and fields of study to be a part of The Eagle.
But it's not just all work, and many alumni have left saying working at The Eagle was the highlight of their college experience because of the friends they made and how rewarding being a part of The Eagle was. Hear what some of our alumni have to say about their time working at The Eagle: 
"Joining The Eagle as a freshman was the best decision I made in school. Writing and editing a student-run newspaper is the best possible education for a career in journalism. For me, it laid the groundwork for my current work reporting on and teaching about Congress and national politics," - Zach Cohen, Editor-in-Chief 2012-2013
"Whenever someone asks me which class at AU was my favorite, I always give the same answer: "Working for The Eagle." I didn't get any academic credit for it. But my experiences there--working alongside talented colleagues, navigating ethical dilemmas, balancing tricky deadlines, mentoring new recruits--laid the foundation for all the success I've been lucky enough to have in journalism since graduating ... If you're a journalism student, or you're just interested in meeting new people and better understanding your campus, the best thing you can do to prepare for the future is start working for The Eagle," - Mark Lieberman, staff writer 2012-2015

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Representatives from CDI talk to students at the Involvement Fair on the Quad in 2016. 
Ahead of AU’s annual student involvement fair, set for Sept. 5 from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on the quad, The Eagle spoke with several student organizations about how new and returning students can get involved with their groups. 
From identity-based clubs like AU PRIDE to social groups like the AU Ballroom Dance Club, students should be able to find an organization that speaks to them. For a full list of AU-recognized student groups, click here. 
AU Ballroom Dance Club isn’t just for professionals -- it’s for anyone looking to learn a new skill or meet someone new, said Grace Guber, the club’s public relations director. 
“We encourage people of every skill level to come out and try ballroom dancing,” Guber said. “Sometimes people feel nervous and think that if they’ve never done ballroom dance before that they can’t come to our club, but that couldn’t be farther from the truth.”
This past year, the club hosted their first dance social, which invited ballroom clubs from other universities as well as AU students to partake in a salsa class on campus. The club also expanded their curriculum to include advanced classes, Guber said. 
The organization plans to host more free dance socials and introduce more styles of dance this fall. These classes are the best way to get involved and learn more about the club, Guber said.
“When people hear about the ‘Ballroom Club’ they might think that they have to dress a certain way, or they have to perform on stage, or that they have to pay to be a part of it,” Guber said. “You can walk in wearing sweatpants and a T-shirt with no dance experience and just try it.”
Last year, AU PRIDE, previously known as AU Queers and Allies, took on a new name in hopes of being more representative of the LGBTQIA+ community and promoting unity amongst the queer and trans community, The Eagle previously reported. 
Political advocacy and community events that the organization hosted last year include National Coming Out day, a student drag show, a queer Halloween party and queer Thanksgiving, Sarah Everett, the president of the organization, said. 
The group’s final event of the spring semester was PRIDE Prom, a collaborative celebration which included college students from around Washington. In the coming year, AU PRIDE seeks to expand the work they’ve done and deepen their roots at AU. 
“We've got an ambitious programming and advocacy calendar,” Everett said. “We'll be building on our traditional semester events, PRIDE Prom and Queer Halloween, offering regular programming throughout the semester both for the larger group and for affinity spaces led by our community coordinators.” 
Students can get involved with AU PRIDE by liking the group’s Facebook page or joining the executive advisory board. 
Though Sister Sister AU was only founded two years ago, the organization has quickly made its presence known on campus, with its Facebook group containing almost 100 members. 
The mission of this organization is to “develop a community amongst women who identify as being a part of the African diáspora through professional,educational, and social events,” Aaliyah Lambert, recent AU graduate and co-founder of Sister Sister, said.
Lambert said the club was created for women of color to find a place on campus.
“It was started because during my first two years at AU, there wasn’t a place for women of color on campus to just exist and be themselves,” Lambert said. “Also, we just needed a place to meet one another, figure out what hair salons to go to or places to party.”
The organization has previously participated in healing circles for women of color at AU and held its inaugural “Strengthening the Bonds of Sisterhood Summit” in fall 2016.
AU Student Zero Waste Club is dedicated to promoting zero waste initiatives across campus and encourage students to do what they can to help AU reach its zero waste goal, co-director Grace Pugh said.
According to Pugh, club members fulfill this goal by coordinating campus-wide events and programs, such as Opt-In Grab A Bin, which provides free compost bins that students can keep in their dorm rooms to make recycling easier.
One of their first programs of the year, which the club hoped to expand this year, is Project Move In/Out. The organization collected gently used items that others donated and had a giant yard sale during Welcome Week as a fundraiser. 
“Those funds are used to send our club members to zero waste conferences, fund zero waste workshops such as green cleaning workshops, and fund trips to promote our love for the environment,” Pugh said.
 Zero Waste will host its first meeting, or “Trash Talk,” of the semester on Sept. 10. Students can learn more about the organization through Twitter or emailing them at austudentzerowasteclub@gmail.com.  
jgagnon@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
SIS students Rhea Kapadia (left) and Fatima Tariq (right). 
Administrators in the School of International Service are speaking out in defense of the school’s offerings for students interested in studying South Asia after students complained to The Eagle last spring about their struggles to complete a South Asia regional focus at AU. 
The April article featured the stories of frustrated students who struggled to pursue the regional focus, partly due to a lack of course offerings at AU. The International Studies program at AU requires nine credit hours for a regional focus and 18 for a thematic focus, The Eagle previously reported. 
Students have seven options to choose from when pursuing a regional focus: Sub-Saharan Africa, Europe and Eurasia, Middle East and North Africa, Western Hemisphere (Latin America and the Caribbean), East Asia and the Pacific, and South and Central Asia, according to the SIS website. SIS majors must take three courses regarding their selected region, with at least one being a 300-level course. The school listed four course offerings for the South and Central Asia focus last spring.
Patrick Jackson, who served as SIS’s associate dean for curriculum and learning until this fall, said the first reason behind the lack of regional classes for South Asia is because SIS faculty voted to organize the curriculum more thematically than regionally in the fall of 2012. 
“The reason we organized it this way is because we don’t have enough capacity in house to offer, to have the regional study requirement of three courses in region per student,” Jackson said in a May interview. “Think about the sheer number of seats that we would actually have to be providing.”
Jackson added that class space is “tight enough” and that it’s a “big balancing act of trying to put the whole thing together.”
Rhea Kapadia, a student featured in the April article who graduated from AU in May, said she switched her regional focus after years of trying to pursue the South Asia focus.
“My understanding is that when you move up in international relations, and you get a master’s, you get one in a thematic area more often than a regional area,” Kapadia said in a recent interview. “But that still doesn’t really explain why the Western Hemisphere [regional focus] has 18 courses and South and Central Asia only have four.”
Rosemary Shinko, the assistant dean for undergraduate education for SIS, said the process behind fulfilling a regional requirement is simple. If the student believes that a course that falls outside of SIS would apply to their regional focus, the student can email her the course’s name, number and syllabus to complete the process.
“It’s a relatively painless process that’s already been organized for them,” Shinko said in a May interview. “If they’re worried or concerned, they can meet with me directly and I can even reach out to a professor and see how much of their content might focus on South Asia.”
Additionally, Shinko said she pulls “out all the stops” in order to see students complete their four-year degree. 
Jackson said that study abroad is a major part of pursuing a regional focus, as students complete most of their regional focus credits outside of AU. One of the reasons countries like Pakistan aren’t represented in AU’s course offerings, he said, is because there are places in Pakistan where it’s no longer safe to send students, according to the State Department.
In the April article, senior Fatima Tariq said that reaching out to professors at Georgetown University or George Washington University could be a way to solve the small amount of classes on Pakistan or other countries.
“If the State Department has certain rules, that’s OK, but how does that take away AU’s chance to offer a class in AU about our country?” Tariq said in a recent interview. 
Jackson said SIS is looking into hiring a regional focus coordinator, but conversations were on hold due to the interim dean. The University recently named Christine BN Chin as the permanent dean for the school in May, and she began her term June 1.
In an August email, Jackson wrote that the discussions were occurring before his term as associate dean ended, but nothing was “definitively decided.” Shinko said in August that the possibility of hiring a regional focus coordinator is still being considered. 
“Part of the problem with the notion of a regional coordinator is, do you have one for each region, or one overall?” Jackson said. “How do you ensure that the one person who is doing all the regions is going to be fair to all the regions in terms of development efforts?”
Jackson stressed that SIS is dedicated to studying South Asia, calling it “an important region.” 
“It is something that we are committed to having and allowing students to specialize to the extent we can, with the classes we offer, which is not very much,” Jackson said. “But we are working with the rest of the University and AU Abroad to make sure those opportunities exist for students.”
ekhan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
