Protesters hold a sign as they walk past the Newseum at the Women's March on Washington in January 2017. 

	A petition created by members of AU’s Panhellenic Council seeking to change the dates of sorority recruitment so it will not conflict with the 2019 Women’s March on Jan. 19 has received over 1,900 signatures since it was posted late last week.

	Sorority members say that AU’s Fraternity and Sorority Life (FSL) office is not budging when it comes to changing the date to allow women involved in sorority life to march without missing recruitment events.

	“[Panhellenic is] about supporting sisterhood, and we believe in ideals many organizations hold true to themselves, and the Women's March does the same thing,” said Molly Engels, a Phi Mu general member. “This is plain contradictory.”

	The Panhellenic Council, which currently represents eight sororities on campus, and representatives from each sorority chapter held a meeting with members of the FSL office on Dec. 5 to discuss recruitment and the possibility of a schedule change. The meeting resulted in the creation of a petition that formalized the sororities’ concerns.

	“We all came to the meeting with proposed solutions and ideas, and we made a point to be very flexible,” said Mackenzie Territo, the vice president of recruitment for Alpha Chi Omega and the author of the petition. “Still, we felt we were not being heard by the administration and advisors that were there. They kept telling us that we needed to be more formal, and we said, ‘OK, if you want formal, we’ll give you formal!’”

	Nadir McCoy, who serves as the coordinator of FSL, started at AU this fall and has been the main point person for sorority recruitment planning. The position in charge of McCoy, the assistant director of FSL, was left unfilled since Colin Gerker stepped down in February. The position was recently taken over by Travis Roberts. 

	McCoy said he could not comment on whether he wanted to change the recruitment date when reached by phone on Dec. 7.

	“But I do absolutely understand the importance of the march,” McCoy said. “We just want to support the women in our sororities as much as possible.”

	Caitlyn Duff, assistant recruitment director for Alpha Xi Delta, said that Gerker originally set the recruitment dates a year ago. The Women’s March date was also set roughly one year ago.

	Students wishing to be part of recruitment and pledge a sorority must be available for all events taking place between Jan. 18 and Jan. 22 in order to be considered, according to the spring recruitment enrollment disclaimer published by AU Panhellenic. Current sorority members could face fines or other disciplinary action from their chapters if they miss a recruitment event, depending on the sorority’s rules.

	“How can you have a value-based recruitment when you get infracted going to something with the exact same values?” said Sofia Passick, a Panhellenic delegate from Alpha Chi Omega.

	The attendance rule is enforced by all Panhellenic sororities, which includes Alpha Chi Omega, Alpha Epsilon Phi, Alpha Xi Delta, Delta Gamma, Phi Mu, Phi Sigma Sigma, Sigma Delta Tau and Sigma Kappa. Chi Omega will not recruit in the spring after being placed on social and recruitment probation in October 2017.

	The AU Panhellenic Council realized that recruitment conflicted with the Women’s March two months ago when George Washington University changed its recruitment date to allow members and recruits the ability to attend the march. Several sorority members said they have been in touch with FSL since then to try to work around the march.

	Ayana Wilson, the director of Student Activities, said that the number one issue with moving recruitment is available space, and that many of the options that Panhellenic representatives shared “are not feasible.” She said that any changes made to the recruitment dates will be made by working with Panhellenic representatives and the FSL team as part of a “continued conversation.”

	“I think students should use their voices to raise concerns they have,” Wilson said by email. “I also think it’s important for all the facts to be shared so when people lend their voice to something they are fully aware of what they’re fighting for.”

	On Nov. 16, McCoy sent an email to all Panhellenic chapter presidents telling them that the University’s “complex scheduling process” makes them unable to make changes or adjustments to the recruitment schedule. He said his office will plan ahead to “craft the best plan possible” for recruitment in spring 2020.

	“With limited availability in time and space and the multi-month long process of reserving these spaces it is nearly impossible to move the dates,” McCoy wrote in the email obtained by The Eagle. “We explored the ‘ending later’ option but the timing would run the chapters and those managing the system well into the night.”

	Shannon Walsh, the president of the AU Panhellenic Council, said that McCoy’s email to the chapter presidents was meant to be the final decision on the matter, but “more pushback has made it controversial still.

	Passick said that there were delegates from every organization at the Panhellenic meeting on Dec. 5. Territo said the meeting’s attendance was double its usual numbers, having 50 members there as opposed to the 20-25 usual attendees.

	Members from each organization came to the meeting with ideas such as beginning recruitment at 6 a.m. the day before the Women’s March, finishing recruitment at 2 a.m. or scheduling recruitment to be a different weekend overall, Passick said.

	“The only thing we could say was ‘please,’” Engels said.

	After feeling unheard by administrators, Territo wrote the petition with other members of the Panhellenic Council on Wednesday night. In total, she said that over 30 members of sororities joined the Google document with her to vocalize their concerns collectively.

	“Current members are uncomfortable recruiting when this opportunity has been stripped and little has been done to address the concern,” the petition reads. “We feel as a group that the University is inhibiting our ability to develop sisters’ character by limiting our rights to both attend recruitment and the March.”

	Panhellenic leaders plan to reach out to the FSL office with the numbers from the petition in another effort to change the date, according to Territo.

	“We do understand Nadir [McCoy] is in a tough situation, we even emailed him to thank him for coming to the Wednesday meeting and listening, and we aren’t trying to make enemies, but we will be vocal about what we want for sure,” Passick said.

	The conflicting date has already had an effect on recruitment efforts this year, according to sorority leaders. Duff said that there are usually 200 students who have expressed interest in rushing her sorority, Alpha Xi Delta, by this time in the process, but because of the conflicting schedule, only about 130 women have said they are interested.

	Other students said they are considering missing part of recruitment to attend the march.

	Gracie Burke, a general member and alumni liaison for Phi Mu, said that she wrote to the Phi Mu executive committee two months ago asking to be excused from recruitment to attend the march.

	“I knew they wouldn’t [accept the absence], and they didn’t,” Burke said. “Now I’m going back and forth between missing recruitment for the march or not.”

	The petition also received criticism from students like Chyanna Antonio, a former member of both Phi Sigma Sigma and business fraternity Alpha Kappa Psi who saw the petition as “a Band-Aid on a bigger issue.”

	Antonio published a Facebook post last week that was shared 26 times as of Thursday. In it, she expressed her frustration over there never being petitions or protests surrounding recruitment falling on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, as it does almost every year. She also asked where the “same energy” and activism was for transgender, nonbinary and disabled people who sought to go through Panhellenic recruitment.

	“There was a dialogue about the advancement of womanhood, and every person in Panhellenic was for it but not for other things that are also about the advancement of womanhood,” Antonio said in an interview. “Women of color, queer women, trans and nonbinary people aren't advocated for by these women who claim womanhood is higher than all else.”

	Territo said that she understood Antonio’s frustration, but added that the Panhellenic community voted unanimously to be trans-inclusive last year.

	“Panhellenic also strives to make recruitment disability-inclusive,” Territo said, pointing to a section of the spring recruitment enrollment document that allows students to request accommodations.

	Antonio said that many women of color in sororities reached out to her to thank her for writing her post.

	“They told me they felt like they were always shut down within their organizations,” Antonio said. “When you’re the only person of color or queer person in the room, it’s hard to speak up. You wind up ostracizing yourself.”

kcataudella@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Maria Butina, a Russian gun rights activist and American University graduate, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate the law governing foreign agents operating in the United States on Thursday.
Butina, 30, struck a deal with federal prosecutors that included her admission to trying to build ties between the Russian government and the Trump campaign on behalf of an unnamed Russian official, widely believed to be Alexander Torshin, a Russian bank official. 
In addition, Butina attempted to build connections with influential members of the National Rifle Association and the National Prayer Breakfast alongside an unnamed American reported to be her boyfriend, Republican fundraiser Paul Erickson. Erickson has denied all allegations that he helped cultivate relationships between the Russian government and the Trump campaign.  
The charges brought against Butina were unrelated to the probe led by special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election. 
As part of her plea agreement, Butina will cooperate with federal prosecutors. She will likely face up to six months in prison when she is sentenced in early 2019, and according to NPR, Butina told Judge Tanya Chutkan that she understands she will likely be deported back to Russia after serving time. 
Chutkan scheduled Butina’s next hearing for Feb. 12, when the court will assess the cooperation that Butina has given the U.S. government. Federal prosecutors have left open the possibility that they will write a letter seeking leniency for Butina depending on her cooperation with them, according to NPR. 
Butina was originally arrested in July on charges that she acted as an agent of the Russian Federation. She had graduated from the School of International Service with a master’s degree only two months earlier. 
Since her arrest, Butina has been held in jail without bond. As recently as last month, her lawyers were working to subpoena the University for class rosters that included photos of Butina’s former classmates. Several of those classmates objected to the order, though it was eventually approved by the court. 
bcrummy@theeagleonline.com and hsamsel@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sophomore Stacy Beckton Jr. dunks the ball in a Nov. 16, 2018 game against University of New Hampshire.
Last season, it made sense that AU lost a majority of its close games. When a team lacks depth the way AU did, it’s difficult to play hard for all 40, and giving inexperienced players a lion’s share of the minutes means that the mistakes will add up. So going into their Nov. 30 game, a healthy, streaking AU had reasons to be confident against a 2-4 Wagner team they had lost to last year by just one point.
But the results told a different story.
This year, there can be no excuses for losing a game like this. While AU certainly could have defended better in the clutch or committed fewer fouls, I wouldn’t point to either of these as a reason for the loss. Instead, there are schematic changes the team should look to make going forward. In order to unlock their offense, the Eagles must start moving the ball more. After the game, head coach Mike Brennan noted some possible adjustments. 
“We’re working on just trusting each other for longer periods of time… especially against a defensive team like [Wagner],” Brennan said. “You have to make the defense work.”
Despite Nelson being the only Eagle to average over two dimes a game, there are a number of players that can make plays within Brennan’s system. Marvin Bragg isn’t flashy but is still a solid passer, and Yilret Yiljep [YY] and Sam Iorio both provide valuable playmaking as wings. And while Mark Gasperini has to cut down on his turnovers (he had three turnovers and zero assists against the Seahawks), he has shown his potential as a secondary playmaker in flashes.
It’s not as if AU doesn’t have guys that can pass, but the team isn’t looking to make the extra pass and lack sets that create opportunities for good looks. The Eagles too often look to isolate when they should try to generate open looks from off-ball action. AU is active off the ball, but that action is too often a decoy for teams to bite. Moving the ball around more will add more unpredictability to the offense.
There were several plays early on in the matchup that are encouraging for the team moving forward. On the first basket of the game, AU was able to find Iorio for a wide open three. While the assist was logged to Nelson, it's the action between YY and Gasperini that really needs to be observed; if they keep that momentum in the future, the team could unlock major offense.
Here, Gasperini is quickly doubled in the post. Recognizing this, YY moves over to the corner to draw both his primary defender and one of Gasperini’s men to try to trap him. YY, able to see over the defensive pressure, makes a phenomenal pass to the left wing for Nelson. The important and difficult work is done — Nelson is able to hit either open player, and settles on the more open Iorio for the three-pointer. 
Integrating more inside-out passing where the offense is initiated by a big or wing opens up several things for AU’s offense. Primarily, it can get more open shots for volume shooters, as it does for Iorio in the clip above. Additionally, when teams respect Gasperini or YY’s playmaking out of the post, it creates easier opportunities for them to score with fewer double teams.
Increased playmaking also allows the offense to create more easy looks inside. If perimeter players recognize a double early, there is more opportunity for quicker players like Nelson or Bragg to move cut backdoor. AU’s easiest look of the night came on a play just like this:
While the Eagles may feel disappointed after their six-point defeat, there is still plenty to be happy about. It’s easy to forget that this team has only played six games together, and has vastly more talent than last years team. AU didn’t get their fourth win until Jan. 11 last season. Major players like Gasperini and YY didn’t even play last year, so it would make sense the players are still developing trust with one another. By making tweaks to their offensive approach, AU has the potential to make a statement in the Patriot League.
snusbaum@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Katzen Art Director Jack Rasmussen in front of the Robert D'Arista: A Portrait exhibit
Jack Rasmussen is the University’s central figure in the D.C. arts scene, due in large part to his role as the director and curator of the AU Museum at the Katzen Arts Center. 
But Rasmussen’s contributions to the University and Washington communities don’t stop there. 
From earning two master’s degrees in arts management and anthropology at AU to orchestrating the inner workings of the museum since its foundation almost 15 years ago, Rasmussen set up the museum up to thrive, incorporating art from a variety of genres and countries while making sure to stay relevant amongst its peers in the crowded D.C. museum scene.
Rasmussen said he believes being in D.C. is often a pivotal aspect of his approach to art curation. He said he makes the most of his political setting.
“I'm kind of a political junkie, so I like it,” Rasmussen said. “I think the main thing about Washington is that it's a great city of museums so we have to somehow distinguish ourselves amongst this incredible neighborhood of museums, and doing socially and politically engaged artists is a way of doing that.”
Another way Rasmussen has taken to diversifying the showcases has been through the recent acquisition of over 9,000 works from the Corcoran Gallery of Art. 
“The Corcoran museum closed and then we get the lion's share of their collection which is a huge, huge responsibility and opportunity,” he said.
With AU’s standing as the most politically active campus in the country, according to the Princeton Review, there is room for the arts to get involved and do their part, Rasmussen said. He said the museum is pulling its weight to help AU earn such a title. 
“I was very happy to see that the University has regained its number one ranking as the most politically involved campus,” Rasmussen said. “I think that's something that we do our part with and it's the fact that we have the freedom to do it.” 
Kristi-Anne Shaer, associate director of the AU Museum, knew Rasmussen before she began working at the museum as an AU student taking courses on art curation. For the past five years, Shaer said she has worked closely with Rasmussen to curate the museum and offer up a new perspective.
“As a manager, he really lets you find your way,” Shaer said. “He fosters an environment where we all feel like our opinion matters and we can present new ideas.”
Outside of work, Rasmussen also plays another role: the frontman of “The Artifacts,” a cover band that includes some other familiar faces from the University, including College of Arts and Sciences dean Peter Starr, the AU athletic director Billy Walker and Vice President of Development and Alumni Relations Courtney Surls.
Starr has known Rasmussen since Starr’s arrival at AU in 2009. He believes Rasmussen’s efforts are a vital part of AU’s campus and its arts scene.“He is, really, a catalyzing force for the museum and he is beloved across this city,” Starr said. “The depth of admiration and respect that people in the Washington art scene have for him is just extraordinary.” 
Rasmussen’s attention to detail and care for the museum is the reason he has become such a prominent name in the DMV arts scene, according to Shaer.
“I think that has really made a name for himself in a city full of museums by having such a rigorous exhibition schedule so the exhibitions rotate constantly,” Shaer said. “There's always a reason to come back in here and see something new, but you're going to see something different ─ you're going to see a lot of D.C. artists which many other institutions aren't catering to.”
Rasmussen said his focus for Katzen is in three different areas: political art, local art and international art. He has a great deal planned out for the museum, including potentially adding a print room on the second floor and introducing more of the historic pieces the museum has recently obtain. 
Starr believes Rasmussen is the right man for the job, leading the museum and D.C.’s art scene altogether.
“We're really just beginning the next stage of development,” Starr said. “Jack is really the right person to lead us into that next stage.” 
Rasmussen sees the AU Museum as not only valuable to the art scene but all students.
“I would hope they would see this as a great resource,” Rasmussen said. “A lot of what we do, I think it's pretty relevant to their lives. They can get something out of it. I think it's innovative and challenging and I would hope that they would get excited by it.”
As for students who aren’t interested in art or have an aversion to it, he believes that the answer is simply exposure. By being open to new experiences, students can get a better grasp of what they do and do not like.
“The main thing with art is you need to be open to what you're experiencing,” Rasmussen said. “I mean it's not as bad as, you know, trying to understand physics. It takes exposure and a certain kind of openness.”
He understands the difficult concepts surrounding modern art but he believes students ought to lean into that notion.
“By definition, contemporary art is going to be something you haven't seen before,” Rasmussen said. ”It's going to not be what you were expecting, so you have to really roll with that. I would hope students will be able to do that.” 
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's November 2018 fall print edition. 
draju@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
