Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Weeks after hitting theaters, audiences’ love for Director Ryan Coogler’s “Black Panther” is still going strong: the film has made over $520 million domestically, making the list of top 10 highest-grossing films in the United States of all time.
The film received praise for its positive representation of race, gender and culture. One of the major elements audience members took notice of was the fashion in the film, which was inspired by traditional and contemporary African culture from around the continent, according to an Atlantic article.
Seeing familiar clothing items and patterns from her home country shown on screen felt “amazing,” said Amanda Nyang'oro, AU’s African Student Organization 2018 queen from Tanzania.
“It felt like you were home,” Nyang'oro said. “I could see this was a real interpretation; you could really tell they did their research.”
Costume Designer Ruth Carter blended ancient styles with a futuristic twist to create many costumes in the film, according to Vanity Fair. When designing these and other ensembles, Carter looked to various African tribes, the comic book and experts for inspiration.
Many fans dressed up in Wakanda-inspired African clothing when seeing the movie in theaters. 
Seeing black people “show out” in appreciation of the film was beautiful and inspiring, Nyang'oro said. However, it’s important for people to realize Wakanda is fictional and understand that information was taken from different places in Africa in order to create it, she said.
“The issue comes in where people are like, ‘Oh, now Africa’s cool because of this movie,’ when really, we were always cool,” Nyang'oro said. “It’s just that you guys are now understanding because you see it on a big screen.”
Leanna Faulk, head of public relations in AU’s Black Student Union, is of Afro-Caribbean descent. Although she isn’t as familiar with her African heritage, seeing the fashion and styles represented in “Black Panther” made her want to learn more about her family’s specific cultures within the continent, she said. 
“It definitely made me want to know what tribe that I’m from and which country so I could know in the movie which outfits were inspired by my culture,” Faulk said.
Fashion is multidimensional and is meant to be appreciated by everyone regardless of their nationality, Faulk said. While watching a two-and-a-half hour movie alone won’t help viewers fully understand the continent of Africa, Faulk said that people can show their appreciation through their own research. 
“I feel like if you aren’t directly in touch with your African culture or if you’re not even a part of the African/black community, you should still research the garments that you choose to be wearing,” Faulk said. “A lot of African fashion comes with a lot of history and heavy material sometimes.”
Anthony Mensah, BSU content creator, is of Ghanaian descent. Although he doesn’t expect people to write a 20-page research paper on their outfit of choice, Mensah said asking questions to understand what and why you choose to wear something is crucial in order to truly experience it.
“It’s like, if I put on an outfit, what region did it come from?” Mensah said. “Why did I choose to wear that? If there’s symbols on it, what do they mean? What part of African heritage am I trying to embody?”
However, Mensah said that he can’t fault someone entirely for wearing something without knowing its exact history, especially since African-Americans had their culture stripped from them during slavery and were forced to build it back up from nothing.
“I can’t be mad at you for not knowing everything about everything, because no one knows everything about everything,” Mensah said. 
People should be able to participate in the culture without having to grow up in the continent, but it shouldn’t be reckless so as not to offend others, he said.
Since the film’s release, many have rushed to African-clothing stores around the country, leading to an increase in sales.
The film gave many black people in America who don’t know their specific ancestry a chance to be proud of their African heritage through fashion, Nyang'oro said. Because the film is deeply rooted in culture, wearing inspired-outfits extend beyond Marvel cosplay. 
“You might say, ‘I’m wearing this because it’s inspired by Black Panther’s Wakandians’ … but realize that these things that you’re wearing come from real places,” Nyang'oro said. “When you’re wearing that dashiki or that headwrap or the accessories on your neck or your wrist … you have to be aware of what you put on your body and not just see it as a costume.”
cjames@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Eagles with the championship trophy after defeating Navy on Sunday.

	The Eagles are going dancing.

	Women’s basketball defeated Navy 58-49 Sunday, clinching the Patriot League championship and securing a spot in the NCAA tournament.

	This will be the second NCAA tournament appearance in four years for the Eagles, whose seniors were rookies last time the team danced in the tournament. It’s also another prize for a team that has racked up gold stars all season, including awards for Patriot League Player of the Year, Coach of the Year and Scholar-Athlete of the Year.

	The Eagles will discover their first tournament opponent during the NCAA Selection Show, airing Monday at 7 p.m.

	“I am so proud of everyone on this team,” junior forward Cecily Carl said. “One through 14, we all put so much work and time into getting here. Now, we get to reap that reward.”

	The conquest lifted the team’s victory total to 26-6 and continued their undefeated home court win streak to 16-0.

	“[The NCAA] Tournament is such a fun experience, and I’m looking forward to getting to live it through these guys,” head coach Megan Gebbia said following the win. “It’s all about matchups and where you go, so we’ll see. I don’t put anything past this team, that’s for sure. They’ll be prepared and ready. I think it just depends on the seed and the matchup.”

	Carl earned the title of Patriot League Tournament Most Valuable Player after the game. She scored 20 points and made 8 rebounds.

	“Cecily is just an amazing player,” said senior guard Emily Kinneston. “I think next year is going to be a really good year for her. This year, it has been so fun to work with her and distribute the ball to her when I can. She’s well deserving of [the MVP award], well deserving.”

	Kinneston, the Patriot League Player of the Year and Scholar-Athlete of the Year, did not have her usual high-scoring game. She led the team with 9 assists and scored 14 points.

	“I’m able to say now that Emily Kinneston is the most talented player I’ve ever played with,” Carl said. “She should have been tournament MVP, I firmly believe that, but she's been playing so well this year and obviously it shows. She got Patriot League Player of the Year, and she was so deserving of that. Playing with her has been really special.”
YOURPATRIOTLEAGUECHAMPIONS @AU_WBasketball! pic.twitter.com/sd9JAYOhqo
— Kimberly Cataudella (@kcataudella) March 11, 2018

	This championship game was arguably one of junior guard Kaitlyn Lewis’s best games of the season. She played for 17 minutes and scored 7 points. Her energy made her hard to block, and her defense prevented a tighter point gap throughout each quarter.

	“We were fueled all week [for this championship],” Lewis said. “We played Navy twice already this season, both games were tough battles. We battled it out both here and there, and we knew neither team was going to let out. We were really prepared and ready to fight today.”

Navy loses in second consecutive Patriot League championship appearance

	Navy’s head coach Stefanie Pemper mourned the loss with senior guards Hannah Fenske and Taylor Dunham in their post-game press conference. Both Fenske and Dunham were tough challenges for the Eagles, specifically on offense.

	This season, Navy and AU battled one another in Washington and Maryland. In Bender on Jan. 5, AU won 46-41. In Maryland on Feb. 28, Navy won 76-49.

	“AU did a really nice job defensively,” Pemper said. “They clogged our lanes. We also weren’t able to get the day we needed offensively.”

	Dunham scored 14 points, and 9 of those were from first quarter 3-point jump shots, which concluded the first quarter 14-8 in Navy’s favor. Fenske scored 8 points total, the third-most on the team. Fenske had 5 assists, and Dunham had 4.

	Dunham said, “They made some plays, we didn’t make some plays. To win a championship, you have to make big plays.” Fenske agreed.

Victor's families celebrate win

	Jeanne Liddane, Maria Liddane’s mother, traveled to Bender from Grosse Pointe, Michigan for the championship game. She flew in for Monday’s quarterfinal game against Lafayette and returned home after the team’s win. She caught another flight Saturday night in time for the Sunday showdown.

	“We always tell our kids ‘we gave you bee brains, everything else is all you,’” Jeanne Liddane said with a laugh on the court after the win.

	Her husband, Michael Liddane, agreed; “Maria is proof positive of the additive that talent skips generations,” he said.

	Jeanne put a hand on Michael’s shoulder as the two let out a belly laugh, celebrating their daughter’s victory.

	Teresa Sanders, freshman guard Indeya Sanders’ mom, gushed over her daughter with tears in her eyes.

	“As a freshman, she hasn't been used to not playing, but she's very appreciative of all this because she knows her time is coming,” Teresa Sanders said. “So, she just wants to support her upperclassmen and be a part of the celebration.”
This story has been updated.

	kcataudella@theeagleonline.com



Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Eagles lift their trophy in Bender Arena Sunday after securing the Patriot League title and a spot in the NCAA tournament.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
