Look out for these matchups for AU field hockey, volleyball and men's and women's soccer this fall. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Harper co-founded the nonprofit UrbEd to find ways to reform urban education in America, especially in his hometown of Philadelphia. 
Tamir Harper believes that every student, particularly those living in cities, deserves a quality education. That’s why the incoming freshman co-founded the nonprofit UrbEd with his high school classmate Luke Risher in 2016 -- to help reform urban education, especially in Philadelphia, Harper’s hometown.
Harper’s student-led nonprofit advocates for students and families that are being deprived of “a quality and efficient urban education,” according to its website. Creating the organization was important to him because he is “a product of the Philadelphia public school system,” he said. 
Harper was a student at the “best and the worst” public schools in Philadelphia, graduating from Philadelphia Science Leadership Academy earlier this year. 
“For sixth grade, I went to Tilden Middle School, which I can tell you was rated one of the worst middle schools in the city of Philadelphia,” Harper said. “So I’ve seen the inequities and the problems in my school system.” 
One of UrbEd’s biggest accomplishments is the publication of a data report on the Philadelphia public education system, Harper said. Teacher diversity is one of the organization’s main focuses, Harper said, and the report found that only 4.5 percent of Philadelphia’s public school teachers are black men. 
The report also included student input on issues including school suspensions and building conditions. 
“It’s not just a statistical data report. It’s a report that has student testimonies” and “expert testimonies,” Harper said. It was important for the group to gather feedback from students on how they would like to see their schools improved, he said. 
In May, Harper met former First Lady Michelle Obama at a speech she gave to Philadelphia high school students at a College Signing Day event, according to PhillyVoice. Obama introduced Harper at the event and he joined her onstage. 
“It was an amazing honor to be selected,” Harper said.
Before he heads to AU in the fall, Harper still continues to work on behalf of his community in Philadelphia as an intern for Pennsylvania state Rep. Joanna McClinton, who represents the city in the state’s House of Representatives. 
“My favorite thing about working with her is being able to serve the constituents in my neighborhood,” Harper said. 
Harper will receive a full scholarship to AU through the Frederick Douglass Scholarship Program, a highly selective honors program for “American University’s most ambitious student and alumni leaders,” according to the University’s website. 
“The campus was beautiful, the diversity looks great, the president is down-to-earth and also a former Obama administrator, which excited me,” Harper said of his decision to attend AU. 
Harper saw coming to AU as an “opportunity to be with a group of folks that carry themselves to high standards.” He plans to double major in public relations and secondary education at AU. After college, Harper plans to become a teacher in the Philadelphia public school system.
When speaking of his motivation to work for education reform, Harper mentioned his nephews, who will start first grade this fall. 
“They can’t go through the public system that I went through,” Harper said. “They cannot be uneducated … They can’t be exposed to a system that’s not educating them and telling them to reach their full potential. That’s why I’m at school for public education.”
saustin@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Maria Butina, a recent master’s degree recipient from American University’s School of International Service, was arrested by the FBI on July 15. She was charged with conspiracy and acting as an unauthorized Russian agent. While she undoubtedly tried to boost her stature among her fellow students in the “my internship is cooler than yours” banter, she was still an AU wonk through and through, right? Not exactly. 
Court documents state that “although she attended classes and completed coursework with outside help, attending American University was Butina’s cover while she continued to work on behalf of the Russian Official.” The documents later affirm that, “the FBI believes that (Butina) was likely in contact with the FSB throughout her stay in the United States.” Not only did Butina use our own School of International Service as a cover for her real position as a Russian operative collaborating with their Federal Security Service, but she used one of the top international relations schools in the world to obtain her visa in August 2016. 
American University students reacted in many ways. Most students found humor in the arrest, shown in the increasingly popular “#FreeMariaButina” movement, based on the all too familiar phrase, “Wonks Support Wonks” or cultural comparisons, such as to Jennifer Lawrence in the 2018 spy thriller, Red Sparrow. 
However, for as enjoyable as the parodies have been, other students, including myself, realized that there is more to the mysterious case of Maria Butina. The news about Russia was brought, through Butina, to where we live, work and study. International news became local news. It may have even startled some to realize that they likely crossed paths with an active Russian agent. But, the unfortunate reality remains: she was sent by a government that has little regard for human rights, democracy or stability. If nothing else, Maria Butina conjured up a conversation about just that.
I am pleased to say that a few other students and I are restarting an organization on campus this fall to have these exact conversations. The Alexander Hamilton Society is a non-partisan, not-for-profit national organization with over 60 chapters focused on foreign policy and national security issues. At AU, the Alexander Hamilton Society will bring some of the leading national security professionals to debate a few of our own professors, discuss national security issues with the AU community and develop the chapter’s members into future leaders. 
But for Hamiltonians, the name given to members, not much is surprising about Maria Butina’s political influence and intelligence activities; here’s why: she is an agent of a hostile foreign power that has defied some of the most basic international norms. Russia, within the last decade, has invaded a neighboring country, shot down a commercial airliner with a surface-to-air missile,  is responsible for chemical attacks in Syria, and more recently, sent agents to execute poison attacks in the United Kingdom. Regrettably, however, many more nations and non-state actors are cut from the same cloth. The barbarity of these nations and organizations is indisputable and widespread, but the real difficulty is in calculating a response. These are the conversations that the Alexander Hamilton Society will have.
In these conversations, Hamiltonians hold a few strong beliefs, such as the notion that the United States should be a global leader that provides an example of a representative government that protects its citizens’ liberties. Hamiltonians also believe that the United States should deter the malign intentions of illiberal foreign actors, not only for our immediate national interests, but also for the benefit of humankind. 
But should the United States lead in this way? I think we should, but whatever you believe is worth a thoughtful discussion.
Kevin Norton is a sophomore in the School of International Service and president of the Alexander Hamilton Society at American University. He is an outside contributor. The opinions expressed by the author are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Eagle and its staff.
edpage@theeeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
