Stacy Beckton Jr. stretches out to complete a lay up against a defender during the Patriot League Quarterfinals game against Navy.
The AU men’s basketball team fell to Navy 60-56 in the quarterfinal round of the Patriot League tournament in Bender Arena on Thursday, ending the Eagles’ season. Entering the game as the fourth seed, it was the first time AU hosted a Patriot League postseason game since March 2014. 
The Eagles’ only lead of the game came in the first half when they were up 5-4, but they entered  halftime down just 27-24. With just over three minutes remaining, AU cut the deficit to two, but the Midshipmen answered with a quick 3-pointer off the hands of George Kiernan.
Junior guard Sa’eed Nelson led all scorers with 29 points and shot 5 of 9 from behind the arc. Nelson was the only Eagle to reach double digits in scoring. Navy center Evan Wieck led the way for the Midshipmen, finishing with 18 points and four rebounds.
“[Navy] played well. We knew they were going to be tough. We missed a ton of outside shots,” head coach Mike Brennan said. “All of our looks weren’t great.”
Throughout the contest, the Eagles chucked up dozens of threes, connecting on just 7 of their 35 attempts. 
“It was a tough loss, I thought we played hard, but at the end of the day, we weren’t knocking down shots, so it’s hard to win like that,” said Nelson, the team captain.   
Although their season has come to an end, the Eagles showed consistent improvement this year with the addition of talented shooters and Nelson’s leadership from the point position. With his senior year approaching, Nelson noted the team’s progress. 
“There have been more wins than my first two seasons here,” Nelson said. “All of our guys worked hard, and we’re gonna talk about it and get ready for next year.”
AU finished the season 15-15 overall with a 9-9 conference record, a major step up from the 2017 season, when the team only won six games. 
“Despite our record, there has been a ton of progress,” Brennan said. “This group has been great. It’s early, but I feel good about everybody coming back essentially. If they continue to work the way they have, we should be good.”  
While their chances of making it to the Big Dance are over, months of practice and recruiting await the Eagles as they prepare for a highly anticipated 2019-20 season. 
mhashash@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
John Kasich, the former Ohio governor and Republican presidential candidate, has been named the 2019 Wonk of the Year, the Kennedy Political Union announced today. 
The politician will speak to students about the future of the U.S. and bipartisanship on March 21 in Bender Arena at 7 p.m.
Kasich began his career in 1978 as a state senator and later became a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, notably serving 18 years on the House Armed Services Committee.
After leaving Congress in 2000, Kasich returned to politics in 2010 when he ran for governor of Ohio. He served two terms in the office before leaving the governor’s mansion in January. He is currently a senior political commentator for CNN.
In 2016, Kasich became a household name when he ran for the Republican nomination for president. Kasich “presented himself as a moderate alternative to front-running candidates,” KPU wrote in its press release. During his presidential run, he received the Republican endorsement from The New York Times but ultimately did not have the votes to beat Donald Trump, the party’s eventual nominee. 
“With a perspective unique to a public servant experienced in both the public and private sector, leadership on all levels of government, and work with major media organizations, Kasich will bring thoughtful discussion to American University on the topic of bipartisan solutions and the future of American politics,” KPU wrote in its press release. 
While many analysts place Kasich in the moderate wing of the party due to his views on immigration and other issues, critics have noted Kasich’s conservative record on abortion rights, same-sex marriage and cuts to public education, among other actions. 
Kasich once strongly opposed same-sex marriage, but following the Supreme Court ruling that made same-sex marriage legal in all U.S. states in 2015, he said the country needed to accept the decision and “move on.”
According to The Washington Post’s Fact Checker, Kasich signed 17 anti-abortion measures into law between 2011 and 2016. Those measures defunded Planned Parenthood and banned abortions from public hospitals as well as from receiving public funds. Ohio Right to Life has credited Kasich for the decline in abortions in the state.
The University has recently introduced initiatives promoting bipartisanship, including the launch of the Sine Institute of Policy and Politics last fall. The institute, which is focused on creating bipartisan policy solutions, launched with a September event featuring former Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tennessee). 
Previous Wonk of the Year recipients include Nobel Peace Prize recipient and education activist Malala Yousafzai, former Democratic National Committee chairwoman Donna Brazile, former First Lady Laura Bush and former President Bill Clinton.
The event, co-hosted with AU College Republicans, will require an Eventbrite ticket and valid AUID for students, faculty and staff. Doors will open at 6:20 p.m.
mcarrasco@theeagleonline.com  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
