As the editor-in-chief of The Eagle, you learn how to handle just about anything. You can jump from writing a breaking news story to responding to anxious emails from reporters and readers to meeting with your team of editors about the next print edition. And that’s just in one day. 
One thing I never quite learned, though, was how to write about myself, or do any sort of deep reflection about what the past four years have meant to me. Even as I write this, in early April, my thoughts are consumed by all of the things still left to do before I graduate. But, as my friends and family keep reminding me, it’s time to say goodbye. 
My life at AU has been inseparable from my life at The Eagle — they began simultaneously and will end the same way. I was an editor by midway through my freshman year, already steeped in a campus that I was just getting to know. 
I’ve spent more hours in our MGC 252 office than I’ve spent awake in my apartment this year. I have given my life over to this publication, prioritizing it over pretty much everything else, including (close your eyes, grandparents) my academics. 
But the question remains: Why? What has made me want to stay in this job, even when I could barely bring myself to open my email inbox? 
The first answer is the importance of The Eagle’s role on this campus. There has never been a day when I haven’t felt the weight of the work we do, and the impact that our journalism can have. This year alone, we’ve put together an incredible multimedia project about AU’s tuition crisis, launched our first-ever podcast, covered our fair share of breaking news and brought context to some of the toughest issues facing the University. 
Informing the student body, as well as other segments of the AU community, is one of the most meaningful things I will ever do. I felt that responsibility most when a hate crime targeted black women on our campus in May 2017, prompting several protests, national media coverage and difficult conversations about our staff’s diversity and how we cover marginalized communities. 
I also felt that responsibility when we pressed the University to answer questions about the effectiveness of its alert system last summer, and even when we wrote straightforward stories about the issues important to students. Every day at The Eagle is filled with a sense of purpose, and it’s been a privilege to feel that commitment for the past four years. 
But the more honest reason that I’ve stuck with it for so long is because of the people. I would not have made it here without the kindness and fierce examples set by my predecessors: Shannon Scovel, Kate Magill and Courtney Rozen. You are my role models, my best mentors and, most importantly, my friends. Thank you for seeing something in me I didn’t see in myself. 
I am also indebted to the guidance of Chris Young, our student media advisor, who has never failed to be there for me and any student who needs him. At a school where it’s common for students to feel alienated and alone, you always made me feel like I had someone in my corner. 
My non-Eagle friends carried me through some of the worst days, mostly without being aware of it. Your love and support, which was never dependent on what others thought of me or the newspaper, was a relief I needed more than any of you could know. 
My family played the largest role in keeping me sane throughout my time at AU. My grandparents in particular listened to many a late-night rant, never failing to pick up the phone no matter what time it was or what they were up to. Your unwavering love reminded me to be more like the person y’all raised me to be: resilient, generous, sincere. 
Most of all, I am grateful to the hilarious, dedicated, wonderful people I was lucky enough to be surrounded by in The Eagle office every day. My managing editor team this year (Maria Carrasco, Lydia Calitri, Cordilia James, Sasha Jones, Nickolaus Mack, Kimberly Cataudella, Daniella Ignacio, Emily Martin and Kris Schneider) was fearless in their ambitions to improve their sections, working incredibly hard to mentor their staff members and make our journalism better. I am so proud to have worked alongside y’all and to call many of you my close friends. 
Over the course of the past several months, I’ve thought a lot about what the future of The Eagle will look like. There’s no telling what the staff will have accomplished by this time next year, or in the next five years. 
But when I think about the freshmen and sophomores who have proven themselves to be some of our most talented reporters and editors yet, I’m no longer afraid of what will happen after I leave MGC 252 for the last time. I know that, once Lydia takes the reins, she will find her footing and take this publication to new heights. 
I also know I will miss this place, and my staff, more than I’m willing to admit. Thank you for making it so hard to say goodbye. Know that I will always be cheering you on, even if it’s from thousands of miles away. 
Haley Samsel is a senior in the School of International Service and The Eagle’s 2018-2019 editor-in-chief.
hsamsel@theeagleonline.com 
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's April 2019 print edition. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
During this spring’s Student Government elections, students had the opportunity to vote on a referendum on whether they would support the sale of alcohol at on-campus athletic games. The referendum passed with overwhelming support, with 81 percent of students voting for the measure. The reason offered for the alcohol sale proposal was that the measure would boost student and alumni attendance and improve school spirit. 
As any AU student knows, games do not draw huge audiences. Data obtained by The Eagle found that the average attendance at men’s basketball games – the best attended sport – was only 738 people. 
Students and alumni have not demonstrated a large interest in attending basketball games, or any other sport, for that matter. The hope from those who proposed the referendum and those who voted to pass it is that alcohol sales will change this.
The Editorial Board agrees that alcohol sales at athletic events will increase revenue for the athletic department and increase student and alumni attendance – at least at first. 
The University has increasingly grown more relaxed with its on-campus alcohol policies, as the campus has transitioned to being “damp,” in order to allow students who are over 21 to have alcohol in their residence hall rooms. This acceptance of student drinking speaks more to the student body and makes drinking more casual for students. 
The potential to sell alcohol at sporting events also provides a legitimate opportunity to attract more students who may want to have a calmer weekend night. Games would provide a space for students to interact in a relaxed environment while still being able to drink alcohol. 
This also provides students with a cheaper sports option, as D.C. professional teams are currently more attractive to them than student games. Simply put, the board believes that going to an athletic event and having a beer should be an option for students who are of age. 
However, this potential change does present issues. The University would do well to follow rules similar to other college sport venues, like only being allowed to order one beer at a time or stopping sales after the third quarter. Also, students may try to use fake IDs to purchase alcohol or ask older friends to buy it for them. 
As The Eagle previously reported, AU students often subscribe to a “work hard, play hard” culture that the University would have to be mindful of if they start these sales. If the caveat for student attendance is alcohol, the University should take the opportunity to discuss safe drinking habits with students and showing what that can look like at AU.  
As discussions continue among administrators about the potential policy change, The Eagle recommends keeping the sales simple. While George Washington University has a ticketed program, in which students can buy tickets to attend a wine event prior to a game, it is our opinion that sales should be out of the concession stand. 
It may even be possible to use student IDs to check age or using university systems to confirm that someone is not using a fake ID. Most likely, the alcohol served would be beer and wine, making the games a casual and student friendly environment. The University will need to ensure that responsible steps are taken to prevent belligerent students. 
Drinking while watching a game is an American pastime. If AU students have shown an interest in doing so at athletic events, and may attend more games because of it, it’s up to the University to figure out the right way to honor that request. 
opinion@theeagleonline.com 
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's April 2019 print edition. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The McKinley building, which houses the School of Communication.
In the wake of looming global environmental challenges, AU is providing students and faculty with the resources to create and share important environmental messages through a powerful medium: film. 
The Center for Environmental Filmmaking (CEF) brings together diverse and inclusive media-makers that are committed to sharing powerful stories that drive engagement in critical environmental issues, according to the center’s site.  
“There is no doubt that climate change is wreaking havoc on our earth, threatening the health of our planet and endangering lives, particularly in poorer communities,” said Maggie Stogner, executive director for the Center of Environmental Filmmaking, in an interview. “The ultimate challenge is engaging and motivating policymakers and citizens to take urgent action now.”
The center connects students with environmental leaders, scientists and other inspirational storytellers. When it comes to environmental films in particular, filmmakers need to balance feeling the urgency of the issue and leading viewers to a place of hope and action, Stogner said. 
“Compelling visual storytelling — film, digital media [and] virtual and augmented reality — can immerse audiences in a subject, create an emotional connection and make people really care,” Stogner said. “Some films enlighten, others deepen our commitment and motivate us to action, and the best will stay with us for years to come,” Stogner said. 
In March, the center hosted a week of events in collaboration with the D.C. Environmental Film Festival. Events included the world premiere of professor Larry Engel’s film “Who Speaks for Nature?”, as well as Bernardo Ruiz’s “Harvest Season” and the U.S. premiere of Alison Reid’s “The Woman Who Loves Giraffes.”
On March 23, the center hosted the “Diversity and Impact Filmmaker Panel,” which provided insight into the power of environmental films. Scientist and National Geographic correspondent Mireya Mayor, environmental film producer Vanina Harel and filmmakers Byron Hurt and Kalyanee Mam discussed their work as well as the challenges they face in their fields.
Harel’s short documentary “Vey nou Lagon” follows a Mauritian traditional artisanal fisherman and his family. It tells the story of the Mauritian lagoons and the declining state of the ocean as a result of climate change. 
During the panel, she explained how screening her film in a local community near the film site fascinated the children who watched it. Filmmaking is her way of “bring[ing] the ocean to them,” she said. 
“They were like, ‘I’ve never seen this [ocean] before, it’s so colorful, it’s so beautiful,’” Harel said. “I realized that our ocean today is so degraded and people don’t really have access to the pristine places that are left, so they don’t really have that connection with the ocean.”
Mam discussed her environmental and social documentary, “A River Changes Course,” which follows three Cambodian families as rapid development impacts their surrounding environment, forcing them to face hard choices and struggle to maintain traditional ways of life.
“We’ve really lost our way,” Mam said. “We’ve lost not only our land, but our connection to each other. And we’ve lost a perspective of our land that we used to have, and that perspective is a consideration of our land as something sacred...and we view it now as just a commodity.”
The success of the film festival precedes the future opportunities for the center. It has a “Classroom in the Wild” 4-day program in June, where members will head to the remote island of Isla de la Mona in Puerto Rico, and create films about science and wildlife.
The center continues to expand its partnerships around the world by working with nonprofits, NGOs, and media companies to provide learning opportunities for students.
“It takes communities to effect change,” Stogner said.
dharvey@theeagleonline.com 
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's April 2019 print edition. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
