Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Ever wondered what it’s like to stroll through a real-life winter wonderland of glistening lights? Enchant Christmas grants guests the opportunity to explore the World’s Largest Christmas Light Maze in all of its 90,000-square-foot light glory. To the tune of festival melodies, guests wander into an alternate universe of out-of-this-world light sculptures, beautiful arches and hanging lights. This year, Enchant Christmas brought this ethereal experience right to Nationals Park.
“We’re taking an iconic building that [residents] have known in one capacity, and we’re totally transforming it,” said Jordan Birch, the director of business development at Enchant Christmas.  “We’re creating unique structures that they have never seen before, and it’s a really immersive experience.” 
Each year, Enchant Christmas adapts this experience to different U.S. cities. This year, you can find Enchant Christmas in Washington D.C., St. Petersburg, Florida and Seattle. Birch explained that this year, Enchant Christmas selected D.C. as a location due to how cooperative the team at Nationals Park has been with Enchant’s vision. Because of their World Series win this year, the Enchant Christmas team only had 17 days to construct the entire concept. Another influential part of the decision was D.C.’s proximity to so many cities, making it an easily accessible location for guests. 
The extravagant design of the maze follows a scenic storybook of “The Great Search,” written by Leanne Johnston, whose husband founded Enchant Christmas. The story follows Santa’s nine reindeer that escape just before Christmas Eve and guests in the maze are on a mission to find them, complete with complimentary scratch off cards as you find each one.
“The reason we set it up as a scavenger hunt is because we want you to experience every foot of this ballpark, “ Birch explained. “Everything in the maze is designed by us, so you can’t really find this anywhere else.”
Because Enchant D.C. features a completely new, custom-designed maze, it incorporates elements that are unique to the D.C. location, like a photo opportunity with Lincoln’s chair. What’s also impressive is Enchant Christmas’ largest Christmas tree, which has been in design for three years. 
“It’s an 100-foot tree, and there’s no guy-wires on it,” Birch said, referencing the tensioned cables that are normally attached to large, free-standing structures. “It’s larger than the Rockefeller Center tree. It has 4,600 individual branches and over 250,000 lights on that tree alone, and again it’s just held in place by cantilever weight, so it’s a very unique engineering specimen right there.”
Amidst the ornate, reindeer-shaped light structures are overhangs of lights and a light-up trail that guests can walk on. For many visitors, Enchant’s giant, diamond-shaped light structures carry a special meaning.
“One of the things about Enchant is that it is a really popular date night,” Birch said. “A lot of people choose to propose at our events, which we’re really honored by because they want to make our event part of their life story, which is really touching for us.”
The maze offers countless photo opportunities, complete with an opportunity for younger guests to meet Santa at Santa’s Landing and an ice skating rink under the moonlight, which Birch explained is unique for its open air element. 
Another unique element is the Christmas Market, which includes a selection of local vendors who have grown with the company, according to Birch. At any given time, there are 40 local vendors that rotate by week. Some of these include Ben’s Chili Bowl, Capital Candy Jar and Dog Tag Bakery. 
“Every city is different, and every city has a culinary side and a musical side, and so we try to bring that together in the aspects of our event, so that we make this a D.C. event, not an event in D.C.,” Birch said.
You can experience Enchant Christmas D.C. for yourself at Nationals Park until December 29. Guests are encouraged to buy tickets online in advance.
mbaumann@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The AU men’s basketball team took the hardwood on Tuesday and beat the UMBC Retrievers 85-61. The game was never close as American took an early lead, which only grew as the game progressed. 
With the comfort of this large lead, it was the perfect opportunity for the rotation to shine. 
The seamless ball movement on the offensive end gave many of the Eagles the chance to contribute, including freshman guard Ben Lubarsky. In 11 solid minutes off the bench, Lubarsky turned in a 9-point performance, going 2-2 from a 3-point range. 
He delivered one of the plays of the night when he stepped into a corner 3, calmly taking a foul and converting a free throw to finish off a 4-point play. 
Although he has seen limited action this year, his minutes increased, and he started to step up in his role off the bench in his last two games. 
“He can provide us [with] a lot of different things offensively and defensively,” AU head coach Mike Brennan said of his 6-foot-5 freshman. 
Lubasrky said that he’s taking one game and opportunity at a time. 
“I’ve been working really hard in practice, and it means a lot that coach is starting to trust me,” Lubarsky said. 
With performances like these, it is only a matter of time before Lubarsky comes into his own. 
His teammates certainly agree, as Brennan said that he thinks Lubarsky will improve as the year progresses. 
“It’s just a matter of him being healthy and being able to practice, to get a better idea of what he’s doing out there,” Brennan said. 
The Eagles will face George Mason on Saturday in their next match-up. 
sports@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU alumnus Sam Sheline was an assistant producer on the National Geographic and Rolex Perpetual Planet Extreme Expedition to Mount Everest.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As of  March 2019, the University has five open federal investigations from the Office of Civil Rights, a part of the Department of Education, into the Title IX office. This is a record number of complaints for the medium-sized university that AU is categorized as. There are some schools with four complaints, but one of those universities has a population of 40,000 students, a radically different percentage and likelihood of this number of open investigations. Each of the University’s investigations has been opened in the last four years, and notably, we do not know who filed these investigations or why they filed them. 
As members of the student body, these investigations still being open after years, in some cases, is troubling. The fact that students know that they can open these investigations would seem to be a positive, but the fact that so many have opened is concerning. 
It is likely not AU's fault that some of these cases have been open for so long. As political administrations change, so do their priorities. However, there should be better communication from the University about these cases existing and what AU may be doing to improve their Title IX process.
Anyone who spends some time on campus is aware of the political and social activism  of the student body. That may mean that this number of cases is reflective of a school doing its part to educate students on their rights when it comes to Title IX and sexual violence. 
The Empower AU program is well-implemented, educating students about the issues of sexual violence and intervention skills for the first time in an academic setting. With leaders who treat the subject matter seriously and encourage questions, first-year students at AU are getting exposed to the resources and processes they need to know about early in their college careers. AU’s Palmer Survey has shown that students know more about Title IX after the Empower AU course, as other universities use Empower AU as a model for their own schools. 
Empower AU and the inclusion of Title IX education in AUx courses is a rare case of the University acting proactively on an issue. At other universities, open discussion about these issues is more rare, which makes attitudes on those campuses entirely different. 
Education programs lead to an increase in reports filed because students are more aware of their rights. What is an issue is how that education continues past orientation. 
For older students who did not take AUx, Empower AU is now a distant memory. Different clubs require more training on Title IX issues, which can have a positive impact on the culture within that club. But that isn’t a consistent requirement for any student organizations, and arguably should be, as different organizations continue to be removed from campus for hazing or sexual violence. 
Title IX education for freshmen has also varied over the years. Many students go into AUx with a negative attitude, unwilling to engage in such an important   discussion or the instructor may not make the lesson particularly engaging for students. 
Visits from members of the Title IX office could make a difference in the interest level. The University has to do more to continue students’ education and awareness, aside from campus events that students may have difficulty attending.
Perhaps the most important thing to consider about the culture at AU surrounding Title IX is the need for it to be addressed by students. Preventing sexual violence is nearly impossible to measure, but students must continue to empower each other to make whatever decision is best for a survivor. Allyship only works if students put in the work to make sure that survivors feel supported, and students’ lack of awareness of these complaints is an issue. Without activism by the University student body, it is difficult to see any improvements being made in the Title IX process.
These five open federal investigations indicate that at least on some level, there are issues with parts of the Title IX process.  AU is doing better work than many other universities in handling a structural problem, but there are still flaws that need readdressing so that any student that needs Title IX’s help knows that they are getting the support they need.
opinion@theeagleonline.com
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's December 2019 print edition.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sid Balman Jr., author of "Seventh Flag." 
One morning, Sid Balman, Jr., an AU alumnus, walked into a coffee shop in Dupont Circle, holding a novel. 
A woman in the shop looked at the novel Balman had in his hand and said, “That looks like an interesting book, what’s it about?”
Balman explained the plot of the novel to her. As he began walking away from her, he stopped, turned back and said, “I wrote this book.”
“It was such a strange feeling, really,” Balman said, reflecting back. “I really did write this book. It’s a weird thing. Not weird, but, you know, gratifying.”
Balman, an author, businessman and Pulitzer-nominated journalist, combined his areas of expertise to craft his first historical fiction novel, “Seventh Flag,” which debuted on Oct. 9. The novel, according to Balman, is “a modern parable about the radicalization of the United States … told through four generations of two families in the small west Texas town of Dell City. One is a prosperous farmer family, the other is a family of Syrian immigrants that helps them build an empire on the high desert.”
A fourth-generation Texan, Balman grew up in a rural town outside of Dallas. He studied literature and business as an undergraduate at Vanderbilt University, where he realized he wanted to write. He took a course in New Journalism, where a journalist begins to interpret and bring more artistic liberties to the news. 
The most impactful New Journalist Balman said he studied was Jack Kerouac. 
“The book that really, really hit me, I don’t know why, I have read it seven times, was Jack Kerouac’s book, ‘On the Road,’ that looked at a time not dissimilar from the one that we’re in now,” Balman said. “That book, just the way it was written, the story it told, the characters, it really appealed to me. That’s when I started writing.”
Becoming a novelist was a distant dream of Balman’s, but it felt too risky for his writing abilities, he said.
“A writer is someone who makes a living writing,” Balman said. “A 24-year-old novelist? I certainly wasn’t at that level. So, I figured journalism would be a way for me to make a living as a writer.”
After graduating, Balman traveled the world for about a year and a half, until he started attending American University, where he got his master’s degree in journalism and public affairs. He interned for the Dallas-Times Herald, which landed him a job at the paper covering police officers and crime in Dallas.
At the age of 28, Balman began his last major job in journalism as the diplomatic and national security correspondent for the United Press International, a news wire service. In this position, Balman had two main tasks: to cover all the wars of the ‘90s, including Iraq, Somalia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo, and to travel with presidents and secretaries of state, such as George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Madeleine Albright, when they went overseas.
“I was always gathering yarn like every journalist,” Balman said. “I felt like I had a novel in my back pocket, but I needed to find just that way to stitch through it.”
His time abroad was only one of the “pieces of yarn” Balman needed to help him tie together his ideas for “Seventh Flag.”
Balman said that people often ask him how long he spent researching for his novel. He usually responds, “I have been researching it my entire life.”
After his time abroad, Balman became a division director at an international development firm, the D.C.-based Creative Associates International. He and his division took a public health approach to counter violent extremism in behavior-change communications.
With his research in violent radicalism, Balman said he felt like he was a step closer to understanding how all his ideas could be stitched together into one cohesive novel.
“Violent extremism, across the political spectrum, is like a disease that arises from an external infection and spreads through its victims or entire communities over time, leading to violence if left untreated,” Balman said in a press release about the book. “These factors come into play in the radicalization of two primary characters, Ray Laws, who evolves into a white nationalist, and Anil Zarkan, who flees West Texas to join ISIS.”
Two more experiences would solidify his plot. The first came from a small west Texan town, known as Dell City, with a population of 300 people. This would become the setting for his novel.
“A buddy of mine, about 15 years ago, bought a piece of land in west Texas, [which is] one of my favorite spots in the world,” Balman said. “They were completely off the grid … I got to know the community there. Those families became the quilt for a couple of the families in the book.”
The final influence for Balman’s novel came from a YouTube documentary about a football team in Dearborn, Michigan, that was primarily comprised of Muslim students. The documentary depicted both the stigmatization of Muslim people in post-9/11 America and the hardships the students went through with multiple practices per day during Ramadan, when many of the Muslim students were supposed to fast from dawn to dusk. 
“At that point, it really just clicked for me,” Balman said. “I found the central theme. [The novel] was going to be about two families, based in west Texas, [and] the radicalization of nations. Through iconic themes in our society — football, military, gender, resources and immigration — I would tell this fun, rollicking, global story that showed how our nation has become radicalized since World War II but emphasized the commonality between all these different kinds of people.”
Balman views the U.S. as a radicalized country. In a highly polarized nation, he said, what could he do to make a change?
“When you think about what you can do to make a difference in the world, I know some people run for office [and] journalism is one way to do it,” he said. “It may sound a little bit corny … but I felt that this book could contribute to making an impact, to making a change. And in the end, the places where our country can be held together are in family and community; the basic building blocks.” 
“Seventh Flag” is now available for purchase. Sid Balman Jr. is currently on a book tour and will be speaking at Politics and Prose Connecticut Ave location on Jan. 12, 2020.
smirah@theeagleonline.com 
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's December 2019 print edition.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
