Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Incoming high-school juniors order omelettes at 8:30 a.m. in the Terrace Dining Room.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
As the week winds to a close, there is one thing every AU student looks forward to: the weekend. A time where the air buzzes with that mysterious electric excitement that Fridays bring. Pulsating with possibility, the burgeoning weekend offers adventure, freedom and the sting of downing copious amounts of vodka. 
It’s a time for wonks to voluntarily venture into those sticky sweat caves, sometimes referred to as frat parties, or intoxicatedly stampede down the hallways of their residence hall to the delight of their RAs. When not even the wafting fumes emerging from Subway can dampen one’s mood. 
After enduring five days of hard work, late night coffee acquisitions and listening to that one kid who responds to every comment in class with a five minute speech yet still manages to say absolutely nothing, it is time to go out. 
Laughter carries into the air and happily lingers, shouts reverberating as people run to meet their friends, flocking by the hundreds to head to the latest popular hangout: TDR. 
“Bro, the music there slaps harder than the music at any frat party I’ve ever been to,” said freshman SIS major Anna Washenko.
It has been reported that the amount of students that go to TDR to party on the weekend has skyrocketed in recent months. Packed in from the stir fry section to the salad bar, students are seemingly enthralled by the lively tunes that are constantly playing.
“When the beat drops in ‘Hands to Myself,’ as they play it for the fifth time in an hour, I know I made the right choice about where to spend my Friday night,” exclaimed junior SPA student Jason McKinley.
“I love that it’s exactly the kind of music a 13-year-old girl who has a YouTube channel for lifestyle vlogging would listen to!” added Ethan Labera.
This past Friday, the partying grew to such an intensity that AUPD was called. The situation was quickly handled, however, when the police officers decided to join in on the festivities.
“It was just irresistible— I mean, how could you not bop to legends like Shawn Mendes, Dua Lipa and Selena Gomez” said Nathan White, former AU police officer and current TDR music stan.
TDR’s DJ could not be reached for comment, as he was too busy making a playlist composed solely of “Moment Just Like This” by The Chainsmokers and Coldplay, amounting to nearly three hours of the pop classic. 
Nicole Klokiw is a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
nklokiw@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On Jan. 31, AU Dining held a public meeting in the University Club attended by eight students. During the meeting, the University’s dining services shared their proposals to increase the minimum costs of meal plans for sophomores by about $2,000. 
Shortly after this meeting, a wave of social media outrage brought swift backlash to the proposal. On Feb 14, AU Dining announced that they were “proposing that there be no price increase to the meal plans for 2019-2020 academic year. The proposed meal plans will keep the current pricing and meal block levels.” The email additionally stated that the University’s contract with Aramark would be reviewed “to determine if a change is warranted.”
The Eagle supports student activism and organizing in reaction to the proposed changes to the meal plan program. The Residence Hall Association town hall meeting on Feb. 11, attended by dozens of students and the AU Dining director, was well-organized and provided a student space for frustrations and feedback. We commend the University for facilitating a successful process to solicit student feedback. This was the first time, in recent history, that AU Dining offered this opportunity. 
At the same time, we recognize that the University’s process for receiving feedback has left out some students, demonstrating a continued disconnect between administrators and students.

For example, students who work outside of classes to help pay for their education at AU are less likely to be able to attend the offered meetings. These are typically the students who would be most affected by the proposed changes, particularly those who identify as low-income or otherwise underrepresented.

AU Dining appears to want feedback to be given solely within an unspecified process, and students who deviate from their surveys or meetings are largely ignored and without recourse. One of the main contentions of AU Dining was that they were not receiving enough student feedback. But, it is fundamentally backward to implement meal plan changes on the basis that not enough students voiced dissent. 
In addition, students have been complaining about food quality at AU for years. If at all, who has been receiving and responding to this feedback? 
For example, the Muslim Student Association advocated to create a Halal station in TDR. It took students a year of advocating for themselves before dining services finally implemented the change. 
Issues like these reveal a cognitive dissonance -- the desire to present AU as a progressive, forward thinking institution while being reluctant to empower students to take the lead on issues that directly affect them in the ways they find most effective. 
Administrators must recognize and embrace their role as a sounding board for students. The grievances of many students are nuanced; therefore, student criticism should not be taken personally. Student opposition can range from Aramark’s history with providing poor food to prisoners to food quality at AU to individual issues of affordability in the context of rising college costs. None of these complaints are personal attacks on AU Dining administrators, but are direct expressions of frustration with how the dining system affects students.
This academic year has seen AU Dining and Auxiliary Services as a constant point of student discussion. While the University may view the student body as quick to protest, this has more to do with the overall lack of structured channels for constructive feedback and a growing sense that student concerns are not taken into account before important decisions and proposals are released by administrators.
Therefore, The Eagle encourages continued student organizing on this topic. It is important to have students, whether or not the topic affects them deeply, to be involved in the wellbeing and best interest of their peers.
However, we must note that the campus community cannot continue in a perpetual trend of demanding student-centered change, and the University eventually acquiescing. The issues facing our community are steeped in larger discourses of college affordability and food insecurity. If we hope to address these problems and change the status quo, it will require input from many people within the AU community.   
Most importantly, administrators must ensure that those students who are most vulnerable and least able to participate in meetings are provided an alternative recourse for voicing their concerns and needs. 
To accomplish this, systemic change must come from administrators recognizing that the path forward for AU Dining, and other administrative services, must look radically different from the past. For every price increase, there must be a corresponding measure to ensure that students experiencing food insecurity and other affordability issues will receive more resources and help to address their concerns.  
edpage@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Center for Media and Social Impact at AU hosted Story Movements, a two-day conference examining platforms and genres of civic media, on March 1 and 2. 
CSMI Director Caty Borum Chattoo said Story Movements reflects what her organization concentrates on. Based at AU’s School of Communication, the innovation lab and research center showcases the role of media for social justice and social change. 
“We do a lot of research and gatherings that really focus on how audiences are influenced by storytelling about particular groups of people or ideas or social issues and we really look deeply at how that storytelling really matters in the world,” Borum Chattoo said.
The two-day conference comprises of panels of filmmakers and social justice leaders as well as the display of virtual reality projects and investigative journalism pieces.
There were over 20 speakers in attendance. Borum Chattoo said she had over a list of 100 speakers to choose from since she has gotten to know a lot of people through her work in documentaries and social justice.
“I had a pretty good idea - we had a range of ideas we wanted to talk about - of the kinds of leaders and speakers we would want to invite,” she said. “But it is kind of an endless list of people so every time we hold this conference we are not going to have a shortage of great groups and people.”
One particular project that stood out to Borum Chattoo was Courtney Cogburn’s immersive virtual reality experience called “1000 Cut Journey.” It shows people the experiences of everyday racism.
“It really invites people in to experience that everyday experience with the hope of creating real empathy and understanding,” Borum Chattoo said.
The audience for this event was geared toward philanthropists, media companies, social justice leaders, and students. She said she hoped that the conference would bring together people that truly believe in the power of media as a force of positive change.
kcarolan@theeagleonline.com  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students table at the off-court sustainability fair prior to a Feb. 13 men's basketball game arranged by the Office of Sustainability, various on-campus student organizations and the D.C. Sustainable Energy Utility.
Climate change is a big and looming issue, but it doesn’t have to be so intimidating. The (Com)Post is The Eagle’s new sustainability series that breaks down topics in eco-friendly living in a fresh, actionable and fun way. Check out our first installment of a staff writer making a zero waste meal.
Even before School of Public Affairs freshman Conner Shipp and School of Communication sophomore Sarah Graver became AU’s Zero Waste Club’s newest co-presidents, the climate-conscious group was already making waves on campus.
With several successful projects throughout the year, the leaders bounce ideas off of each other to generate new ways for AU students to lower the amount of waste they produce. 
“The co-presidents before us, Grace Pugh and Caroline Johnson, were really great,” Shipp said. “[They] worked closely with Tyler Orton, who’s in charge of the composting program on campus.” 
Project Move-In is one of the club’s first events of the school year that lets students buy donated furniture, hangers and other small dorm essentials in late August. At the end of the spring semester, Project Move-Out allows students to donate items by placing them in the designated bins the club places at the end of each floor in the residence halls, which they sell on the quad in the fall. 
The two projects are perfect examples of the Zero Waste Club’s mission in action, Shipp said. 
“Our club’s purpose is to help facilitate and give students the knowledge to reduce their waste in any way,” Shipp said. 
Not only are the events some of the club’s biggest fundraisers, they also help the AU community move toward a more sustainable move-in process, Shipp said. 
“It’s a lot of cumbersome stuff you wouldn’t want to pack,” Shipp said. “You’re not generating the waste from going out and purchasing those items just to throw them away at the end of the year.” 
The club works closely with the University, which gives housing extensions to volunteers who manage the program. It also uses AU’s resources and storage space to make the projects run as smoothly as possible. 
Club meetings often include an educational component to go along with activities, such as make-your-own sustainable cleaning products and a clothing swap, paired with presentations on waste and how to adopt a sustainable lifestyle.
With growing anxiety over climate change and the negative implications of waste on the environment, Shipp said that it’s up to this generation to make massive lifestyle changes. Still, club members recognize that achieving a zero waste lifestyle is easier said than done.
“I think that is a really high expectation for just your average college student,” Graver said. “My philosophy with it is as long as people are aware of the waste that they’re creating and … think about where it goes, then that will, in turn, lower what people use.” 
The club created the guides on how to recycle and compost on the side of AU’s landfill, compost and recycling bins, and regularly hands out magnets with the same cheat sheets. 
“People are looking for one big thing they can do that will change their waste output, and really it’s the little things,” Shipp said. 
Small changes such as bringing your own coffee cup, buying secondhand sustainable products and utilizing AU’s many water fountains to fill reusable water bottles are steps in the right direction, Graver said. 
Other steps toward a more sustainable life include their recent work with composting and food waste in the Terrace Dining Room, one of the club’s newest contributions to combat a larger societal problem. 
“One of the biggest things we’re doing right now is the Food Recovery Network,” Shipp said. “That’s basically collecting food that goes unserved through AU Dining Services and distributing it to people across the D.C. community.” 
The group currently meets every other Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. in MGC 247. For future projects, the members currently have an on-campus thrift store in the works, which would allow students to reduce their carbon footprint via second-hand shopping.
“There’s a few spaces that we’ve been eyeing for a bit,” Shipp said. “We’ve been in communication with campus leaders as far as getting that implemented.”
According to Shipp and Graver, living sustainably is more a responsibility than a choice. The leaders encourage AU students to get educated on how to reduce their carbon footprint and live more consciously of waste. 
“If you have the ability to, why not stop it?” Shipp said. “Why not educate others?” 
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
