American singer-songwriter Olivia O’Brien will perform at Union Stage Saturday night as part of her national tour to promote her upcoming pop album “Was It Even Real?”
O’Brien said she wants to focus on defying her depression and self-hatred through the album, which can be seen in her new single “Love Myself.” In the song, she sings about needing to love herself before loving anyone else. 
“I wrote [“Was It Even Real?”]  in a really dark place, and I hope I can help other people who may be in that same spot," O’Brien said in a statement. "My idea was for you to listen to the album when you’re feeling sad and by the end, you’ll feel better without even realizing it."
O’Brien was discovered on Soundcloud by rapper and record producer Gnash in 2015. Gnash was impressed by O’Brien’s hit song “hate u, love u” and collaborated with her for the song “I hate u, I love u” on his album, “We,” in 2016. She released her debut EP “It’s Not That Deep” in 2017. 
O’Brien said in the statement that some of her biggest musical influences are Tame Impala, Fleetwood Mac, and Kid Cudi. She isn’t afraid of being transparent with her fans, sharing stories of personal pain and heartbreak in her lyrics.
“Was It Even Real?” will be released on April 26 by Island Records. 
“Love Myself” is available on Spotify and iTunes. Doors for Olivia O’Brien at Union Stage on April 13 open at 6 p.m.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After a video went viral of an AU student using the n-word in an Anderson Hall lounge, students are calling for the University to create a safe space and housing options for black students.
A petition titled “Petition for Black Spaces at American University” quickly circulated around on social media after it was posted on April 9. Within 42 hours of its initial posting, it gained over 700 signatures, said Eric Brock, the freshman that created the petition.
“I just felt like we could really use the support of allies on campus after the events that occurred on campus specifically because the situation did happen in the dorms,” Brock said.
Currently, Brock serves as a co-chair of the Student Advisory Council on President Sylvia Burwell’s Council on Diversity and Inclusion. He said he and other students have had conversations about creating housing for black students with AU administrators before this incident occurred.
Lisa Freeman, the director of residence life, said in an email that she was talking with her colleagues about the idea. 
“Just last week, my colleagues in housing, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion and the Assistant Vice President of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion [Amanda Taylor] met with identified students to discuss my findings and to engage current students on what type of community space they would like to see formed,” Freeman wrote. 
Freeman said it’s possible AU could create affinity group housing for black students. She added that AU has previously offered affinity group housing with social justice themes.
Brock cited models of nearby universities as examples of possible ideas. Georgetown University designates a house for about five residents who organize programs, events and dialogue for students of color. George Washington University provides spaces in dorms for different groups such as women of color and first-generation students.
“I think the organizer of black students and what they need on campus will come out of a place of refuge, a place to organize, a place to be themselves,” Brock said.
While there have been conversations about the types of models they are looking at, there is no concrete vision or plan yet, said Consuelo Grier, director of multicultural student support. 
Tamir Harper, a freshman and member of the Student Advisory Council for the Council on Diversity and Inclusion, believes that these spaces would be beneficial for AU as a whole. 
“I think after the incident that occurred on campus, I think more than ever students are in need of a space to come together to think, to grieve, to strategize and to have a sense of community and home,” Harper said. “I think once AU accepts that and starts to move in that direction, I think we’d have an even more unified campus and the black community will feel more welcome at AU.”
He said these spaces would attract more black students to AU because it would show that they are taking diversity and inclusion efforts seriously. Only about seven percent of the class of 2022 identified as black, a number reflected in AU’s incoming Class of 2023.
The Eagle has previously reported on the Hub for Organizing Multiculturalism and Equity, or HOME. The space is located on the third floor of the Mary Graydon Center and aims to be a space where students of different identities “can just come and be,” according to Fanta Aw, vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence. 
In December, The Eagle spoke with students who weren’t satisfied with the space. Complaints range from the small size of the space to how HOME has been marketed to students of all backgrounds rather than to students of color, especially for black students.
“HOME doesn’t provide people with a sense of security, with a sense of belonging, when everyone from all types of affinity groups can be there,” senior Othniel Malcolm Andrew Harris told The Eagle last semester. 
Freeman said the next step in the process is to identify key stakeholders and find ways to engage the student body on what housing options should look like. 
“If we can create communities within our communities that support the needs of students, can increase opportunities for engagement and assist in helping students feel more connected and allows them to thrive academically and personally, I am all for it,” Freeman said.
kcarolan@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On March 26, the Trump administration released a statement saying it would further expand the Mexico City Policy, otherwise known as the Global Gag Rule (GGR). This is a policy that cuts U.S. funding from non-governmental organizations (NGO)s to hinder their ability to use any funding towards abortion as a family planning service overseas. The GGR feeds into health inequities, prevents non-profit organizations from serving the communities they work in and places the lives of millions in danger. 
This is the second time the Trump Administration has expanded the GGR. Although the GGR was originally imposed by President Ronald Reagan in 1984, it initially only restricted NGOs from using U.S. funds for abortion services. In 2017, Trump announced that the GGR would cut U.S. funding for NGOs that used their own money and funding not provided by the U.S. for family planning services. On March 26, Mike Pompeo declared another expansion of the GGR, one that entails cutting funding from NGOs that provide non-U.S. funding to other organizations that “support or promote abortion” as a family planning service. This is all in an effort to end all “backdoor funding schemes.”
Secretary Pompeo and the Trump administration have used family planning as a political issue to retain the support of anti-abortion groups and individuals. What Pompeo and the Trump administration won’t mention is that they have also decided to cut funding for other health issues including HIV/AIDS, Malaria, Zika, tuberculosis and nutrition programs. Despite how the Trump administration wants to frame it, access to family planning services is a health issue. 
According to Advocates for Youth, the NGOs that are on the ground can’t decide whether or not to provide necessary treatments with every coming administration. The information simply doesn’t reach them in time. Thus, even when the GGR isn’t in place, the NGOs are operating like it is. The direct impact of this policy causes NGOs to stall the programs they have running, lose donations of valuable materials (including condoms and contraceptives) and lose the ability to expand their HIV prevention and treatment services to better serve the communities they work in. As Sen. Jeanne Shaheen,D-N.H., said, "Further expanding the global gag rule puts international organizations in an impossible position: provide women the full scope of reproductive health care services or deny critical funding that saves lives. That is unconscionable."
Women’s rights are human rights. Sexual and reproductive rights are human rights. Access to healthcare is a human right. Now more than ever, it’s imperative that we stand up to the Trump administration and use our voices as the catalysts for this movement. You may not think you can make a difference because of your age. I urge you to hold strong because, when young people set their minds to something, the results are monumental. Our voices are heard, laws are reformed and societal change happens. From the student-led sit-ins of the civil rights movement to Malala Yousafzai's international contributions to girl’s education, history has shown us that youth activism is a powerful force. So, I  urge you to call your local representatives and senators, visit them on the Hill, and push them to pass the Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (H.E.R.) Act.
With the H.E.R. Act, we would indefinitely repeal the GGR. Through the GGR, the U.S. and the Trump Administration are constraining the ability of NGOs to use their own money for their family planning services and their ability to monetarily contribute to other organizations. At a time when progress on HIV and AIDS has halted, it is imperative that Congress work together to pass the Global H.E.R. Act. The Global H.E.R. Act is a bipartisan and bicameral initiative, garnering support from Democrats and Republicans alike. It was recently reintroduced to Congress by Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen and Rep. Nita Lowey and has received support from Republican Sens. Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski. 
Let Congress know that we will not sit idly by as millions are denied the care they need. Infringement on the rights of the few is infringement on the rights of all. Let them know that young people’s voices matter. They say AU is one of the most politically active campuses in the country, so let’s act like it.

KeKe Debebe is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs. She is an outside contributor. The opinions expressed by the author are hers alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Eagle and its staff. 
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
