Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Climate change is a big and looming issue, but it doesn’t have to be so intimidating. The (Com)Post is The Eagle’s sustainability series that breaks down topics in eco-friendly living in a fresh, actionable and fun way.
Food rescuing is saving produce or other foods from farms, grocers or restaurants that would otherwise go to waste. This has become a rising trend in the United States because about 30 to 40 percent of food in America goes to waste. Additionally, about 1 in 7 homes in D.C. are considered food insecure and about 11 percent of D.C.’s total area is in a “food desert,” or an area with little access to healthy food options.
There is also a high demand for aesthetically pleasing produce and food in the United States. Many farms do not harvest produce that does not meet certain requirements, even if that product is still completely edible. Additionally, when farms produce a surplus of crops, the market cannot handle the excess and the produce ends up going to waste. Produce rescue companies help farms make a profit off of produce that would have otherwise had no financial value.
Hungry Harvest is a produce rescue and delivery service that started in D.C. and Maryland to deliver “ugly” or otherwise “damaged” produce to the customer's door at a discounted price. This service allows users to customize boxes and subscriptions and even add on other grocery items. Hungry Harvest gets the majority of its produce from local farms, many of which are organic. 
Some critics of produce rescue programs say that the monetization of these products reduces the amount of food that may have been given to shelters or those in need. Additionally, many feel that the delivery services compete with local community supported agriculture programs (CSA). CSAs are programs where community members pre-pay for a share in a local farm. However, CSAs are often times expensive and inaccessible to low-income communities. 
Hungry Harvest in particular works to fight hunger by donating excess produce to “hunger-solving” organizations, such as The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). SNAP provides low-income households with an ATM card that can be used to purchase nutritious food. Produce delivery services like Hungry Harvest close the food insecurity gap by offering discounted fruits and vegetables right to people’s homes.
aveitch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU is currently being led by the previous Secretary of Health and Human Services, yet the University does not pay enough attention to its students who experience substance abuse and addiction. Given our intense party culture and that our rates of substance abuse are higher than the national average, it is imperative that AU administrators take significant strides in providing for its students who are struggling with addiction.
Over the course of the last two semesters, AWOL created a second installation of their “Ripped from the Wall” multimedia project. The podcast, entitled “Addiction at AU,” is a three-part series that was an exploratory venture into the realities of drug addiction on our campus. While the prevalence of drugs on college campuses might seem inevitable, the podcast discusses what makes the AU community unique in regard to addiction. 
Pritma Irizarry, the director of the Health Promotion and Advocacy Center who is featured on the podcast, characterizes AU as a “perfect storm of risk factors,” further compounded by a historical failing on the part of the University to address substance abuse. We’re part of a university that is fighting for inclusivity and acceptance, but where is that fight when it comes to addiction? 

As emphasized in the podcast, addiction is a very real mental illness and treating it as if it were simply a matter of willpower to quit is dehumanizing and wrong. This portrayal creates shame around the subject and prevents those affected from seeking help. Taking this unfortunate reality into account, the fact that AU does not have a streamlined way for students to seek help is disappointing. 
The first episode of the podcast detailed the journey of a student seeking more information on what the University is prepared to do when helping those struggling with addiction. She was sent from department to department without receiving any real answers. Additionally, the Counseling Center feels inaccessible to many students who struggle with drug and alcohol issues because going to get help for something with legal ambiguities is complicated. 
Another contributing factor is that AU doesn’t talk about drug addiction accurately or enough. AUxI, the first semester of the transition course for freshmen, attempts to provide some information about the signs of addiction. For example, an activity sheet described marijuana as causing depression, anxiety, poor academic performance and criminal activity. Professor David Kearns, who has a PhD in psychology and was featured in the podcast, disputed these claims. He said that no causal relationship has been scientifically established for any of these effects.
Additionally, AU is unclear on the specifics of its alcohol and drug policies. This creates confusion and misconceptions throughout the student body, leaving students unsure of where exactly to get help and whether they will face disciplinary consequences for doing so. 
By failing students in this respect, AU administration is effectively strengthening the stigma around addiction and substance abuse. While the Health Promotion and Advocacy Center offers free 30-minute “wellness consults” to help students determine an action plan for their needs, not enough students know about these, nor are these enough to address the problem. 
It’s one thing to punish students for bringing drug paraphernalia on to campus, but to not provide enough resources for those who are dealing with an illness is another immense disservice entirely. It delegitimizes the very real health implications those students contend with. 
AWOL’s podcast brings much needed attention to a rampant issue with effects that are often pushed aside or ignored. The fact that efforts to help students aren’t already in place reveals a staggering disconnect between the needs of students and the priorities of the administration.
It opens up a conversation that the student body needs to participate in and the administration has a duty to listen to. University President Sylvia Burwell’s participation in the project was a start. But as a community, we should be doing everything we can to support those who are struggling with drug addiction. 
Riya Kohli is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle. 
rkohli@theeagleonline.com
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's April 2019 print edition. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As the University continues to make progress on the construction of the new Hall of Science, AU’s STEM community is looking forward to the benefits of a new space on campus. 
Along with the completion of the new building, AU’s plan to expand its STEM program will also include hiring more faculty, according to biology professor Meg Bentley.
While 78 percent of STEM faculty at AU are white and 59 percent are male, Bentley said the hiring process will give the University the opportunity to increase faculty diversity. 
“Students need to see someone who looks like them in the front of the classroom,” Bentley said. 
The STEM community is not waiting for the new building to begin discussions on improving their representation. At the end of March, STEM students and faculty held a summit to discuss inclusive excellence and underrepresentation in the STEM community at AU.
At the summit, Bentley, along with Kathryn Walters-Conte, who directs the professional sciences master’s program in biotechnology, presented data on the demographics of STEM students and faculty as well as students’ experiences with programs at AU. 
According to their findings, only 18.8 percent of faculty and 27.9 percent of students think there is sufficient “representation” within the STEM student body. Their survey also found that only 12.5 percent of faculty and 23 percent of students think there is sufficient representation among the STEM faculty at AU.
Some underrepresented students say that finding community is already hard enough in a STEM program that feels overshadowed by the University’s focus on political science and international relations. Jorge Goyco, a sophomore biochemistry major, said it is often difficult for young STEM students to find other people in their major.
“You can find any kid that’s an SIS major and be friends with them, and you can find any political science major to be friends with, because this is a school that is very much in that nature,” Goyco said. “STEM majors don’t have that same look.” 
To help give his classmates that sense of community, Goyco co-founded the Underrepresented Students in STEM club. As the club’s president, he is working to bring awareness to events and projects of STEM students that might otherwise go unnoticed by the student body.
Building that community, Goyco said, also required drawing greater attention to the research of STEM students and faculty. Most people on campus are not award of faculty and student research ranging from Alzheimer’s disease to the behavioral effects of cancer in mice.  
“These amazing opportunities that we have all over the University, no one knows about them,” Goyco said. “Nobody knows that we are a pretty advanced research school.”
Goyco also said that the Hall of Science could potentially be a space that brings together work from the various STEM majors.
“It will be nice to actually have a single building where we can all meet, share ideas and maybe even help each other out in our research and studies,” Goyco said.
Currently, many of the different STEM departments are scattered across campus. In some cases, they are utilizing older buildings that face problems with accessibility. Goyco pointed out that Hurst Hall, where many STEM classes meet, does not have any elevators, preventing students with limited mobility access from accessing classrooms or faculty offices.    
The Hall of Science will provide new facilities for biology, chemistry, environmental science and neuroscience departments. The building will feature state-of-the-art research laboratories, as well as a new lecture hall to take the place of the old lecture space in Kreeger. 
As life science students like Goyco await the building’s completion, physics, math, statistics and computer science students already know the benefits of finally having a designated space on campus. 
The Don Myers Technology and Innovation Building, which opened in 2017, has provided those departments with a space for research and collaboration. Mercy Griffith, a senior majoring in mathematics and secondary education, said that the building has been invaluable for her academic experience. 
“I don't think the importance of just having your own place where you can go to your classes, and talk to your professors, and see your friends, and work together can be understated,” Griffith said. “It has transformed the math department.” 
Beyond just the physical space to pursue their work, Griffith said she appreciated AU bringing greater awareness to the STEM program. 
“You feel like your work matters, you feel like you mean something to the University,” Griffith said. “The statement that I’m going to build a space for you to pursue your work, it was a really cool feeling.”
Faculty in the math department also benefited from the move to Don Myers. Michael Limarzi, a professor in the department of mathematics and statistics and sponsor of the Not Math club, said that because the math department had been so spread out, he moved through four offices in only seven years of teaching at the University. 
Those logistical problems made it difficult for students who became interested in the STEM program to learn about the different offerings and resources on campus, Limarzi said. 
“Just knowing that everyone's in the same place gives you a reason to go to the building and hang out in the building, because you know, no matter what classes you're taking, your professor’s going to be there,” Limarzi said. 
Limarzi and Griffith are optimistic that the Hall of Science will deliver similar benefits for the science department.
“The new building offers to the chemistry and life science departments what Don Myers gave to our program,” Griffith said.
But more than just new labs and grants, STEM students said they hope the new Hall of Science will give the community a chance to get to know the work of AU’s STEM programs. 
Jai Jacobs, a junior math major, said she wishes more people would learn about the research and achievements of STEM students and faculty. She hopes the university community can work to “close the gap between STEM and non-STEM students.”
“As much as this is about math, it’s not really about math,” Limarzi said. “It’s about the community of people who study math.” 
emargiotta@theeagleonline.com 
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's April 2019 print edition.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Officially, AU’s mascot is the infamous Clawed Z. Eagle. However, everyone on campus knows that the unofficial mascot has become the Wonk Cat, a black and white tuxedo cat who lives outside of the McKinley building. Since her first appearance on campus, Wonk Cat has been the recipient of an outpouring of student love, a source of memes and even a way for students to connect with their community. 
Since then, it’s not far off to say that Wonk Cat has become a local celebrity. She has her own Twitter account. One student made a documentary about her. She was voted Cutest Cat by a Washingtonian poll last month. She has an article written about her in the Washington Post. 
So it was a bit odd when students got an email from someone claiming to be “Wonk Cat,” asking for them to donate money to the University that many can barely afford. 
AU has an endowment of about $642 million, which, compared to similar universities, is tiny. (George Washington University’s endowment is about $1.7 billion). As a result, AU is overwhelmingly reliant upon student tuition fees, often needing to go to greater lengths to support itself financially by raising costs (even though its students pay an exorbitant amount of money to attend). 
But does this financial situation justify co-opting innocent love for a cute animal and turning it into a financial instrument to raise money? It’s a somewhat tragic statement about higher education when a wealthy university feels the pressure to monetize everything, even a simple, stray cat. Just as upsetting is the fact that AU would not need to go to such extreme lengths if they addressed the issues facing students and alumni, the issues that incline them not to donate.
There’s no inherent harm in using the Wonk Cat in promotional material. She’s cute, she’s part of the community and she provides a much-needed source of school spirit. However, it is simply irritating to simultaneously use the community’s love for the cat as a way to solicit students for more money, especially amidst protests on budget transparency and tuition hikes.
College is getting more and more unaffordable by the year, and students are right to be angry about it. It only makes them feel more overlooked and aggravated to see something they love exploited for profit. 
One of the main issues is that AU is using the Wonk Cat as a Band-Aid, a way to cover up the real pain students and alumni feel about the University. Band-Aids are great; they help to heal wounds. However, it’d be better to address the root cause of those wounds in the first place, especially when some injuries simply can’t be healed with a Band-Aid. 
I’m not against the Wonk Cat. I have been known to stop and pet her on many occasions. I also get why AU is doing this. They’re trying to appeal to us with the things we enjoy. Students, for the most part, love Wonk Cat. It’s nice to see pictures of fluffy animals, especially during finals. 
However, I’d love it more if AU actually decided to address our concerns, if they didn’t feel the incessant need to take basic sources of joy and turn them into capitalist, financial instruments. The best way for AU administrators to be “relevant” with the student body is to take student issues seriously by not forcing them through unending bureaucratic hoops to get their problems addressed. Let’s leave Wonk Cat out of it. 
Lauren Patetta is a sophomore in the School of Communication and a columnist for The Eagle.
lpatetta@theeagleonline.com
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's April 2019 print edition.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
