The McKinley building, which houses the School of Communication.
The School of Communication and School of Public Affairs will come together this spring semester for the fourth time to offer their collaborative class called “Presidential Primaries.” 
The class will allow undergraduate and graduate students of all majors to get hands-on experience surrounding the communications and political aspects of the 2020 presidential primaries.
“You can only tell so much about a campaign from watching a rally on TV,” said Betsy Fischer Martin, the SPA professor for the course. “Being able to go there, seeing candidates up close and then also being able to talk to voters to get a sense of what’s motivating them [is important].”
SOC professors Molly O'Rourke and Lynne Perri and SPA professor Fischer Martin will teach the course, which has happened during every presidential election season since 2008. 
In class, students will learn about the nomination process, delegate selection process and the role of the media among voters and candidates, among other topics. Students will also hear from field professionals and additional AU staff about their expertise. 
Beyond the classroom, half of the 40 students accepted to the program will travel to Manchester, New Hampshire, and the other half will go to Columbia, South Carolina to experience the primaries firsthand. 
Fischer Martin believes that the experience of attending the primaries adds a unique depth to the curriculum for students to explore. This is the first year students will travel to South Carolina, which will add a new perspective on the primary process.
“It was important to show the diversity of voters and to show what happens as you get to larger states where there’s still a lot of opportunity to come to a larger event or a rally, but less of an opportunity to sit down for a cup of coffee with a candidate,” Perri said.
While at the primaries, students will participate in a variety of activities that exercise what they learned through in-class curriculum. Some of the produced video and writing content is used for projects back at AU. 
Additional created content has been made in partnerships with Snapchat for The Boston Globe in the past. Students traveling to New Hampshire will be working with The Boston Globe again this spring. 
Perri emphasized that the collaborative efforts between the political science and journalism fields give students a detailed look into how these primaries function and provides a “wonderful blend of understanding why campaigns are covered the way they are and why campaigns operate the way they do.”
Applications for Presidential Primaries are due by Oct. 11 by 5 p.m. To submit an application, find the link here.
eschloss@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Inside fenced off construction next to Bender library, McKinley in the background.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
When returning to AU this fall, students found an unfortunate installation still on campus: construction. This past spring, after months of planning, University officials gave the green light for a set of disruptive construction projects on campus. 
“We wanted to make sure students felt welcome,” said Helga Flowers, the director of the construction project. “We know that students sometimes feel like the University isn’t doing enough for them, so we pulled out all the stops! What says ‘welcome back’ more than industrial wire fencing, warning signs and a cadre of construction workers?” 
Not all students were so enthused. “It’s kind of hard to get across the quad with nothing short of an archeological dig going on,” said sophomore Alicia Fleming. 
Others agreed. “I knew something was different about the campus,” said freshman Tashan Stevens, who has not been on campus since Eagle Summit. “I don’t exactly remember seeing exposed pipes and bulldozers on the campus tour.”
Flowers assured students that the project is moving as fast as possible. 
“We’re planning on finishing construction by the spring semester, so if it’s done by fall of 2020, we’ll count it as a win,” said Flowers. “Of course, we’ll spruce up the quad for All-American Weekend. In fact, whenever parents, alumni or donors are on campus, we’ll temporarily shut down construction and put up giant ‘carbon neutral’ signs in its place.”  
University officials have stated that the construction is part of the university’s quest to be more environmentally conscious. “It’s imperative that we show students that we care about the environment,” said Nico Portillo, who is leading AU’s environmental sustainability initiative. “As we methodically alter the campus terrain, we’re making every effort to remove any litter that we inadvertently mix in with the topsoil.” 
Many students were not easily persuaded. “I understand the need to save the earth,” said senior Curtis Jones. “But can’t we just stop at planting a few measly trees once a year?”  
The construction seems to be having the most noticeable impact on freshmen. Nearly six weeks into the semester, they can still be seen trying not to get lost on the main quad. 
“I can’t even find my way around,” said freshman Kaden Sparks. “I don’t think this construction is reflected in Google Maps.”
Students also expressed concerns about the construction’s impact on arriving to class on time. 
“Just the other day, I was almost late for my public policy class,” said junior Jessie Conrad. “I had a marketing class the previous block and had to get all the way from Kogod to Kerwin in 20 minutes. With the construction in the way, I almost didn’t make it!” 
Owen Boice is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
oboice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Have you ever been walking across campus and wondered, “What's that smell?” It’s actually a new immersive art experience. A graduate art student exhibited a new art piece last month titled “Scents of Society.” 
Paris Montgomery, an AU graduate student, wanted to revolutionize how we experience art. 
“Everyone can look at a good painting, listen to a good song, or go to the theatre, but how often can you experience the arts through your sense of smell?” Montgomery said.
Montgomery said she got her inspiration from the Tenleytown bus station. “Whenever you step out of that bus, you’re immediately confronted with a stench that is so absolutely rancid that it immediately brings you to tears,” she said. “The only other thing to ever stimulate my senses in such a profound and emotional way is a good painting.” 
“We jumped on the opportunity to bring Paris’s project to life,” said a spokesperson from the AU Art Museum. “She showed real ambition and we were more than happy to help. I respect her decision to showcase her work across the entire quad. It means that students will actually experience something from our own museum for once. Most people don't even realize the museum exists.”
Montgomery wanted to create a blend of the worst smells imaginable. She accomplished this by recreating the smells of a wet dog, Chipotle bathroom, the Anacostia after 2 days of heavy rain and a boys’ triple in Letts. 
AU students, on the other hand, are not very happy with the exhibition. “It feels inescapable. First we had to deal with the smell of Tenleytown, now our campus too?” said sophomore Stephen Lovell. “It’s like the Wonk Bus is just transporting us between horse stables and a sewer.”
“This new art piece takes my breath away,” said junior Abby Corgan. “I mean, I literally cannot breathe whenever I’m on campus.”
“My upperclassmen friends always warned me that AU would be pretty shitty,” said freshman Enid Hook. “I didn’t realize they meant it literally.”
Students aren’t the only ones who have been seemingly affected by the smell. There have been multiple reports that the Wonk Cat has been spending much more time off campus since the art piece was exhibited. 
“I’ve heard so many people say that my exhibition has made them feel awful.” Montgomery said. “But art is supposed to make you feel things, and I believe that I have succeeded at that … even if that feeling is nausea.”
Caeden Cloud is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and The Eagle’s assistant opinion editor.
ccloud@theagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
