The AU women’s soccer team fell to the Loyola Greyhounds 3-1 on Thursday in Baltimore. The result earned the Eagles (4-6-1, 0-2-1 PL) their second conference loss of the season.
With the loss, the Eagles currently sit at the bottom of the Patriot League table. 
The match opened with fairly even play, and both teams recorded shots early. An AU foul occurred inside their own penalty box in the 14th minute, which resulted in a Loyola penalty kick. Loyola’s Hannah Hoefs took the penalty kick and faced AU senior goalkeeper Amy Krotine. Hoefs shot was hammered to the left and went through Krotine’s hands for Loyola’s first goal of the contest. 
“We needed more heart,” said AU’s head coach Anabel Hering. “We kept racking our brains asking ourselves, ‘Should we be doing something different?,’ but we really just didn’t show up.”
Loyola mounted another offensive attack minutes after their first goal. Sarah Bayer released a low shot that bounced off the left goal post and into AU’s goal. 
Despite multiple formation changes, AU’s struggles on defense continued. With 27 minutes remaining in the first half, a Loyola crosser by Kaleigh Gallagher deep in AU territory bounced off AU’s Natalie Oliver, resulting in an own goal. The own goal made the score 3-0 in favor of the Greyhounds. 
It wasn’t until the final minute of the first half that AU recorded its first shot on goal. Sophomore Emily Smith’s shot was perfectly placed above Loyola’s goalkeeper Paige Sim’s hands. Smith’s goal was her second in the past two games and her second of the season.  
“She had a bit of a slower start to the season but she’s definitely getting more game fit now,” Hering said. “She has a good calming presence on the ball.”
AU’s offensive attack in the second half tried to build off the momentum from Smith’s goal, putting six shots up, none of which found the net. Although the Eagles failed to score the two goals they needed to send the contest into overtime, their offensive play in the second half was better than the first.
“We definitely controlled the play better in the second half, finding ways to penetrate through,” said Hering. “We just needed to be more dangerous.”
AU tied with Patriot League opponent Holy Cross on Sunday at home. The Eagles will be back at Reeves Field on Wednesday to play UMBC, hoping for their first conference win of the season.
tgray@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
On Saturday morning, through the rattling sounds of cicadas and campus machinery, a whiny chanting could be heard blocks from the historic war-torn trenches of the Eric Friedheim Quadrangle: “Climate change, suck our straws! Give us metal straw awareness laws!”
Metal straw protestors, made up of local AU students and alumni, began their incessant rampage to declare metal straws the world’s best way to fix climate change, economic recessions and existential crises for Global Metal Straw Awareness Week.
“It is the only way we can prevent climate change,” said Suzy Vanderbilt, AU freshman and undeclared “straw head.” “It’s also a coping mechanism. Every time I suck on one of these straws, I delay the inevitable thought of encroaching student loan debt and the hopeless future that awaits me.”
The Global Climate Strike Week kicked off to a roaring start on September 20. Thousands, if not millions, of students across the world made their voices heard, protesting the lack of action people have taken to prevent climate change. Meanwhile, AU students were protesting something that actually mattered: the right to sip on some shiny, fashionable and environmentally-friendly straws. 
“We’re really fighting for something worthwhile,” said Starbucks enthusiast Rebecca White, slurping on an iced latte through a metal straw she had gotten just for the occasion. “I mean, you can see it with these people. Everyone here is genuinely passionate about making change.”
Some were overheard requesting sponsorships from absent and indifferent companies such as Simply Straws. For these students, any help was necessary in the fight for trendy climate change solutions.
“Please just give me a sponsorship,” begged Meg Gurley, a CLEG major in her junior year. “I need some sense of validation that my major can’t provide.”
In the campaign to fight for metal straw awareness, posters and social media posts were reported to have falsely stated that free metal straws were to be given out to all participating protestors. When protestors found out that this was as fabricated, campus was inflamed by both students’ outrage and the irregular weather patterns that were caused by disposable straws. 
“What’s the point in fighting for climate change, let alone metal straw awareness, if you can’t get something free out of protesting for it?” said Ashley Knickerbocker, a senior with a major in business.
President Sylvia Burwell was even reported to have been seen on campus for the event. The sight was surprising to many; not for the celebrity presence of AU’s president, but rather the fact that she had nothing better to do on a Saturday morning than to support reusable sheaths of metal.
“She’s done it,” said Miranda Stone, a random passerby who noticed the event unfold. “She has become trendy.”
Trendsetters and local icons alike have now begun to say she has transcended all spheres of popular culture, going as far as to claim that she has achieved “trending enlightenment.” 
Surely after this year’s Global Metal Straw Awareness Week, Burwell’s deification is the next step on the agenda for all AU metal straw enthusiasts.   
Justin Poulin is a sophomore in the School of International Service and a Satire Columnist.
jpoulin@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After two and a half years of development, the Student Involvement Fund is being put into place. This initiative from Student Government and AU Club Council will select 20 students to receive $500 each for displaying "worthwhile dedication to their organizations,” as reported by The Eagle. 
The money for this fund comes from AU Student Government, AU Club Council and AU Student Media, of which The Eagle is a member. The total allotment is $10,000 for the fund from each of these organizations, which are funded by the student activity fee. There is an application process where members of the Budget Advisory Committee (BAC) will determine who receives the funding. In the wake of this announcement, there was controversy among the student body.
Students argue that those who devote serious time to clubs may already be in a stable enough financial position that they would not need the $500. Others feel that giving such a small amount of money shows the lack of awareness of the costs to students, as $500 is equivalent to about three weeks of work, part-time, at D.C. minimum wage. Students feel that as this fund is not targeted towards supporting low-income students, it may not help the students who would want to get more involved but cannot.
Low-income students generally do not feel supported by the University, and having a fund like targeted towards them would show that support. However, it is not necessarily true that students who already are very involved on campus are not low-income. There are plenty of students who do it all: club leadership, classes and a job. The assumption that students who are very involved on campus are coming from a place of financial privilege ignores all the hard work that students not coming from those places do on campus every semester and leaves many students out of the conversation. Even if students have higher incomes, this does not negate that those students are often working very hard to support their clubs, and it is worth supporting that. Students on campus advocate for supporting each other, and this fund aims to do so.
What is unclear is how the allocation of these funds will be decided. As The Eagle reported, students applying for this fund will need to write an essay about their involvement and receive verification from their faculty advisor. Students who are currently in stipend positions cannot apply, and once a student receives the funds, they cannot apply again. There is no clear idea of what BAC is looking for in applicants, other than that the process will be blind. It was also emphasized that quality, rather than quantity, of involvement would be considered, but that still does not give students a clear picture of who should be applying. Every scholarship has clear qualifications, rubrics and even key words; this information should have been shared before the application ever went live, and not retroactively, or never at all. There may be ideal students that this funding would make a difference for, but without a clearly defined desired applicant, some may never apply.
Another flaw is that students often must commit to club leadership or participation before knowing whether or not they will receive the funds. Without knowing this, some students who would have been great leaders and candidates for the funds will never be that involved. If these funds were more clearly targeted to different communities on campus that often feel unsupported, like students of color or low-income students, then it may be more clear that these funds would be able to help. This fund will most likely not push students to join more  clubs and over stretch themselves more than students on campus already do. However, for all its good intentions, it may leave some students out of the picture.
There is no reason not to encourage students to be involved with organizations on campus. Campus life is what brings students to universities across the United States, and the University is particularly boastful of its hundreds of registered student organizations. This fund, however, has not been implemented in an ideal way for the student body, and it remains to be seen how student criticisms may change things. This funding is a low enough amount to not make any potential changes to student financial aid, but for that same reason may not make much of a difference to individual students either. When so many club and organization leaders on campus are already pouring their time and often their own money into their organization, the $500 may just buy a club some new equipment, rights to plays or costumes for dance performances. 
Students are dedicated to the communities they’ve made on campus through these organizations. Recognizing that is well-intentioned and worthwhile, but that support would be more clear coming from the actual University administration, and not just umbrella student organizations. Until that happens, $500 is a first step of what will hopefully be continued efforts to honor students’ hard work at making AU a campus worth getting involved in.
As a member of AU Student Media, The Eagle is one of the organizations that will be funding the Student Involvement Fund through the BAC. 
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
