Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Rachel Lee and Natalie Senft, two sophomore business administration majors specializing in marketing, were sitting in their ITEC-320 class earlier this semester, having what Senft referred to as a “casual” conversation about their passions for fashion, when their idea to create Revolution: The AU Fashion Society was born. 
“We were just talking and I was like, ‘You know, I would love to bring back the fashion club,’” Lee said. 
Senft remembered cutting Lee off and telling her that she has been wanting to bring back the club as well. After she learned that the previous fashion club on campus did not renew their license and went inactive, she began thinking about wanting to start up a new one. The pair then made plans to meet up a few days later at The Bridge to go over logistics and ideas. From there, the whole process “snowballed,” Lee described. 
According to Lee, Revolution: The AU Fashion Society, which officially became a club on Nov. 8, will focus on the intersection of business and the fashion industry, but it is a club for more than just business majors. It’s also for people interested in fashion as a hobby.
“We want to expose students to potential careers in the fashion industry,” Lee said. “We want to have speakers and panelists come, successful people who work in the industry, tell us how they got there, and tell us how we could get there, too.”
Senft believes people joining a new club like Revolution gives them the opportunity to influence the club’s creation.
“Since it’s in its beginning stages, the people who join now can really help form and mold the club to what they want it to be,” Senft said.
With their eagerness to start a new club, the two began to plan with each other and their faculty advisor, the program director for the business and entertainment program department of management, professor John Simson. 
The two friends went into first-year business courses to talk about the club and get emails of people who were interested. They also held an interest meeting for the club in early October. These efforts, combined with other forms of outreach, have garnered over 100 emails on their mailing list, and it continues to grow.
Before Senft and Lee started the process of creating this club together, they both had separate fashion journeys. 
When Senft was younger, she sewed, ran her own fashion blog and was a Nordstrom ambassador for two years. She came to campus her first year and asked how she could get more information on the old fashion club. Lee was also interested in joining the old fashion club during her first year before she learned that it was inactive.
“I just like clothing and styling outfits. I’m not as qualified as her,” Lee said as she referenced Senft’s history. Senft reassured that Lee is also very qualified.
Lee had her own “eureka” moment about Revolution this past summer. She drafted a proposal for creating the fashion club and was prepared to start the club creation process when she returned. Once she was on campus, however, she was nervous and abandoned it.
“It was daunting at first,” Lee said. “I was like, ‘Who do I talk to? How do I start? Is there even any interest?’ So, that’s why it really helps to do it with someone else.” 
According to the two, their friendship made the club creation process easy. The two joked that they are each other’s top contacts in their phones, and they text each other about the club all the time.
“If we didn’t work well together, that would be difficult,” Lee said. “In my head, I always think about how lucky we got.” 
Revolution will begin general body meetings during the spring 2020 semester. 
Revolution: The AU Fashion Society has pages on Instagram and Facebook and students can sign up for their email list here. 
smirah@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU's Welcome Center, where prospective students begin their tour of campus. 
American University is ranked among the top ten colleges with the highest difference between regular decision and early decision admissions rates, which, according to a recent report by the Center for American Progress, can harm low-income students and students of color. 
U.S. News and World Report reported last month that AU’s early acceptance rate is 81 percent, while the regular decision acceptance rate is just 29 percent. This 52 percent gap puts the school at number seven for the largest difference between admission rates. 
Early decision, a common policy used in college admissions around the country, is a binding agreement, meaning that students who have been accepted early to that institution are required to attend regardless of their awarded financial aid packages. As with AU, early acceptance rates are often higher than regular acceptance rates, meaning that the policy can benefit students who apply early. 
“Wealth disparities, however, often prevent low-income students from taking advantage of early decision programs because they are more likely to have to consider competing financial aid packages when selecting a college,” said the CAP report. 
Additionally, since wealth in America is divided among racial lines, many of the students disadvantaged by these policies are people of color, said the report. 
Assistant Vice Provost for Undergraduate Admissions Andrea Felder said that AU meets 100 percent of demonstrated financial need, so a student’s financial aid package would be the same whether they apply early decision or regular decision.
“There are fewer students applying for early decision,” said Felder, “but those students have done quite a bit of homework about American and know that it’s where they want to be. Often times, those students will also have strong academic records that support admission to the institution, which allows the admissions office more ability to admit students early decision.”
Some institutions with smaller gaps between early and regular decision admission rates admit substantial portions of their students early, leaving fewer spots open for traditional applicants. For example, the University of Pennsylvania admitted about half of its freshman class early this year. 
Some students say that applying early decision was a financial mistake. Ezra Brook, a freshman from Connecticut, applied early decision with hopes that it would help her get into AU. 
“I felt like if I didn’t apply early decision, there was a high chance I’d get rejected from a school like this because the target GPA was slightly out of my range,” she said. “But American was the school I wanted to go, so I applied early decision to get an advantage.”
Even though she was accepted through early decision, Brook had to defer her acceptance for a year in order to financially support her decision. “Applying early decision to this school was one of the worst decisions I’ve ever made in my life,” she said. 
Some students are dissuaded from applying early, fearing a situation like Brook’s. Kennedy Andara, a sophomore from Louisiana, decided not to apply early decision to Barnard College because, as a student paying for her own tuition alone, she needed to consider different financial packages from multiple institutions before coming to a decision. 
“It was weird that I got waitlisted because my scores were what they were looking for,” she said. “They paid a bunch of money to fly me to New York from Louisiana. They put in effort to bring me to their school. I credit me not getting into that school because I didn’t ED. They took it to mean that I didn’t like it enough to risk anything.”
Unlike many universities, AU does not offer early action admission, which is a non-binding admissions policy that operates the same as regular admissions does by having an earlier application deadline. Felder maintains that the University’s use of the early decision admissions policy does not impact racial or income diversity on campus. 
“Our early decision pool is so much smaller than our regular decision applicant pool,” she said. “We are still able to achieve levels of diversity, inclusive of economic diversity, because so many students apply regular decision.”
ssolano@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU professor Daniel Gade in the School of Public Affairs is running for a Virginia U.S. Senate seat in the 2020 election.
A professor in the School of Public Affairs is running for a Virginia U.S. Senate seat in the 2020 election.
AU professor Daniel Gade is a retired U.S. Army lieutenant colonel, former White House veterans-affairs advocate and disability rights activist. He was wounded in combat twice and lost his right leg. After earning a Ph.D. in public policy and public administration from the University of Georgia, he taught political science at the United States Military Academy for several years before coming to AU in January. 
“I am a career servant,” Gade said. “From the time I enlisted in the army at 17 years old, I’ve been a servant of the Constitution. I view service in politics, and particularly, in this case, service in the United States Senate, as an extension of my decades of service to the country.”
Since he launched his campaign in August, Gade raised funds at the same rate at his opponent Scott Taylor, who is considered the established Republican candidate.
His campaign is still in the early stages since the primary vote is not until June, but Gade said that he is now focusing on fundraising and garnering media attention. He released a campaign advertisement last month and was featured in news articles, blog posts and radio shows. 
Gade said that he has not faced any backlash for his campaign yet.
“Reception has been uniformly positive,” he said. “People are really hungry for non-politician political servants. Voters are sick of our political class.”
Gade’s governing principles and the platform of his candidacy are to promote free-market systems, maintain a strong national defense, promote limited government and protect individual liberties and civil rights, according to his website. 
“Getting government out of people’s lives allows them to thrive on their own terms,” he said. “That’s where societies thrive, because societies are an aggregation of political and economic choices.”
If he wins the Republican primary, Gade would face the Democratic two-term incumbent Mark Warner in the general election. The most recent data from the Cook Political Report said that the general election is likely to fall in favor of Warner. 
When Gade is not performing his professorial duties or orchestrating his campaign, he enjoys biking and CrossFit. He is a father of three, including a 17-year-old daughter and two younger twin boys. 
Gade says that, as a senator, he’d like to change the “divisiveness and nastiness” in today’s political climate.
“I’m willing to sit down and talk face to face, but there are some people in this political climate who are not willing to do that,” he said. “Politicians just see the R or the D, but don’t see the A for American. They need to focus on the A first.”
ssolano@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In early November, Terrace Dining Room staff member Anthony Beagle passed away unexpectedly at age 51. After his passing, students created a memorial board to honor his memory after there was no communication about the passing from either food provider Chartwells or the University, according to previous reporting by The Eagle. There was a desire by students to honor his memory, regardless of a formal University notification. We commend these students for their empathy, and creating a tribute to Beagle and the memories that many on campus have with him.
Dining staff members, housekeeping staff and maintenance staff are all vital members of the campus community, not just for the difficult work they do in feeding and cleaning up after students, but because the nature of their work puts them into contact with students every day. It is these staff members that students see most regularly, and it is these staff members who often bond with students outside of the formal relationship of classes. For many students on campus, these members of our campus community are worth celebrating everyday. When one of them, especially in the case of Anthony Beagle, who was well-known for his outgoing personality, is suddenly gone, it has an impact.
The University’s lack of acknowledgement of Beagle’s passing is upsetting. If it had not been for the word of mouth from some other TDR staff members to students, it is doubtful that students on campus would have ever known about this. There would have been no knowledge of what had happened, just students wondering where what may have been their most consistent friendly face had gone. While the dining staff is not technically employed by the University, this lack of a statement seems to disregard how meaningful these staff members are. A public statement, either on a University social media platform or via email, that the very least provided condolences to the family of Beagle and alerted students would have been appropriate.
By both students and the University as a whole, these staff members can be forgotten, or their hard work unappreciated. In the case of students, however, there is consistent work to value and more importantly, support these campus community members, as there is a history of campus activism regarding TDR employees. 
Not formally acknowledging the passing of a member of the campus community, as the University does for students, professors and other administrative members, seems dismissive. Students may have never interacted with a member of the administration, and while their passing should be acknowledged, students would also like the life of someone who talked to them everyday, perhaps for four years, to be given that recognition too.
Students are connecting with TDR staff members, and their death could be difficult to deal with. As the University generally does when other campus members pass, they provide a reminder of resources that students can access in dealing with grief. This situation, however, did not provide that necessary opportunity for encouragement to discuss a students grief. Instead, the University allowed for a situation where the onus is on students to talk about their memories surrounding Beagle and their feelings of grief. This emphasizes what seems to be an ignorance by the University as to how much students care about the people working with them.
The inconsistency in messaging about deaths of campus members is an issue for students. There do not always seem to be formal notifications about the death of faculty and administrators, and certainly not for staff members on campus. This can leave students in the dark about what has happened to someone who may have made an impact on their AU experience, and wondering what to do with their grief. 
It is vital that students feel that if something happens to someone on campus, unless there is a desire for privacy from the family, that they will know what happened. Grief and sadness are complicated feelings that can be further complicated by the feeling that students may not “know” a staff member as well as their family or friends. Formal acknowledgement by the University of the impact that someone like Anthony Beagle had on students, someone who may have talked to them every day or who was just a friendly face, is the least that students ask for.
opinion@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It is very hard to be a student journalist. It’s even harder to be a student journalist with little to no access to information about the institutions you’re attempting to cover. 
American University is a private university, which means it is not subject to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). As a result, student journalists (and other information-seeking students or citizens) cannot file FOIA requests to gain access to records that the school holds, many of which would provide information to students about the operation of the university that they attend.  
In the three years that I have written for The Eagle, I’ve noticed how much of a hassle making these requests can be. The University is rarely forthcoming with accurate information, and there’s little we can do about it, besides continuing to ask the administration to give us even the tiniest amount of details. 
Student journalists at public schools, which are subject to FOIA, have accomplished a number of amazing things, thanks to their ability to legally request and access information. Students at the University of Kansas used public records to uncover secret settlements to a faculty member in their design school. Students at the University of Manchester used their version of a FOIA request to find out how much money the university invested in fossil fuels. Students at Utah State University uncovered ways in which their tuition money was being spent by filing public records requests. A Princeton University student used New Jersey open record laws to write a piece about campus tax evasion. 
These students uncovered stories and wrote groundbreaking pieces in an attempt to check the power of their universities. The ability to access University information is a vital way in which student journalists can do their jobs and hold their institutions accountable for their actions – which is why students at private universities should be able to FOIA information from their own institutions or at least have an easier way to access information.
Schools like American University, with robust journalism programs, often act as a training ground for young aspiring reporters. For many of us, it’s our first contact with the realm of reporting. Students should be able to learn what the job of a full-time reporter entails on campus, so restricting the amount of information available to them can be a hindrance to that learning. 
Of course, the lack of protection from FOIA hasn’t stopped the student journalists I know from doing incredible work. But it does mean that it’s much harder to perform the role of a school newspaper and disseminate information to other students on campus. 
Granted, we all agreed to the rules of a private university when we sent in our first tuition payments, but we did so hoping that the University would still be transparent and inform us of what’s going on. That hasn’t always been the case, and for a college campus where many of us live and work and eat and sleep, we deserve to know some of what goes on behind the curtain. 
Private universities simply do not operate like other private institutions such as companies or large businesses, because it is a place where people go about their daily lives. People don’t live and sleep at their jobs, but we do live and sleep at universities. Because of this, shouldn’t students have more of a right to know what’s going on behind closed doors? If we're living on this campus and we're here for 24 hours a day all semester, don’t we have a right to know what happens on it? 
There is some hope for one day allowing students to file FOIA requests because private school power is not absolute. Schools are not allowed to have total control over their students, and there is certain information that has been deemed necessary to release to the public. The Clery Act requires both public and private universities to publish campus crime data each year. In California, the Leonard Law restricts school censorship of newspapers. Since these laws have already restricted some private university power, there is always the possibility that FOIA could be opened up to student journalists at private universities. Unfortunately, I don’t believe it’s likely, but I do believe that it should be allowed at least in some scenarios.
I understand that certain information needs to be protected. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which safeguards student education records, must always be protected. The University does have a legal right to restrict certain information — it’s a private school and the administration has privileges granted to them by the government that public schools do not have. But if the University is not going to be open about anything, which so often seems to be the case, then we should at least have some tools at our disposal to report on that, and FOIA is often one of the best tools a journalist has. 
Lauren Patetta is a junior in the School of Communication and an assistant editor for the opinion section.
lpatetta@theeagleonline.com
This article originally appeared in The Eagle's December 2019 print edition.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
