Black lives matter. 
The first time I spoke with Tamir Harper was in 2018 for an interview for The Eagle. I was writing a story about him and the work he’s done to advocate for improving public education through the Philadelphia-based nonprofit he co-founded, UrbEd.
He is kind, smart and talented. Harper, the editor-in-chief of The Blackprint, demonstrated that kindness when he agreed to have the publication collaborate with The Eagle on a feature story about Black artists at American University. In 2019, the two publications teamed up on a project about Black student-athletes.
The misnaming of Harper in The Eagle’s newsletter was not a misspelling. There was no extra letter placed where it did not belong. The last name was entirely wrong, and it was the last name of Tamir Rice, a Black 12-year-old who was killed in 2014 by a police officer in Cleveland. 
When Black lives are lost, it is not only devastating because of the years the person had ahead of them. It’s also devastating because there are people who cared for and loved that person. Family members and friends must learn to cope, even though their loved one was suddenly taken away from them.
News reports and video footage of Rice being killed also have a traumatizing impact on Black people. 
The killings of Black people do not just stay with us as names. To hear of them, read about them and view them hurts, and that hurt compounds.
The Eagle should have prevented this from happening. It was a careless error. Beyond egregious. The message the error sent was that Black lives don’t matter; that all Black people look alike; that Black men don’t have their own distinct experiences, talents and ambitions.
I can’t count the number of times I’ve been mistaken for one of my Black peers. Black people are misnamed all the time, and it is unacceptable. I am so sorry for my carelessness.
What The Eagle can do now is work to prevent mistakes like this from happening again. We are adjusting the deadlines for completing drafts of newsletters, so that there is more time to edit them. We are also adding more sets of eyes to edit the newsletter before it is sent out.
Rod Wilson, the Student Media Board adviser, is reaching out to find someone to conduct mandatory implicit bias training for The Eagle’s staff.
We will continue and build upon the work we have already done to improve our coverage of underrepresented students. That includes reaching out to organizations representing students of color to listen to their perspectives and concerns. It also includes being thoughtful about the language that we use to report on the complex array of experiences of Black students. 
Fariha Rahman, The Eagle’s community engagement editor, will continue to pitch stories for our news department about the experiences of students from underrepresented groups. While that is the focus of that position, which The Eagle launched last academic year, the department’s other section editors are also responsible for ensuring we cover the stories of underrepresented students.
This fall, we’re seeking to hire a community outreach director, who will head our retention and recruitment efforts, with a focus on diversifying our staff and making this organization more equitable and inclusive. This student will also write bimonthly Diversity, Equity and Inclusion group updates for our website. The idea for the position was birthed over the summer. 
The Eagle respects The Blackprint’s decision to end our collaboration. We hope to earn their trust, and we realize that process can’t happen overnight.
saustin@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
American University has released a statement announcing that they will be leaving Blackboard for the younger, hotter educational platform Canvas. 
“The split is amicable, and a long-time coming,” said AU spokesperson Joe Weiss. 
“We just aren’t in the same place in our lives,” Weiss continued. “Blackboard just isn’t what it used to be.”
The statement released by AU detailed general dissatisfaction with the relationship, citing vanilla graphics and both front and back end problems with the site. The report concluded that it was time to find a new platform that was young and fresh and under 25.
“‘I’ll post it on Blackboard later’ just doesn’t get us going like it used to,” Weiss said. 
Representatives for Blackboard, which has been living with AU for the past decade, told a very different story.
“We are shocked and deeply hurt,” Blackboard representative, Cathy Thornton, said. “We heard rumors that AU had been talking to other educational platforms, but we never thought it would end like this.”
“We’ve spent the last decade pouring our heart and soul into this relationship, and to be dumped so suddenly really stings,” Thornton added. 
But friends of Blackboard said that things started to turn sour a few years back when it became clear that their learning objectives didn’t line up. 
“I’ll be honest, AU and I have had a few conversations that may have crossed the line,” said a spokesperson for online tutoring platform Khan Academy, who chose to remain anonymous. 
“But we shut that down quickly and made sure to keep everything professional,” the source added.
Though the split between AU and Blackboard has been officially announced, the two confirmed that it was going to take a while to disentangle their lives. 
“Yeah, right,” a Quizlet spokesperson said. “We all know they’re still going to ‘see each other’ for at least another few years.”
Canvas was last spotted on a yacht in Miami with dozens of other educational service providers, including SparkNotes, College Board and even Crash Course. 
“It’s like chill or whatever,” said a rep. for Canvas, when asked how they felt about AU and Blackboard being spotted together.
“As long as AU doesn’t go broke or something crazy, we’re good,” the Canvas rep. added, taking off their heels and walking across the street to an Uber that wasn’t theirs.
Bobbie Armstrong is a senior in the School of Communication and the satire editor at The Eagle.
barmstrong@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
