Alumna Mia Van Allen founded Color of Music Collective to amplify people of color and LGBTQ individuals in the music industry.
At the start of the Color of Music Collective’s panel “Word of Mouth: The Power of Digital Marketing + Promotion Confirmation,” founder and American University alumna Mia Van Allen asked an important question.
“Digital marketing campaigns can be great ways to display solidarity for social change movements to large audiences,” Van Allen said. “As a marketing professional, how do you ensure that your campaigns and marketing strategies are inclusive, diverse and impactful?”
It’s a question that professionals across the country are asking, but one that Van Allen feels is especially pressing in the music industry, which is why she created the Color of Music Collective (COMC) to amplify the voices of people of color and LGBTQ individuals in the music industry.
As a Black student, Van Allen said that she noticed a lack of representation in the music industry through her studies as a public relations major and business and entertainment minor. At her various internships, Van Allen said that she was often the only person or woman of color in the workspace. 
“I dealt with imposter syndrome, and my way of dealing with that was networking with people of color … and getting their guidance throughout college,” Van Allen said. “It created this sort of mentorship program for myself and I was able to maintain those relationships.”
The connections that Van Allen made at AU gave her the idea to create the COMC. She first went to Emily Yankana, a friend and fellow graduate from AU, to flesh out the idea.
Yankana, who is Filipino and West Indian, said she was also troubled by the lack of representation of people of color and LGBTQ individuals at predominantly white institutions like AU and in the music industry. 
Yankana, who graduated with a public relations degree in 2019, is determined to transfer her skills to advocate for underrepresented communities in the public relations field. She said that one way she can do that is through volunteering on COMC’s social media team.
Van Allen said that Yankana was the one who thought of making a collective of BIPOC and LGBTQ individuals in the music industry through virtual networking. The pair worked on COMC’s brand and name, and Yankana used her background in marketing and advocacy to help bring Van Allen’s ideas to life.
The collective launched in June with a free virtual networking panel featuring LGBTQ and BIPOC human resources representatives from different companies. After its first panel, Van Allen said its email inboxes and direct messages were filled with hopeful volunteers. 
“That whole collaboration part is what makes us really special and what makes our community really special,” Yankana said. “I’m always so ecstatic when we add someone new to the team because it just means that I get to watch them grow and mold them into fitting whatever goals they have to achieve.”
Hana Braverman, a 2020 AU alumna who studied business entertainment with concentrations in music and information technology, said that she joined COMC as a community outreach volunteer because of her interest in the music industry and her own experiences feeling underrepresented.
As someone who identifies as half-Korean and as part of the LGBTQ community, Braverman said it was rare to see someone “like her” in the industry. She emphasized that, in the music industry, there is “blatant racism and misogyny.”
“If you are a marginalized voice and you want to work in the industry, it’s so hard to just cold call or apply online,” Braverman said. “This is a really great way to network and meet people and learn about what to expect and what to know.”
As a community outreach director, Braverman and other volunteers brainstorm panel ideas and research potential panelists to bring into the event. Van Allen said that its panels have hit capacity nearly every time. 
“I like to keep it as diverse as possible — ideally different races and different sexualities and genders each time,” Van Allen said, in reference to the panelists.
While the panels give participants an opportunity to ask questions and listen to BIPOC and LGBTQ voices inside of the industry, the volunteers reap the benefits as well.
“Mia, and the whole group, [are] really keen on making sure these people that are volunteering are making those connections because we’re the ones that are really interested in working, and obviously volunteering,” Braverman said. 
Aside from panels, COMC hosts BIPOC and LGBTQ writers on its blog and provides a comprehensive job board with both paid and unpaid internships and part-time and full-time jobs.
“Essentially the job board is for employers and organizations to reach out to us,” Yankana said. “This is sort of us trying our hand at coordinating that process and extending new opportunities to not just our volunteers, but the wider audience in itself.”
On Aug. 14, the organization hosted “The Listening Room,” a virtual concert featuring BIPOC and LGBTQ artists and the band BAILEN as a headliner. The group raised over $200 for Arts Administrators of Color.
Van Allen and the COMC have big plans lined up. In addition to regular panels, Van Allen has started teaching seminars at universities like New York University about racial discrimination in the music industry.
Van Allen and her team are determined to use their growing platform to create a more accessible entry to the music industry for underrepresented communities. Although they’ve already made a difference to their volunteers and audience members, Yankana said that the collective’s work is a “continuous process” to figure out how to best amplify those voices.
“It’s a tough industry and people won’t tell you secrets,” Braverman said. “But it’s nice having people who are like, ‘I understand your struggle and let’s do this together so we can see the industry in a new way.’”
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The fall semester holds a lot of new beginnings for students. New classes, new classmates and, for some, a new apartment with a kitchen that can seem a little scary. Cooking for oneself for the first time is difficult because there’s a lot to consider like budget, time and ingredients. However, studies show that cooking your own meals can be better for your body and have a lot of added psychological benefits if you share those meals with others. Instead of being intimidated, see cooking as a new type of self-care where you can learn more about yourself and grow as a chef. Here is a list of six budget and dietary-restriction friendly recipes for any type of cook that require little equipment and little time. These recipes are perfect after a long day of Zoom classes.
1. Cauliflower and Chickpea Masala (Vegetarian/Vegan)
Posted by the blog Budget Bytes, this masala recipe can be whipped up in just 40 minutes for an easy, weeknight meal. Served with hot rice or naan, this dish can be transformed into a vegan dinner by substituting the heavy cream for full fat coconut milk. The best part about this dish is that it is inexpensive and will hold up well in the fridge, making it a perfect meal prep option for busy weeks.
2. Slow Cooker Chicken and Butternut Squash Stew (Gluten/Dairy-free)
September is here, and no dish can welcome fall better than this warm creation. A slow cooker is a great kitchen tool for the busy student, because this stew only needs some simple prep before it cooks itself on the counter during the day. Looking for some ways to add more nutrients to this stew? The Natural Nurturer recommends adding some dark, leafy greens in the last few minutes before serving the dish, or topping it off with avocado, in order to add some healthy fats. This dish can easily be reheated from the fridge for the week and saved frozen for up to a month.
3. Quinoa and Kale Salad (Vegetarian/Vegan/Gluten-free)
TikTok star and creator of the blog Collegetown Kitchen, Jeremy Scheck, dishes up content for great meal-time inspiration. In this one-minute video, Scheck’s mom breaks down his family’s favorite kale salad with a homemade lemon vinaigrette. Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese is added to the salad for some additional flavor, but that can easily be omitted to comply with any dietary restrictions. Top this dish off with the protein of your choice to take this great salad from a hearty lunch to an excellent dinner. The salad ingredients can be prepared and stored in the fridge in separate containers and assembled before eating to maintain freshness for several more days. Kale, however, is a strong enough green that this salad can hold the dressing on it for next-day leftovers.
4. One Pan Sausage and Vegetables (Dairy-free)
This easy meal from the blog Chelsea’s Messy Apron comes together within 40 minutes in one pan in the oven and makes excellent leftovers. It’s great served with your favorite type of whole grain and needs almost no prep to taste so good. The recipe calls for potatoes, green beans, broccoli and bell peppers, but any variety of seasonal vegetables will taste great roasted next to chicken or turkey sausage. Frozen vegetables can also be used to make this recipe even easier. This guide from The Kitchn offers a great tutorial on how to get frozen vegetables roasted just right.
5. Frittata Egg Muffins (Vegetarian/Gluten-free)
If getting up early to cook a healthy breakfast sounds impossible, then try baking these easy, protein-packed bites from RecipeTin Eats the night before. These frittata egg muffins will last in the fridge for up to four days and freeze for up to three months. Filled with spinach, cherry tomatoes, bell peppers and feta, these little frittatas are the perfect addition to your morning cup of coffee or can be eaten as a mid-afternoon snack for a little pick-me-up between classes. Serve it with some fresh bacon or breakfast sausage for a hearty start to the day.
6. Sweet Potato Black Bean Chili (Vegetarian/Vegan/Gluten Free)
Chelsea’s Messy Apron is back with another great and easy dish. This vegetarian chili can be made vegan with some quick substitutions, and it can be reheated all week long. Jalapeño, lime juice and fresh cilantro add a level of brightness to this chili that complements the sweet potato. If you want to add a little variety to this chili for a week of meals, serve it over a baked potato with some plain greek yogurt or sour cream, have it in a taco salad, or create this amazing teriyaki sweet potato and black bean quesadilla.
In the digital age, culinary dishes are easy to share and recreate through blogs or social media platforms like Instagram and TikTok. This list is only the beginning, meant to offer a little inspiration for any cook (no matter their level of experience) to bring cooking into their routine. All of these recipes make for some great leftovers, can be eaten throughout the week and enjoyed all semester long.
ewalsh@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
