The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
A candle-lit memoriam flooded the darkened stairway, leading to the now forbidden pathway to TDR. The mood was somber, yet nostalgic. Tears of mourning splashed before the orange traffic cones just beyond the stairway and the TDR exit, plastered with a sign that said “EMERGENCY EXIT.” 
Serving as the Mary Graydon Center’s backdoor to iconic food stops, such as the Market, under the parking garage tunnel, one of the most popular fire exits leading out from TDR has now been shut down temporarily after fifty AU students have disappeared through what experts are calling a “gateway to Narnia.”
“All the money we paid for our daughter to go to this school was a waste,” Marsha Mathers said, mother of Gina Mathers, one of the missing students. While her sobbing echoed throughout the only shady corridor on campus, she crooned over her daughter’s lost opportunities. 
“I should’ve just had her to go to a trade school so that she would’ve learned something useful and beneficial to society,” Mathers said. “Instead she came here and all she learned about was ‘The Feminine Mystique.’”
“This time around, the entrance appears to be in some sad, shallow alleyway instead of some ancient oak wardrobe,” said Vinny Regus, president of AU’s Fantasy Club. “Additionally, rather than attracting the souls of four traumatized children, the gateway seems to be alluring young adults plagued with insomnia and the inevitable institutional-induced destruction of their mental state.”
Students are now recalling their lucky escapes having passed through the alley on various occasions throughout the years.
“I used to cut through that way to get to Subway more quickly,” Larissa Thompson said. “Once my boyfriend vanished after going through there, I realized that it wasn’t worth going that way just to clog my arteries with some greasy footlong more easily.”
To the University’s surprise, despite it being closed off from our side of the universe, hundreds of mythological creatures have still managed to find their way to our world.
“The kids here keep asking if we’re international exchange students,” said Rick, a 14-foot tall centaur who sought to escape the war-ravaged land of Narnia. “I guess this is payback for abducting those four British kids a century ago. I mean, why would anyone want to end up here?”
It is suspected that these students, lost to some vicarious nether, may be forced to fight in an eternal onslaught against forces even greater than college rigor.
“It’s like World War III has already started for them,” Grover Redfield said, a satyr and inter-dimensional culture consultant for the worlds of Narnia and AU. “The only way for winter to return to D.C. is not through the fight against climate change, but with victory against the armies of the White Witch.”
Aslan, the famous lion leader of the Narnians, has also reportedly been seen sneaking in and out of the gateway on numerous occasions. When confronted about his purposes behind opening the gateway, he had this to say:
“Oh, uh, it’s time to stop climate change.”
Justin Poulin is a sophomore in the School of International Service, and is a satire columnist at the Eagle.
jpoulin@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
 The Avalon Theater is an independent theater in the Chevy Chase neighborhood of D.C.
When he was growing up in Chevy Chase, American University professor and film producer Josh Levin would visit his neighborhood theater, the Avalon Theatre, which opened in 1923. In fact, Levin frequented many local theaters, like the Key Theatre in Georgetown and the MacArthur Theater in the Palisades, as a child, before most of them closed down.
Levin, now 51 years old, remembered one day while he was passing the Avalon, how his father cried out “They’re ripping out the popcorn machine!” The Avalon was being gutted. The building itself was nearly barren until a non-profit, the Avalon Theatre Project, reopened the theater in April of 2003 and continued to screen films.
Most D.C. theaters weren’t lucky enough to be revived like the Avalon. The District used to have over 100 local theaters, but today, the Avalon Theatre is only one of two locally run, full-time movie houses.
Without local theaters, “we lose our identity,” Levin said, and the community becomes separated from culture.
Aviva Kempner, a local historical documentary filmmaker, lives near the Avalon and was relieved to see it saved. Many of Kempner’s films are screened at the Avalon. She said independent theaters have the important role of keeping their neighborhoods entertained and educated.
“I’ve been in the neighborhood for 25 years,” Kempner said. “Saving it was personal and political.” 
Levin has seen theaters disappear while living in the District. “I was driving past the MacArthur Theater, and I saw that it had become a CVS,” he said with a shake of his head. “All of these places that are meaningful … they’re gone.”
Bob Headley, co-author of the book “Movie Theaters of Washington, D.C.,” which details the history of bygone theaters, had a similar sense of pessimism about the loss of these neighborhood relics. 
“These places were, for so long, the cultural life of the city,” Headley said. “These used-to-be theaters were places for neighbors to meet and where audiences could get more choice of what films to see,” 
Local theaters started disappearing in the 1950s, Headley explained. Independent theaters were the venues that would show “unusual” movies like foreign films or local projects. Today, Regal Cinemas, AMC Theatres and other exhibition corporations dominate screenings and show the same movies. As theaters have closed down, the variety has decreased, and there is less value in choice, Headley said.
Levin noticed these fewer choices, and he decided to open his own movie house, West End Cinema, in 2010. He wanted to feature “specialty films,” or films beyond those shown in mainstream venues. The motto for West End Cinema was “All Stories Told Here.”
When he opened his movie theater in Georgetown, Levin said he wanted to draw in a diverse audience of university students, African American patrons and foreign language speakers. Levin focused on coordinating screenings with foreign language groups to show international films for D.C.’s prominent international community. Neighborhood theaters have the ability to screen films that fit the neighborhood’s demographic, Levin said, and he wanted to do just that.
But Levin said his audience was mostly “gray-haired.” After operating for five years, West End Cinema closed on March 29, 2015.
Levin said there has been a change in the perceived affordability of seeing films in a theater. “If you ask young people today if it’s convenient to go out and see a movie, they’ll say no,” Levin argued. 
Ticket prices have increased, and once you’ve purchased a ticket, you can’t help but buy concessions, Levin said. At the end of the night, Levin said, many young people don’t think spending that money is worth it.
Another reason why independent theaters are struggling is because of today’s digital revolution, Levin said. With so many streaming services full of high-end content, including mainstream and specialty films, Levin said audiences no longer have the need to go to theaters.
West End Cinema hasn’t been the only theater experiencing these problems. According to the National Association of Theater Owners, there were 7,477 theaters nationwide in 1999. In 2018, there were 5,803 theaters — a 23 percent drop.
Ticket sales were down nationally in 2019, despite 2018 being a record-breaking year for box offices. Fortune Magazine predicted that the box office reached $11.4 billion compared to the nearly $11.9 billion in 2018, which is a four percent drop.
“If you have … losses, people are going to close their theaters,” Levin said. 
Levin also explained that it’s hard to market independent, specialty films to audiences. Outside of a city like D.C., where a film scene is prominent, movie theaters are owned by corporate chains and are screening mainstream films that local theaters don’t show, Levin said. He added that the highest grossing theater in the District is Regal Cinemas’ Gallery Place location.
A Washington Post article reported that a third of the film industry’s revenue came from 10 films out of the 700 that were released in 2017. If independent theaters are unable to screen these films, they could run out of business.
“West End Cinema closed because we couldn’t get A-List movies,” Levin said. Theaters need top-ticket films for purely economic reasons, “to be relevant, to keep the turnstiles ticking,” Levin said.
Levin said that he and the owners of the Avalon Theatre have entered a joint lawsuit against the exhibition corporation Landmark Theatres. After Levin closed West End Cinema, Landmark bought the land’s lease and opened another theater, Landmark’s West End Cinema.
“Landmark drove me out of business,” Levin said, through a distribution tactic called “clearance.” If a theater in an area is showing a film, the exhibition corporation can demand that film distributors don’t give screening licenses to other theaters in that area. While Landmark theaters in the District were showing top-ticket films, Levin said the company’s restrictions kept Levin from getting screening licenses.
Despite theater closures, residents are still hopeful about the future of independent movie-going. 
John Hanshaw, the founder and director of the Washington Film Institute, thought about opening his own independent theater to program foreign films. “There’s a healthy audience in D.C. interested in independent film,” Hanshaw said.
Hanshaw supports the independent scene through the Washington Film Institute. The Institute rents out local theaters to be social venues for foreign or local film screenings. 
Deirdre Evans-Pritchard, the executive director of the D.C. Independent Film Festival, came to the District 15 years ago. She has seen local theaters close as businesses underperform, but she said the film festival is bringing attention back to local theaters.
DCIFF is “keeping independent cinema alive in D.C.,” Evans-Pritchard said. Eighty percent of the selected filmmakers come to D.C. for the festival, which encourages locals to come to screenings as well. Evans-Pritchard said she often reads letters from D.C. residents expressing their gratitude and appreciation for the festival.
Still, despite Levin’s and others’ avid support of local theaters, there simply aren’t many left, and not many people seem to notice. “Theaters were aesthetic, fascinating, exotic places to be entertained,” Levin said, but he’s “concerned about where we are as an industry and a culture” as independent theaters disappear.
Headley isn’t as down-trodden. He’s seen local communities protect their theaters, such as the Avalon Theatre. “You can save these places if you get neighborhood support … You can make a case for saving a theater anywhere,” Headley said. 
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
 The Avalon Theater is an independent theater in the Chevy Chase neighborhood of D.C.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Emily Fisher blocks a player from passing the ball during a Nov. 9, 2018 game against Tulsa.
AU women’s basketball experienced a setback on Saturday in their chase for a home-court playoff game, overcome by Lafayette’s size advantage in a 67-52 loss inside Bender Arena. AU (8-12, 4-6 PL) dropped to seventh place in the Patriot League standings, while Lafayette (11-9, 7-3 PL) shot up to third place following their fifth consecutive victory.
“It was rough,” head coach Megan Gebbia said post-game. “We never got ourselves into a flow offensively. We’re inconsistent on both ends of the floor.”
AU did everything in their power to contain Lafayette’s size, but Lafayette’s tandem of bigs, led by 6-foot-3 junior forward Natalie Kucowski and 6-foot-2 senior forward Alexis Santarelli, spoiled the fruits of their labor. The pair set the tone early on the defensive end, holding AU to just six points in the paint before the Eagles’ 23-point fourth quarter.
“They got some high-low looks on us, which was frustrating since we didn’t have help-side [defense],” Gebbia said. “Help was not there all the time.”
Kucowski, who won last year’s Patriot League Defensive Player of the Year honors, stuffed the stat sheet on Saturday as she finished with 18 points, seven rebounds, six blocks, and five assists.
“She’s a fantastic player,” senior guard Kaitlyn Marenyi said. “We know that she’s a big presence inside, so [we were] just trying to find a way to get her in foul trouble, or to pull her out so we can get inside shots without her in there.”
While her efficiency wasn’t at its usual clip, Marenyi produced enough instant offense led the Eagles in scoring with 13 points. She has provided a degree of consistency for AU, registering double-digit points in her last eight games.
Offensive production was an issue for the rest of the Eagles, though. The team could not have asked for a colder start, as they hit just two of their 13 shots in the opening quarter. 
“Every day, every game, you’ve got to come out with competitiveness and with some fire,” Marenyi said. “We’re trying to find the groove with each other.”
Scoring came much easier for Lafayette’s forwards. Santarelli, who spent the afternoon opening up driving lanes by setting hard screens for her teammates, also finished with 14 points and nine rebounds. 
Kucowski, meanwhile, dominated with a variety of spin moves and fadeaways in the post against hapless AU defenders. The Leopards finished with 26 points in the paint, which nearly doubled AU’s interior production (14 points).
The Leopards went up 32-17 at half after Kucowski’s last-second, ankle-breaker three silenced the Bender arena crowd. Lafayette nailed 47 percent of their three-point attempts on Saturday despite entering the game averaging just 31 percent on treys.
AU’s offense continued to stall out against Lafayette’s zone defense in the third quarter and entered the final frame down 52-29. The Eagles were ice-cold from three over the game’s first three quarters, as they connected on just 19 percent of the shots Lafayette had designed their defense to allow.
“We were trying to tell them where the shots were that were open, and it took us a while to get the confidence to take those shots,” Gebbia said. “We’ve got to be able to attack zone better than this.”
Just when the game seemed like it couldn’t get any more out of hand for the Eagles, a scoreboard malfunction in the fourth quarter incorrectly showed them trailing 147-29. After three long minutes, officials corrected the score, but the error clearly stung AU.
AU was finally able to get rolling in after the delay, thanks to a boost from sophomore guard Emily Fisher. Fisher’s defensive intensity was one of the few bright spots for the Eagles and propelled them to their only positive quarter in the game.
The Eagles will look to bounce next week as they travel to New York to face the last-place Army Black Knights (5-16, 1-9 PL) on Feb. 8 at 2 p.m.
snusbaum@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I like to compare my anxiety disorder to a spiral. It coils around my heart, and on a good day, it’s relaxed, hanging loosely around it. There are other days, though, when the coil winds itself tight around my chest, making it hard to breathe and work and do any of the countless other activities of an AU student. Those days were the reason I sought out the Counseling Center at AU – but I quickly learned that it would be three weeks before an intake appointment.  
I am not the only college student who deals with mental illness. A 2013 survey from the American Psychological Association, which actually included participants from AU, found that 41.6 percent of the students surveyed struggled with anxiety and 36.4 percent reported struggles with depression. Suicide is the tenth leading cause of death in the U.S., but for people between the ages of 10 and 34, it is the second. Other studies have noted that the rate of mental illness in young adults has risen dramatically over the past decade. Given this, it’s no surprise that the Counseling Center is overbooked; students on campus are reaching out to the only resource they have.
The increase in student mental illness rates – which President Burwell noted last year in her essay for Foreign Affairs Magazine – is what makes the administration’s most recent email to students particularly reprehensible.
In the email, Vice President of Campus Life and Inclusive Excellence Fanta Aw writes that “many students have expressed concerns over access to mental healthcare” and that “this is feedback [AU officials] take very seriously.” Then, contrary to that point, she goes to list the statistics of students who failed to show up at appointments this past semester, saying that “20 percent of all appointments made at the Counseling Center this fall were not attended.” She does not discuss what is being done to improve access to mental healthcare, nor does she give any indication that the University is actually taking the issue seriously. 
The message boils down to this: the University's failure to provide inadequate access to mental healthcare isn’t our fault, it’s the administration's. 
The tone is incredibly dismissive, especially for addressing such a prevalent and serious issue. The email ignores the concerns of the 80 percent of students who did show up to appointments. It fails to offer solutions to the lengthy wait times, the restricted amount of counseling sessions students are given, or the cost of off-campus therapy once those sessions are finished. It is notably silent about the necessity for a more diverse counseling staff to best meet the needs of minority groups on campus. And although I had an incredibly positive experience with my therapist at the center, others on campus have made it clear that they do not feel the same. 
This is not the first time the AU administration has taken a questionable stance on mental healthcare at the University. They’ve failed to implement improvements that students have been advocating for. President Burwell’s essay last year received criticism for blaming mental illness on our lack of “resiliency and a lower appetite for risk and failure.” 
All of these responses stem from one core problem surrounding mental healthcare debates. It’s the idea that mental illness is not valid, that it does not need to be taken as seriously as, say, a physical injury. This mentality seems to be the underlying current that drives the administration’s actions – or, more accurately, inactions – regarding mental health services. 
If the administration viewed mental illness as a valid health problem that requires immediate and thoughtful assistance, they’d be less likely to throw the blame on students for not showing up to sessions. Hopefully, they’d be more likely to treat it with the urgency it demands. It’d be unthinkable to tell someone with the flu to wait a month to visit the health center, so why is it acceptable when it comes to our mental health, especially when it’s such a prevalent problem on campus? I’m not saying that everyone in the AU administration doesn’t care about mental illness, but that’s the message they’re sending with emails like this. It’s the message that I received countless times while seeking treatment for my anxiety and was told to “stop being dramatic.” 
These problems can’t be solved overnight, I understand that. I also understand that it’s likely difficult to hire new counselors, because mental illness is a tricky problem, and they want only the strongest candidates to make it through. But there is little to no effort being made on part of the administration to actually begin the process. The University received a $8 million dollars last semester to improve our athletics facility. If we can receive donations for athletics facilities, it would be great to see someone ask for contributions towards mental health services as well.
Rather than blame students, the University needs to listen, then actively work to address issues we bring up. It’s time that AU gets out of the mindset that mental illness and its struggles can be brushed aside and deflected onto those suffering from it.
Lauren Patetta is a junior in the School of Communication and the former assistant editor for the opinion section.
lpatetta@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU Student Union Board invited Jaboukie Young-White to perform stand-up for AU students on Jan. 26.
American University’s Student Union Board welcomed comedian Jaboukie Young-White, best known for his work on “The Daily Show,” to Constitution Hall, on Sunday, Jan. 26. 
Jaboukie performed a stand-up set, entertaining a large crowd of students. His act was an expressive parody, poking fun at some of the major problems in the ongoing news cycle. Whether it was his jokes on trendy food items, phone addiction or living in cities – Jaboukie actively kept the audience engaged in stories that were more meaningful of a bigger societal picture. 
Opener Charlie Bardey performed before Jaboukie’s set, joking about his “weird vibes,” his daily life with his therapist and his sex life as a gay man. Bardey interacted with the crowd, performing multiple side-bars in his introduction, and even researched some things that AU students joke about, such as the Terrace Dining Room. 
Following Bardey, Jabokuie walked on stage with roaring applause. Jaboukie joked about many topics that AU students could relate to, such as living in cities, riding public transit and getting into college. One joke he told was about how he and a close friend in high school took pictures of already-graded tests and were able to cheat their way through their AP European History class to the point where their scores were starting to influence the grading curve. Laughingly, Jaboukie said he and his friend, “were in class like, ‘we love Euro.’” 
Jaboukie’s act also touched on many deeper topics. He talked about what it has been like living in the current political and social environment. He shared stories about living as a gay person in the U.S., and what the Democratic primary has come to, saying, “It’s hard to swallow everything.” He engaged the crowd with a PowerPoint slide presentation where he compared mainstream foods, such as Oat Milk, to famous actresses. 
Jaboukie’s jokes were more telling of the current political environment, rather than his sense of humor. He often joked about contemporary issues, which have sparked debate throughout the world, such as phone addiction, social media, and 23andMe. He also made light of his diverse background growing up in a religious Jamaican family in New York, and what it is like living in the U.S. as a minority.
He closed the night with a story about being robbed on his walk home. The robbers took his phone and ran; however, they came back and asked for his passcode. At the end of the story, Jaboukie managed to get his phone back, saying “If you’re annoying enough, you can do anything.”
Jaboukie said during his set that he was uncertain about what the future of politics and social issues looked like, but he looks to comedy as another way of thinking about the issues that are impeding students’ newsfeeds and social lives. 
aclarke@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
