Ravi Raman’s “Love in Six Lines” series painted on a wall adjacent to Timoteo Murphy’s “Jump 4 Da Life” installation covering construction barricades at the Dupont Circle Metro stop on Friday, Oct. 23, 2020.
Even though the exhibit is only temporary, two local artists decorated the construction barricades at the Dupont Circle Metro station to beautify the neighborhood. 
Construction is underway for a new overhead canopy to protect riders entering and exiting the escalator from harsh weather at the north entrance of the Dupont Circle Metro station. Temporary construction barricades surround the project to shield messy construction work from public view and to protect pedestrians from any debris or potential worksite accidents.
Local artists Timoteo Murphy and Ravi Raman worked in partnership with the Dupont Circle Business Improvement District and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority Art in Transit program to paint the temporary barricades.
“WMATA is aware that the construction canopy may not be the most visually appealing thing to look at every day,” said Laurent Odde, the program manager for the WMATA Art in Transit program.
To remedy this eyesore, Murphy and Raman covered the bright green barricades with their artwork.
“This project is ephemeral,” said Anne Delaney, the project coordinator for the WMATA Art in Transit program. “It’s on a temporary structure. I think there is an appeal that people will enjoy it, remember it, miss it. It’s a real mystery. That’s part of the experience.”
Dupont Circle is one of the busiest Metro stations. Before the pandemic, it served an average of nearly 17,000 people per weekday, according to WMATA’s ridership data. As of this August, the average weekday ridership at the Dupont Circle station is down 92 percent when compared to August 2019.
“The installation, it’s really … enlivening this corner,” said Colleen Hawkinson, the executive director of the Dupont Circle Business Improvement District (BID). “The station, it’s high foot traffic. It’s high vehicle traffic. It’s at the intersection of a major bike route as well, so there’s a lot of visibility.”
In addition to its aesthetic beauty, the art serves a practical purpose. Hawkinson said that the public responded positively to a similar initiative in June 2019 that also commissioned Murphy and Raman to paint murals on temporary construction barricades throughout Dupont Circle.
“We did find that people were taking pictures of themselves in front of the artwork,” Hawkinson said. “This also prevented graffiti from being applied.”
Raman, the local contemporary artist behind the “Love in Six Lines” paintings featured currently at the Dupont Circle Metro station, created the series to toe the line, literally, between complexity and simplicity.
“The original analogy that I was trying to make is that something that looks very simple can also be complicated,” Raman said. “Love is kind of the same way. With everything being so polarized, I thought it would be nice to have a message that completely flies in the face of all that anger and puts a smile on someone’s face.”
The series’ simplicity and message contrasts with Washington’s politicized art scene.
“The town tends to have political messages, or messages that people can be diametrically opposed to, whereas my message is way more simple, and it’s pretty universal,” Raman said.  “Who can argue with love?”
Murphy’s “Jump 4 Da Life” series, featured on the barricades adjacent to Raman’s artwork, is a photo collaboration between Murphy and conceptual artist Maps Glover to visually represent lives lost to fatal police force. Murphy photographed Glover jumping over 300 times in one day, with each jump representing a life lost.
“My project is not saying, ‘Black Lives Matter,’” Murphy said. “My project represents the life that was taken, any life. It’s not about Black or white.”
As an Afro-Latino man, Murphy understands the lived reality of Black men in 2020. Murphy said he hopes that passersby can see in his artwork how he, as an “artist in the community, is affected by politics.”
During his art installation at Dupont Circle, police approached and confronted Murphy twice. At one point, two Metro transit officers and three Metropolitan police officers arrived and lingered around Murphy.
“They stopped me for a total of six hours during two days of work,” Murphy said. “I showed the police my texts and emails verifying that I could do this work at the Metro, but the license wouldn’t load on my phone.”
When Murphy contacted the Dupont Circle BID to provide Metro transit police a copy of their signed agreement, he was then permitted to resume work, Kayla Brown, the marketing and events associate for the Dupont Circle BID, explained in an email. 
“Every contractor is required to have documentation on hand for their activities while conducting work on Metro property,” said WMATA spokesperson Ian Jannetta. “Metro employees and MTPD are instructed to identify such workers on the job site, and that’s what happened here.”
“It kind of kicked the air out of me,” Murphy said. “The project was already taking a lot more effort than I anticipated.
Despite the setbacks, Murphy persisted, and the installation is now complete. Murphy and Raman’s artwork will be available until the temporary barricades are removed in late 2021, Hawkinson said.
“Transit is not just about moving people,” Odde said. “The Art in Transit program is trying to give you an experience beyond just taking the bus or going down to the Metro. It’s about the whole traveling experience.”
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Muskan Kaur left Alpha Xi Delta, a women's fraternity, in fall 2019.
Editor's Note, correction and clarification: This article appeared in The Eagle's October 2020 virtual print edition. It has been corrected with the proper spelling of Alexandra Weed’s name and clarified to state that the Panhellenic Council recruitment registration fee was waived until the end of the year. 
After allegations of racism, colorism and sexual assault in the social Greek life community at American University surfaced this summer, many students disaffiliated from sororities and fraternities on campus, with women of color speaking out about the issues they faced while involved in the majority- white organizations.
Beginning in the summer, social media posts exposing racism and sexual assault allegations on multiple Instagram pages circulated throughout the student body. Many posts said social Greek life was responsible for perpetuating rape culture and racism on campus, with students sharing their allegations anonymously.
Students on social media pressured people within social Greek life to take action, which resulted in the disaffiliation of all members of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity chapter at AU and the resignations of all executive board members of the Alpha Xi Delta AU fraternity chapter.
Social Greek life has historically been majority white at AU and at other predominantly white institutions. Some students of color find community within the organizations represented in the Intercultural Greek Collective (IGC). Cultural clubs and organizations are also available for students to find community.
The police and citizen killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and many other Black Americans led to an eruption of protests throughout the summer. They also led to a reckoning with racism for institutions across the country, including for historically white social Greek organizations.
Many women of color, who were once a part of these organizations, said being in an environment where they did not feel welcome was toxic. The following stories from women of color are not a full representation of AU community members who say they have been harmed by social Greek life, but are rather a sample of voices who have chosen to speak out. Multiple members have claimed to face homophobia, transphobia and anti-Black racism as well.
In fall 2019, now-junior Ruby Avila chose to disaffiliate from Alpha Chi Omega, a women’s fraternity, due to a lack of diversity and financial aid within social Greek life. Avila said she joined the organization her freshman year to make new friends, but soon felt there was not a place for her.“No one looked like me, no one had the financial status like me, and the people who did, I became friends with them, but they quickly dropped as well,” Avila said.
Alpha Chi Omega chapter President Alexandra Weed wrote in an email to The Eagle that the chapter has created leadership positions focused on DEI efforts.
“Our hope is that all members feel welcomed and valued as a part of their experience and we work to maintain inclusion and equity in all that we do,” Weed wrote. “These positions are responsible for promoting an inclusive environment through educational events, presentations, and workshops for both members and prospective members."
Weed added that the chapter offers grants and scholarships, which can support members with financial need.
Panhellenic and Interfraternity Council (IFC) organizations require members to pay dues each semester. While some offer scholarships, financial aid for college expenses cannot cover dues. 
The Panhellenic Council recruitment registration fee was waived until the end of the year, according to Travis Roberts, assistant director of Fraternity and Sorority Life at AU. 
"After this, and until registration closes, they are only charging $5, which is the amount we get charged to use the software system," Roberts wrote in an email to The Eagle.
Affordability and representation issues also caused senior Muskan Kaur to leave Alpha Xi Delta, a women’s fraternity, in fall 2019. Kaur, who is a founding member and director of the Abolish Panhellenic + IFC group at AU, rushed during the spring of her freshman year. After rushing, Kaur later felt a growing sense of disbelonging.
“I saw a lot of colorism,” Kaur said. “My big [sorority sister] was a darker shade of brown than me and was treated so differently.”
After reflecting on what she saw and experienced in her own organization, she said that sororities did not represent Black women or women with darker skin. Realizing that she and others were complicit, she co-founded the Abolish Panhellenic + IFC chapter at AU.
The chapter’s mission to abolish social Greek life at AU began with a petition that garnered thousands of signatures overnight. Students across the country also started chapters at their own universities.
The group says that reform is not enough to rid social Greek organizations of incidents of racism, homophobia, transphobia, elitism and sexual violence.
“People have reached out to me and said that I was a woman of color empowered by her sorority but I just got lucky while others were not given that opportunity,” Kaur said. “No one should have to get lucky to feel empowered.”
Kennedy Political Union Director Amrutha Chatty, a senior who disaffiliated from Phi Sigma Sigma this past summer, said that she entered her sorority leadership ready to make reforms from the top-down; however, she had her own experiences with being misnamed.
Chatty, who is South Asian, said that with a handful of other South Asian members in the sorority, there were multiple instances when she was called the wrong name and mixed up with another South Asian member, even after being a member for multiple years and rising to the role of an executive board member.
The chapter did not respond for comment at the time of publication.
“In general, the entire system of Greek life is built to marginalize people and keep people of color out,” Chatty said.
Simrnjit Seerha, a senior, also disaffiliated from Phi Sigma Sigma over the summer after hearing multiple stories regarding the culture of social Greek life on social media coupled with her own experiences.
“My initial uncomfortability stemmed from being a first-generation American college student and also a person of color, having a different religion, a different culture, even a different first language," Seerha said. “I was putting so much effort into connecting with people, more so than white members.”
Seerha said that after joining the sorority, she was determined to make a change from within by joining the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion council and e-board.
“I really wanted to change the structure, but it was beyond my capacity,” Seerha said. “While a lot of people genuinely wanted to make change, it was more performative than not.”
Seerha and Chatty said their decision to leave Phi Sigma Sigma was made clear after they saw an anonymous post alleging that one of the organization’s members, former Panhellenic Council President Bella Dixon Smith, used a racist slur at a fraternity party. After apologizing on social media, but refusing to step down, she ultimately resigned the next day.
Dixon Smith said she could not be interviewed by The Eagle due to National Panhellenic Conference guidelines. The conference did not respond for comment at the time of publication.
“The fact that the Panhellenic president can do that and face no consequences goes to show what a deep rooted issue that we have,” Seerha said.
In an email to The Eagle, Acting Panhellenic President Anna Waldman said none of the seven Panhellenic organizations at AU are participating in recruitment for the fall 2020 semester. Formal spring recruitment will be held entirely online.
Senior Prachi Jhawar said she disaffiliated from sorority Sigma Kappa after one semester. She felt that Greek life was contributing to a culture of harm on campus and that leaving was the only option.
"I felt like I was constantly bringing up this conversation about racism and others would acknowledge it but not really move forward with it,” Jhawar said of her interactions with nationals.
Sigma Kappa nationals did not respond to The Eagle’s request for comments by time of publication.
Kaur said since beginning the Abolish Panhellenic + IFC chapter, the coalition has gained national attention from students, former Greek alumni and parents. She said various nonprofits have contacted the group to offer resources and assistance.
The coalition is currently running social media campaigns to raise awareness about the harms caused by Greek life. They recently held a week of action in which they encouraged students to email administrators and post to social media in support of the movement.
However, for sorority or fraternity chapters to disband their charter, official documentation that recognizes a university chapter, must be revoked by the University or nationals must decide to abolish it. If all members of a sorority or fraternity leave the chapter it can still be revived by Nationals at any moment.
Despite these barriers, some students continue to push for drastic measures to address the harm faced by women of color within social Greek life organizations.
“At a school like AU which prides itself on having spaces that are inclusive for everyone, social Greek life should not exist,” Jhawar said. “It’s not about the chapter itself or the people itself, it’s about the power and privilege and this system for upholding social and economic power for some people and suppressing it for others."
frahman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
