Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
Six months ago, on March 12, American University students received an email from President Sylvia Burwell that changed their college experiences more than any other event in recent history: AU was going fully online for the remainder of the spring semester, not just for three weeks, as the administration originally announced. 
While the news that AU was transitioning to virtual education didn’t signal the first coronavirus-related change to the semester — just a day earlier, all study abroad programs were canceled — it was the moment that many students realized things weren’t going back to normal anytime soon. 
“Within the last 24 hours, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared COVID-19 a pandemic,” Burwell wrote at the time. “There are now more than 124,000 cases in 118 countries, and the WHO expects the number of cases and affected countries to grow. Mayor Muriel Bowser declared a state of emergency for the District, and the DC Department of Health recommended that non-essential mass gatherings, including conferences and conventions, be postponed or canceled.”
Earlier that day, the Patriot League canceled all spring practices and competitions, prematurely ending a major sports season. At the time, much of the student body was spread around the world on spring break. In January, students studying abroad in China were called back home. 
Since Burwell’s March 12 email, the AU community has been affected in countless ways. A total of 78 students, faculty, staff and contractors were infected between March 1 and Aug. 31, according to AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess. At least one has died: School of Public Affairs and Washington College of Law professor Joseph Kaplan, who was 66. 
Students have lost housing, jobs, study-abroad opportunities, affordable transportation, sports, in-person commencement and much more. Faculty, staff and the University itself have also suffered. 
Kyla Blazer, a junior in SPA and the School of Communication, said that she doesn’t see the effects of the pandemic going away for a “very long time.”
“There are so many aspects of life it touches, including human life itself,” Blazer said. “You can’t measure the impact of a human life being lost.”
In June, the University announced a hybrid reopening plan for the fall, later retracting it at the end of July, in favor of fully online classes. The change helped AU avoid the risk of outbreaks that have dominated the news at UNC Chapel Hill, Iowa State University and more. According to a New York Times tracker, at least 88,000 cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed at more than 1,600 colleges across the country. 
Still, the cancellation of on-campus housing and in-person classes has made life for new and returning students chaotic, disconnected and isolated, many said. Students frequently take to Facebook meme pages to commiserate about their online classes and feelings of loneliness, spending even more time on Zoom or FaceTime, in an attempt to remain connected with friends that, in some cases, they haven’t seen since before spring break. 



Blazer said that this summer has been the most emotionally difficult part of her life. Not being able to see close friends, especially as a first-generation student without siblings, took a toll, she said. 
“When you’re so busy, but you’re just trapped in your room — or like me, sitting at my dining room table — and just go from meeting to meeting, staring at a screen, it wears on you emotionally,” Blazer said. “The pandemic continued to get worse, classes went online and it all just kind of toppled on top of each other. The disappointment adds up, and you can’t really escape it.”
The summer was also filled with headlines about what many refer to as the other pandemic: racism and police brutality. Protests erupted around the globe after Minneapolis police killed George Floyd in May. Despite the pandemic, AU students gathered at demonstrations to push for change.
Ryan Barto, now a 2020 SPA alumnus, was looking forward to finally being able to bring his mom, who didn’t graduate from high school, to his graduation at the end of the spring semester. While he was disappointed not to have an in-person commencement, Barto feels that there are many other more important things to concentrate on. 
“If anything, AU prepared me for situations like this,” Barto said. “When things go wrong, AU, and the student body specifically, prepared me to be able to just go out and deal with it, to adapt, to be there, to show up, to stand out, and to not let anything bring you down.”
Looking back, what Barto remembers most clearly from spring break, and from the news that the semester was completely changing, is grief. But as things became clearer, he realized he had to just live with it. 
“For a lot of people at AU, AU is their home,” Barto said. “It’s the place that they feel comfortable, where you can see your friend on the quad and get coffee at the Dav, or go to your study spot in SIS. All of that was stripped away.”
Now, students can visit campus after doing an online COVID-19 evaluation, and both The Bridge and The Davenport coffee shops are open for takeout, still staffed by students. 
As for what the next six months will bring? Blazer and Barto aren’t certain, but there are some things they can say for sure. 
“Follow the damn rules and wear your mask,” Barto said. 
dpapscun@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After an unprecedented summer of racial justice and anti-racism activism, many students at American University have heeded the call to better support and listen to students of color, particularly Black students. Silence from many organizations echo loudly now, and it is in that silence that our student-athletes decided to bravely demand better. With demands that could change the Patriot League, their unprecedented organizing needs support.
On July 7, Patriot League women’s basketball players launched the Patriot League Social Justice Coalition, as reported by The Eagle. The coalition is composed of women’s, and now men’s, basketball players across the Patriot League that came together in response to a league that was simply not doing enough. In the aftermath of the killing of George Floyd, when schools, organizations and even brands were announcing their commitment to the Black community, the Patriot League was nearly silent. So student-athletes took matters into their own hands. Soon after the launch, they sent demands to Patriot League Commissioner Jennifer Heppel, which were obtained by The Eagle. These demands are simple and similar to steps taken by the WNBA and NBA. Student-athletes expect not just education and awareness, but action as well. They demand support from the conference in protesting, game-day pushes that would involve monetary support from the University and Black Lives Matter jersey patches.
At the forefront of these demands is perhaps the most actionable, long-term solution: hiring and recruiting more Black athletes, coaches, and administrators. And not just for “Diversity and Inclusion” positions.
These demands and this organization are commendable and impressive. The Patriot League student-athletes are thinking beyond the game and beyond their communities to consider how they can best leverage themselves and their talent to support social justice. This is the type of action that goes beyond an Instagram story. Especially as led by women’s basketball players, the Patriot League Social Justice Coalition is following the example of the WNBA, which has had many of its players, especially Black women, advocating for racial, social and criminal justice to the point of putting their careers on hold. It is vital to take note of the leadership Black women have always had, and continue to have, on these issues. 
This organization, and the AU student-athletes involved, are going to benefit their community directly in the long-term, not just perform as allies like so many predominantly white student organizations. Student-athletes are not just players, not just a team, but multifaceted members of our campus community that are advocating for better. On the University’s part, they have been more supportive than the Patriot League itself — but that is a very low bar. The AU athletic department has told student-athletes that they would be supported in protests, but as the Patriot League Social Justice Coalition has demanded, the Patriot League needs to make this same guarantee. If the University administration wants to really be a school of changemakers, then they need to throw their support behind student-athlete action, not just education and advocacy initiatives.
Like almost every part of AU, the athletic department is predominantly white. The administrative staff, coaches and players are all composed of very few people of color, as The Eagle has previously discussed. This lack of diversity within the leadership of athletic teams and departments is a pattern often seen at the national level, contributing to a culture where people of color are a source of entertainment, but not viewed as complex people. A culture where Black athletes are not expected to lead their communities and advocate for justice, but rather serve as entertainment for white audiences who prefer to not be reminded of their individual and systemic racism. Racial and social justice are no longer confined to the political arena, but have spread into the basketball, football and baseball communities. This coalition has, in no uncertain terms, criticized the Patriot League, a brave step that other students on campus should find inspiring.
When it comes to student body support for our athletes and their initiatives, there has been relative silence. As is so often the excuse, AU “isn’t a sports school.” These demands would be a huge part of bettering the department, which betters the whole campus. But instead of statements from other clubs, many of which on this campus are almost entirely white, this initiative has been left to the student-athletes only. The campus community needs to be better at supporting athletes instead of ignoring them. Continuing to dismiss student-athletes is a symptom of a campus culture that is often not willing to cross social boundaries. Especially now, as these teams are coming together for social justice, something most organizations on this campus are supposedly passionate about, there has been virtually no public appreciation. The Patriot League Social Justice Coalition is worth the letter of support from every student organization on campus. As it is led by women’s basketball in particular, the student body is missing a serious opportunity to raise awareness of these athletes' demands and asking for rights. The University community must commend and support this organization.
To reiterate: These women’s basketball players are taking leadership roles in a moment where so many are content to sit behind screens. They are asking for not just more committees and more education on racism, but tangible steps. What is perhaps most brilliant about these demands is their simplicity, the way these student-athletes were able to recognize a problem and articulate long-term solutions. In a global situation where their seasons have been taken from them, these athletes don’t have the opportunity to do something they love, and are taking an active political stance. They are demanding better and more. 
We should all follow their lead.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A campus visit is an essential part of the decision-making process for many students who choose to go to college. But, the stakes are even higher for prospective student-athletes. The visit is more than a chance for them to learn about the school — it’s a chance for the school to learn about them. 
Campus visits often serve as a chance for coaches to sell themselves and their program, and to evaluate whether the athletes they recruit are strong fits for their program and culture.
But campus visits are no longer happening since American University has transitioned to remote learning and the Patriot League fall sports season is canceled. So what happens when no one is allowed on campus?
For AU wrestling Head Coach Teague Moore, this predicament has presented major obstacles as he tries to stay in touch with recruits and their families. It’s vastly different from the usual recruitment process.
“Everything has to be a phone call or Zoom calls,” Moore said. “They really want to make the decision, but they don’t know what campus looks like. We can show them videos, but that’s the biggest hurdle. What are the teammates like? What’s the locker room like?”
Under normal circumstances, official student-athlete visits would provide these answers. Recruits are allowed to make five official visits to Division I schools, with a maximum of one visit per school. Once the recruits arrive on campus, they have 48 hours to immerse themselves in the life of an AU athlete. This generally entails the chance to see the campus and the athletic facilities, meet their potential future teammates and coaches and sit in on class sessions. 
While current student-athletes have a role in getting to know the potential recruits on their visits, the coaches make final decisions on whether or not to continue pursuing a student-athlete.
“At the end of that visit, we both usually have an idea of whether or not we want to move on with the recruiting,” Moore said. “We get to know that student, and they get to know us as American University.”
It can be even harder for prospective recruits.
“We can’t give them that experience which normally solidifies their decision,” Moore said.
The recruiting process involves more than campus visits, though. College coaches spend years studying these prospective athletes, deciding whether or not to bring a recruit into the program. For AU men’s basketball Assistant Coach Eddie Jackson, the summer Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) circuit had been a major platform to check out potential recruits.
“Normally, we go out and see them play, sometimes with their high schools, most of the time with their AAU program at different events,” Jackson said. 
However, the summer sports circuit was almost entirely shut down this past summer, and regulations regarding the upcoming high school sports season have varied from state-to-state. Some states, like California and Virginia, postponed competition until 2021, while others have done nothing at all. As a result, evaluating prospective athletes has become even more of a challenge.
“I’m used to bouncing around at AAU tournaments watching games,” Jackson said. “Watching half of a game and then moving over to another court and watching a half there. But now, everything is online. Sometimes online, you don’t know who you’re watching.”
For Moore, much of the new recruiting process involves watching the recruit’s old matches to get a feel for their abilities. He also breaks down old AU matches with the recruits, so they can assess the culture and expectations that come with being on the AU wrestling team. Jackson said that the men’s basketball team is following many of the same steps, doing pretty much anything they can to connect with the recruits and their families.
Moore also has had to deal with a depleted staff, as both of his full-time assistants left over the summer. Since the University is currently under a hiring freeze, Moore has been the lone wrestling coach on staff since June, taking on 100 percent of the recruiting and coaching responsibilities, and doing it all remotely.
The NCAA extended the official recruiting dead period because of the pandemic, so recruiting has slowed down significantly.
“Well the good thing is, it's nationwide, not just us,” Jackson said. “But some schools have more resources or less resources though, and that's where everything shifts and you tend to rely on relationships and guys that you trust like AAU coaches and high school coaches.”
Coaches have made a slew of adjustments on the fly during the pandemic, but questions remain regarding the future of the NCAA and AU athletic departments. With most schools set to lose millions of dollars due to the pandemic, neither AU nor the NCAA has publicly made any adjustments regarding athletic scholarships. Recently, the NCAA voted to give an extra year of eligibility to fall sports athletes who had their seasons canceled. 
The NCAA also hasn't decided whether to expand the number of scholarship players that are allowed on the team per year, since seniors who were previously expected to leave have the choice to stay an extra year, and freshmen will still enter the program.
These are the types of questions that the NCAA and its conferences haven’t answered yet, but they will have to come up with solutions eventually.
In the meantime, the year-round venture of finding quality student-athletes and selling them on their university must continue for programs that don’t want to fall behind the competition.
“Right now, we have one commitment,” Jackson said. “We may only have one other scholarship; we won’t really know until the NCAA makes a decision on the season. We have to continue to see what’s out there and identify guys depending on what happens in the spring.” 
abranch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
