Along the lines of American exceptionalism, the United States has proven to be exceptional in the worst ways. For a long time now, our nation has been performing low in general humanity and high in the number of police brutality reports, incarceration rates and impoverishment numbers.
In fact, no other wealthy country has the horrible public health infrastructure and social safety net that we do. As supposedly the world’s only superpower remaining, half a million Americans are homeless and 34 million are impoverished. 
Despite the incompetence and general buffoonery of President Donald Trump’s administration, before 2020 it was still widely reinforced that the United States reigned supreme in global matters. The emergence into the new year was a turning point in which no one could any longer place a muzzle on our crises. By Nov. 3, in the face of a pandemic-induced economic recession, 1,130 coronavirus deaths per day and a chaotic presidential election, it felt like the nation was on the verge of collapse.
Somehow, we’re still hanging onto our semi-functional democracy, and yet, internal conflict, failing socioeconomics and institutional backsliding are all indicators of a failing state.
The United States is a reflection of the violence caused by institutional inequality and poverty. The establishment injustice has made bitter racial and cultural schisms to the point where Black Americans feel criminalized at birth, and Indigenous Americans and people of color are painted by the same stroke.
Conflict zones, where the government fails to provide and leaves groups to fight over basic resources like water and minerals, aren’t found in far-off war-torn worlds; they’re found in our own country. Prime examples like the Navajo Nation; Flint, Michigan; and Baltimore, Maryland are a tribute to hundreds of years of neglect by those in power. 
Adding to these ongoing issues, the comparison of the disconnect between the poor and wealthy today versus 18th and 19th century western Europe put together by French economist, Thomas Piketty, seems to echo in modern America. In the 18th and 19th centuries, even as wages rose, private wealth controlled by the top of a rigid class hierarchy dwarfed national income. Similarly enough, in 1965, a CEO’s paycheck was 20 times the average worker’s salary, and by 2018 CEO compensation was 278 times the typical worker’s earnings. 
In order for the rich to remain on top, the movements of class conflict need to be managed by bringing them to a local level where it’s easy to subdue. In theory, if a conflict reaches and arouses the majority, they lose control.
Unfortunately, conflict being popularized isn’t enough to make change, to make change means securing institutional reform. 
During the resurgence of Black Lives Matter protests across the country this past year, the demands for reform were popularized but not implemented. The reason is easy to understand: our country rests on the laurels of laws laid down centuries ago; true reform cannot happen until those same laws are rewritten.
Some die-hard Democrats could argue that the election of President-elect Joe Biden changes the direction that our nation is heading in. But, establishment politics aren’t enough to solve this crisis. To save a failing state, the republic needs to be reconstituted — looking objectively at the blue duo of Biden-Harris, that isn’t going to happen during their term.
Our nation requires fundamental change if we want to remain a legitimate state. We can’t keep cycling through the same worn-out politics and expect there to be a change. 
To achieve the goals that America is in desperate need of, change needs to be made in the bedrock of how we address racism, true separation of church and state, LGBTQ+ rights, education, taxes based on income and restore equity in social services and public health.
To create real change, we need to start from the beginning. 
Samantha Margot is a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences and an opinion staff columnist for The Eagle.
sswainson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Allan Lichtman is a professor in American University's College of Arts and Sciences.

After correctly predicting Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 presidential election, American University professor Allan Lichtman is celebrating his 10th correct prediction of the outcomes of the presidential races since 1984. 
Although Lichtman predicted that former Vice President Al Gore would win the presidential election in 2000, he stands by his prediction. He notes that Gore won the popular vote while Bush won the electoral college in a contentious Supreme Court battle. 
Lichtman has said that he believes the results of Florida make the 2000 election stolen, as there was a large portion of the Black community whose votes were suppressed. After this election, Lichtman changed his evaluation to account for the electoral college. 
Three years before his first prediction, Lichtman met Vladimir Keilis-Borok, a Russian seismologist who would later go on to become his “Odd Couple” pairing in correctly predicting presidential elections. Each brought something to the table to create a unique predicting method.
Keilis-Borok wanted to pair his knowledge of earthquake behaviors with Lichtman’s vast understanding of the American presidency to establish what we now know as the “13 Keys to the White House.” 
“The key to our collaboration was to reconceptualize presidential elections in geophysical terms,” Lichtman said. “Not as Republicans versus Democrats…but as ‘Stability,’ when the White House party keeps the presidency and ‘Earthquake’ when the White House party loses.” 
The 13 keys are all true or false, where true favors the re-election of the party holding the White House, and false favors the opposition party. Six or more false answers result in an “Earthquake.” 
The keys include whether there is a significant third-party candidate, how the short- and long-term economy is doing, and whether the incumbent is charismatic.
As Lichtman is a lifelong Democrat, being objective has major impacts on accuracy and success, he said. 
“The secret to being a successful forecaster is putting aside your own political preferences,” Lichtman said. “If you let your prediction be tainted by your preferences, then you would be useless as a forecaster.” 
In 2016, Lichtman received backlash for his prediction that then-Republican candidate Donald Trump would win, as polls showed Democrat Hillary Clinton up double digits in several battleground states. He did note that his prediction was not impacted by Trump specifically, but because the keys swayed against the incumbent Democratic party. No matter who the Republican nominee was, according to his system, they would have won. 
Lichtman said that he believes the coronavirus pandemic has had a monumental impact on Biden’s victory. 
“The COVID pandemic was pivotal in turning this election against Trump,” Lichtman said. “However, it wasn’t just the pandemic, it was the failed response to it.”
With more than 14 million cases of COVID-19, over 280,000 deaths and millions of people filing for government assistance, the pandemic has put a strain on almost every U.S. citizen. 
The professor was very critical of Trump’s reaction to this November’s election results. 
“What we are seeing from Trump and his enablers since the election represents the worst moment in the history of the U.S. presidency,” Lichtman said.
Lichtman said there is no way to tell if these keys will stay useful in the coming presidential elections, but for now, he maintains his streak.
bjohansen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Update: This article has been updated since it was first published with a comment from the University.
In an email to the student body Sunday, Student Government President Eric Brock reminded students that cameras are not required to be turned on for classes, encouraging them to report professors who violate the AU rule. 
Brock wrote that the University prohibits professors from assessing students’ attendance or participation based on whether they have their camera on during class. Even though this policy existed throughout the semester, many students are unaware of it, which Brock told The Eagle is due to a lack of proper transparency from the University. 
“We know that faculty have been sent this exact communication at least twice from the Administration,” Brock said in a statement sent to The Eagle. “In fact, we’ve been telling the Administration that this has been an issue all semester.”
In an email to faculty on Tuesday, which The Eagle obtained, Acting Provost Peter Starr and other administrators addressed the camera and time-difference concerns with professors.
“We ask that you not make these requests of students and encourage you to provide alternate arrangements for students who are facing challenges due to their personal circumstances,” Starr wrote. “This flexibility may include offering options for participation beyond engagement on video.”
AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess wrote in an email to The Eagle that alternatives may include oral exams, group projects and open book exams.
“American University remains committed to the values that have guided us throughout the pandemic which includes advancing our educational mission with equity and fairness in mind,” Burgess wrote. “Going forward, we are committed to working with both students and faculty to find the best ways to meet their courses’ learning objectives while focusing on the well-being of all.”
Despite these rules, many students have reported their professors requiring cameras throughout synchronous class sessions, according to Starr’s email. 
After encouraging students to report professors who have gone against University policy, SG plans to advocate for students to the administration and notify them of which professors continue to violate the policy, Brock’s email said. 
The email to students notes the struggles international students are facing, as many have been required to join live lectures, despite significant time differences. 
Concerns over faculty’s handling of AU’s camera policy are especially prevalent as final exams approach. This period is always a stressful time, and camera requirements can add to that, students said.
Brock also provided a form for students to record the name of professors who violate the policy, their course and any concerns they may have. Brock said AUSG will share the information with the University. 
“While the University has advised faculty of these policies several times, it is my job to ensure that this is not happening in your class,” Brock wrote. “No professor should be doing this— and sharing your story protects you and your classmates.”
If students have any other questions, they can reach out to Brock at president@ausg.org, he said. 
smattalian@theeagleonline.com, bjohansen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
