Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
Ever since he began his freshman year at American University, Ryan Barto looked forward to one moment — his mom, who didn’t graduate high school, watching him walk across the stage at graduation. 
That opportunity was taken away from him when the University announced in March that there would be an online commencement ceremony due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
“I was here because of her work,” Barto said. 
For many first-generation students, commencement is much more than listening to speakers and receiving a diploma. It’s a celebration for their parents, who were not able to receive a college education, and a celebration of themselves for navigating the complexities of college life, such as applying for financial aid and working multiple jobs.
“First-gen students don’t always have the luxury of being able to call home when things get confusing or when you need help in college,” Mariah Espada, spring 2020 graduate, said.
Espada said that graduation was also a moment that she and her family had been anticipating, not just for four years, but practically her whole life. She said that she understood the reason why the University had to cancel commencement, but that it was still a hard pill to swallow.
Spring 2020 graduate, Christina Fluharty, said that after balancing three jobs, paying her own loans and filing her own taxes, she was disappointed when she couldn’t celebrate her achievements with her family, specifically her sister.
“I am paving the way for both of us and it is a little tricky navigating because neither of my parents know how the FAFSA works or anything like that,” Fluharty said. “So it was a very much self-driven journey.”
Fluharty said that she felt like the online commencement ceremony was depersonalized and that she could have gone without watching it. She said that she wishes the University would have considered that some students, who are low-income and moving far away from D.C., like herself, will be unable to come back in December for the planned in-person celebration.
Like Fluharty, both Barto and Espada were unable to celebrate with their families, but instead celebrated with their friends, who were also graduating. Espada said that she made the best out of the situation by baking a cake, while Barto described his morning as “little individual ceremonies.”
“I had little individual ceremonies and basically phone calls with people who helped me along the way,” Barto said. “It was more about saying ‘thank you’ than it was necessarily about me individually.”
Although AU, including the Center for Diversity and Inclusion, offers resources for first-generation students, Barto said he developed a club called the First Generation Student Union, which AU approved this spring, to hopefully provide more support and resources.
“Older students like myself can be able to mentor younger students as they travel through as first-gens at AU and then hopefully transition them into the real world and find careers and jobs,” Barto said.
kcarolan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Update: The original version of this article included a statement from Brooke Frischer that did not include the end of a quote about how black Americans have told people for years to support them. The end of her statement was paraphrased in the updated article.
Three days following George Floyd’s death, after a police officer knelt on his neck for over eight minutes in Minneapolis, almost three of which Floyd wasn’t responding, the American University NAACP released a statement asking the University to end relations with the Metropolitan Police Department. 
“We are calling on American University to use its institutional power by following in the footsteps of the University of Minnesota and ending our University’s relationship with the Metropolitan Police Department,” the statement said.
According to the statement, this call to action was inspired by the recent deaths of Floyd, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and many others at the hands of police officers. AU NAACP said it is not releasing any media statements at this time.
Shortly after Floyd’s death, University of Minnesota President Joan Gabel announced the university is highly limiting their relations with the Minneapolis Police Department. 
In her statement, Gabel said that the university has “a responsibility to uphold our values and a duty to honor” those affected by police brutality. This came after the university’s Student Association demanded that action be taken. 
The AU Black Student Union published a collective statement with the Black Student Unions of the District of Columbia Universities. It included a list of demands that requested reducing the number of youth arrests and requiring all MPD officers to undergo unconscious bias and de-escalation training. 
AU BSU declined to comment. 
AU Democrats also declared their support for the separation between the University and MPD. 
“We cannot pretend that police officers are subject to the same laws as the citizens they are supposed to be protecting,” the statement said. “Our country should not pick and choose who we hold accountable under the law, especially when it comes to vicious crimes, such as murder.” 
AU Dems spokesperson Brooke Frischer said she is an ally for black people and the organization recognizes the violence that has recently occurred.
“We know that we have a duty [as a predominantly white organization] to call out injustices,” Frischer said. “We don’t want to be the people constantly asking black people how to support them when we know how to support them.” 
That's because black people have told others for years how to support them, Frischer said.
AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess detailed what a separation might mean. AUPD predominantly resolves on-campus issues, making MPD, in many cases, nonessential. 
“AUPD rarely needs assistance from MPD,” Burgess said. “In one case, the department took proactive action steps to actively reduce MPD presence on campus by working with the Counseling Center to change protocols.” 
Burgess said that university police departments in D.C. rely on memorandum of understandings, which are supervised by the MPD. This allows access to writing reports, sharing information and conducting background checks. 
“These licensing, commissions and connectivity to law enforcement networks are critical to our mission of serving our AU community,” Burgess said. “Severing our relationship with MPD would require a change in D.C. regulations.”
smattalian@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
