Update: This article has been updated to include Ajayi Pickering-Haynes' hyphenated name.
American University alumni are coming together for a virtual Black Lives Matter: Young People in the Movement rally on Wednesday to accommodate those who are unable to attend in-person protests and provide tangible action steps on becoming involved in the movement. 
Angelica Vega, who graduated from AU this spring, was inspired to create Young People in the Movement in May to uplift young voices in response to racism in the country. The decision to hold this rally virtually, though, was personal, and originated from her mother. 
“My mom has a disability, and she is part of the high risk population where if contracted, COVID-19 would be really bad,” Vega said. “So, she told me that she wished that she could physically be there to protest because she lived a lifelong struggle against white supremacy and racism, and when she told me she felt powerless and voiceless, it really got me to start thinking that accessibility matters in movements because you don’t want anybody’s voice to be lost.”
Following her conversation with her mom, Vega began reaching out to her friends from AU to begin the formulation of a virtual rally, and thus sparked the development of Young People in the Movement.
Vega invited three AU alumni to speak at the rally: Nick McCauley, Ajayi Pickering-Haynes and Bayadir Mohamed-Osman. Each of them has been outspoken on racial inequality and injustice, and they hope that they can provide resources for young people to join and amplify the movement.
“In an in-person protest, you’re getting your voice heard, but you’re less likely to be heard than the virtual rally, where there is the opportunity to have dialogue with speakers and give people the opportunity to really voice their opinions,” McCauley said.
According to McCauley, social media is a primary tool that young people use to express their opinions and engage in dialogue.
“This is affecting everyone,” McCauley said. “The most effective thing to do is actively reach out on a personal level to people who don’t support it or just aren’t likely to have a conversation. Ultimately, that’s how change happens.”
Pickering-Haynes agreed that creating a dialogue through social media is important, but he said to be mindful of the type of content one chooses to post.
“Be conscious of the trauma that this can invoke on Black people and Black bodies,” Pickering-Haynes said. “I have been shying away from sharing anything that shows something too traumatic or too brutal, even if it's something that I can stomach and digest, because someone else on my social media might not be able to. My personal approach is to be informed and be conscious of other people’s mental health because this is hard for everyone, especially Black people, to see right now.”
The rally is primarily geared toward the AU community, and the organizers said they hope that they can inspire further change on campus in terms of safety for Black students and expansion of the curriculum on race.
Mohamed-Osman said that every year that she attended AU, there was a racist incident, and she advocates for the University to improve on how they respond to those incidents.
“AU needs to stand up and condemn these acts and incidents quickly, keep the process transparent, and hold everybody accountable for their actions, in terms of both professors and students,” Mohamed-Osman said. “Not just saying the words ‘diversity’ and ‘inclusion,’ — let’s talk about justice, let’s talk about reform, let’s talk about how to really build our community and how to provide resources for Black people on campus, more than just putting our pictures on the website.”
Vega echoed Mohamed-Osman’s sentiments and said that AU needs to do more to make Black students feel safe on campus, and she hopes that this rally can be a call to action.
“The biggest thing is that we want AU to hear us,” Vega said. “I can count tons of times when a racial incident happens on campus, or a national platform, and I’m both emotionally drained and tired, yet I always have to be the one to start that conversation in that class. I want [AU] to realize that when things happen, act upon it. Don’t wait.”
Vega, McCauley, Pickering-Haynes and Mohamed-Osman hope that people will walk away from this rally feeling empowered and ready to use their own voices to advance the goals of the Black Lives Matter movement.
“I want people to recognize the volume of their own voice, and I want people to feel committed to do the internal work,” Pickering-Haynes said. “It’s great if people donate money, it’s great if people show up to protests, but ultimately, if we’re not looking at our mind patterns and consciousness and really evaluating who we are and what we care about, then we’re not going to see any effective change.”
asheffey@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Kay Spiritual Life Center, the home of faith communities at AU, in 2019. 
The Office of the University Chaplain hosted a virtual candlelight service on Sunday filmed in Kay Spiritual Life Center to mourn Black lives lost as a result of police violence. 
In a video that was streamed live on Facebook, Interim University Chaplain Bryant Oskvig delivered remarks to the AU community following the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and countless other Black Americans that have been killed by police officers and other citizens.
“We despair of the violence done by white privilege and racism on Black and brown persons and the seeds of despair it sows in our communities,” Oskvig said. “We struggle with how to transform our nation, our neighborhoods, our campus and our own lives.”
Oskvig invited viewers joining the service virtually to light a candle “in memory of all of those who came to this country and built it with labors not of their own design.” Oskvig also noted that, while chattel slavery was abolished in the 19th century, oppression still persists.
“We light our candles as an act of recalling the violent and insidious methods by which white privilege has been afforded ‘whiteness,’” Oskvig said. “We name the advantage that has been afforded the few at the cost of many.”
Oskvig called for a moment of silence, lasting eight and a half minutes — the amount of time that Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin kneeled on Floyd’s neck. Following the moment of silence, participants were invited to take part in prayer and a Litany for Justice with Oskvig.
In an email to The Eagle, Oskvig said that Kay has always been a gathering place for the AU community, and “the current events are no different, we just do so at a distance.”
“Our lament for this tragic loss turn toward our resolve to change our nation and our world,” Oskvig said in an email. “In naming the violence done by white privilege and racism against black and brown bodies, we commit ourselves to recognizing and changing systems of oppression.”
The service concluded with closing remarks, in which Oskvig spoke of the importance of pursuing justice in society.
“We hope that it spoke to your heart. We pray that it strengthened your spirit,” Oskvig said. “I pray that you, wherever you are, be resolute in the cause of justice, especially in undoing the white privilege and racism that defines our society, and work for an abiding peace that covers the whole earth and touches everyone on it.”
asheffey@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
