Local restaurants are expanding their outdoor dining spaces into sidewalks and streets throughout the DMV area to establish blocks, now known as “streateries.”
Amid the coronavirus pandemic, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser announced on May 29 an initiative to close traffic lanes for socially distanced pedestrian traffic and outdoor table service for businesses. In phase one of the city’s reopening, businesses were able to have customers seated only in outdoor patios. Now, in phase two of reopening, which began June 22, restaurants can serve people indoors at half capacity.
By expanding outdoor spaces for restaurants, Bowser’s press release said that streateries would “support residents and businesses by sharing roads and sidewalks and making room for the social distancing that is critical to slowing the spread of COVID-19.”
Restaurants can apply for expanded outdoor space through the Mayor’s office. Advisory Neighborhood Commissions throughout the city can propose the closure of roadways and blocks to establish a “streatery.”
Adams Morgan closed down a block on 18th Street, the popular strip of bars, restaurants and coffee shops, on Friday, Saturday and Sunday so businesses could set up outdoor dining tables.
Based on Bowser’s order, the back of a chair needs to be six-feet apart from the adjacent table, and pedestrian sidewalk spaces need to be six-feet wide.
Joe Lapan, co-owner of Songbyrd Music House, said that a program like this has been talked about for a few years. Lapan is a member of the Adams Morgan Commercial Development Coalition, the body that helped plan and execute the streatery from June 26 to 28. The public health crisis and business owners’ concerns created urgency, Lapan said, to establish the program faster.
The streatery program has been a way to look at the future of “safe public spaces,” Lapan said. Adams Morgan’s ANC 1C approved the streatery plan unanimously, and the majority of the community, 85 percent, according to the coalition, had been in support of a program like this for a while, Lapan said.
According to Lapan, quarantine halted Songbyrd’s core revenue as a bar, restaurant and performance venue. The streatery was an opportunity to serve more visitors food and drinks, since the cafe closed in March.
Though this weekend was only the “pilot” for the program, Lapan said that he’s confident the program will continue. To keep maintaining the streatery, Lapan said, “the key focus is always of how the public health situation can be improved” and to “continue encouraging people to follow city guidelines.”
The weekend turnout at the streatery was small enough where visitors could “remain distant, wear masks and be safe,” Lapan said. He said that he’d be proud if the Adams Morgan program could be a model for other parts of the city that want to implement streateries, but his “focus all day every day is on Adams Morgan.”
Just outside of D.C., the Bethesda Urban Partnership, a Montgomery County organization dedicated to small businesses in Bethesda, established streateries on June 10. The streateries began when restaurants still were not allowed to seat patrons inside. On June 19, Montgomery County entered phase two of reopening, which allowed half capacity inside restaurants, but the daily streateries continued with tables spaced six-feet apart.
Montgomery County councilmember, Andrew Friedson, was part of organizing the streateries. When businesses began asking for help, he said The Council, the Bethesda Urban Partnership, the Department of Transportation and public health offices worked together to determine the safest way to begin operations. These organizations were not asking if the streatery could take place, but how it would be safest, he said.
The response to the streateries has been “overwhelmingly positive” from residents, Friedson said. 
“This is something we believed we need[ed] to do,” he said. “We built it, they came and they’re coming.”
Five different areas of Bethesda have been closing traffic for dining, and residents are taking advantage of the opportunity to eat outdoors instead of taking food home. Restaurant owners have expressed gratitude at being able to expand their services.
Robert Blackwood, the general manager of Brickside, a Bethesda sports bar, said, they’re prioritizing safety, as “people are ready to get out.”
The first weekend the streateries opened, Blackwood said there were no empty tables. When Brickside was serving only carry-out food, their sales were down 90 percent, Blackwood said. The only people working in the restaurant were him and his chef.
Now the restaurant is down 65 percent in sales, and three-fourths of staff have come back to work, Blackwood said. Both the streatery program and federal small business loans have helped sustain the restaurant.
“We’re improving every week,” Blackwood said.
According to Friedson, the “whole idea of the streatery isn’t to create a party in the street.” Rather, it’s to “create a new normal that is safer” for businesses and residents. While being closely monitored for health and safety, Friedson said their public health data shows that transmission rates throughout the DMV area are “diminishing” even with streateries in full operation. 
“The streatery is a reflection of being methodical and … relying on each other,” Friedson said.
kmcdonnell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The first week of July was designated as National Blackout Week, a movement aimed at standing in economic solidarity with BIPOC, or Black, Indigenous and people of Color. During the week, BIPOC, and Black people in particular,  were encouraged to only buy from Black-owned businesses. AU rising senior Edmée Faal, who was promoting the Blackout on her Instagram, said in a post, “The Economic Blackout is a movement intending to uplift Black people by moving spending power away from big businesses and corporations to BIPOC-owned businesses and small owned businesses.” Below are 10 sustainable and ethical BIPOC-owned businesses for purchases like food, hair care and accessories. Even though the week ended, we can continue shifting our purchases to BIPOC-owned businesses. 
Products: Corn snacks
Ethics & Sustainability: Sustainable agriculture, B Corporation and non-GMO
Best Pick: Vegan Caramel Pipcorn 
Created by brother and sister duo Jen and Jeff Martin, Pipcorn is a gourmet popcorn snack made from an ancient variety of corn. Uniquely, each pipcorn is about half the size of a traditional popcorn kernel. This addictive snack comes in flavors like sea salt, truffle, caramel and more. Since  its successful appearance on the television show “Shark Tank,” the brand has also created some fun additions to  its product line, including cheese balls and corn dippers made from the same ancient heirloom corn variety. In terms of sustainability, Pipcorn says that using heirlooms helps protect the genetic diversity of our food because they are open-pollinated, a process where seeds are fertilized by bees, butterflies or other pollinators. The seed that forms produces the same plant the following year. There is growing momentum around the ecological and health benefits of the open-pollination process. Additionally, the company reduces waste by saving seeds from each harvest to plant “next time around,” and redirects leftover corn flour from the production of their cheese balls into their cracker products. Pipsnacks is “proud to be a women-owned, minority-owned, family business,” said the company.
Products: Hair Care
Ethics & Sustainability: Ethically sourced, naturally derived, sourced without sulfates, silicones, parabens, phthalates, DEA or artificial dyes.
Best Pick: Deep Conditioning Hair Mask
Briogeo founder Nancy Twine began experimenting with natural homemade hair products when visiting her grandmother at 5-years-old. Some 20 years later, Nancy used her “grandmother’s coveted beauty recipes and a rockstar natural chemist team” to create a natural, yet performance-driven haircare company. Briogeo hair products are award-winning. They use a proprietary blend of natural oils, vitamins and antioxidants as the basis for every product formula and are formulated without the hundreds of toxic ingredients found in many hair products that saturate the market. Harmful ingredients, found in conventional beauty products, pose health risks to both people and the planet. While Briogeo currently does not provide information on sustainable packaging measures, its dedication to clean beauty helps avoid water contamination, as well as habitat and species disruption.
Products: Beauty, Grocery and Home
Ethics & Sustainability: Non-toxic, plant based, cruelty free and implements post-consumer waste paper into their packaging mix
Best Pick: Black Girl Sunscreen
BLK+GRN is an all-natural marketplace, created by Black artisans, that sells a range of health, wellness and lifestyle products. BLK+GRN founder Dr. Kristian said that her mission is to “connect Black women to the tools, resources, knowledge and products they need to lead happier and healthier lives.” Every product is carefully analyzed and curated to meet quality standards of ingredient purity and product efficacy. As a result, every item sold is sustainably made, plant-based, cruelty free and adheres to its policy avoiding ingredients on the Environmental Working Group’s “Toxic Twenty List.” 
Products: Clothing, beauty, accessories and masks
Ethics & Sustainability: Low impact fabrics, sustainable packaging, plastic free, ethical sourcing and manufacturing
Best Pick: Organic Cotton Masks
The brainchild of a Filipina immigrant, Isadora Alvarez, Back Beat Co. is a sustainable lifestyle and clothing brand that draws its inspiration from “old school California surf n’ skate culture” combined with “what’s currently going on in the streets.” The result is easy, wearable, vintage-inspired clothing reworked in a fresh and modern way. A disproportionate amount of clothing’s impact on climate happens at the raw material stage. Rather than using environmentally harmful synthetic materials, Back Beat Co. opts for sustainability all-stars like organic cotton, recycled cotton, hemp and Tencel. The company has developed close relationships with the factories that manufacture its clothes in order to ensure ethical treatment of garment makers. Furthermore, 90 percent of its knit fabrics are still sewn in Los Angeles, which greatly diminishes the carbon footprint of shipping these products from overseas. 
Products: Glasses (eye, sun and blue light)
Ethics & Sustainability: Upcycled materials ethically sourced from West Africa
Best Pick: Jetter Classic-X Walnut Glasses
Drawing inspiration from Ghana’s beautiful landscapes, Nana Boateng Osei started Bôhten Eyewear with the vision of infusing nature, style and Africa into an eyewear company. Bôhten Eyewear products are made using reclaimed materials – especially wood – sourced from West Africa. Central to the heart of the company, lies the question: “What if world-class, sustainable and stylish eyewear was made in Africa?” Bôhten Eyewear continues to work towards the goal of full manufacturing in Ghana in the next five years. As part of its larger COVID-19 relief effort, for every frame purchased, Bôhten Eyewear donates five masks to a homeless shelter in Toronto. 
Products: Clothing, totes, prints, mugs, cards and stickers
Ethics & Sustainability: Locally and ethically sourced textiles, created in accordance with slow fashion principles
Best Pick: Ally For All Tee
Wasi Clothing is a one-woman-run sustainable and ethical business founded by Bolivian-American designer Vanessa Acosta, whose goal is to put “Bolivian culture on the map.” Some of the textiles are personally sourced from South America and others are locally sourced in the United States. Acosta envisions Wasi Clothing as a company for everyone: “for all sizes, for all colors, for all ethnicities [and] for all genders.” All products are made to order – designed and sewed by Acosta in her studio. Her aguayo garments are made in limited quantities to maintain a slow-fashion formula that is conscious about its environmental impact. Fifty percent of proceeds, from select products, go to people arrested and injured during recent protests, as well as the People’s City Council Freedom Fund. In addition to beautiful prints on Wasi Clothing’s range of products, the company also allows people to shop and wear its  values with quotes like “Ally For All,” “Ya Basta,” “Rally To End Police Brutality” and more. 
Products: Bags, beaded jewelry, watches, t-shirts and phone cases 
Ethics & Sustainability: One tree planted for every product sold, supports local reforestation efforts and uses natural materials.
Best Pick: Ebony Bracelets
Enbois, pronounced “en-bwa,” which means wooden, was born in founder Maxim Thuriere’s college dorm room at the University of South Florida. After his products started gaining popularity, Thuriere decided to sell his wooden jewelry products for a greater purpose. He looked to an organization he previously worked with, the Haitian Resource Development Foundation, and helped fund a project that improves education and distance learning programs in rural areas of Haiti. After finishing the project, Thuriere was introduced to “the world of reforestation” and knew the cause was a perfect fit for his company. Now, each Enbois product sold plants one tree and contributes to reforestation efforts across the Caribbean. The company recognizes that planting trees is only half the battle, which is why it also donates proceeds to partner organizations that help local leaders engage and educate communities on the importance of environmental conservation through reforestation. Enbois sells bags, beaded jewelry, watches, t-shirts and phone cases made from natural, renewable and non-toxic materials. 
Products: Candles and t-shirts 
Ethics & Sustainability: Upcycled cans, natural and non-toxic ingredients and donation program to individuals experiencing homelessness.
Best Pick: Heart Felt Candle for your heart chakra.
Lit Soul Candles founder, Monica Rae, turned to meditation in hopes of healing from tough situations in her life. After experiencing the transformative effects of her daily practice, Rae became determined to encourage others to “indulge in daily quiet time.” Shortly after, she launched Lit Soul Candles: natural, phthalate-free, slow-burning candles housed in upcycled soup cans. The contents from these cans are used to make homemade meals for individuals experiencing homelessness in Los Angeles. Each candle is “chakra specific” and contains a “high vibration crystal” at its base. Once the candle burns out, you’ll have a crystal to place on your corresponding chakra during meditation ... or a nice piece of windowsill decor.
Products: Clothing, masks, scrunchies and totes
Ethics & Sustainability: Upcycled materials, made in the United States, and emphasis on hiring returning citizens, immigrants and those working through homelessness.
Best Pick: Lorraine Blouse With Matching Mask
Kimberly McGlonn named her company after the street she grew up on, where she first searched for solutions to poverty through action. McGlonn’s mother would use her weekends to drive to a correctional facility to offer emotional support to female inmates, and McGlonn’s father would engage in community food activism. She said that Grant Blvd is the place where she learned the power of acting with love and of speaking out against inequity. “We need to completely reimagine our response to poverty and the criminalization of it, and we also have to radically change how we create pathways to self-sufficient living for black & brown people who’ve been incarcerated,” McGlonn said. Grant Blvd, the company, uses fashion to create employment opportunities and enhance the skills we all need in order to find long term peace. The company is committed to designing “radically inclusive pathways” that progress our collective good, including the good of our planet. In alignment with its commitment to sustainability, all products are made using reclaimed fabrics to avoid new waste, conserve water and avoid chemicals. Rather than source internationally, all products are designed, cut and sewn in Philadelphia, which limits shipping emissions. Grant Blvd makes unique, fashionable clothing pieces, in addition to activist slogan shirts and sweatshirts with phrases such as, “End Cash Bail,” “End Mass Incarceration” and “Books Not Bars.”
Products: Books, vinyl records, clothing, art, decor, furniture and other goods
Ethics & Sustainability: Vintage and pre-used goods.
Best Pick: Vintage Black + White Portrait Postcard/Small Print
BLK MKT Vintage is a Brooklyn-based collection comprised of “black collectibles, cast-offs and curiosities, representing the richness of Black history and the lived experience.” As a result of the coronavirus, the company has temporarily closed  its brick-and-mortar store, but is still open for online orders. The collection includes vintage literature, vinyl records, clothing, art, decor, furniture and a treasure trove of other goods. The company says, “By centering black cultural artifacts via thoughtful curation and varying modes of accessibility, we’re communicating very explicitly to black folks that 'not only do we see you, but we love you as well. You’re worthy. What you’ve created is worthy. You are important here.'” The celebration of antiquity and artifacts give objects new life, without the climatic impact of creating new goods. 
dharvey@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
