THE EAGLE
In an email to the University on Nov. 17, Acting Provost Peter Starr announced a new initiative to replace spring break: Wellness Week. Between March 7 and March 13, while classes will still meet synchronously, there will be no written assignments, exams, required readings or quizzes. The goal of this is to relieve stress students are feeling due to the ongoing pandemic, especially as spring break was canceled per President Sylvia Burwell’s email announcing the spring semester plan on Oct. 26. According to the email, spring break was canceled in the interest of preventing further spread of the coronavirus from travel. Winter break has also been extended by one week, with spring classes now beginning on Jan. 19.
This announcement is, frankly, frustrating for students. After it was announced that spring break would be canceled, students were immediately upset by the decision. 
While it is understandable that there are instructional time constraints on the University that likely made it difficult to give different days off, if that is due to the extended winter break then the University is proving just how much they do not understand their students. Winter break is normally approximately four weeks long, and by the time it ends most students feel rested and caught up on their lives. Spring break comes right when students need it most around midterms, after what always feels like a marathon semester. Students need time away from assignments, but also away from responsibilities for a week and classes are included in those responsibilities. Similar to the Thanksgiving break experience, spring break is often an excuse to be able to take one, maybe two days off from homework while the rest of the break is spent hunched over textbooks. Spring break is often spent catching up on readings and finishing midterms. Neither of those breaks are the relaxation opportunity that the University seems to think they are due to the amount of work regularly assigned to students.
Adding a week to winter break does nothing to increase student relaxation for the spring semester. Students will already not be as stressed since classes will not have met for almost a month, as opposed to the middle of March when there will be deadlines every other week on top of regularly assigned reading. If students have a week of no deadlines, but then need to turn around and have a project for every class due March 15, that isn’t relaxing. Perhaps if class was canceled, then several deadlines on one day wouldn’t be a problem. Unfortunately, students do not have seven free days since there is still an asynchronous or synchronous class expectation.
The hope is that somehow this will be enforced on professors or they will make sure to comply without then causing such stressful deadlines. But that is a risk, and students will suffer from it. 
Professors are also in a difficult position of having to retool syllabi, as they try to figure out what to do in discussion-based classes when there are no readings to discuss. There is serious potential for this week to be a waste of class time in other ways too, if students decide to simply not attend. Throughout this semester, it has been easier than ever to skip class, not pay any attention or to show up and leave as soon as the professor puts students in breakout rooms. With no days away from class, how many students will take the opportunity to quietly hit “Leave Meeting” during the Zoom call?
There also seems to be a misunderstanding about the complaint of Zoom fatigue by both students and professors. Part of Zoom fatigue is the general screen fatigue we all feel between staring at computer screens for class, required readings and writing papers or discussion board posts. This plan will, in theory, cut down on overall screen time. It is Zoom class itself that is fatiguing to students and professors, having to look at faces or more often black boxes on a screen, having to force a conversation in breakout rooms when everyone is too exhausted to care. Still requiring class is not a break for students and does not give anyone a break from Zoom fatigue.
The biggest issue with eliminating spring break in favor of a longer winter break is it being in the interest of health and safety. This spring semester plan is not anywhere close to a return to campus for students. For a majority of the student body, nothing is changing. They will still be living at home, making whatever choices they choose outside the purview of the University, and attending class online. Even as some may move back to D.C., online classes can be done from anywhere, potentially not stopping people from traveling anyway. 
This fall was a challenge. Next spring will, potentially, be even more so. There are no easy answers about the best thing to do for students or professors. Maybe giving students a spring break would be a mistake. With the fall quickly coming to a close, it will be a challenge come January to look toward May with no sufficient break from class in sight. At a minimum, it is disheartening for students. This replacement of a break with Wellness Week does not meet students’ needs during the pandemic, and there must be other options that are better. Instead of more winter break, sporadic three or four day weekends would have given students the necessary breathing room to complete assignments. With no break from school, the spring will likely be a semester of unwellness, and the University needs to be prepared for mental health complaints and academic struggles from their students. We can only hope they understand this time.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Comfort Foods is a Life section series highlighting AU students and the food that reminds them of home and heritage.
On any normal day of the year, it’s rather hard to tell that my father is from the South. His Southern charm is mostly obscured by the gruff habits required of someone who has been living in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado since 1996.
His cowboy hat, boots and habitually full beard are definitely more “Western ranch” than the gentlemanly habits of the country clubs he grew up around. He wears earrings with thick pearls wedged in the eight-gauge stainless steel hoops and a stud nose piercing. A thick pendant hangs around his neck — usually Thor’s hammer, Mjölnir, based on an ancient design, so think original Norse myths, not Chris Hemsworth. Generally, even I wouldn’t peg my dad as born and raised in Georgia. However, there’s one small exception: his cooking. 
The holidays in particular bring out my dad's Southern roots. Every year, an entire Smithfield ham hock makes its way from Virginia to our rural town’s post office. That’s when I know that the holidays have officially begun.
Turkey is usually the centerpiece of most families’ Thanksgiving dinners, but the salted ham has always been the center of ours. The product is hand-salted and dry-cured before it is smoked over hardwood and seasoned with black pepper. 
My dad likes to say a Smithfield ham is like a Bordeaux wine, which can only come from Bordeaux, France. To be a Smithfield Ham it must be cured in Smithfield, Virginia. The name is inseparable from the product.
A salted Smithfield ham teeters gloriously on incredibly salty. To curb the flavor, the ham slices are cut extraordinarily thin like prosciutto.
One of my first memories of the holiday season is standing in the kitchen, shoulder to shoulder with my sister, giggling as my dad protested our small, eager hands stealing the thin slices of ham as fast as he could slice them.
We’ll eat off of the 12-pound ham leg for breakfast or as a sandwich all the way to the New Year. What is left over is cut into small portions, vacuum-sealed and frozen, and will be used to make more Southern fair throughout the year like collard greens and black-eyed peas.  
My father always said that black-eyed peas cooked with salted ham should be your first meal in the New Year because it brings good luck. I wouldn’t say I’m a superstitious person, but every year we eat black-eyed peas and salted ham, hoping to bring a little bit of luck into the new year. 
edubose@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University announced Monday that the University received two donations totaling $4.5 million, which will aid the construction of the Center for Athletic Performance (CAP) and revamp the AU Eagles Leadership Academy, according to an email from President Sylvia Burwell.  
“These contributions further our work to provide a student-centered, holistic experience both inside and outside the classroom,” Burwell said in the email. “We are focused on sustaining and growing our dynamic campus environment that provides AU students with opportunities, support and connections.”
The Bender Foundation, Inc. donated $3 million to support the ongoing development of the CAP, a 58,000 square foot on-campus recreation center that will include training centers, a volleyball venue and practice gymnasiums for basketball. In September 2019, the University received two donations for the construction of the CAP which totaled $8 million.
"The generosity of the Bender Foundation will continue to have a remarkable impact on our students well into the future,” said Billy Walker, the director of Athletics and Recreation, in a press release. “The CAP will also aid in creating a heightened sense of school spirit and community pride. The AU Department of Athletics and Recreation is proud to be a part of this vision for the university's future."
An updated draft of AU’s 2021 campus plan stated that the center may be located on the northwest quadrant of campus. Before the pandemic, Bender Arena often housed on-campus events such as concerts and job fairs, which posed challenges for the athletes' practice schedules. As of last year, all 14 teams at least partially operated in Bender Arena.
“Having our own designated practice space and state-of-the-art weight room exponentially enhances our student-athletes’ experience at AU,” said Mike Brennan, the men’s basketball head coach. “It will also allow us to compete with so many more schools and programs across the country. So any time we hear about concrete steps that can be taken to make this a reality, it gets everyone excited for the department, our school [and] our players.” 
AU Board of Trustees member Stephanie M. Bennett-Smith also donated $1.5 million in order to support the AU Athletics’ Eagles Leadership Academy, which has been renamed the Stephanie M. Bennett-Smith Life Skills & Leadership Academy (SASP) in her honor.
The SASP aims to give student-athletes opportunities to gain formational experiences that will help them build leadership skills and add to their personal growth.
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available.
jyoung@theeagleonline.com, snusbaum@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University’s South Asian Student Association hosted their annual Jalwa event in October, named Zoom Machale for this year’s virtual show, to celebrate the South Asian diaspora. 
SASA organized a simultaneous Facebook Live and Zoom event on Oct. 23, where student performances were recorded and played for the attendees to watch. Performances included an Irish step dance by sophomore Vikram Lakshmanan, a classic Bollywood song sung by Mihika Gokarn and a fashion show featuring traditional South Asian outfits.  
“I think the turnout was great, and people seemed to really have a great time together,” said senior Prachi Jhawar, SASA’s vice president. “It was a fun event for people to have in the middle of this stressful midterms week and anxious election time.”
To accommodate the online setting, SASA’s team had to change the event structure to make sure it was successful. In previous years, SASA organized food and decorations for the 300-plus students that attended.
“I think we had to consider different things this year,” SASA President Summia Mahmud said. “We wanted to make sure everyone had access to our event, so we opted for Facebook Live and Zoom.” 
Mahmud said the group worked with the Center for Student Involvement to ensure that the event was secure as well.
In terms of preparation, SASA decided early on that they were still going to host the event via Zoom. Jhawar created the theme, “Zoom Machale,” a wordplay on the popular Bollywood song “Dhoom Machale.” This original song was also played during the show as background music. 
“It was really catchy and marketable too,” said SASA’s chair events coordinator Satvik Shukla. “And that is when we started focusing heavily on social media promotion, creating online posters, and doing Instagram story takeovers.” 
SASA’s creative director Vidisha Banerjee pitched the idea of creating a TikTok, which was a new form of digital marketing for SASA, and saw many more students engaged as a result.
Initially, one of the challenges SASA organizers faced was getting student submissions for the video in time for the event. 
“Originally we had Jalwa planned for the Friday of AU Family Week, but at that point, we only had two performances, so [we] postponed it to the 23rd,” Mahmud said. “That gave an extension to those who wanted to submit videos and us more time to promote Jalwa.”
When asked what Jalwa meant to them, Mahmud said, “It really means community; as the South Asian population continues to grow at AU, we are able to come together to celebrate our history and diaspora even if it is online.”
SASA will continue to host events throughout the year including a trivia night, advocacy and activist events and conversations.  
For students that may be hesitant about getting involved with SASA, Jhawar said, “We will welcome you with open arms. You do not have to be South Asian to join SASA, if you want to learn more about South Asian culture, come to our events. Everyone from all backgrounds is always welcome.” 
achhangani@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
