Number 4: Christine Fingerhuth and AU Field Hockey run through the regular season - 2010
By Spencer Nusbaum
If an NCAA tournament appearance is the benchmark of athletic success for a mid-major school like American University, only two Eagle programs — field hockey and volleyball — hit that mark multiple times this decade. The 2010 field hockey squad, led by all-American senior forward Christine Fingerhuth, became the blueprint for success at AU.
Head coach Steve Jennings, then in his 11th season at the helm, dominated the prior decade as AU qualified for eight straight NCAA tournaments from 2003-10. The ‘10 run was the dynasty’s “last dance,” signaling the end of an era for seniors Fingerhuth, defender Anne van Erp, midfielder Kirstin Gebhart and keeper Hannah Weitzman. Their 18-4 finish stood as the team’s best record of the decade.
Eight of AU's 11 starters made an all-Patriot League team, with four players on the first team. Fingerhuth also became the only Eagle field hockey player to make the all-America first team in the 2010s, while van Erp earned a nod on the third team.
While Fingerhuth had a dominant run throughout her four years at the University, her 2010 season was a masterclass in offensive skill. Along with her all-America selection, she earned her second PL tournament MVP and PL offensive player of the year awards while scoring the most single-season goals (17) of any AU field hockey player since 1994.
The Eagles’ defensive front was just as impressive as the team’s production on the offensive end. Weitzman anchored the defense with a great season in goal, allowing 1.01 goals per game, the best mark since sophomore Katia Albanese in 1994. 
Their top regular-season victory came with a 3-2 October win over No. 4 ranked Princeton University. Throughout the season, AU outscored opponents 80-26.
AU cleaned up defensive-oriented Kent State 2-1 in the NCAA tournament’s play-in game. They would eventually fall to UConn in a heartbreaking shootout loss. 
Jennings fielded plenty of great teams this decade, but 2010 was the dynasty’s last dance.
snusbaum@theeagleonline.com 
Number 3: David Terao’s improbable NCAA tournament run - 2016
By Zeke Cohen
Wrestling has always been a highly competitive sport, a joy to watch as a fan or compete in as an athlete in the circle. Even though wrestling can captivate, with its mano a mano brute strength slugfests, fans often overlook the sports in favor of one of America’s “big four” sports (baseball, basketball, hockey and football).
Even though many sports fans believed in this philosophy, sometimes unprecedented dominance is enough to force people’s attention toward a lesser-known athlete.
125-pound AU wrestler David Terao’s senior year run, in which he placed fourth in the NCAA tournament and broke the University’s career wins record, is a prime example of this dominance. 
Going into the 2015-16 season, Terao had already amassed 101 wins with 21 falls, 23 majority decisions and eight technical falls. 
Terao led the team in total wins in each of his first three years at AU while breaking the University's single-season wins record with 39. Terao qualified for the NCAA tournament every year he took the mat for AU.
His senior year was a storybook finish to a great career. Terao finished his career going 29-7, breaking the school’s career wins record with 130 victories to edge out the former first-place holder, 125-pound Marc Hoffer (1997-02).
As Terao qualified for the NCAA tournament for the final time in his career, he entered into the event at Madison Square Garden as a 15-seed. Round after round, Terao outperformed his initial seeding placement, beating four competitors before the consolation final. The eventful matches included a victory over second-seeded Virginia Tech wrestler Joey Dance and a viral-GIF-inducing win over Stanford’s Connor Schram. Despite a valiant effort in the third-place match, Terao fell in a 5-3 decision to former NCAA champion and top-ranked Ohio State wrestler Nathan Tomasello. 
Terao received a standing ovation from the Madison Square Garden crowd for his inspiring performance in his final tournament competing for the Eagles. 
.@AU_Wrestling's David Terao earns standing ovation for 4th place finish at @ncaawrestling tournament. #WrestleNYC pic.twitter.com/sIoIbWbcqa
Terao was the ultimate underdog that AU fans supported because of his tenacious work ethic and exciting matches during his time at the University. 
His NCAA 2016 tournament run was the perfect way for a great competitor to end his career, and he left AU as the benchmark for future Eagle wrestlers. As such, he earns a spot on the AU top 10 athletic moments of the decade. 
zcohen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
An American University Student Government report released on Oct. 1 found that students feel strongly about making changes to AUPD, certain coronavirus protocols and strengthening campus/university support for mental health.
The Fall 2020 Student Survey Report combined recommendations from SG officials with feedback from the student body, and is intended to aggregate information on issues as diverse as spring semester planning, relationships with AUPD and collaboration between SG and the administration.
The report, which includes the results of a survey sent to students on Sept. 21, was the first of its kind in SG history. Max Rubin, a senator for the Class of 2023, coordinated the report with the hopes of helping students during an online semester. 
“We wanted to ask students directly what we could do better,” Rubin said. “We wanted to identify issues and suggest solutions for them.” 
The report’s section on the response to COVID-19 provides information on AUSG’s newly-formed Collaborative Planning Initiative Special Committee, including its calls for collaboration between AU and student groups and plans to hold a town hall. The report also calls for more testing on campus, voicing concerns about ventilation and in-person class sizes, while offering recommendations for a coronavirus safety-kit to be distributed to students. 
Students are also concerned about mental health services on campus. In January, students took to social media to voice their frustrations following a controversial email about students missing Counseling Center appointments.
“If our services couldn’t accommodate students in the past, what makes us think they’re equipped for a return to campus after the detrimental effect the pandemic has had on student’s (sic) mental health?” the report asks.
The report proposes a new building for counseling and increased communication between university officials and students. In the short-term, any extra space on campus could be used for counseling, in addition to improved messaging and resources from the Counseling Center.
The report on the student survey also cited an anonymous submission from a female AU student, who said that AUPD should not play a role in mental crisis response.
Rubin said that listening to students’ experiences, such as this one, is a step to a more engaged student government. 
“My job as a representative is not to tell people what ideas are good for them, my job is to ask, and listen, and learn from them so that we can make the best decisions on behalf of them,” Rubin said. 
The report stresses the dissatisfaction students feel toward the fees they pay and services they have access to, especially in a virtual modality. Several proposals were put forward to respond to this concern, including an investigation into ways AU might help students faced with the burdens of the university’s late decision to close campus. 
The report also notes the importance of increased clarity within the Financial Aid Office. 
“The Financial Aid Office must be extremely accessible with a full breakdown of what thresholds give you what money and what circumstances will be reviewed so students don't have to constantly press for answers,” Rubin said. 
Ashley Bastin, a senator for the Class of 2022, contributed to the report, and noted the need for more transparency within Student Government as a whole. Issues of financial transparency have plagued the organization in the past, including with funding for the annual Founders Day Ball. The report pledges to address these concerns.
In the survey, students voiced their concerns over the way SG is run, especially when it comes to trust and the relationships they have within the student body. 
Bastin said AUSG must continue to bridge the historical divide between the organization and the student body, as well as work harder to hear from more students about their needs. 
“We really do want to listen and hear what issues the students want us to advocate for,” Bastin said. 
smattalian@theeagleonline.com, bjohansen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University students voiced a variety of concerns following President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, who will replace late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, if confirmed by the Senate. 
From a shortlist of conservative political figures such as Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Trump ultimately decided on Barrett, who is known for her conservative stances on abortion, the Affordable Care Act and LGBTQ+ rights, amongst other issues. 
The Executive Board of AU College Republicans said in a statement that they support the nomination. 
“In this time of unprecedented tumult and uncertainty, it is especially imperative that the Supreme Court be at full capacity, to remain a steady defender of the Constitution,” the AUCR Executive Board wrote in a statement released Oct. 2. “We strongly encourage the Senate to confirm Judge Barrett and look forward to her many more years of service to the United States of America and our sacred Constitution.” 
College Republicans declined to comment further. 
Many students said they are concerned that if she is confirmed, she will threaten the long-standing Roe v. Wade decision—a landmark case that protects a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion without excessive government restriction—and the Affordable Care Act. 
Jeremy Ward, the executive director of AU College Democrats, said that Barret’s nomination “shows that the Republicans don't care about health care.”
Roseanna Yeganeh-Kazemi, a freshman in the School of Public Affairs, was also concerned. She cited Barrett’s use of religion to justify and support her legal opinions, such as with cases involving LGBTQ+ rights or abortion, as especially threatening, considering that the U.S. has no established religion. 
“We pride ourselves on that concept that we have a separation of church and state, and the fact that in a lot of opinions she's written and a lot of her stances she brings in Catholicism, which I think is a major problem,” Yeganeh-Kazemi said. 
Several students said they were frustrated that Republicans plan to confirm Barrett with only a month until the general election. In 2016, President Barack Obama's administration tried to fill a Supreme Court vacancy with eight months left until the election, but his nomination was blocked by the Republican-controlled Senate. 
“Then fast forward four years later, Justice Ginsburg's body is probably not even cold yet, it's just hours after she passed, and McConnell is saying that we are going to have a replacement,” Yeganeh-Kazemi said. 
While some were upset, many students said they were not shocked, given the long-term political power the Trump administration and conservative lawmakers would acquire if Barrett is confirmed. 
“I was expecting President Trump to make a decision very quickly; I was expecting the Senate to be [quick] to confirm her,” said Ali Siddiqi, a freshman in the School of International Service who has been following Barrett’s rulings since she was on the shortlist to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy in 2018. “She had no scandals or allegations to which the Trump campaign would want to deviate from, especially with Brett Kavanaugh. They want a clean judicial pick.”
Barrett’s confirmation hearing is set to start Oct. 12, and it is not yet known exactly how COVID-19 might affect the proceedings.
jyoung@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
