Palestinian social justice event flyer. 
An Arab and Muslim studies professor from San Francisco State University joined American University students for a virtual event on Oct. 29 entitled “The Palestinian Exception to Calls for Social Justice.” 
Rabab Abdulhadi discussed calls for Palestinian human rights in the United States. AU professors Irene Calis and Zein El-Amine co-hosted the event, which Calis referred to as a call for justice.
“It is about the real material consequences of working towards the emancipation of Palestinian life, land and dignity,” Calis said.
Abdulhadi said that people should recognize that criticism of Israel is not the same as anti-Semitism. 
“Israel should not get exceptional treatment because Israel is not exceptional. Palestine is not exceptional,” Abdulhadi said. “The U.S. is not exceptional, and we argue against exceptionalism. This is a question of justice.”
Abdulhadi also discussed her experience fighting against censorship in her line of work and activism. 
The conversation was co-sponsored by various student groups, including but not limited to Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP), African Students’ Organization and AU Pride. The Department of Sociology and the Department of Critical Race, Gender, and Culture Studies served as academic sponsors of the event. 
Junior Kiran Waqar, a member of SJP, said that the number of co-sponsors was significant in representing the interconnected concern for justice in Palestine, which many students at AU feel passionate about. 
“It can be difficult for a lot of people on American University's campus when they feel like their values aren’t seen in a lot of places,” Waqar said. “I think a really big part of [the event] is community building and showing people that they can speak up for what they believe is right and that they have other people supporting them.”
Junior Aqsa Rashid, also a member of SJP, said another goal of the event was to paint Palestine in a light that students don’t often see at AU, one devoid of the logistics of policy that might constrain conversation and debate. 
“We're not approaching it from that lens,” Rashid said. “We're approaching it like how we can come together as a community that cares about people and justice.” 
Abdulhadi also spoke about how to keep going when activism work becomes frustrating or hopeless. Abdulhadi advised thinking of this work as a “labor of love.”
“Think of what we're doing as coming together to enrich and support each other,” Abdulhadi said. “Of course, it's exhausting to do all of this stuff, day in and day out. But what option do we have? What choice do we have?”
In reflecting on the event, Waqar found Abdulhadi’s words to be a revitalizing path to justice. 
“It's hard to have energy after a long day and on a Team call, but I did,” Waqar said, referring to Microsoft Teams. “I had energy because there was hope, and that hope is a return to self. This was one of the most effective, genuine events I've been to on campus. It felt like I could finally breathe; I didn't realize how much I was holding on my chest.” 
eschloss@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University has decided, with some ambiguity, to permit limited on-campus and in-person classes and activities for spring 2021. While this is no doubt miraculous to some for various reasons, the choice to allow in-person class meetings is dangerous and unsafe for our community. Until coronavirus infections and prevalence decrease, colleges and universities, including AU, need to remain online to protect their community members. 
From a public health perspective, the decision to remain online entirely is safest for our whole community. The potential for an outbreak is undoubtedly high with college students, as we’ve seen throughout the summer with COVID-19 spikes. Most notably is the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC), which ceased in-person undergraduate classes only nine days into the fall semester. UNC, which is arguably more equipped to handle infectious spread due to their medical center and the Gillings School of Global Public Health, was still unable to handle the caseload of undergraduate sickness. And, like us with spring 2021, UNC moved its timeline of fall semester courses. 
The socialization in close proximity was no doubt causal for outbreaks both at UNC and beyond; such cases were as disappointing as they were preventable. But, what needs to be considered with COVID-19 and college students exists outside of socialization — it’s part-time service jobs and other high-interaction tasks to survive. 
The cost of tuition at AU and cost of living in D.C. are unaffordable for many college students, particularly those paying their way individually and independently. These folks have no choice but to pay their way with traditionally high-interpersonal contact jobs. From restaurants and retail to sex work, there’s no circumventing that needing to be in D.C. means needing to make money. Allowing space for those folks to have equal opportunity in classes is crucial, no doubt. In the spirit of equity, we need to keep it all online. 
But, instead of running a risk, we should run interference and try to fix the problems of a somewhat stable fall operation. The University would be better off improving what we have rather than risking something to lose. 
The limited and optimistic protections proposed by the University are fantastical. With limited resources, how is it plausible that AU would be able to compile a comprehensive, continuous COVID-19 task force? AU administration has had a terrible track record of providing students, faculty and staff with the resources we’ve been asking for without the presence of a fluctuating pandemic. With such a track record in mind, it’s fear-inducing to consider how the administration, lack of resources and high-stress culture will negatively impact our community. 
Many community members, particularly students, feel as though in-person activities of any kind are for the benefit of the University, not the community.
In a time where administrators have been praised for listening to scientists, permitting on-campus activities in any capacity reads as hypocritical and subversive. In all, the nature of COVID-19 has yet to provide any predictability. Who are we to put our community in harm’s way given the risks? 
Therese Wilson is a senior in the School of Public Affairs, majoring in Political Science and Public Health and a staff columnist at The Eagle.
twilson@theegleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Many Friendship Heights Metro Area businesses are closing or have shut down. 
Just one metro stop away from Tenleytown, the Friendship Heights commercial district used to be a hub for American University student life. But recent financial struggles in and around Mazza Gallerie and Chevy Chase Pavilion have prompted pleas for redevelopment. 
“The stores that remain are almost exclusively for the very wealthy or uber rich,” senior Eamon Vahidi said. “It's very inaccessible to a neighborhood that has a lot of students and families; it's not really the right demographic.” 
Friendship Heights, which connects D.C. and Montgomery County, has competed for years with newer developments such as CityCenterDC near Chinatown and DC USA in Columbia Heights. The economic crisis prompted by the coronavirus pandemic only heightened the financial struggles of the area. 
Two of the major retailers that touched down in Friendship Heights during its original development, Lord and Taylor and Neiman Marcus, have announced liquidation sales and foreclosure going into effect this fall. 
Developers in the 1970s predicted that Mazza Gallerie would serve as D.C.’s version of Fifth Avenue, The Washington Post reported. But, a year after opening, the 60-store shopping mall struggled to fill space. The building, which has been sold four times since its opening in 1977, was sold this August in a foreclosure auction for $38 million. 
“This is like a 20-year degradation of the area, and now we’re here wondering what happened,” said Nolan Rodman, who owns Rodman’s, a specialty grocery store and pharmacy located in the area since 1955. “It's insane, there needs to be investment and building and new blood and life. Right now, there's only been people exiting.” 
Rodman attributes some of his store’s success to the fact that it’s family-owned. 
“A lot of retail establishments [in the area] have not adapted over time to a changing environment,” Rodman said. “If I wanted us to change my store completely tomorrow, I would decide with my dad to do it and we would do it. It’s not like we have this bureaucratic thing we need to go through.” 
However, Rodman, similar to others, believes the commercial district still has the potential to prosper.
With household incomes ranging from $170,000 to $200,000 a year, Friendship Heights is home to some of the District’s wealthiest residents. The commercial district sits in the middle of million-dollar, single-family home neighborhoods. 
“[These businesses’] clientele is of a particular market and it doesn't necessarily fit all the people who might be utilizing that area,” said Brett Gilbert, an associate professor in Kogod. “So [land owners] would definitely do well to essentially try to bring in businesses that can tailor to people who are at a lower socioeconomic level."
Students believe the commercial district’s proximity to campus certainly allows for the space to be utilized by the AU community.  
“I think there’s a chance to really create new living spaces, open up more places for AU kids to go, and increase equity and access,” Vahidi said. 
gnewton@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Cyrus and Myrtle Katzen Arts Center on Massachusetts Avenue 
Editor's Note: This article appeared in The Eagle's October 2020 virtual print edition.
Before the coronavirus pandemic dominated our lives, people commonly spent a weekend afternoon roaming around an art exhibit. There is much to see and experience for general audiences at an art exhibit, from paintings to installations, sculptures to photographs. 
Museums don’t create themselves, however. The projects are carefully calculated by professionals known as art curators.
Since the AU Museum at Katzen Arts Center opened in 2005, Jack Rasmussen, the museum’s director and curator, has played an important role in how the museum works with the AU community. He said that Katzen was built as a focal point for AU’s campus.
“Our programs were really more directed towards Washington, D.C., and over the past several years, we've been trying to get more and more corporated into the life of the campus, the academic life,” Rasmussen said. 
As a very politically-active university, Rasmussen curates shows that reflect on ideas of identity, social justice and politics. Rasmussen says other museums might be hesitant to show exhibits like this because they court controversy, but the AU community is very receptive and supportive of these debatable shows. 
Though Rasmussen is the only official curator at AU’s museum, he often brings in guest curators to highlight different art experiences. The goal of curators and museums, Rasmussen said, should be to recontextualize history, preserve artwork and change culture.
Jordan Amirkhani, a modern and contemporary art history professorial lecturer, said that art galleries do a good job of “hiding the labor that goes into the construction and organization of an exhibition.” 
“It's supposed to look effortless, and that's because curators are responsible for communicating a very clear visual experience for a viewer, for an audience member, for a museum-goer,” Amirkhani said.
Amirkhani also works as an independent art curator, focusing on living artists, especially female artists of color and female artists in general. She is curating an exhibit for the Atlanta Biennial at the Atlanta Contemporary Art Center, which will debut in February 2021. 
“The word curator comes from the Latin ‘to care,’ and that is something that I think about a lot in my own work, that you are, in a way, a kind of caretaker or steward of artwork and art objects in an art institution,” Amirkhani said. 
Amirkhani and the Atlanta Contemporary Art Center thought they might have to cancel the Altana Biennial. Once they decided not to cancel it, she said it was still difficult to curate the exhibit. Armirkhani used Zoom and FaceTime to see the artists’ pieces that would be in her collection.
“So much of being a curator is being in artists’ studios and seeing work in-person, in real-time,” Amirkhani said. “And, that opportunity was taken [away] from me, and it was really difficult to put together a show with the absence of being able to be in Atlanta.”
Rasmussen also adapted by moving his most recent exhibits online, including the series entitled “Contested Space.” Every presidential election cycle, Rasmussen presents exhibits that address some of the most prominent issues leading up to the election.
Photographer Edward Burtynsky’s “Water,” a series that took five years to complete, features in the exhibit. It captures humans’ relationship with water, including in Canada, Iceland and India.
According to AU’s website, “Water” was previously “curated by Russell Lord, Freeman Family Curator of Photographs, for the New Orleans Museum of Art in 2013.”
“You can get drawn down into just the minute level, and it just holds together all the way down to the almost microscopic. It’s an incredible experience to see these in person,” Rasmussen said about Burtynsky’s series.
Burtynsky echoed Rasmussen’s thoughts about his work, saying the online format is not ideal for viewing his photographs. 
“It's not the experience that you want. You want to stand in front of these prints,” Burtynsky said. “You can go in and put your face six inches away from the picture, and it doesn't fall apart. Everything that is still there, it's readable as information.”
Both Rasmussen and Amirkhani are adjusting to these different times while engaging with topics on identity and contested issues leading up to the election. 
“It has to be relevant to what's going on in the world,” Rasmussen said. “Sometimes, that's the job of the curator for the museum is to provide the context in which you can understand what you're seeing in terms of today.”
igoodman@theeagleonline.com, smirah@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
