Reckoning with racial history in the United States leads us to explore the work of Black artists and other artists from diverse backgrounds. In an effort to be inclusive, six different exhibits featuring Black artists in D.C.’s major museums educate audiences on the  cultural and political experiences of Black people. 
The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden features an exhibit by Mark Bradford on Pickett’s Charge, which was the final charge of the Battle of Gettysburg during the Civil War. Bradford is a Los Angeles-based artist who won the MacArthur Genius Award in 2009 and the U.S. State Department’s Medal of Art in 2015. Pickett’s Charge is Bradford’s first-ever solo D.C. exhibit. The work is an installation of paper art 45  feet long depicting the battle. This exhibit is open through 2021. 
Another exhibit, now part of the permanent collection, featured in this museum is titled “A Changing America” with a focus on 1968 and beyond. The exhibit covers the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., Barack Obama’s elections and the Black Lives Matter movement. In chronicling Black history, after the Civil Rights movement, the exhibit provides context linking key developments to each other. The historical analysis offered by the exhibit is enlightening as our country continues to face racial tensions and civil rights struggles. 
The D.C. Public Library houses a Go-Go Archive available for public viewing. Go-Go music is a subgenre of funk that originated in D.C. The Go-Go Archive features commemorative artifacts from D.C.’s original music scene in memory of local musician Chuck Brown. Most of the archived material is CDs, audio recordings, photos, posters, flyers, videos, DVDs and concert ticket stubs. Anyone can contribute materials to the collection, so long as they are related to Chuck Brown or any other Go-Go musicians. The Archive can be accessed free of charge online. 
The Phillips Collection’s exhibit “Riffs and Relations: African American Artists and the European Modernist Tradition,” open until Jan. 3, 2021, combines 20th and 21st century work by African American artists with the work of 20th century European artists. It highlights work by African American artists who have engaged through critique or inspiration with European modernist art. Artists adapt the recognizable styles of white European artists, like Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso, to represent Black identity. 
Jacob Lawrence: The Migration Series, a multimedia exhibition at The Phillips Collection, focuses on the Great Migration through the lens of artist Jacob Lawrence. It features paintings that show Black migrants traveling to northern cities from the South as a result of  segregationist laws and a lack of economic opportunities. The Great Migration is an important period in American history, since it was the beginning of a change in demographics as more than 6 million African American people migrated. Lawrence’s paintings show different points along the journey to the North and the conditions that the formerly enslaved were in. Lawrence’s paintings can be viewed online.
Despite these museums featuring Black art, a 2019 study by a Williams College professor found that museum exhibits are dominated by white artists. According to a USA Today article, some museums are now making more of an effort to include Black artists in their exhibitions. The 2019 article also explains that only six percent of the works at the National Gallery of Art are by Black artists. The Black Lives Matter movement is continuing to fight for racial justice in every form, and these exhibits are a start for museums to expand the representation of Black artists. 
trecchio@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Stephanie Bortruex, co-chair of American University’s LGBTQ+ Faculty & Staff Affinity Group, said her proudest moment, within the organization, was marching in the 2019 Capital Pride Parade. After nearly a year of anticipation and working with the University for even more support in the 2020 parade, Capital Pride’s cancellation was a disappointment for the organization, Bortruex said. 
Amid the coronavirus pandemic, Capital Pride announced “Pride 2020 Reimagined,” a series of virtual events in lieu of traditional Pride gatherings. The theme, #StillWe, was unveiled in February, but made no mention of the pandemic that would later change how Pride is normally celebrated. The theme references “the resilience, resistance, unity and pride that exist within our community,” said Ryan Bos, Capital Pride Alliance’s executive director, on the website.   
Now, months later, the theme rings even more true. Despite the cancellations, members of the AU community still celebrate and find meaning in #StillWe Pride.
Bortruex, who is a financial operations specialist in the University library, said the word “still” resonates the most with her. 
“It feels like we’ve been here before, we’ve been fighting this fight for so long, we’ve been marching these streets over and over again,” she said. 
To Bortruex, the sharing of resources and information amid the pandemic is reminiscent of the collective learning during the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The second word in the hashtag, she hopes, is a prediction of future Pride celebrations. 
“Hopefully this experience will bring us together, and some solidarity will be found during this time and that our community will become stronger for it,” Bortruex said. “The optimist in me wants to believe in the ‘we’ part, but right now I just really believe in the ‘still’ part.”
Sammi Bradley, a rising senior at AU, holds similar hope for change in Pride celebrations. When looking at the Capital Pride website, there’s a greater conversation around inclusion and honoring diverse experiences, Bradley said. On social media, he is seeing more conversation around income inequality for trans folks in D.C. 
“Even though D.C. is kind of known for having a big gay community and having all of these organizations around, there is still a serious inequality,” he said. “In #StillWe, it’s people trying to raise awareness around that even the most progressive cities still have their issues.”
Another issue that Bradley sees being addressed, this year, is the commodification of Pride Month. According to Bradley, the cancellation of in-person Pride events has seemingly deterred big corporations from just “putting a rainbow on [their] logo,” which he feels is a performative act. 
Bortruex, on the other hand, worries about smaller LGBTQ organizations that rely on Pride for revenue. One way that she combats this is by donating — some of her favorite organizations to contribute to are the DC Center, Casa Ruby and the DC Area Transmasculine Society. 
This year’s #StillWe theme also acknowledges the current, international Black Lives Matter movement. The first sentence on Capital Pride’s #StillWe Pride page notes the organization’s commitment to “uplift this profound movement to affirm that [Black] lives matter.”
“Black Lives Matter is so important to the LGBT community because, even if you just look throughout history, Black trans women have always been at the front of the moment,” Bradley said.
Bradley said that he’s celebrating Pride month by sharing resources among his LGBTQ friends, as well as reading about the accomplishments of trans people like Marsha P. Johnson, a Black trans activist known for her involvement in the Stonewall Riots.
Bortruex said that the Black Lives Matter movement is an important reason to uplift Black and brown LGBTQ people this year, but Pride Month should always be used to celebrate their achievements and identities. 
“For too long Pride has been a little too corporate, a little too whitewashed,” she said.
Above all, Bradley and Bortruex are hopeful that #StillWe and its message will create a more inclusive Pride for years to come. Bortruex is looking forward to a more diverse experience that benefits all members of the LGBTQ community. 
“Pride is also a very ableist experience. Maybe when we kick Pride off the streets it will help people think more thoughtfully of how we can include people who are unable to access Pride on the street level,” Bortruex said. “Maybe Pride can become a better Pride after this.” 
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
