The COVID-19 pandemic is impacting visual art.
 Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
Updates and corrections: This article has been updated since it was first published with artwork from Mikray Pida. It’s also been corrected to state that Pida lived in Hebei Province during the SARS outbreak, not Hubei and “Katzen Gallery” has been replaced with “AU Museum.” Randal Packer’s name has been fixed with the proper spelling.
Due to the coronavirus, the American University Museum at the Katzen Arts Center remains closed, and many artists have had their shows canceled. Curators and creators have been rethinking the ways in which they can present their art. 
Randall Packer, a former professor in the Department of Art, started a website in 2017 called the Third Space Network, an online platform meant to break the barrier between the physical space and digital space. The goal of the platform is to create a “third space,” known as the shared space between the two.
“All of a sudden, with the Third Space Network, I found myself at the center of a complete transformation that was taking place in education, in theatre and performance,” Packer said.  “I’ve been developing techniques for this very moment in time for the past 10 years.” 
Packer develops programs and collaborates with artists to host town halls, live events and  interviews from his home studio. 
Packer felt that the online experience was largely underestimated as a medium for art, due to people’s lack of understanding on how to navigate the internet. During his events, he encourages social interaction among all the attendees, such as asking questions and being active in the chat box.  
“I was really interested in how I could make this dynamic more social so that people forget they are even on the internet,” Packer said. 
Attendance at Packer’s events varies between 100 to 500 people depending on the type, he said. Packer hopes that other artists will be able to find creative and innovative ways to adapt to the changing circumstances. 
Packer has been working on a series called Raw Hope of Humanity Rising to discuss artists’ work and to capture some of people’s ideas leading up to the 2020 presidential election. Topics include Democracy vs Authoritarianism, Information vs Propaganda and Idealism vs Cynicism.
The last talk of the series will be on the theme Real vs Fake on Sept. 2. 
Recently, Packer has also been working with the founding director and curator at the AU Museum, Jack Rasmussen, to host virtual gallery talks and transition some of the gallery’s exhibitions online.
According to Rasmussen, the AU Museum will remain closed for the rest of 2020, and about 20 artists have had their shows canceled as a result. People can still download catalogues from canceled shows on the museum’s website. 
“Works of art are a lot more than a digital image of something,” Rasmussen said. “So it’s been quite a learning experience to make this transition, but it’s also opened up some really interesting possibilities for the future.” 
Mikray Pida, a Uyghur American artist living in D.C., had her show canceled at the AU Museum. The show was scheduled for Sept. 12 through Dec. 13. She comes from a Turkish-speaking ethnic group in Xinjiang Province, an autonomous territory in China whose people and culture are under systematic attack by the Chinese government.   
Pida’s artwork is meant to communicate the powerful experiences she’s had in her life, much of which is based on her time living in China. She lived in the Hebei Province during the SARS outbreak. Her art reflects her experiences with environmental problems, the refugee population, disease, immigration and the connection between these topics. 
“My painting is not about decorative art, or beautiful color; it’s more that I try to make people think about the world we are living in today,” Pida said. 
Because of COVID-19, Pida has not been able to share artwork that she deeply values with the public. She is saddened by this because she believes that showing her paintings in person, and having a dialogue with others, especially Americans, is vital to the impact of her work. 
“After Americans go through the impact of this pandemic, which is huge, from my paintings we can have dialogue about what this is all about, and I want to have that in public,” Pida said. 
Rasmussen is still working on exhibitions for 2023. Now, he’s reflecting on what it means for the AU Museum to move its programming to a virtual environment. 
“In many ways, it’s made viewing a richer kind of experience, using these tools that can’t be denied, and that’s exciting, that’s a great educational resource,” Rasmussen said. 
arustum@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
2020 alumni Catie Davis is creating global conversation about intersectionality with her “Intersectional Ally Network.”
American University alumna Catie Davis has long been interested in intersectional advocacy. With the creation of her new organization, the Intersectional Ally Network, she is merging her passions for LGBTQ+ and BIPOC advocacy for a greater cause.
As a women’s, gender, and sexuality studies major, the 2020 graduate used her experiences as an adopted queer Asian American woman to explore intersectionality — even completing her capstone on queer Chinese adoptees during her time at AU. 
Davis, along with Camilla Duke, a recent grad of the University of St Andrews in Scotland, started IAN at the beginning of June, as a Facebook group, with plans to connect via video chat during quarantine.  
“[At] First we thought it would just be this group of five gay friends talking about gay things and having a queer book club,” Davis said. 
However, after they began telling friends outside of their core group about their plan, the dynamic of IAN changed drastically. Davis’ small Facebook group quickly grew to over 520 members, and she, and her co-founders, realized that they had the ability to create something bigger. 
The group took on the role of an activist network — a place for not just book discussions, but resource sharing, fundraising and events like “Queer Happy Hour.” Instead of just focusing on LGBTQ+ voices, Davis decided to take on a global anti-racism approach. 
“Not just racism in America — we really want to focus on politics globally,” Davis said. Part of this is due to its the large international following within the group — especially because the rest of the leadership team are also recent grads of the University of St Andrews. 
Now, the group has a weekly book club with nearly 70 participants registered. Its first book was “Me and White Supremacy,” by Layla Saad. Even though a book club was IAN’s original purpose, Davis is hesitant to limit the group’s activism to just talking about books.
“A big critique of book clubs is you just sit around and talk with wine, but what we want to do is we want to donate, we want to fundraise, we want to get people interning and volunteering with existing organizations,” Davis said. “That’s not what’s productive, that’s not what’s going to move things forward in the world.”
Davis and her co-founders have also been able to utilize the Facebook group and IAN’s other social media accounts to fundraise. 
“We’ve raised over $4,500 for bail funds across the country,” Davis said. Davis and her team are in contact with an employee of Microsoft, who said that the company plans to triple all donations gathered. 
She also created an Instagram and Twitter page called “Which USWNT player are you?” to fundraise from a different angle. “I literally created a meme page: I’m obsessed with the U.S. Women’s National Team — this is so embarrassing, I’m literally in my 20’s and I created a meme page — but it works, people donate.”
While Facebook and Instagram garnered the most donations, Davis has also been experimenting with fundraising on TikTok. 
“[I’m] using different platforms and digital organizing from my campaign experience and also just my quarantine boredom to just organize people.”
The group is also working to create a website and establish IAN as a 501(c)(4) nonprofit organization.
As the only person of color on the leadership team for IAN, Davis said she wants to work to get more people of color involved. In the future, Davis said she wants to use Instagram Live and create podcast episodes interviewing queer BIPOC artists and activists. Within seeking out BIPOC leadership, however, there are challenges to be mindful of, she said. 
“We want more people of color to step up for leadership positions, but you can’t tokenize people, obviously,” Davis said. “I feel like that’s a thing that every organization has to figure out.” 
Davis said that the most rewarding part of IAN has been seeing people come together from all around the world to discuss how they can be allies. She said she wants people to share their “vulnerabilities and fears” in order to help break “complacent habits.”
For those who want to get involved, Davis recommended following and liking the organization’s Facebook and Instagram pages. She also asked for anyone interested in joining the book club to email IAN.
Hopeful participants of IAN can look forward to what the group calls a “one-stop shop for all intersectional questions, ideas, and events” — a space where allies can learn how to be better allies without relying on the emotional labor of marginalized communities, the network said. 
“I really think that the world is waking up right now,” Davis said. “There’s such a huge cultural shift in society which is really good for people — cis, white, straight people are now realizing all of these injustices and I think that’s a great thing because people are being active and they’re mobilizing.”
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
