Bruce Springsteen photo used for his autobiography book cover.

"Gallery ~ Bruce Springsteen" by e r j k . a m e r j k a is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 2.0 
Bruce Springsteen has released three songs that he wrote before his 1973 debut album, “Greetings From Asbury Park, N.J.” These songs deal with nostalgia, loss and self-reflection, which is apt for most of 2020, as many have reflected on canceled events, lost loved ones and personal care. 
The previously unreleased songs appear on his new album, “Letter To You.” The album was released on Oct. 23, and is his first album with the E Street Band since 2014’s “High Hopes.” “Letter to You” is an introspective album that contains the punch Springsteen’s previous albums had. In an interview with Apple Music, Springsteen said making the album consisted of single live takes for each song with minimal overdubbing. “It was a great project for us because I don’t think we’ve ever played live in the studio and then kept everything we did on the full take,” Springsteen said. 
His previously unreleased songs are titled “Janey Needs a Shooter,” “If I Was the Priest,” and “Song for Orphans.” “Janey Needs a Shooter” contains slow guitar and rhythm parts which provide fans with a flashback to Springsteen’s early sound at the very beginning of his career. 
“Song for Orphans” features the musical style of the “Born to Run" album released in 1975. Roy Bittan’s keyboard along with Steven Van Zandt’s guitar make the melody and pulse of the song. Springsteen said in his Apple Music interview that he wanted to give Bittan more freedom on the keyboard — like he used to have on the early material. 
In the album’s 10th track, “Ghosts,” Springsteen pays tribute to his late bandmates, Danny Federici and Clarence Clemons. The song’s lyric video combines old clips of Springsteen, Federici, and Clemons in concert and recent clips of Springsteen by himself. Springsteen’s voluminous, raspy voice combined with the E Street Band’s instrumentation make “Ghosts” the introspective and energetic song that it is. 
A documentary will also accompany the album’s release, showing the making of each song on the album. “I love the emotional nature of ‘Letter to You,’” Springsteen said in a statement published by USA Today. A trailer for the album and its accompanying documentary can be found on YouTube, along with a teaser. 
This year, Springsteen has released live albums as part of his series “The Live Series.” In the series, he has included unreleased live performances from the 1970s to the 2000s. He released a live album, “The Live Series: Songs of Summer” on May 15 that features live versions of hit songs such as “Born to Run,” “Thunder Road” and “Girls In Their Summer Clothes.” 
Other albums included in “The Live Series” are “The Live Series: Songs of Love” and “The Live Series: Songs of Friendship.”
Between “Letter to You” and “The Live Series,” Springsteen fans should definitely be entertained during the pandemic despite not being able to enjoy his legendary three to four hour-long live concerts. 
trecchio@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With the tumult of the current political environment, especially during and following the election, American University students expressed heightened stress levels as well as difficulty balancing schoolwork with monitoring election results.
“The only time [I] really looked away from The New York Times map and the CNN video [was] just [to] sleep, so I kind of struggled with balancing homework and election stuff,” said School of Public Affairs freshman Lisa Liubovich in an interview during election week. “I think I already have trouble paying attention in class, but this is just like a cherry on the sundae. It’s very difficult to pay attention when everything is happening right now.”
Sophomore Solomon Dubner, who spent much of his time leading up to the election working on Maine Senate Democratic candidate Sara Gideon’s campaign, agreed. 
“You have this huge monumental event that is going to shape the lives of millions of people around the world, and you’re just glued to the TV,” Dubner said. “That one-page reflection paper, that stats assignment that you have, is going to seem pretty trivial.”
Jeffrey Volkmann, the executive director of the Counseling Center, explained how easier access to constantly-updated digital news could increase stress and ultimately cause a student to lose focus.
“The way the time period works right now, where we’re all in front of screens, I think for many people, there was some sort of [news] like The New York Times or something up at all times on their screen,” Volkmann said. “So while you’re in class, you’re getting this information, it’s impacting you emotionally, and then you’re also trying to focus on the content, and I think that’s a pretty difficult thing right now.”
Some stress among students was alleviated by some professors’ leniency during election week, including optional attendance, asynchronous activities and extended deadlines for assignments.
The Counseling Center also released resources to help students cope with election-related stress, such as an Election Stress Survival Kit and expanded drop-in hours and intake appointments throughout election week.
In order to de-stress, Volkmann suggested setting boundaries, eating meals regularly, exercising, listening to music and other forms of self-care. 
“I think a lot of conversation has been dictated by what’s happening with elections,” he said. “There can be some time made to talk about things other than the election to schedule space for yourself so that you’re not just focusing on what’s taking place in the world [and] taking breaks from the internet for periods of time.”
Dubner echoed this sentiment and emphasized the need for free time in addition to focusing on the election and work.
“At some point, you need just an hour to unwind, watch TV [or] read a book, and I think the main thing was, I didn’t have time to do that. I did have enough time to get my work done to a good enough quality, I’d like to think, and to do my best for the Gideon campaign,” Dubner said. “But I think the biggest problem was after I had time to do that, there was time for nothing else, which was kind of hard to balance [with] work, school and [my] personal life.”
jyoung@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
 Christian Damiana, a sophomore running to replace Taylor Berlin.
As the U.S. prepares for a transition to a new presidential administration, AU students are anticipating  changes to their lives. But what some may not have considered is how the local D.C. races may affect them too. 
The Advisory Neighborhood Commission, or ANC, is a non-partisan neighborhood body made up of local representatives who serve two-year terms. Each commissioner serves without receiving a paycheck,  serving  as a liaison between residents and the city government. 
AU’s main campus is almost completely concentrated in the Single Member District ANC 3D07. 
AU sophomore and CLEG major Christian Damiana ran unopposed for the 3D07 commissioner seat, a position that is intended for student representatives. 
"If there's these issues that [AU students] care about, at the local level, like the environment that they live in, or the transportation and whether or not it's sustainable, or whether or not AU is meeting their housing needs, those are issues that the ANC can and should address and should be as proactive as possible,” Damiana said.  
Damiana will take the seat previously held by Commissioner Taylor Berlin, a 2019 AU alum and MPA student, who was elected to the commission in 2018. Before Berlin, the 3D07 seat had remained vacant for more than two years. 
"The vacancy had contributed to the breakdown of the relationship between AU and the surrounding neighborhood," Berlin said. "I'm very, very happy that Christian has won the seat and will be succeeding me and that the relationship that I've worked to rebuild with the surrounding community is going to be continuing."  
Ben Bergmann defeated opponent Doreen Moses in the race for the 3D08 Single Member District seat. This district includes several establishments along New Mexico Avenue such as Foxhall Square and Sutton Towers. 
Bergmann hopes to keep his community, both AU students and neighborhood residents, engaged with ANC matters. He encourages community members to attend the public ANC meetings held once a month. 
“It's very easy at ANC meetings for the views of the people who show up to get privileged, and to be perceived by the commissioners as the dominant, majority positioning,” Bergmann said. “Which makes sense, we don't have sophisticated public polls of what people think in the neighborhood.” 
ANC members will often take community input from meetings and attempt to develop a joint position. Commissioners then communicate residents’ opinions to the D.C. mayor’s office or other D.C. agencies.  
“It's not that the ANC's going to solve it or make it happen, but it is another tool that students and everybody don't use as much as they could, that could be used to push for things,” Bergmann said. 
Damiana encourages AU students to use the ANC for advocacy as well. ANC 3D is one of the few districts that contains zero units of affordable housing, something Damiana plans to be a proponent for during his time as a commissioner. A member of the Metropolitan Police Department also attends every ANC 3D meeting and takes questions, which Damiana also believes students could utilize. 
gnewton@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
