AU men’s basketball moved itself into sole possession of third place in the Patriot League with a 72-62 win over the Army Black Knights on Senior Day on Saturday afternoon inside Bender Arena.
Both AU (12-11, 8-4 PL) and Army (11-12, 6-6 PL) got off to slow starts on the offensive end. 
“We came out a little too excited, maybe because of senior day,” said AU head coach Mike Brennan.
But AU began to gain momentum as the first half progressed, in large part due to stellar guard play.
Senior guard Sa’eed Nelson and junior guards Jamir Harris and Stacy Beckton Jr. seemingly did everything for the Eagles, combining for 51 points and 27 rebounds.
“The effort and energy was definitely there [from the guards],” Brennan said.
AU’s effective guard play and rock-solid defense helped the team go into the locker room for halftime with a commanding 36-24 lead.
Coming out of the locker room for the second half, AU was firing on all cylinders, flourishing on the offensive end while shutting down Army’s dominant inside-out duo of power forward Matt Wilson and point guard Tommy Funk, as the seniors combined to shoot 9-for-28 from the field.
“[Wilson and Funk] are two tough tough guys, great competitors,” Brennan said. “They run the ball down your throat … We just made it as tough as possible [for them].”
Despite limiting Wilson and Funk, and building an 18-point lead with six minutes left to play, AU let Army back into the contest, leading by just seven points with a minute left in regulation.
In the final minute, however, Nelson and Harris went 6-for-6 from the free-throw line to seal the deal for AU. 
With the victory, AU is just one game behind Boston University, the second-place team in the Patriot League.
“It was a great team win,” Nelson said. “We’ve just gotta keep winning. If you lose one game, you fall down [in the standings].”
AU will be back at Bender on Wednesday at 7 p.m. to take on the Loyola Greyhounds (12-13, 4-8), a team which recently got back Santi Aldama, the MVP of the FIBA U-18 European Championships for Spain in 2019, from injury.
“[Loyola] is just a completely different team than the Loyola we played at their place the first time,” Brennan said. “[Aldama is] a good player, [Loyola is] a good team … they’re gonna be tough.”
jkolodny@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Compared to last year’s fiasco, the 92nd Academy Awards were relatively tame, and the surprises that did materialize were mostly welcome ones. Perhaps the most memorable moment of the evening was when the South Korean favorite “Parasite” won the grand prize for Best Motion Picture—the first time a foreign language film has won the award. “Parasite” also walked away with the newly renamed Best International Film award (formerly called the Best Foreign Language Film).
In addition to this underdog upset, there were a number of memorable moments in the evening, from colorful and unexpected musical performances to heartfelt and heart-stopping speeches. Here are a few of the evening’s highlights:
Director Bong Joon Ho got plenty of exercise last night, walking to and from the stage for four separate Academy Awards, including Original Screenplay, Achievement in Directing, as well as both Best International Feature Film and Best Motion Picture.”Parasite” was the first film in the ceremony’s history to win both of the latter awards. In a deluge of firsts, “Parasite” was also the first South Korean film to be nominated for Best Picture (and consequently the first to win).
This came as a surprise given some of the other popular contenders for the night’s highest prize; many predicted Sam Mendes’ “1917” or Martin Scorsese’s “The Irishman” to take it. “1917” did well in the technical categories, but “The Irishman” walked away empty-handed. The result was a stunning rebuke to the Academy and the films that traditionally succeed during the ceremony.
In his host of acceptance speeches, Bong (through a translator) humbly recognized the cast and crew that made the titanic success possible, recognized the significance of representing South Korea’s first nomination for the International Film category, became emotional and graciously thanked the other nominees when accepting his Directing award, and made a couple of jokes about celebrating by drinking “until [the] next morning.”
Janelle Monáe led the ceremony off with what began as a spoof of Mr. Rogers’ “Won’t You Be My Neighbor?”, a song featured throughout the film “A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood” starring Tom Hanks. It quickly evolved into a theatrical performance featuring dancers dressed as characters from some of this year’s snubbed movies. It was the first (and arguably the best) in a number of excellent guest performances, matched only in the theatrics of the incomparable Sir Elton John with his performance of “(I’m Gonna) Love Me Again” from the biopic “Rocketman.” John won his second Oscar for the song.
Also of note was a perplexing performance of the decades-old “Lose Yourself” by Eminem, whose presence at the Oscars came as a surprise to many, and an intimate and tasteful rendition of The Beatles’ “Yesterday” by Billie Eilish—fresh off of her sweep at the Grammys—during the In Memoriam section of the evening. The performance of “Into the Unknown” from “Frozen II” was also a spectacle, featuring lines sung in various international languages, reinforcing the themes of belonging from the film as well as the ever-relevant importance of international unity.
There are always a number of memorable speeches during every Oscar ceremony. Artists from behind and in front of the camera use the spotlight to address any manner of political causes or to simply recite a laundry list of individuals the winner is grateful for. One of the first of the evening came from Matthew A. Cherry and Karen Rupert Toliver, the winners of Best Animated Short Film for “Hair Love.” Their speech called attention to the lack of representation in animation, and the often-overlooked impact of eurocentric standards of beauty on people—and particularly women—of color. Cherry closed out their speech with a brief tribute to Kobe Bryant, the basketball legend who died in an accident earlier this year.
On the issue of representation in film, composer Hildur Guðnadóttir gave an incredibly humble and inspiring speech during her acceptance of her Oscar for Original Score for “Joker.” On top of the standard fare of thanking the film’s cast and crew as well as loved ones, she closed her speech saying, “To the girls, to the women, to the mothers, to the daughters, who hear the music bubbling within, please speak up—we need to hear your voices.” Guðnadóttir won in a competitive category otherwise populated entirely by men for this year’s ceremony, joining an incredibly exclusive club of female composers with only three other women ever walking away with the award. Guðnadóttir is the first to win under the award’s “Original Score” name, which was changed in 2000. 
In another victory for the critically derided (but popularly loved) “Joker,” Joaquin Phoenix gave a lengthy and deeply emotional speech that touched on a number of subjects, focusing primarily on animal rights, our disconnection from the natural world and how these issues affect our understanding of each other. Choking up, Phoenix then closed out his speech quoting a lyric written by his late brother, River: “Run to the rescue with love, and peace will follow.”
While perhaps unlikely given last year’s Best Picture winner, “Parasite’s sweep of the Oscars is hopefully the harbinger of a new era of recognizing films and filmmakers that challenge orthodox conceptions of what we consider a “good movie,” as well as encouraging the Academy to look past the Hollywood sign when considering what to deem as exceptional cinema. While some may cynically believe the result here is just the Academy capitulating to criticism about representation at the Awards—we clearly still have a long way to go there—it is encouraging to see a departure from the sometimes insular world of prestige Hollywood filmmaking.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The nationally-ranked AU wrestler Kizhan Clarke (32-3) improved his stellar record on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1, coming out on top in his matches against Navy and Binghamton. His 32 victories are the most wins of any wrestler in Division 1 this season. 
Clarke, ranked seventh nationally in the 149-pound weight class, has his eyes set on a national championship after narrowly missing out on qualifying for an appearance at nationals last year, when he wrestled in the 157-pound division.
“My ultimate goal is to be a national champion,” Clarke said after his 7-3 decision over Navy’s Jon Park on Jan. 31. “First I gotta make it to nationals, that’s one of my biggest goals since I haven’t been to nationals yet. And I feel like to do that, I have to remind myself that I’m up there [competing] with the greatest guys when I put my mind to it.”
After AU’s 24-21 loss against Navy, Clarke acknowledged that despite his victory, he did not feel that he wrestled to his full potential that night. 
“I feel like I just went in there too timid and scared, and I just have to remember to just be ruthless and know what I have when I push myself to my limits,” Clarke said. “I just wasn’t doing that today.”
Clarke appeared to take his own message to heart during a 18-15 victory on Feb. 1 over Binghamton, recording four quick takedowns in the first period against Matt Swanson en route to a 12-8 decision. 
With a month left until the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association Championships, Clarke acknowledged the need to remain loose, and not let the potential pressures of being a top-ten, nationally-ranked wrestler get to him.
“I do feel like there is a target on my back,” Clarke said. “It always puts a little bit of pressure on me and I feel that can kind of get to my head sometimes. And that’s why I wrestle matches like this where I wrestle like I’m trying to protect something.”
In order to qualify for nationals, Clarke will have to either win a qualifying bid at the EIWA Championships or receive an at-large bid. Last year at the EIWA conference championships, Clarke finished seventh, one spot out of the conference's six automatic qualifiers for nationals. This year, he is currently the highest-ranked wrestler in the EIWA, giving him a solid shot at earning one of those automatic qualifying bids next month and a trip to the national tournament. 
abranch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
