The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Over winter break, freshman Stacy Davis made a startling discovery while visiting her former high school.  
“They teach math totally differently now,” Davis said. “I knew it would be weird to go back after graduating, but I can’t believe they changed math.” 
Davis’s revelation came on Jan. 6 when she visited Riverside High in northern New Jersey, where she graduated from last spring.  
Since her return to campus, people close to Davis have noticed a change in her demeanor. 
“She’s not the same,” said Taylor Parks, Davis’s roommate. “She seems really put off by how her old high school is teaching math. Frankly, I’m not even sure why she’s obsessing over it—it’s not like she has to go back there.” 
“I’m not sure how much math could have changed in one year,” said sophomore Isa Acosta, Davis’s TA for World Politics. “At my old school, it always seemed like it took them years to do the simplest things—like fixing the roof.” 
At first, it remained unclear what actual changes took place to Riverside High’s math curriculum, but eventually Davis shared what happened. 
“They’re trying to teach everyday math, so students feel more prepared for the real world,” said Davis. “Why the heck did I have to muddle through pre-calculus and all the future students only have to learn how to balance a checkbook?”
The school’s new curriculum also involves a “critical thinking” initiative.
“I talked to Dr. Hardlin, the head of the math department, because I was so distressed,” Davis said. “She told me that new math means students have to write down sentences, not just numbers. It’s part of a new ‘critical thinking’ initiative.”
“I don’t know how they used to do it at Stacy’s old school,” said Kade Wall, one of Davis’s friends. “Writing down how you solved a problem seems like a pretty integral part of math to me.”
“Most AU wonks aren’t big math fans, so I guess the mere mention of math might have thrown Stacy into a tizzy,” said Aditi Badal, another close friend of Davis.
Davis said that in spite of the changes, she heard that students are adjusting smoothly. 
“I heard from a few of my friends who are still in high school that people are getting used to the change,” said Davis. “But where does it stop? Next thing you know, they’re going to want you to do critical thinking and write sentences in English!” 
Owen Boice is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
oboice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
President Trump signed a piece of legislation that raised the federal minimum purchasing age of tobacco and nicotine products from 18 to 21 on Dec. 19, 2019. The legislation was passed after a wave of a mysterious lung disease struck the country last year. Little was known about the exact cause of the lung disease, except that it was linked to vaping. Concrete evidence has still not linked the disease to one singular vape, but investigations are underway. 
Around this time, I discovered an article from CNN that showed that of the 180 school shootings in the past 10 years, there have been 356 victims. There was one question that I found myself asking: why is this vaping epidemic more important to the Trump administration than passing gun control legislation in the wake of multiple school shootings?
A report by CBS News found that there were more mass shootings than there were days in a year in 2019, at the time of the report. With all of these troubling statistics about mass shootings surfacing, I couldn't help but think that President Trump has prioritized the wrong epidemic. The only difference between the two epidemics is that teenagers are harming themselves with these vape products, but when a shooter comes into a classroom with a gun, someone else is causing that harm.
The Trump administration has focused its efforts on combating the vaping crisis, which, according to The New York Times, has taken the life of 59 people and infected 2,602 others. Many questions still swirl as teenagers question whether vaping THC, nicotine, CBD or all three causes the vaping illness. With fear spreading amongst the confusion as to the cause of the vaping illness, mass shootings are still prevalent and have created a wave of fear within schools dating back before such vaping devices even existed.
“I was very active about gun control in my senior year of high school because it hit so close to home after a school shooting occurred near me,” said sophomore Joshua Evans, who is a gun control activist and helped host a walk-out at his high school. “Why is the Trump administration attacking the smaller things first that have not been properly studied when you have hard facts of people dying every day by guns? These are hard statistics. Numbers do not lie.”
I believe that the vaping illness is an important issue to discuss and investigate. I support raising the age to combat teenage use. Even more than this, I believe that more studies need to be completed to understand what exactly is causing this level of severe lung damage. 
With that being said, there are already statistics about mass shootings available. If the Trump administration fails to respond to these statistics, let alone acknowledge them, then yes, the vaping epidemic could end, but the never-ending series of school shootings will ultimately continue. 
Costa Beavin is a junior in the School of Communication and a columnist for The Eagle. 
cbeavin@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On Jan. 26, Vice President of Campus Life and Inclusive Excellence Dr. Fanta Aw sent the AU community an email regarding mental health resources on campus. The email, masquerading as an attempt to reach out to students searching for support, had an accusatory tone and was punctuated by statistics that functioned to place blame on students for the state of counseling services on campus. It seemed that rather than taking steps to address students’ requests concerning these resources, the administration chose to place that burden back on the struggling students asking for help.
Beyond the absurdity of responding to demands for change by assigning blame, the email and the represented view of administration completely ignore the conversation AU students are trying to have. At the core of this issue, the fact remains that the administration, time and time again, prioritizes its image over the necessary and tangible needs of its students. As the new Hall of Science is slowly constructed and plans for a future training facility are shared, it’s only fair for students to wonder when their necessity for more therapists will be met. 
One of the statistics cited in the email was the fact that 97.5 percent of students who have accessed the Counseling Center would recommend it to other students. Off-campus therapy can be an immense financial strain on any student and many insurance plans cover little to none of those costs. With the Counseling Center being the only free resource AU students have access to, it makes complete sense why they would recommend it to their peers. All this means is they would rather their friends have some hope of treatment, even if it won’t be for another month, than none at all. This statistic cannot and should not be mistaken for any vote of confidence beyond the fact that the Center itself exists. 
What the other statistics fail to recognize are basic symptoms of mental illness. Therapy is a grueling process that forces you to examine and discuss extremely uncomfortable things. Beyond the notion that canceled and missed appointments are a fact of everyday life, getting out of bed to talk about your darkest thoughts is a feat in and of itself. Belittling students and diminishing that to “choosing not to show up for appointments” is an admission that the administration simply does not recognize mental illness to be the tangible problem that it is. 
While the administration should certainly be focused on transforming mental health resources, it should also be more transparent as to where the numbers they base so many claims on are coming from. Are they collected from the tedious survey that the Counseling Center forces everyone to take at the end of their sessions? Knowing a bit more about where this data came from could give students a deeper understanding of this information.
The email also makes a point to disclose cancellations that are “same-day." It seems contradictory that students should have to wait for three weeks to get an appointment while so many appointments are being missed or canceled. If the Counseling Center could set up a system similar to that of advising, it would both allow students to get appointments significantly sooner and make up for the “waste” of canceled counseling time. Creating a system that allows students to go in and choose appointments as they open up facilitates the process for all parties involved. 
Vice President Aw concluded the email with a plea to students to ensure that counseling services are “utilized thoughtfully.” This phrasing implies some sort of hierarchy of mental health needs as if certain students who are “only” mildly depressed should not take away appointments from students who are severely depressed. This implication is dangerous and only further discloses the reckless attitude that the administration displays towards the mental health needs of students.
Administration is continuously planning for the future, a future with more science majors or higher-ranked sports teams. This careful planning comes at the cost of the students who are here now and who are struggling to find support on a campus that wilfully ignores their needs. Perhaps instead of placing the burden on students to somehow fix the failings of the Counseling Center, the administration could learn from schools similar in size to AU who have comparatively successful resources. It could form focus groups to glean the needs we have that it clearly doesn’t respect or understand. 
Since the email was sent, AU’s student body has responded with outrage. With responses from Student Government, AU College Democrats and the overall student body enumerating by the day, it is imperative that the administration recognizes their shortcomings in sending that email. In a period of our lives as transformative and uncertain as our undergraduate years, feeling supported by the institution where we sleep, eat and learn is essential. 
As the national movement to normalize mental illness in schools gains traction, this email proves that AU is falling behind. It is imperative that AU administration joins this conversation and finally makes the needs of its students its primary priority. 
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
