 Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
Any athlete understands the level of discipline that it takes to get out and train, but it was made even more difficult with American University’s decision to hold the fall semester entirely online. Now, with postponed sports seasons and a lack of widespread access to on-campus gyms, it is harder than ever to find a reason to exercise. Still, AU students have found ways to keep moving.
Freshman Ally Fox was motivated by an advertisement for the Nov. 7 Delaware Canal Half Marathon. Fox said that the upcoming race is a much-needed sense of structure since she was unable to join any on-campus running clubs. 
“It’s really hard to get yourself up, that’s why I signed up for a half marathon,” Fox said. “Even though running is one of the few things that keep me mentally sane, I [felt] like [I was] training for nothing.”
Not only was the race something to work for, it also provided a sense of redemption.
“I have a long history of injury issues, and as soon as I started recovering from them, my [high school track] season got cut off last spring,” Fox said. “I have a lot of anger towards losing my last season because I was in the best shape of my life, and I was really ready to run fast.”
In accordance with coronavirus protocol, Fox will wear a face covering at both the start and finish and will run at a distance from others. 
“It’s going to be different, but it’s something, and it’s really helpful, so I’m using that as a way to keep going,” Fox said.
With two years of high school cross-country experience and six to seven days of training every week, Fox has ambitious goals to place in the first spot of her age group, running just over 8 minutes per mile.
“I just want to go accomplish something and feel good,” Fox said.
Training for her half marathon has not been a linear process. During her time in quarantine, Fox got injured again and took a two-month break from running. Fox stressed the importance of finding a balance between exercising and knowing when to back off.
“I realized my daily schedule was so messed up,” Fox said. “I would go to bed at 6 a.m. and wake up at 2 [p.m.] because I had nothing to do. As soon as I stopped running, I lost all sense of structure.”
When she was able to run again, Fox said that everything fell back into place.
For CAS freshman Caleb Farris, being a member of the AU swim team keeps him motivated to exercise regularly from his home in Austin, Texas.
Farris attends swim practices every other day after classes and works out at his local gym three times a week. His practices take place at an outdoor pool, with a maximum of two swimmers per lane and 50 percent capacity to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Although AU’s fall swimming championships were canceled, Farris has not lost motivation to stay in shape.
“I’m really competitive,” Farris said. “I want to be better at what I do.”
Like Fox, Farris also has high hopes for his athletic future. He aspires to be able to run a mile in under five and a half minutes, and wants to make the 2024 Olympic trials, he said. 
Freshman Kristina Kaufman has an ambitious morning routine to stay active. She wakes up early three days a week to get to the gym in her hometown of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, by 7 a.m. There, Kaufman and her friend work on either their legs, chest or arms.
“I’m more active than I used to be,” Kaufman said. “I’m definitely happy that I’m finally able to [exercise] because I wanted to but never had time with high school.”
She said that the gym she frequents limits customers to three appointments per week, and that everyone is given an individual station complete with a set of weights and a bench. Even at low capacity with a fair amount of restrictions in place, Kaufman has noticed a change in her mental well-being.
Kaufman, a dancer up until this year, hopes to gain arm strength and muscle definition through her workouts, and she is training to be able to do a pull-up. She also goes on weekly three-mile runs with her father.
Likewise, junior health promotion major Gillian Gulley is always on the move. She said that she works out six days a week, which is no surprise since she founded AU CHAARG, a women’s health and fitness club. She has stayed active during quarantine by running, playing soccer with her friends and walking.
Always passionate about the benefits of exercising, Gulley wanted to create a club that embodied fitness and healthy lifestyles.
“[AU CHAARG] definitely helps college students get healthier,” Gulley said. “It’s really hard to keep yourself in shape during college, especially in freshman year.”
This semester, AU CHAARG is holding weekly group workouts over Zoom, including yoga and full body core strength exercises. 
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Previous

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
American University’s Student Health Center has tested around 2,000 students for the coronavirus since late August, averaging 50 students per day, according to Dr. David Reitman, medical director of AU’s Student Health Center. However, some students have faced difficulties with the COVID-19 results app, Tempus.
When students get tested at AU, they receive an email to set up an account on Tempus after filling out a form. After students download the app and create an account, they receive an email that their results are available about two to five days after the test.
Junior Ashley Bastin said she experienced complications with the app after her first time being tested.
“I clicked it, downloaded the app and then I had to create a password,” Bastin said. “And for some reason it was saying that I had already created a password, even though I had never downloaded the app.”
Bastin said that after communicating with the Tempus app’s helpline, she was directed to AU’s health center to view her results. 
“I got into contact with somebody from [Tempus] tech support and they said that my name had been spelled incorrectly and then my birthday had been entered wrong when they put in information into the system,” Bastin said. “So I wasn’t able to access my results through the app, even though I tried everything they told me in tech support and then I ended up having to go through the health center to get my results.”
Bastin, who arrived in D.C. from Florida, was required to quarantine for 14 days in accordance with Mayor Muriel Bowser’s executive order on people coming to the District from high-risk states. 
“I had to get tested when I came back so that I could go back to work. Since the app was malfunctioning, it kind of delayed my ability to get my test as soon as it was available to me,” Bastin said. “This is all very new, so I understand that there’s some bugs.”
Various other students have had difficulties viewing their results on the app, and the Student Health Center has been working toward facilitating the testing process as they have been testing a large number of students each day. 
“There have been some complaints [from students], and part of the fact is that the app is in the process of just being refined,” Reitman said. “We do about 50 tests a day; we may get three or four students a day who have difficulty accessing the app, and usually the reason why they can't get in is because there was an error.”
Typically, errors can come from students incorrectly recording personal information on the forms or the public health associate in the health center misreading and mistranscribing information if it isn’t very legible, according to Reitman. 
“I’m pretty sure I put my name and birthday correctly, but I know it was like a combination of inputting name and birthday wrong and somehow having a password without having downloaded the app,” Bastin said. “So I think it was a little bit of user error and a little bit of technicalities also.”
Although human error can cause issues with receiving testing results, some students say there are problems with using the app itself.
Two days after getting tested, senior Alexandra Consolino said she received a link through her student email to download the app. She was unable to connect her student account to Tempus, which prevented her from being able to create an account.
“Once you download the app, it should bring up a screen where you can type in your information to create an account, but for some reason I was not getting that second page. I was only able to download the app,” Consolino said. “I wasn't getting any sort of prompt so that I could create an account so that I could see my results.”
Tempus declined a request for an interview, saying that staff members were busy, but they released the following statement to The Eagle. 
“We are currently aware of some errors that our users experience, including when information required to validate the user's identity doesn’t match our records completely and they are unable to register and login to receive their results,” the statement said. “We have continued to work through that very small number of cases with American University and the affected individuals to ensure timely access to results is provided, but only if we can verify that the results are being directed to the right person.”
With different obstacles arising, the Student Health Center is providing students with their results if they are unable to use Tempus. Students can contact shc@american.edu, if they have trouble with the app. 
“Occasionally, there have been some issues on the Tempus side too so there's not been one specific pattern of why students have had issues,” Reitman said. “That said, any students who had a problem getting their results through the app can just contact us either through email or through our secure messaging, and we can get them their results the next day.”
Instead of partnering with LabCorp, a global company that has prominently supplied COVID-19 testing services, AU strategically worked with Tempus in order to provide students with free testing and to have results delivered at a faster rate, Reitman said. 
“AU spent over a half a million dollars for this semester alone,” Reitman said. “We wanted to be able to do this at no cost to students, and with LabCorp we would have to charge their insurance.”
With no definitive sign of COVID-19 vanishing anytime soon, as of Oct. 26, this testing service identified 31 cases out of the 2,000 tests given within the student community, according to Reitman. This is slightly higher than the number listed on AU’s COVID-19 tracker because the tracker excludes students who have only been to the University in the preceding 30 days to get tested without spending more time on campus, according to Reitman.
“We are hoping that we're going to be able to expand on this, both next semester and going into next year as needed because we know that doing these kinds of testing and contact tracing is a fundamental part of controlling the spread of infection,” Reitman said.
Despite having issues with the Tempus app, Consolino and others said they are satisfied with the actual testing process in the health center, but hope that there will be improvements with the app soon. 
“The testing process is so easy that AU should just be making sure that getting the results is also simple too and just make sure that the app is efficient, essentially,” Consolino said.
rrafi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
