 Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
Some American University freshmen are scrambling to find housing in D.C. for the spring, in an attempt to salvage just a few elements of the typical first-year experience following the announcement that AU will be mostly online again next semester. 
Freshman Margaret Curley began her apartment search in the beginning of October, anticipating that AU was going to be online during the spring. 
“I didn’t want to be scrambling over Christmas break, trying to figure out my housing, and also possibly trying to find roommates and all of that,” Curley said. “I definitely think had they announced earlier, I probably wouldn’t have signed a lease, but because they’ve waited so long I feel like I’ve been kind of cornered into this situation.” 
Based on a September Active Minds survey of about 2,000 students across the country, 77 percent of high school and post-secondary students said they have felt lonely and isolated over the course of the coronavirus pandemic. Students across the U.S. are facing social deprivation as online school is becoming the new norm, with coronavirus infections increasing. 
Curley said that social pressures also played a role in her decision to move to D.C. 
“The only downside of online learning for me, so far, has been like socially I’ve had trouble not being able to see people in person,” Curley said. “So that definitely put more pressure on me, and AU kind of waiting until the end of October for that email made me a little bit nervous as well.”
Many upperclassmen have already lived off campus, so students like AU senior Sarah Ricker were quick to find housing before the fall semester even started. 
Ricker said that she and her roommates looked for housing in July for the fall semester, and when AU originally announced a hybrid format, they got a new lease.
Although AU ended up switching from a hybrid to an all-online semester, Ricker and her roommates are happy with their decision to stay in D.C. for their final year as undergraduate students at AU.
“But ultimately, I think we stayed because it’s senior year … to feel that kind of independence and general school environment,” Ricker said. “We stayed in D.C. so we would be a little bit more motivated and concentrated on school.”
Some upperclassmen stayed in the area to be able to focus and maintain their academic performance. They’ve been taking advantage of the D.C. community by networking and getting work experience. 
“Just because living back home is kind of like a restart, in a way, and my parents are home working so it would have just been strange,” Ricker said. “I don't think I would have been as motivated to get a job or an internship if I was at home living with my parents again.”
Curley looks forward to immersing herself in the D.C. community, and hopes that her move will present her with more opportunities. 
“I want to start being able to grow a network in D.C. and get internships that are regional, so doing a lot of work with people I worked with in high school doesn't really look great on my resume,” Curley said. “So I want to start transitioning some of that, like career building stuff down to D.C., which is kind of hard to do from Massachusetts.”
With the urgency to find housing in D.C., Curley feels like she was rushed into signing a lease. Without guaranteed on-campus housing, she didn’t have any other choice but to find a place near campus with her roommates as soon as possible. 
“I don’t feel prepared to be signing a lease right now. I don’t know how to pay utilities,” Curley said. “I just feel like it’s gonna be a really hard transition for the AU community, like, we’re gonna have a large group of students who have never lived on AU’s campus and never will, and I just wonder how that's gonna affect the community.”
In order to build a community, AU should work on accommodating the needs of out-of-state students and international students, freshman Hope Alex said. 
Alex was hoping to leave her home state of Florida after living there her entire life, but when AU shifted online, she stayed home. Although she has been affected by AU going online, she is also concerned for international students who, due to time zone differences, have been struggling with courses.
Alex hopes to gain more independence if she moves to D.C. in the spring. She said she has been very cautious during the pandemic to reduce the risk of passing the virus to family members or roommates. Some students have not even had the opportunity to visit campus before the outbreak hit, Alex said. 
“I’ll actually be able to see what college I’m going to, if I moved to D.C., because I have no idea what AU looks like,” Alex said. “Being constricted at home with two basically immunocompromised parents is kind of limiting. If I’m in D.C., then I’ll have a little bit more freedom to explore things with safety measures in place.”
Alex said that if she really wants to improve academically, she’ll need to change her environment. Taking classes and participating in politics from her childhood home is stressful and jarring, she said. 
“A lot of people are overwhelmed. That's like a pretty big consensus I’ve seen, especially with the current political climate and the election,” Alex said. “People are on edge.”
Students hope that AU will try to recreate that feeling of community with students from all around the world once full campus operations are restored, they said. 
“I’ve never heard the fight song. I don’t know what that is. I don’t know our prominent sports teams. I definitely don’t feel like an AU student — I could be a student anywhere and I would be having the exact same experience that I’m having right now,” Curley said. “I think AU has a lot of work to do in making sure that they work on building that community again.”
rrafi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction: This article has been updated since it was first published to correct that Jessica Herzstein did not inherit the residence adjacent to Jacobs Field from her father; she bought it. 
American University released an updated draft on Oct. 27 of its 2021 campus plan, including consideration of a sound barrier along Jacobs Field and renovations to Mary Graydon Center. 
The Blackprint reported on Oct. 29 that these proposed renovations include replacing Roper Hall, which was previously identified as an area where the University would provide Black affinity housing.
The 264-page document received approval from the AU Neighborhood Partnership, a coalition of representatives from communities near the University’s campus. According to Troy Kravitz, the co-chair of the partnership and an Advisory Neighborhood Commission 3D commissioner, the forum addresses communication issues between nearby residents and the University that former plans did not. 
“The previous campus plans have not really resulted in a good product for the community,” Kravitz said. “Now the University is right there alongside community members and talking through issues that arise and devising solutions or ways to mitigate the impacts if that’s what is necessary.”
One way the University is seeking to mitigate student impact on surrounding areas is by encouraging more undergraduates to remain on-campus during their time in the District. The plan proposes renovations to existing housing as well as building additional spaces for student living. According to the plan, the University will add up to 500 new beds to campus, which means that if enrollment increases, AU will continue to supply housing to the required 67 percent of full-time undergraduates. 
Ed Fisher, AU’s assistant vice president of community and government relations, said in a statement to The Eagle that AU’s 2021 Draft Campus Plan does not eliminate Black affinity housing. 
“Since campus plans are merely outlines of proposed development, they do not include specificity regarding the types of housing (affinity, living-learning, etc.) or academic programs that may be planned for new buildings,” the statement said. “The existing services and/or facilities will ultimately be relocated to existing or new university facilities as part of the planning process.”
However, Fisher did not specify where the University will move the planned affinity housing.
According to the draft, MGC will undergo extensive interior renovations intended to increase its use as a “hub of student life and activity.” The proposed upgrades emphasize increasing spaces for increased health and wellness programs but don’t plan to expand or alter MGC externally.
AU is proposing potential external changes to Bender Library and Kay Spiritual Life Center. The draft doesn’t go into much detail, identifying plans for a “modest addition” to the library and an expansion of Kay to provide extra programming and service spaces.
Throughout the drafting process, some residents expressed frustration at the lack of specificity in other areas of the plan. Kravitz said that many nearby residents campaigned for the inclusion of enrollment projections, but the neighborhood partnership did not consider it productive to provide these numbers. 
“Those projections have not been particularly accurate … we can create the illusion of precision again here, but it hasn’t served us in the past and it’s not going to serve us in the future,” Kravitz said. “Instead, let’s actually create a structure where we can actually deal with the impacts that we already know about and the ones that arise in the future.” 
Nearby residents were successful in slightly reducing the University’s proposed enrollment cap, according to the plan. To comply with an update to D.C. Zoning Regulations on how students must be counted, the University widened the scope of its 2011 campus plan enrollment cap in the 2021 draft. Community members then bargained with AU for a more limited approach in terms of how much the 2021 campus plan enrollment cap would increase. Compared to the adjusted 2011 cap, this draft plan proposes an enrollment ceiling that is 119 students lower. 
The campus plan specifies that the University did not meet its 2011 goal of increasing graduate enrollment by 1,000 students over the subsequent decade. In fact, overall enrollment remained relatively consistent. 
Though that enrollment goal was not met, Fisher pointed out that the majority of AU’s goals were met, including the construction of the Washington College of Law and East Campus. 
Despite the accomplishments of the previous plan, the Herzstein residence, directly adjacent to Jacobs Field, said it has been battling the University over sound issues for decades. 
Jessica Herzstein bought the property from her father, Robert Herzstein, who owned the home for 30 years.  She said that over her childhood, AU began to develop the area into an intramural and then intercollegiate field, and noise levels increased. In a 2011 Eagle article about that decade’s campus plan, Robert Herzstein likened the noise from practices to a “war zone.” Eventually, Robert Herzstein hired sound engineers to measure the noise levels from inside his home, who determined that the sound coming from Jacobs Field exceeded the limit set by D.C. law. 
Jessica Herzstein said the measures taken to reduce the amount of noise have not been adequate, citing the use of shot clocks during games and other amplified sounds. However, she expressed optimism that a science-based solution could be reached soon.
“I think we both need to compromise,” Herzstein said. “But whatever mitigating factors are brought to play will require continued oversight.” 
The University is currently working with Herzstein and other residents near Jacobs Field to develop a sound barrier wall that would run between her residence and the campus border, according to the updated draft plan. 
According to Fisher, campus leaders are reviewing the 2021 campus plan alongside ANC3D and ANC3E commissioners, and a vote from them is expected to occur in November. If the plan is approved by both ANC commissioners, the plan will be filed with the D.C. Zoning Commission later this year for review and public hearings, which are likely to begin in early 2021. 
switley@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU School of Education located in Spring Valley building.
American University is moving away from relying entirely on the data-driven Student Evaluations of Teaching (SETs), the end-of-course survey for feedback on class experiences, to what many faculty members say is a more holistic approach.
AU will adopt a menu of portfolio options for course evaluation, encompassing everything from the SETs to new metrics like personal teaching statements, peer-to-peer evaluations and annotated syllabi. 
The change requires adjustments from every teaching department in the University to overhaul both the way evaluations are conducted and how they are incorporated into staff management changes. These adjustments will improve both the reception of student voices and the quality of professor evaluations, said Kiho Kim, the executive director of AU’s Center for Teaching, Research and Learning. 
“SETs tell us something about the classroom interaction, but it is just a small part of what we want to document,” Kim said. “So, we decided on the portfolio approach, which is, in essence, a best practice for documenting teaching.”
Karen Baehler, co-chair of the Beyond SETs Task Force, said that the University planned to move away from relying only on SETs this academic year, but the move was delayed due to the pandemic. Individual departments are now implementing the initiative in smaller steps, which helps professors, as the new requirements are significantly more rigorous on faculty, according to Kim.
Beyond SETs Task Force Co-Chair Max Friedman said that the initiative would include self-evaluation, which the group hopes will improve professor performance.
Kim said one of the greatest issues with the SETs, which necessitated more qualitative options, is that such data-heavy evaluations are inherently susceptible to all sorts of conscious and unconscious bias. Now, many universities in the U.S. are considering other options.
“We know that SETs measure some things, but it is a small part of what we believe is quality teaching — something that is rigorous and demanding of the students, and pushing of the students, which sometimes are at odds with how students want to evaluate their classroom experience,” Kim said. 
Todd Eisenstadt, the chairman of the Faculty Senate’s Committee on Faculty Actions, said that professors want a more comprehensive way to have their teaching evaluated.
“They should be fair, but demanding,” Eisenstadt said. “The view has been that SETs don’t show how much engagement faculty have, they just show what the student says about them at the end. SETs don’t necessarily reward professors who go out of their way to make their classes challenging.” 
The Beyond SETs Task Force was created after Cheryl Holcomb-McCoy, the dean of the School of Education, started a similar initiative within the school.
“How do you create an evaluation approach that relies on multiple measures, is evidence-based, is fair and unbiased, differentiates performance so there’s a sense of ways teachers can get better, [and] is relevant to all types of classes?” Holcomb-McCoy said. “We really wanted to … get all these pieces of the puzzle in our approach.” 
In March 2019, the task force sent a memo to the Faculty Senate laying out three ways forward: the status quo, a full adoption of the new portfolio system without continued use of the SETs, or a combination of the old system and the new. 
The Senate adopted the third option, and in April 2019, then-Provost Dan Meyers asked the deans and department chairs in every school to begin implementing the recommendations. 
One of the most important parts of the new system, Baehler said, is that the departments can now choose which items from the menu of evaluation options they want to use.
According to the final task force report, those options are incredibly varied. They include: teaching statements; annotated syllabi; professional teaching development for professors through CTRL; examples of feedback given to students; written self-evaluations; peer assessments, including classroom observation, in-person and by video, and the review of course materials; student assessments, drawn from a student observer committee, focus groups, and the narrative portion of the SETS; and the old SETs themselves. 
Those SETs are also changing. Karen Froslid Jones, the assistant provost of Institutional Research and Assessment, said that the survey instrument itself is now much more streamlined and accessible. 
The rating system has switched over from 1-7 to 1-5, the open-ended questions are shortened and relegated to the end of the evaluation, and the overall numerical analysis is shifting from looking at the mean to the median score, she said. These changes are part of an effort to increase the response rate, which peaked when the University still used physical evaluations. According to data from the response rate reports from previous years, only 57 percent of SETs were filled out in fall 2019, and 55 percent were completed in the spring of 2019. 
This low response rate means that the SETs are not very representative, which hinders the tenure consideration process, Froslid Jones said. 
While the change to the SETs is independent of the work of the task force, Froslid Jones said, the adjustments dovetail nicely, with the shorter SETs being complemented by the variety of other evaluations. 
Beyond general performance analysis, the SETs are vital for professors up for promotion, the renewal of a contract, a pay increase or tenure. They can also be used to trigger reviews of a professor’s teaching if students express significant concern. 
Due to pandemic-related adjustments, most of the functions that SETs effect, like merit-based salary increases and retirement-fund matching, have been suspended, Eisenstadt said. This renders them less vital than normal, and more useful as a tool to address bad behavior than a reward for good teaching. 
During a normal year, SETs are also vital for judging how a professor has evolved over time, he said. 
“Getting a PhD teaches you how to research, not teach,” Eisenstadt said. “At AU, you get hired for both.” 
Typically, teaching is a problem in a professor’s first couple years. When those same professors go up for tenure consideration, the committee wants to see an arc of improvement from their first few years. SETs, because of their quantitative bend, make that analysis easy. 
“That means they won’t ever go away,” Eisenstadt said. 
Kim said that adjuncts are exempt from the new system, while term faculty only need to update their portfolio for promotions, tenure consideration and similar actions.
In general, he said, faculty welcome the change. Some are wary of the ensuing workload, which is why so many schools lean heavily on SETs, but in general the more progressive style is popular across the board. 
Kim and Holcomb-McCoy also said that students' voices stand to gain more representation in the learning environment, with changes like the student observer committee and focus groups institutionalizing feedback. 
While student thoughts on the overhaul itself haven’t been officially surveyed yet, due to the delay caused by the pandemic, Holcomb-McCoy said that anecdotally, the changes seem to be quite popular among both students and faculty. 
“You never stop learning how to be an effective teacher,” she said. “We wanted to take what we know about teaching and apply it to our own teaching in the School of Education. Makes sense, right? This is what we’re teaching our students to do, so we should be doing it too.”
dpapscun@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Hi, my name is Tasneem (Tass-neeme), and the first thing you probably notice about me is my hijab. In the third grade, I decided I wanted to wear the hijab. I was nine years old, and the idea of not having to keep up with my hair seemed very appealing to me. I wanted to start wearing the hijab for all the wrong reasons; I didn't really know how to take care of my hair, and I was young and unable to embrace my Black identity, so I chose the hijab as a cop-out.
When I first started wearing the hijab, my parents were the ones who picked out what I wore. I wore whatever was handed down to me from my sister and cousins and whatever my parents bought for me but, no matter what, I always made sure my hijab matched my outfit. If I chose to wear a blouse with flowers on it, then I would wear a bright orange hijab to complement those flowers. Did it look good? Definitely not. I dressed like this all throughout elementary school and middle school, but then I got to high school. I discovered the thrift store, and it was honestly the best thing to ever happen to me, in terms of being a woman who wears the hijab. I perceived myself in a way that felt new and exciting. I realized that I was paying the same price for better-quality, better-looking and more sustainable clothing. Learning how to effectively thrift was something that took all four years of high school. During the time that I started thrifting, I also got into makeup; grayish BB cream, clumpy mascara lashes, kohl liner and pencil-thin, plucked brows were my go-to. Thankfully, both of those things evolved.
The evolution of my style is still changing. I can't really describe what I like or what my preferences are because every time I thrift, I always buy something I don’t expect to. Going thrifting in New York was something that was really eye-opening to me, and it changed the way I shop for clothes. In Northern Virginia (where I live), thrift stores are organized by gender, by the style of clothes, by size, by price. In New York, everything was placed in large bins, and you have to pick through multiple bins at the same time as everyone else. I was pretty overwhelmed because I was used to picking through every single item on a rack before moving to the next rack and was able to do so while taking my time and thinking through my selections. I didn't know where to start, but I knew I had to consider that the clothes at the New York thrift store were $1 a pound, and I very much was, and am, a broke college student. 
My close friend, Erik Lam, said to me, “If you see something with potential, just get it.” That's exactly what I did then and what I do now. Instead of trying to perceive how I would wear something, if I see something that is visually appealing to me in the slightest way, I'm going to grab it. It might stay in my closet for weeks, and I may have to thrift for complementary pieces before I figure out how I can style it, but eventually, it happens. 
These past few months, I started shopping in my mom's closet, for free. Honestly, my mom was a lowkey fashion icon, and photos of how she styled herself when she was in her 20s-30s regularly inspire me. Thankfully, Mama is somewhat of a hoarder, and I can go through photo albums and ask her for pieces she's worn and style them myself. As a Muslim woman wearing the hijab, one of my biggest insecurities was my femininity because I dressed modestly. Eventually, I found that femininity is more than just looking and being perceived in a certain way. Looking back, I'm eternally grateful for my developed love for styling. It's genuinely something that brings me a lot of joy, and the fact that there's still so much out there to learn, to take inspiration from, to flip and to trial-and-error is really a blissful feeling to me.
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Comfort Foods is a Life section series highlighting AU students and the food that reminds them of home and heritage.
Once a semester throughout her freshman year at American University, Naomi Greengold’s mom would make the nearly hour-long trek from Ellicott City, Maryland to campus to bring Greengold a piece of home — jollof rice.
Now a sophomore living at home during the virtual semester, Greengold reflected on what the dish means to her Nigerian heritage and family.
Jollof is a rice dish with seasonings and a pepper-based sauce with vegetables. Growing up, Greengold’s mom used to make the dish regularly, sometimes adding fried plantains or fufu. Before she lived in Ellicott City, her family lived much closer to African stores where the ingredients were plentiful. Now, a bit further away, her mom only makes jollof rice a few times a month. 
Despite not having traveled to Nigeria, Greengold said that jollof makes her feel more connected to her culture.
Greengold said that she felt particularly proud on cultural food day in her high school world history class when she brought jollof rice for her other classmates to try. She said that she was pleasantly surprised by how excited they were.
“The funny thing is, it is a pretty spicy food, like my mom tends to tone down the spice if she makes it for other people,” Greengold said. “But they … [wanted] the full experience, and so they're eating it and crying because it’s so spicy.”
Greengold has also had opportunities to connect to her heritage at AU. While she hasn’t visited any Nigerian restaurants in D.C., it’s on her bucket list to do before graduating. Since coming to college, Greengold said that she has loved meeting other first generation African students.
“It’s kind of a bonding experience when I meet other people from Nigeria or even other West African countries,” Greengold said. “There's a running joke between different West African countries, like whose jollof rice is better.”
She recalled one instance during her freshman year when her mom visited and brought jollof, and they met with another student who was Nigerian. Greengold said that it was nice to see the student and her mom speak to each other in Yoruba, a West African language.
Greengold hasn’t tried to make jollof on her own yet: “I feel like I’m probably never gonna make it as good as my mom.” 
Regardless, the dish is something that will forever serve as a reminder for Greengold of her family and Nigerian culture.
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sophomore Stacy Beckton Jr. dunks the ball in a Nov. 16, 2018 game against University of New Hampshire.
Correction: This article has been updated since it was originally published to correct that Jamir Harris is a senior, not a junior.
Senior guard Jamir Harris and senior guard Stacy Beckton Jr. have their eyes set on major team success headed into the 2021 NCAA college basketball seasons, which has been delayed due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as the new-look American University men’s basketball team’s post-Sa’eed Nelson era looks to create their own identity. 
Nelson, the Eagles’ former starting point guard, and the school's all-time leading scorer was the heart and soul of the team during his time at AU.
With Nelson graduating at the end of last season, the Eagles are going to look very different on both ends of the floor this year.
Harris and Beckton both have close personal relationships with Nelson and have used it to help them grow as players and leaders on the floor. 
“I talk with Sa’eed almost every day, basically every day. The one thing I really learned from him that showed me how great of a leader he was and how selfless he was is that he never cared about his stats,” Harris said. “He never cared about how many points he had, or whether he was near a triple-double, any of that. He just wanted to win games, and that was evident in every game we played.” 
Harris also said that he learned from Nelson that a star player should be selfless and push his teammates to improve.
Beckton also said he has a very close relationship with Nelson, saying the pair probably talk “a little too much.” 
In terms of leadership, Beckton said Nelson took him under his wing when Beckton initially came to AU. Beckton has been able to watch and learn how a leader should communicate with his teammates and carries himself on and off the floor through Nelson.
“I’ve been around Sa’eed for three years, and he took on a leadership role from his first year at AU,” Beckton said. “So being under his wing has kinda helped me spurt some leadership from me.”
With that new hole on the roster, Beckton also said he feels the responsibility to be a leader this year after Nelson graduated. 
“I mean, Sa’eed did a lot for us last year, so just being able to reciprocate some of the things he did, I think that would help us a lot with the time that we have going into the season,” Beckton said. 
Both Harris and Beckton were back in their respective hometowns for the past seven months during the coronavirus worldwide pandemic, but both found ways to work out and stay in shape by having access to private gyms and coaches helping them. 
Regardless of where both athletes have been for the past few months, the duo is excited to play with each other and envision a bright 2021 season.
“I think me and Jamir kinda bring two different aspects of the game,” Beckton said. “Jamir is a shooter and I’m just great at being able to do what the team needs me to do.”
Harris also thinks that playing with Beckton will complement his role as a shooter, and he expects the duo to play off each other early and often. 
“Our styles complement each other,” Harris said. “Beck is a great player. He is also another selfless teammate. He just wants to win, I just want to win, and having him in the backcourt with me, it’s gonna be special. As older guys, we are going to be able to lead the rest of the team and develop that same mindset in those guys.” 
In regard to what both players want to achieve in the upcoming season with a young team that hasn’t played together all that much, the goal doesn’t change, as both players remain fixated on capturing a Patriot League Championship.
“That’s the goal for this team, I’m not going to sit here and say that we expect anything less,” Harris said. “Yeah, we have a lot of freshmen coming in, but we have guys returning too who have been through the wars [on the court] and what we went through last year, and I feel like our experience will get the freshman up to speed quickly. They are going to know the level of urgency we have going into this year.” 
Both players understand the changes and pressure associated with this upcoming season. Beckton and Harris are focused and ready to create their own identity and unlock the potential this team has.  will come through practicing hard and maintaining that effort throughout the preseason and into the NCAA season until the season actually begins on January 2nd against Loyola University at Reitz Arena in Baltimore, MD. 
zcohen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor's Note: This article appeared in The Eagle's October 2020 virtual print edition. 
When it comes to the effect the coronavirus pandemic has had on college athletics, the primary focus has been placed on NCAA Division I programs who have had their seasons canceled or delayed. However, they are not the only athletes stuck in “wait and see” mode.
The Club Sports program at American University is home to 28 teams, offering everything from baseball to ultimate frisbee for students interested in starting up a new sport or continuing with one they’ve played before. But in March, the school cut the spring season short and sent the student body home. Seven months, no plan and no fall season later, students are still uncertain about the immediate future of club sports.
For Lucy Elliott, a senior and captain for the women’s ultimate frisbee team, the cancelation of the team’s spring season stung the team’s seniors the most. Spring is usually their most competitive season, and it was an upsetting missed opportunity to compete in sectionals, regionals and potentially nationals, if they advanced far enough. 
“AU pretty consistently makes it to regionals, but not nationals,” Elliott said. “So that was very upsetting for our seniors to not be able to compete and see how well we could have done through spring last season.”
The ultimate frisbee team was only able to compete in one of their three regular season tournaments, a home tournament that was hosted on the National Mall. 
“That was a great tournament,” Elliott said. “We got second place at it, and we were definitely looking forward to an upward trajectory.” 
AU’s club women’s rugby team was also only able to compete once before the University went fully online, playing one game against Catholic University that they won 39-5. Senior and team President Gillian Chestnut remembers when AU first made classes online for just three weeks and members still had hopes of coming back to campus and competing in April.
“First, it was a lot of planning, because that would cut out a chunk of our season and we would still have stuff when we came back,” Chestnut said. “So it was very much ‘will it be safe by then? Will we still want to have a season?’ It was very stressful, with a lot of planning and not having any details because club sports didn’t have anything to give us.”
With the spring season cut short, the waiting game to see how the fall season would play out began. It took until July 30 for AU to announce it would go fully online for the fall semester, two weeks after AU and the Patriot League decided to cancel the fall sports season. For both rugby and ultimate frisbee, planning for the fall semester without knowing what was coming took a lot of preparation.
A seasonless semester has led to innovation from each team’s leadership as they look to keep up team camaraderie and stay fit in case the sport does eventually come back. This includes Zoom practices, strategy sessions and track workouts with nearby teammates.
Kaitlyn Hepburn, a senior and one of the captains of the rugby team, has prioritized keeping rookies engaged with the team. For a lot of them, this was their first time playing this new, high-contact sport. And after learning the ins and outs of the game in the fall, the spring season would be their time to show what they’ve got.
“For a lot of the fall season, they were learning as much as they could, but the real time to shine for most rookies comes in the spring because you’ve been practicing so long and you’re ready finally,” Hepburn said. “It hurt because I remember being a rookie, and you try so hard to learn a new sport, and that’s like your time to shine. They didn’t get as much of that.”
While keeping the current team together throughout uncertainty has been a huge priority, recruiting, and gauging interest has also been important, even with no clear guarantee of when the next game or tournament will take place.
But even with attempts at keeping team chemistry up through virtual events and practices, players still feel that the old community aspect of the team is missing.
If there is a chance of restarting in the spring, it may not be the same for all sports. For a sport like ultimate frisbee that is considered low or no contact, they could have a chance to restart their season earlier than others. Adding the Oct. 26 announcement, which detailed the new spring 2021 class plan, the possibility of sports returning in the spring has heightened.
A physical sport like rugby, however, would likely be much harder to pull off than others if a restart were to happen next semester. But there is still cautious optimism and enthusiasm to get back on the field and compete with high levels of intensity. 
“USA Rugby, which is our overarching rulemaker, has put out rules and guidelines on social distancing and what practices should look like,” Hepburn said. “We are going to be excited if we go back, but we have to keep in mind what our reality is and how we have to function in that contact.” 
No matter what the immediate future holds for AU’s Club Sports programs, the impact they have had on the players who have been a part of their community is clear.
“I haven’t even thought about it as club sports,” Hepburn said. “Since the beginning of my time at AU, 90 percent of my friends are in rugby. It’s that close of a community. Those are the people that I found. No matter what situation we’ve been in, we’ve always been so supportive and interconnected. It’s honestly the coolest thing I’ve ever done.” 
abranch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After a long history as an excuse for emboldening physical violence, the term “queer” has only recently begun its journey to reclamation as a cushion for anyone challenging societal norms regarding sexuality and gender. In tandem with its reclamation, pockets of protest have shot up in support of censoring the umbrella term ‘queer’ from the LGBTQ+ community. 
Personally, I see this as detrimental and encouraging a harmful narrative of forgetting history. Instead of another step towards healing, potentially eliminating a term that is representative of us all is a step back.
Some may see my youth as a disqualifier to enter a debate with such heavy connotations, but as a lesbian, I feel I can safely comment on the disturbing nature of eliminating the cushion of umbrella terms from our language. 
The argument behind restricting use of the term “queer” is two-fold: People feel swallowed up by its all-encompassing design and the history that precedes it isn’t endearing. While this argument is valid and easy to empathize with, I’d like to address both parts.
Sometimes, the broadness of a label can feel too vague and ultimately leads to feeling lost; this is where the positive side of micro-labeling comes in handy. On the flip side, expansive labels such as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer provide security because of their fluidity and broad scope. With them, you can either stress your identity or be as unspecified as you want.
Because of its nonspecificity, queer is a term that provides a special kind of cushioning for people across all spectrums. Queer challenges sexual and gender norms, it is fluid and allows for mobility that exists outside of social mandates.
Reclamation is a powerful event that some are rightfully reluctant or unwilling to participate in. Those who lived through harsher eras of legal and societal discrimination are reluctant to reclaim the slur. Supposed harmless comments such as “don’t be such a queer” and childhood games like “smear the queer,” where the designated queer was baited and chased all promoted abuse against the LGBTQ+ community. 
It is important to remember the viciousness of the trials that previous generations of LGBTQ+ people endured, and it is the right of anyone to not want anything to do with a pejorative tool of homophobia.
This doesn’t excuse eliminating the term altogether. Queer is far too ingrained in our history to banish it from any LGBTQ+ spaces, and the progression has been a long time coming. From its use describing oddities, to its time as a weapon against anyone different from the norm, to its current use as a verbal welcome mat by a community that refuses to fit with cookie-cutter traditional ideals.
Queer is deeply associated with all the suffering and empowerment of LGBTQ+ history, and it is nearly impossible to ignore. Excluding “queer” from our vocabularies erases a major part of our history and effectively isolates parts of our community. Shutting out a label that many are ready to reclaim and use as a comprehensive alternative to other umbrella terms will only have detrimental effects for everyone in the LGBTQ+ community.
Samantha Margot is a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences and a staff columnist for The Eagle.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
