 Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily.
Local fitness centers near American University are grappling with new challenges since D.C. entered Phase Two of reopening. Phase Two allows gyms and fitness studios to reopen with limited capacity to allow for social distancing.  
Face covering requirements are still required under Phase Two guidelines, especially in indoor locations.
Near AU, most gyms are open in some capacity, but Jacobs Fitness Center is temporarily closed, and the center’s hours are no longer listed on AU’s website. With AU’s decision to go fully online for the fall semester, the Jacobs Fitness Center is unlikely to reopen before the spring semester. 
Although CorePower Yoga’s Tenleytown location is closed, the studio has offered a free online service, since businesses had to shut down due to the pandemic. Studio memberships are frozen and will be renewed once the studios are allowed to reopen fully. On their website, CorePower Yoga lists their standards for reopening, including social distancing and regular sanitization. In addition, they list which of their studios in the country have reopened. CorePower Yoga notifies customers by email if there are any changes, as they indicate on their FAQ page. 
Barre3 in Spring Valley normally offers full-body workout classes, with low-impact movements, according to their website. Social media posts indicate that they are holding outdoor classes at alternative locations, such as Audi Field, D.C. United’s home stadium. Other classes, as indicated on social media, are online through Zoom. Their website lists an option for free trials, including  online workouts and challenges. 
Crunch Fitness in Chevy Chase is offering limited classes at its facility, and their hour-long Vinyasa Yoga class is held Sunday at 11:15 a.m. Other classes, like their Super Sculpt, Chisel and Zumba classes, are 45 minutes long on Monday. Crunch Fitness, located at 5100 Wisconsin Ave. NW, has also arranged their equipment so that everyone can social distance and have their own workout space indoors.
“Our gym is 15,000 square feet and it’s pretty open and spacious, so even with the mayor’s limit of five per 1,000 capacity, we haven’t had any problems,” said Nancy Terry, the senior vice president of marketing at US Fitness Holdings, LLC, in an email.
Increased cleaning efforts have been put in place since Crunch Fitness reopened. 
“We installed airPHX, an air filtration and sanitation system that kills germs, microbes and viruses, 24 hours a day on all surfaces and equipment in the club,” Terry said. “In addition, we’re taking the temperatures of everyone who enters the club.” 
Even with physical classes operating under the city’s guidelines, Crunch Fitness is still offering online classes for those who choose to stay at home. 
“It’s helped thousands of members stay fit and active during the closure, along with our Facebook live classes,” Terry said.
trecchio@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
