Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
D.C. celebrated a historic milestone this past summer in the fight for statehood when the House of Representatives passed a bill that would admit certain portions of D.C. as the 51st state. 
Regardless of the outcome, this was a significant achievement for those fighting for statehood, including those in the American University community. Noah Wills, a 2018 alum of the School of Public Affairs, now president of Students for D.C. Statehood, said the bill’s passing in the House was “the pinnacle of the statehood movement.” 
“I felt the excitement from the generations of student leaders and advocates before,” Wills said. “It was a testament to their determination. I’ve only been involved in the movement for about six years, but I’m happy to have contributed something to the past generations’ work.”
Votes were mainly along party lines, with Democrats overwhelmingly supporting the bill. However, the Republican-majority Senate hasn’t taken the bill up for a vote due to unpopular support.
H.R. 51 would declare the state, which currently has a non-voting member of Congress, two senators and a voting representative. The bill would also declare that the state consists of all District territory, with the exclusion of some federal buildings and monuments. The excluded territory would be known as the “Capital.”
ANC 3D07 Commissioner-elect Christian Damiana, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and president of AU Students for D.C. Statehood, shared in the excitement of the moment. 
“When it comes to statehood, progress has been very slow, and the success is rare,” Damiana said. “When success does come, it’s very powerful. We’ve seen more of this over the past few decades with small successes like D.C. getting more budget autonomy.”
Wills said that D.C.’s lack of representation is contrary to the ideals the country upholds. He said that is what drew him to the movement.
“I was astounded when I first heard that the capital of the United States, as a beacon of democracy in the world, doesn’t give its own residents the right to Congress,” Wills said. “I used my four years at American University to study the issue and to learn about why we are where we are, what the arguments for and against it are and why it hasn’t happened yet.”
Through D.C. Students for Statehood, Wills focuses on mobilizing high school and college students through education and advocacy — work he has continued since leading AU’s chapter of the organization. 
Damiana said a goal of the organization is to spread this message of what statehood would mean. 
“A lot of AU students will not stay in D.C. for the rest of their lives,” Damiana said. “Students come to D.C. and learn how important statehood is. Then, when they go back to their home states, hopefully, they’ll tell their family, friends and their representatives and senators how D.C. desperately needs statehood.”
As for the near future, statehood’s support has been on the rise among voters. In polls conducted by Data For Progress, 43 percent of voters supported statehood in September 2020 compared to 35 percent in early 2019. President-elect Joe Biden has vowed support for D.C. statehood, but for now, much is riding on the runoff Senate races in Georgia, where two additional Democratic seats could mean sure progress for the movement. 
Wills and Damiana hope to see more substantial change in the future as they continue to work toward their shared goal.
“D.C. statehood is a pathway to economic justice, to labor rights and to saving our environment and eventually passing the Green New Deal,” Damiana said. “Many of these things will never be able to pass the U.S. Senate without statehood. Statehood would be the clearest showing of what D.C. residents can do for America if we let them.”
eschloss@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Well, we made it folks. The end of another semester and chances are, you’re hanging by a thread. You’ve been studying for final exams and are finishing final papers, but little did you know, no work is needed for this finals season because it’s actually already written in the stars.
Here’s a list of what will happen to each sign this finals season. 
Aries: 
You definitely are going to project all of your frustrations and stress onto your family and friends, and this will probably result in some good drama for the rest of us. You might break up with your partner because you are convinced by your low grades that you need to focus on your studies. This breakup won’t last long. You definitely don’t need to pull an all-nighter, but you probably will, just to have an excuse to be exhausted. You might rage quit, but somehow you always end up pulling A’s and B’s and annoying everyone else with the fact that you can do no work and still do amazingly.
Taurus: 
Welcome to procrastination nation. Population: you. You are going to watch a lot of Hallmark Christmas rom coms and Wes Anderson movies to escape reality and pretend that you don’t hate your life. You probably started your final essays last minute, but revised it to death, so now it just sucks. You are worried about getting less than an A, not because you care about your grades, but because you are worried your professor will feel like a failure if you don’t.
Gemini:
Just like your personality, your finals results will be split in half. You’ll probably fail some and ace the others, and there will be no in-between. You are way too optimistic about how well you are going to do, so bring your standards down a little bit. You will probably give everyone your notes to help them with studying and they will fail too. Also, you need to stop wearing your lucky socks because they are probably not doing anything. Plus, by this point, they smell.
Cancer:
You definitely cry to your professor once a week and this finals season is no exception. You probably bought a tiny plastic Christmas tree for your room to “cheer you up.” Your family is getting a little sick of your calls, and every time they hang up you go to your private Snapchat story to post a picture of you from last summer, captioning it, “school is so toxic.”
Leo:
You definitely are getting way too close to the screen during the recorded final and your professor gets annoyed, and honestly, a little weirded out. You ask everyone within a 500-foot vicinity what their final grades are, but not because you are interested, mostly because you want to brag about your own. 
Virgo:
You probably are studying just the right amount. There is literally no spice to your life, and I’m over it.
Libra:
You need to realize that you have to choose between a fun social life and good grades; you can’t have both this semester. You probably sent out a group email through Blackboard to your classmates asking to get a study group together and no one responded. Sorry about that. You won’t even read this article because you are busy pretending the coronavirus doesn’t exist and going to a movie theater.
Scorpio:
You’re definitely going to cheat, but I’m not telling anyone. You probably will make your older brother take the exam for you, but again, the secret stays here. When confronted about it, you always reply with, “It’s not cheating; it’s just utilizing the resources given to me.” You are a power-breakfast enthusiast during finals week and therefore are probably stocking up on oatmeal and spinach right now.
Sagittarius: 
You’ll be posting a lot in the AU meme group on Facebook, and they probably won’t get a lot of likes or comments because most people are just done. You are annoyingly understanding about the fact that exams are necessary and are kind of excited to take them. You try to apply all of your finals to real life. Probably a STEM major.
Capricorn:
You are taking this way too seriously, and you are one of the only people in AU’s history who has ever scheduled a private study room just for themselves. You request one-on-one study time with both the TA and the professor because you want to get “different perspectives.”
Aquarius:
You probably will get awarded half points for original thoughts and live by the belief that there is “never just one right answer.” You don’t believe in studying because you think that your imagination will guide you. You also probably believe religiously in your astrological horoscopes when we all know that these mean absolutely nothing.
Pisces:
You look up “exam tips” and think that the technique of chewing the same flavored gum during your exam that you did when you studied will work. You probably add a smiley face at the end of your final essays and a “thanks for a great class” because you feel bad for professors during these trying times. That’s so sweet of you.
Aliza Schuler is a sophomore in the School of Communications and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
aschuler@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As winter break approaches, students with overflowing closets can use their newfound free time to get rid of old clothes. Instead of disposing of these items, consider meaningful, environmentally-friendly and creative ways to donate or reuse the pieces. Whether you’re looking for donation options in D.C. or upcycling ideas that can be done from anywhere, this guide is a great way to start the challenge of a closet cleanout. 
Donation options
Donating old clothes ensures that they will be sustainably reused instead of entering a landfill and can also help individuals in need. Consider giving to these reputable D.C.-area companies that work to better their communities. 
Clothing Recycling Company
Clothing Recycling Company has around 50 drop-off bin locations across the DMV, 11 of which are in D.C. The donated items are supplied to several organizations that Clothing Recycling Company is partnered with, such as Downtown Day Service Center, which provides services to people experiencing homelessness in D.C. Conveniently, there is a drop-off bin a block away from the Tenleytown Metro stop and several others in Northwest D.C. 
See the full map of bin locations here. 
Suited for Change
If you own any women’s professional attire that you no longer use, Suited for Change is the donation destination for you. Suited for Change’s mission is to “equip women in need in our community on their path to financial independence by providing them with professional attire, coaching and skills training,” according to its website. Located in downtown D.C. about four miles from AU, the organization accepts clothing donations on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. A guideline for donating here is: If you would feel confident wearing your items to an interview, then Suited for Change’s clients would likely feel the same way. 
Goodwill
Goodwill is a widely reputable option for donating clothes or just about anything else you might want to get rid of, including accessories, shoes, furniture and more. Check out its full list of accepted items here. The only local donation center is a bit far from campus, but it is an easy drop-off process.
So Others Might Eat (SOME)
Located near downtown D.C., about five-and-a-half miles from campus, SOME is a group working to help those experiencing poverty and homelessness in D.C. by providing a variety of services, including clothes free of charge. You can find its list of needed clothing items and donation center hours here. 
Selling clothes
While D.C. has dozens of consignment shops such as Current Boutique, Secondi, Georgetown Emporium and Clothes Encounters, a majority of these options only accept high-end, designer clothing. Try out online stores such as Depop, Mercari, Poshmark, Etsy or eBay to sell cheaper clothes. This can be done anywhere, so it is a great choice for any student. 
Upcycling clothes
This winter break is a wonderful time to embrace creative outlets. Upcycling clothes is a crafty, fun activity that provides satisfying results. Here are a few easy upcycling ideas to create stylish looks.
Denim 
Have an old denim piece that just isn't doing it for you anymore? Don’t get rid of it right away. There are several fun, simple ideas that can transform your jeans, jean skirts or jeans jackets without too much effort into items such as a tote bag, basket, rug, pillow and more. This denim upcycling guide contains 30 crafty ideas for creating unique clothes, accessories and decor out of old jeans. 
Painted and embroidered jeans have been trending for a few years now. For those who own denim that is still wearable, hop on this trend by doing it yourself. If embroidery is the route for you, check out this hand embroidery on denim guide to learn the basics, or look on Pinterest or Google to pick out a design you like. Then, head to a local craft store to buy the correct thread and needle.
Painting jeans is an option for the artistic to beautifully decorate the pockets or any other area on your denim items. A simple way to add a design is drawing with fabric markers or even sharpies, explained in this tutorial. If you’re a fan of the pearl detailing trend, here is an article on how to create pearl-accented jeans. 
Tie-dye 
Another major 2020 trend has been tie-dye everything. Instead of buying new tie-dye clothing, you can upcycle old sweatshirts, sweatpants, T-shirts, socks or face masks by adding your favorite tie-dye pattern and colors. This tutorial is a great resource to start the process. 
Upcycling tops 
This YouTube tutorial shows five easy ways to upcycle an old T-shirt into stylish, trendy crop tops. There are hundreds of other tutorials out there, especially for no-sew options. Just search “upcycling ideas no sew” on YouTube or Pinterest.
Men’s button down shirts
Various tutorials have been made explaining how to upcycle old men’s shirts into dresses. Check out this YouTube tutorial for a guide to making a sleeveless dress, or this video, which showcases a puff sleeve dress. Women’s puff sleeve tops can also be made, shown in this tutorial. While these upcycles require sewing, the end result is amazing!
There are tons of other ways to get rid of and reuse your clothes. Whether the best choice for you is donating to a charity with a good cause, selling your valued items online or taking the time to upcycle, the important thing is that you’re freeing up closet space without producing any textile waste. Happy cleaning!
mkett@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
