Ferkat Jawdat, an Uighur American activist whose family was targeted for his continued advocacy against the prosecution of Turkic Muslims in China, spoke at AU on Jan. 28. Jawdat had not seen his mother in 14 years and said she spent time in one of China’s internment camps for Muslims in Xinjiang.
Jawdat began speaking out about the issue in 2018. Since then, he has been covered in the press, spoken at many events and met with U.S. government officials, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
The Kennedy Political Union-sponsored event, moderated by Washington Post columnist Josh Rogin, occurred on international Holocaust Remembrance Day. Before the discussion, Rogin took a moment to acknowledge the many human rights atrocities that have taken place since the Holocaust, including what is currently taking place in China. 
Jawdat’s family has faced repercussions as a result of him speaking out. His mother described being monitored, mistreated and pressured by the Chinese government. This story was documented by the New York Times podcast “The Daily.” Jawdat said that even when speaking at colleges like AU, the Chinese government will pressure his mother to tell him to stop speaking out. 
He said that despite the personal risk to his family, his activism is essential. 
“Every time Western people hear about or read about 3 million people locked up in concentration camps, it just becomes a statistic to them,” Jawdat said. “I realized that I can use my story to put a face on the number.”
Jawdat also pointed to the parallels of the rise of xenophobia in the U.S. and in China. 
“China just borrowed the war against terror from the U.S. government and used it as a reason to suppress the Uighurs,” he said.
Jawdat said that college students can involve themselves in the issue by reaching out to their representatives and protesting goods made in China. 
KPU Director Kevin Norton said that he wanted to give the Chinese government a chance to also share their perspective. He wrote to the Chinese ambassador prior to the event, inviting them to join the discussion, but did not receive a response. 
“I told my team that if you want to travel to China, I suggest not working this event,” said Norton.
aveitch@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Arik Knapp, a first-term graduate student in the Kogod School of Business Online MBA program, died on Feb. 3 in a car crash on US-15, according to a report by The Frederick News-Post.
In a memo sent out to students on Monday, Kogod School of Business Dean John Delaney said Knapp brought decades of experience with him, from working in emergency communications technology management with the U.S. Coast Guard to becoming a cybersecurity project manager for a defense contractor. 
“We extend our deepest sympathy to Arik's family and friends and those in the AU community who knew him,” Delaney said in the memo.
According to a Maryland State Police press release, Knapp’s Mazda was struck by a Dodge Ram 3500 truck. He was taken to Washington MedStar Hospital and later pronounced dead. No other fatalities were reported.
A friend of the Knapp family started a GoFundMe page to financially support his wife and daughter, who was seriously injured. It has raised over $40,000. 
Delaney reminded students in the memo that counseling services and chaplains are available to assist them while they are mourning.
kcarolan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In many cases, it doesn’t take long to identify a potential Division I basketball player in a high school gymnasium. Spectators at games see superb athletes – tall, strong and quick with startling leaping ability.
Connor Nelson, a sophomore forward at American University, did not fit this description in his high school days and had to prove himself at every level.
Now a 6-foot-6 forward, Nelson started his high school career as a 5-foot-7 backup point guard at Denver South High School in Colorado.
“Most forwards have been tall their whole life, not me,” Nelson said. “Being a point guard [has helped me] be able to see the floor … [and] attack the basket.”
Eventually, Nelson hit his growth spurt and grew into his forward body by the end of high school. Despite averaging 14.1 points per game during his senior year of high school at his new collegiate height, Nelson was certainly not on the radar of Division I schools like AU.
“I still weighed 165 pounds,” Nelson said. “I had a few schools interested, but nothing really.”
With limited options, Nelson decided to pack up his stuff and head to Las Vegas, where he spent a postgraduate year playing for Impact Academy.
At the basketball-only academy, Nelson spent another valuable year learning how to play in his body, and bulked up, helping his recruitment.
“It was basketball and lifting for a whole year. When I left [Impact], I was 180, maybe 185 [pounds],” Nelson said. “You need muscle, especially at the Division I level. I credit Impact for preparing me physically.”
Many colleges became interested in Nelson late in the recruiting process, which meant that school’s admissions deadlines had often already passed. With this, Nelson’s only offer following his year at Impact was from Central Wyoming Community College in August of 2018.
“When Central Wyoming called, I had to commit,” Nelson said. “I wanted to continue playing basketball.”
For a city kid from Denver, one might imagine that being stuck in rural Wyoming is tough. But Nelson embraced the opportunity. For the next year, Nelson worked tirelessly on basketball, his body and academics.
By the end of his time at Central Wyoming, Nelson had a 4.0 GPA, averaged 13.4 points per game and was known within the program as a model kid who did everything the right way.
Brad Schmit, Nelson’s head coach at Central Wyoming commented on Nelson’s commitment to AU on Twitter, saying of his former player, “[I will] probably never coach another junior college kid like Connor. 4.0 Student. Ultimate teammate. Gym rat.”
Nelson credits some of his work ethic and discipline to himself, but says a lot of it traces back to his father.
“[My dad] is an accountant. He has 18-hour work days for four or five months of the year,” Nelson said. “He just gets it done. Seeing how hard he works motivates me.”
Even with his success at Central Wyoming, Nelson thought he might have to return to the school for one more season. That was until last summer, when high level academic schools reached out after Schmit sent tape of Nelson to many Ivy League and Patriot League institutions.
“[AU Assistant Coach] Scott Greenman reached out about a preferred walk-on spot,”Nelson said. “Bradley Nalley was committed to [AU], but left during the summer session, and he was my size and I think he played like me, so it was the perfect storm.”
Nelson, thrilled by the opportunity to fulfill his childhood dreams, did not know what to expect during his first season in Tenleytown.
“I was talking with my dad in early August, and we were saying it would be cool if I could play five or 10 minutes per game,” Nelson said.
Nelson has done much more than play five or 10 minutes per game for the Eagles. For most of the season, he has served as the team’s sixth man, averaging 7.5 points per game and 1.3 steals per game while shooting 44.4 percent from the field. He’s also been the team's top marksman, knocking down 39.4 percent of his shots from 3-point range including a crucial buzzer-beater in January that sunk rival Bucknell.
Although his standard statistics show his significance to the team, AU head coach Mike Brennan has been most impressed with Nelson’s ability to do the little things right.
“[Nelson] has a good feel [for the game], runs around, plays hard,” Brennan said. “[He’s always] making the extra plays.”
For most, being a short backup point guard in high school, being too skinny, being lightly recruited and playing Junior College basketball in rural Wyoming would be enough to call it quits. But for Connor Nelson, these obstacles motivated him and helped develop his basketball skill set into what it is today. 
“Playing Division I basketball was a dream of mine … How much I’m playing right now wasn’t even in the realm [of possibility],” Nelson said.
jkolodny@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students, rejoice: the quad is back. Construction projects revitalizing AU’s pipe system concluded over winter break, freeing most of the quad of burdens imposed by recent construction.
Some of those burdens included noise pollution, delays to class and a quad that closely resembled a maze, with paths changing weekly and unclear entrances to buildings. While many students noted the time delays and other inconveniences of construction, I’ve experienced it firsthand. I live in Anderson Hall, and I have a direct view of the new Hall of Science building being built on the south side of campus. Most mornings, after a solid six to eight hours of rustling around in bed, I awaken to the sound of drilling and other construction noises. It’s extremely loud and I typically can’t fall asleep again  after it starts. So, to those students complaining about the disruption to campus: trust me, I understand. 
I’m not alone; a growing number of students are annoyed with the disruptions. Call it a minor inconvenience, but the construction on campus certainly impacts our education.
Still, there are benefits to the construction. Science departments need new facilities and construction on the Hall of Science is a step forward for STEM students and faculty. The quad construction will continue to tout AU’s status as a carbon-neutral campus and exhibit environmental-friendly practices other campuses can model.
So if these construction projects are needed and having a positive impact on our campus, what’s the problem? It’s a safe bet to assume students would be understanding of a few construction inconveniences if they fully grasped the importance and necessity of the construction. 
I think the issue is a narration problem. There is a growing belief on campus that our administration simply doesn’t care about its students enough, and this disconnect is growing.
I love AU and I genuinely don’t want to believe that the administration doesn’t care, but during my first year here, I’ve watched AU drop the ball on the communication front too many times, especially on construction. Why not tell students that you understand the inconveniences that come with construction, but that the long-term benefits will improve our campus? Instead, it often feels like the administration won’t acknowledge students’ issues, or will acknowledge them without offering a solution by truly engaging with the student body. 
This severely strains the relationship between students and University officials. That’s unfortunate too, because there are many staff and faculty members doing important work to support students. Failures from the top are trickling through the student body, and our frustrations with the administration are piling up.
Sending students weekly updates on the construction or informing students about what parts of campus are closed are simple ways to begin fixing the narrative. There’s a clear disconnect on our campus. Whether it’s about construction, issues with campus police or the escalating mental health conversation, the gap between the administration and its students seems to be getting bigger. 
Communication strategies focused on reconnecting with students need to be at the front of the administration’s efforts. Transparency and honesty go far, and the student body will appreciate and recognize it. Issues seeming trivial to the administration, perhaps such as construction inconveniences, are opportunities to connect with students. But until our campus takes these steps and the narrative is changed, the divide will continue to grow.
Zach Hill is a freshman in the School of Communication and a columnist for The Eagle. 
zhill@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
