Beyond the Byline is back for the first time since February, and Abbie Veitch, The Eagle's administration and local news editor, talks with student activists who took part in demonstrations following the police killing of George Floyd. The interviews were part of The Eagle's Juneteenth project.


emargiotta@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Independent bookstores across the District can now reopen their brick and mortar stores as D.C. enters phase two of operating during COVID-19. However, over the past few months of quarantine, many local stores have adjusted to online-only formats with creative ways to provide books and seminars to customers worldwide.
Capitol Hill Books, situated in Eastern Market, has been selling “Grab Bags” of books. Customers can fill out a form detailing their budget and favorite genres. The store’s booksellers will then compile a collection of books to ship or pick up at the store.
According to Capitol Hill Books co-owner Kyle Burk, the “Grab Bags” saved the store. Several thousands have been ordered from California to Italy, Burk added.
Burk said that the store was “scrambling” when it first switched to operating virtually. The store’s inventory is “90 percent used books,” Burk said, so it’s been tough getting new inventory to fulfill such a large amount of orders. Burk said that Capitol Hill Books repurposed its warehouse so that it only contains new book orders to house any books that need to be shipped.
At the start of quarantine, Burk said there were two genres of books people ordered: escapist fantasy and mystery novels or historical nonfiction books about diseases. 
“You see how people deal with everything that’s been going on,” Burk said.
Other local stores have implemented similar gift package initiatives.
East City Bookshop, also located near Eastern Market, started selling “Stay at Home Surprise Packs.” Customers can fill out this form and select a pack ranging in price from $50, $75 to $100. After filling out supplemental information about the recipient’s desired gifts, the pack will be shipped full of stationery, art supplies, toys and more. 
The packages were created to sell non-book merchandise and help profits, said Emilie Sommer, a bookseller with East City Bookshop. Sommer added that these packages have been successful and have shipped across the country.
“This is a time where people need care packages and pick-me-ups,” Sommer said, referencing the gifts’ success.
The shop has also continued virtual book clubs and speakers that have been reaching more people. Before the store closed, the new fiction book club had about 20 people attending in person, and last week the meeting had 33 people join the Zoom call, Sommer said.
“Local bookstores rely on people being in the stores,” Sommer said. East City Bookshop was founded to make a physical space in the community where neighbors could meet neighbors and get personal book recommendations, Sommer said. She hopes that people will continue to buy from these stores so their neighborhoods can survive.
Though some independent bookstores are seeing the support of online and phone orders in the thousands, Brad Graham, the co-owner of Politics and Prose, located in Northwest D.C., The Wharf and Union Market, warns that these stores are still struggling. For his stores, Graham said revenues are down 50 percent and that there are no profits.
Politics and Prose saw a surge of online and phone orders at the start of quarantine, Graham said, but he wasn’t sure they’d be fulfilled. The number of sales exceeded the volume typically seen around the holidays in December, which Graham said is the busiest. Politics and Prose didn’t have the infrastructure to meet such high demands in the middle of a pandemic, so the store has been using costlier and more inefficient methods to meet demands, Graham said.
“Booksellers became bookshippers,” Graham said of his employees. “We’ve routed our store phone to connect callers to employees’ phones at home so they can help make orders.” 
Graham said that, despite the telework, some employees have been furloughed.
Because profits and revenue have dropped, Graham said there’s more desire to reopen the stores, which is scheduled for July 6 for the Chevy Chase location and July 7 for the Union Market and Wharf locations. But Graham said he still is expecting depressed sales as people continue to exercise caution regarding public shopping.
Politics and Prose has continued virtually offering their author talk series “P&P Live!” as well as classes. These events are having larger turnouts than they would have if held in person, Graham said, because they’re now accessible across the country.
Despite that, Graham said he’s not sure the sentiment for supporting local bookstores will last.
“I hope people realize the utility and importance of independent bookstores … and that means supporting them,” Burk said.
Bookstores are still seeing demand, Graham said, but it’s just a matter of becoming more efficient. Without small business loans from the federal government, Graham said Politics and Prose could not have sustained itself. 
“Right now, it’s a matter of survival,” Graham said.
kmcdonnell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor's note: The original version of this article took specific wording from a tweet by Will Scharnagl, a Vanderbilt University student, without attribution. A hyperlink to the tweet has been added in.
Ask yourself this question: “Why do we need Greek life at American University?” During my time at AU, I was involved in many extracurriculars on and off campus. Like other students, I wanted to join a Greek organization on campus for a stronger sense of community. I was heavily involved in my Greek organization from the moment I joined and served as president from January 2019 to January 2020. My experience in Greek life was, overall, positive. I made lifelong friends, grew as a leader and learned from others. However, the positive elements do not, and should not, outweigh the negative and toxic experiences that others have, and will continue to face, if social Greek life continues on campus. 
As I gained more insight on the Greek community, I became aware of the toxic behaviors and attitudes that persisted. As a leader, I wanted so desperately to create change in my organization because I felt that I had a duty to empower all of the women to challenge the status quo. I was wrong. 
The past few months have made me question the very fabric of the Greek organization that I claimed to love so much. I recognize that I am in a different position than many of those currently affiliated with social Greek life at AU, as I am now graduated and feel distant from my former organization. In addition, I am aware that, because of my role in social Greek life as a student, I may sound hypocritical. However, now that I have had time to reflect on my experience, and the stories of others, I’m compelled to challenge the notion that we need social Greek life at AU.
Let’s face it. We joined social Greek life to make friends, party, network and maybe even to gain some sort of social status. We are not a grassroots organization, political group or social justice coalition. While I think that it is great to be surrounded by so many people who have the same values as you, it is not enough to stop an archaic institution that breeds sexism, racism, heteronormativity and rape culture. If we claim to be allies, activists and advocates of equal rights, yet still partake in the Greek system, our activism is performative. 
The Instagram accounts @blackatamericanuniversity and @exposingauabusers have shed tremendous light on the atrocious behaviors that occur on our campus. Scrolling through both of these Instagram accounts, I felt anger, guilt and disgust. A large number of posts from survivors detail their traumatic experiences, many of which take place at the hands of fraternity members. 
Fraternity culture perpetuates rape culture. These behaviors do not exist in a vacuum. Concerns are brought to the school or to fraternity leaders, but time and time again, they seem to be swept aside. Studies have found that women in sororities are more likely to experience rape than other college women and men in fraternities are more likely to commit rape than their non-Greek peers. Knowing this, fraternity culture is part of rape culture. The social Greek life system at AU is designed in a way where you have to know fraternity members to be invited to parties. More specifically, freshmen girls are large targets, as they are brand new to campus and are looking for a social scene. Then, when women come forward about sexual violence, they are often objectified, scrutinized and silenced. 
There are many programs in place at AU to combat sexual violence. However, as these accounts have shown, they are not enough. I believe that when so much sexual violence is centered around a specific area of campus life, something serious has to be done. 
The very foundation of Greek life is rooted in racial and class segregation. In an article titled, “Separate but Unequal in College Greek Life,” the author cites that Princeton University is one of the few universities whose student government collected demographic data on its own Greek system. Their research shows that white and higher-income students are much more likely to join fraternities and sororities. It wasn’t shocking that 77 percent of sorority members and 73 percent of fraternity members were white. Knowing AU’s overall demographics, it doesn’t seem like a wild assumption that our social Greek system would have similar numbers. 
Social Greek organizations maintain segregation on even “diverse” campuses. My Greek organization constantly talked about the lack of diversity and, every year, made different kinds of excuses as to why we didn’t see any improvements. We all know that AU is a predominantly white institution. The majority of women who went through each recruitment cycle I saw were white. I continued to turn a blind eye to the fact that women of color don’t want to join Greek life because they don’t feel welcomed. How can we ensure that women of color feel comfortable in an organization that wasn’t meant for them to begin with? Greek life isn't a broken system, but a system that was specifically designed to benefit some people and exclude others. 
Social Greek organizations are governed by national organizations. So, your money is not only going to your organization’s activities and efforts, but to your national headquarters. Indicative of the problems concerning the national headquarters of Greek organizations, the national headquarters for my organization recently elected two white women to head their diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. 
If I were still part of a Greek organization right now, I would not hesitate to leave. Breaking up this institution is the right thing to do. I encourage current members in Greek organizations to reflect on the type of culture that they are perpetuating, either directly or indirectly. By remaining part of a system that is so deeply rooted in the exclusion and the oppression of others, you are failing your peers. It isn’t just one person, one fraternity or one university. It is a culture. During this time of reckoning, it is time to abolish Greek life. 
Please consider signing this petition to abolish Greek life on AU’s campus.
Kayla Butler is an AU alumna from the class of 2020 and a former Greek sorority president. The opinions expressed by the author are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Eagle and its staff.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
