By Gabriel Ferris | Nov. 10, 2020
The Eagle will focus on recruiting first-year student staffers for the upcoming spring semester, Editor-in-Chief Sophie Austin announced during a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion meeting on Wednesday.
“We have a good size staff; however, we also need to diversify,” Austin said. “Focusing on younger staffers [will allow us] to ensure there is enough representation after senior staffers graduate.”
As previously reported, The Eagle will soon begin reaching out to specific students that may be interested in joining the newspaper. To do this, current Eagle staffers will be asked in the coming weeks to share the names of anyone that they think is interested in journalism.
Austin also said that The Eagle will leverage current first-year staffers to reach a more diverse applicant pool, which Administrative and Local News Editor Abbie Veitch recommended. The Eagle will continue to host a general interest meeting for spring semester applications, Austin said. Additionally, a wide variety of American University campus organizations and resources will be made aware that The Eagle is recruiting.
The seven DEI members present at the bimonthly meeting also heard Austin speak about The Eagle’s initiative to publish articles in Spanish. Talks are occurring with the National Association of Hispanic Journalists chapter at AU, according to Austin.
DEI members also reiterated the group’s recently announced commitment to researching the history of AU’s LGBTQ+ community and provided updates about other projects and events at the meeting.
On Thursday, professor John Watson hosted a conversation with Eagle staffers about communication law and ethics, and this week, staffers attended a Q&A session with School of Communication professors Amy Eisman and Sherri Williams to learn about reporting on marginalized communities, recruitment and retention.
Other workshops planned for the semester include one about financial reporting, one about reporting on AU’s administration and one about covering different cultures, which will be on Nov. 16, following a presentation about best practices for reporting breaking news.
New Eagle buddy pairs were made on Friday, and Austin said that a community-building game night is in the works.
gferris@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Kenneth Clarke was a freshman in the School of International Service, pictured here.
In October 2019, a former School of International Service faculty member filed a lawsuit against American University for age discrimination. Now, the University is denying the allegation, claiming that she was terminated for misconduct. 
Lori Handrahan is one of several women to legally accuse the University of discrimination relating to the tenure process in recent years. She filed a complaint against AU with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in May 2019, according to the suit. 
The University alleges that it did not discriminate against Handrahan on the basis of her age, according to an August legal filing. 
“Defendants state that Handrahan was not qualified for the position. Other candidates were selected for the position because their qualifications more closely matched the needs of the position,” the filing states. “Further, Plaintiff was previously terminated by AU for misconduct.”
Bob Flores, Handrahan’s lawyer, said that the termination claim was inaccurate, and that Handrahan’s contract with the University had ended and was not renewed. 
Flores did not respond to requests for documentation of this allegation.
On Nov. 6, both parties agreed to a protective order. The filing states “that certain documents and information produced during discovery in this litigation should be kept confidential to protect the legitimate business interests and confidential personal information of the parties.”
AU’s lawyers said that they could not comment on pending litigation.
“American University is committed to a safe and inclusive workplace environment,” said Matthew Bennett, AU’s vice president and chief communications officer. “Our policies and procedures, including our Office of Equity and Title IX, provide clear avenues for addressing all forms of discrimination and we investigate all complaints. While we cannot comment on specifics of pending litigation, there have not been any recent developments in this case.”
aveitch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Clarifications and corrections: This article has been corrected since it was first published to differentiate between changes to AU and CASE policies. It has also been corrected to state that CASE offers services in the Accommodations and Access department and no longer in ROTC.
In response to the challenges American University students face with online classes, the Center for Advocacy and Student Equity (CASE) announced multiple changes to their services.
The group has also pushed for AU policy changes.
The adjustments include changes in the relationship between CASE and the students who seek out its services, and technological updates to improve online functionality and accessibility.
One major effort of virtual classes resulted in the overhaul and renaming of the Freshman Forgiveness Policy to the Course Repetition and Grade Replacement Policy. The updated version includes more flexibility, allowing for all undergraduate students to retake two courses that they have received a C- or lower final grade in. 
CASE is also working to create a Student Bill of Rights, established to clearly outline all of the rights that students are entitled to. The group urges students to email case@ausg.org with issues they have regarding their rights this semester.
Mehak Chadha, the CASE director, said that her goals are to help her fellow students navigate the complexities of AU’s policies, especially during this unprecedented time.
“Our role is to serve as a bridge from the student body to the administration,” she said. “We’re making sure that students who need accessibility accommodations are being respected in this virtual space.”
CASE offers services in five different departments on campus: Title IX, Conduct, Academics, Financial Aid, and Accommodations and Access. The group advocates for the rights of students in addition to explaining AU policies to those affected by them. CASE also provides resources that students might need when dealing with a given department, as well as many other services. 
With the staggering changes this semester has brought, CASE advocated for increased assistance with technology. This includes the Student Tech Task Force, led by the Office of Information Technology, which supports students who do not have adequate technology for classes. 
As part of their efforts to be more inclusive, CASE pushed for AU to remove gendered language in its policies.
“We’ve been working on advocacy initiatives in this time,” she said. “These are goals that I had to make sure that students still feel like their rights are being supported in the online space, specifically when it comes to accessibility.”
Chadha also expressed the importance of the compassion that she has employed throughout this time, something that she considers to be just as important as the office’s broader policy changes. 
“Occasionally, my responses [to students] just provide them with support; like, ‘I'm so sorry, this is so hard,’” she said. Chadha said she makes sure to tell students, “We’re all in this together.”
The sentiment, she said, has guided her leadership of the office in recent months. 
“It's been a learning process, but I think we're getting a lot closer to what works,” Chadha said. 
smattalian@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
Editor's Note: This article appeared in The Eagle's October 2020 virtual print edition. 
As announced in September, the University could lose between $104 and $116 million for fiscal year 2021. The impact of these losses will be felt until fiscal year 2022, according to reporting by The Eagle. The University is cutting president and cabinet salaries, instituting a five-day faculty furlough for those making over $40,000, no longer contributing to faculty retirement funds for the year and taking other measures to attempt to make up for this loss.
We are reminded every day that “unprecedented” is the word of the year. The coronavirus pandemic has fundamentally changed our society, and nowhere is that more obvious than in higher education. Schools have had varying responses, from fully in-person to online classes, from staff layoffs to continued football games. The differences in response make clear that there is no perfect response to any aspect of university life. However, huge budget losses raise serious concerns about the future.
The University is tuition-dependent. This has been a fact of AU’s budget for a long time, and focus has often been on growing the endowment. The tuition cut, no charges for housing and dining, and the March housing and dining refunds are all serious revenue losses when the budget is dependent on students. This pandemic proves that such a budget structure is detrimental not only in the long-term, but in short-term emergencies as well. There is now an expectation among students that the next time an emergency happens, there will be some level of reimbursement or cost cuts.
This continued reliance on students is absurd. We are responsible for funding our own professor’s paychecks, our own finals season “de-stress” events. AU has been increasing enrollment to increase tuition revenues, but with a fully-online semester, deferrals from students are expected. That loss to the budget is detrimental. The tuition reduction and other refunds keep students in school, but they are also hard hits to the budget.
The University has not been successful in diversifying revenue streams, and the pandemic makes that even more concerning. With the pandemic causing long-term financial hardship on individual and organization levels with no clear end, it is hard to believe that there will be increased donations. Even as the alumni association may work to develop these networks, AU does not produce the kind of students who go on to make the kind of money that allows for large donations to the endowment.
Frankly, as students look at these budget loss announcements and mitigation efforts, another largely online semester, although the University plans to expand some in-person operations, will exacerbate the financial challenges AU has already faced this academic year. We know more clearly than ever how our payments and presence at the University affect funds overall. With the Board of Trustees expected to vote on tuition prices in March 2021, it remains to be seen how that will put students once again in the position of paying too much for too little.
This reliance on students especially feels unsustainable when considering the salaries of some of the highest paid staff on campus. While the President Sylvia Burwell, her cabinet, former deans and provosts, and the former president are all taking salary cuts is a nice gesture, it rings hollow. In a time of such economic loss and strain, the act seems performative when it is such a low percentage of their salary. Burwell’s salary cut is only a few thousand dollars more than the total University cost per year for students. These members of our campus are not, in fact, suffering financially alongside the rest of us. Larger salary cuts or some measurement of how this is actually making some difference in the budget would make such a gesture less performative.
Another concern for the future is the loss of AU’s “rainy day” funds. Much of the University endowment is restricted for various legal reasons, leaving $38 million in unrestricted income funds. The University is using all of that $38 million to offset the budget losses.
It is clear that replacing those funds needs to happen immediately. Unfortunately, with the climate emergency increasing the likelihood of large-scale disasters, the University has to be better prepared for the future. COVID-19 has made it clear that no university had contingency preparations for a situation like this. But rainy days will come again sooner than anyone thinks, and the endowment may not be there to save the budget. Action steps for these future emergencies remain unclear to students, leaving many wondering: What about next time?
There are positive decisions the University has made. Students and employees who are in lower salary brackets have been prioritized, as things like financial aid, student support services and layoffs have all been avoided for cutting expenses. The University also has no plans to make any sport team cuts so that we maintain Division I status. Other schools have not been able to avoid these measures, as peer institutions, like George Washington University, have laid off staff and cut some teams from their athletics program. AU’s situation, however, is still unsustainable.
We are the ones who support this budget, and yet our voices are ignored. We aren’t provided with real-time updates. Meanwhile, our hopes are strung along for a return to normal that won’t be coming anytime soon. Students need to grieve what is happening to us starting now, and AU’s total false sense of hope and positivity prevents that. The cynic in us might assume that this false hope is to keep students paying so the budget sees smaller losses.
The future is unclear for us all, but the loss of endowment funds and continued tuition dependence are the reality. The University can either plan for the future or wait for the next disaster to put us in this situation again.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
