Ibram X. Kendi, the founding director of the new Anti-Racist Research and Policy Center at AU.
Ibram X. Kendi, founder of AU’s Antiracist Research and Policy Center, announced on Thursday morning that he will join the Boston University faculty in July to build the BU Center for Antiracist Research.
Kendi joined AU faculty in August 2017 and presented the idea for AU’s Antiracist Research and Policy Center in September 2017. 
He is renowned for his books, “How to Be an Antiracist” and “Stamped from the Beginning: The Definitive History of Racist Ideas in America.” Kendi is also a professor in the School of International Service and the College of Arts and Sciences.
“I am excited to join the historic BU of pioneering Native author Charles Eastman, MLK Jr., and Howard Zinn, the proud Boston of Phillis Wheatley and Maria Stewart and Inquilinos Boricuas en Acción, a BU and Boston filled with so many great minds and committed spirits,” Kendi wrote in a tweet on Thursday.
The center, however, will remain at AU as a collaboration between CAS and SIS, according to an email sent to CAS and SIS faculty and staff. The University is looking for a new director for the center this fall, the email said.
Kendi leaves the AU faculty at a pivotal time in the United States when racism has become the center of national conversation. The recent killings of Black Americans, such as George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, have renewed demands for police reform and antiracist policies.
AU has had a string of racist incidents occur on its campus in the past several years. In May 2017, students found bananas hanging from nooses after the election of Taylor Dumpson, AU’s first Black female Student Government president. This hate crime sparked collective outrage from the AU community and garnered national attention. In September 2017 on the same night Kendi gave a presentation on the center, confederate flag fliers were found hanging in four AU buildings.
In February, a member of the AU community was recorded on camera saying the N-word. 
In an interview with The Blackprint following an N-word incident in April 2019, Kendi said that some racist incidents happen on campuses because of a bold student, and others are reactionary.
“Typically when you have antiracist successes, there is going to be a racist reaction,” Kendi told The Blackprint.
This story will be updated as more information becomes available.
ltarallo@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For those of you who know me, or know of me, I likely come off as that “do-it-all, know-it-all” model student.
But, to be honest, I am far from perfect. Amid the senseless killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd, I found myself struggling to put together a coherent response that culminated my support for the movement while acknowledging my imperfections. 
Yes, I was in tears.
Yes, I was shocked. 
Yes, I was outraged. 
However, I found myself asking one question after another.
How do I address the police brutality that Black Americans face everyday, while also acknowledging the deeply rooted racism within my own community: the South Asian community?
How can I use my family’s experiences to self-reflect and amplify the voices of my Black peers whose voices matter now more than ever before?
At the end of the day, how can we all best serve as resources and supporters in this cause while acknowledging our privilege? 
I know I am not alone in asking many of these questions, but sometimes it can feel like if you are not doing enough, you are letting down the movement.
But none of us are perfect. The first step in serving as an effective advocate is acknowledging our privilege and owning up to mistakes that we make along the way. Humility matters more than we know, especially when advocating for issues that don’t impact us on a regular basis. I still make mistakes and am still learning how to properly advocate for change. Owning up to our flaws and admitting to the learning we all have to do, regardless of our race, class, color or creed is incredibly important. 
It is important to realize that none of us non-Black students will ever be able to fully understand our Black peers’ lived realities. Recognizing that makes the next step crucially important.
Educate yourself. 
This means analyzing and dissecting literature written by Black activists from Maya Angelou to W.E.B. Du Bois, to modern day advocates such as Ta-Nehisi Coates and Ibram X. Kendi. My initial response to the issue was far from a fully-informed one. So, I continued to read countless resources, articles and journal articles on how to best ally in this movement as a South Asian American. 
By using resources from the South Asian Student Association, reading multiple journal articles investigating the deeply rooted racism within the South Asian community and understanding professor Kendi’s “How to Be an Antiracist,” I was able to further understand the history and complexities behind racial issues in our communities.
In addition, it’s just as significant to read statements written by our Black peers on campus. Reading The Blackprint, AU NAACP and the Black Student Union’s statements can give us a valuable perspective on what type of change to advocate for on campus. The AU NAACP chapter called on the University to end its partnership with the Metropolitan Police Department. Specifically, the chapter called for the end of MPD presence at large speaking events and during mental health wellness checks. 
AU BSU and The Blackprint echoed similar sentiments of ending ties with MPD and demanded that the University take more comprehensive action in the face of racial incidents on campus. From the hanging of bananas from nooses across campus three years ago, repeated instances of students using racial slurs, to the violence used by police officers against Gianna Wheeler, the University has failed to deliver actionable reform when Black students are targeted on campus. It is essential that we stand by both of these organizations and continue to demand more from ourselves and our campus leadership. 
BSU furthered this sentiment and called on students to live an anti-racist lifestyle by having difficult conversations with friends, family members and classmates. Reading both of these organizations’ calls for urgency enlightened me for how I can better support my Black peers, as well as what actions we should all advocate for. 
As opposed to reading beforehand, many students will rush to post an Instagram story, a Facebook statement or some sort of broad display of support on their social media. I am guilty of this, as are many other students. 
So, how do we prevent this showboat activism? It is essential to read up on the issue and check our individual privileges before taking up space in the discussion. After reading and self-reflecting, I was able to learn more about the racism within my own community. 
Who was I to talk about the racism my family and I endured when our own community continues to stay silent and propagate racism? The racism or xenophobia many non-Black POC face cannot compare to the history of disenfranchisement that the Black community faces. Owning up to the faults within my community made me more cognizant of my place within this movement. Furthermore, educating myself helped in separating productive activism from empty posts and blanket rhetoric.
The third step is taking social media activism further. This means donating, attending a local protest and voting for officials that unconditionally support the movement. After recognizing my privilege, I looked for organizations dedicated to uplifting Black voices such as The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which fights for racial equality through litigation; The Black Visions Collective, a Black, Trans and Queer led organization dedicated to dismantling systems of oppression; and The Black Emotional and Mental Health Collective, which is devoted to healing and liberating marginalized communities. Regardless of whether it is $2 or $200, your voice matters in helping these organizations advocate for a more equitable society and push forward change in the realities of countless Black Americans in this nation. Beyond donating, understanding and promoting each of these organizations' missions through our platforms is vital. 
Protesting and showing up to vote matter just as much as donating and spreading educational content on social media. Each protest puts additional pressure on public officials to change their behaviors and speak out on critical issues regarding race. Supplementing protests by showing up at the ballot box is critical as states are holding primary contests. In the coming weeks, it is vital to turn out and vote for candidates that will amplify Black, POC, LGBTQ+ and other marginalized voices.
The last step is sharing each of these improvements with your friends, family and those around. None of us are perfect and we will never achieve lasting change in our own social media silos. I do realize that, while I am taking each of these steps, I am still far from perfect and need to continue educating myself. 
On a parting note, I challenge all of us to get more involved and continue our involvement in this movement for the weeks, months and years to come. 
Too often, Black voices and stories fade away with the headlines. It’s incumbent upon each of us to make sure Black voices remain heard and are amplified now more than ever before. 
Adit Roy is a rising junior in the School of Public Affairs. The opinions expressed by the author are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Eagle and its staff.
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Watching “Paris Is Burning” today feels like watching a contemporary artifact, a paradox created by an old camera about people and culture that are distressingly recognizable. The grainy handheld camera of the late ‘80s that was used to film 70 hours of footage directed by Jennie Livingston, who’s a lesbian, harkens back to home movies and a style of underground film that doesn’t get much aesthetic attention anymore. The story of the queer drag queen and dance culture of New York City lets viewers see the contradictions of these nightly celebrations through the eyes of Black and Latinx queer, transgender, gay and lesbian people.
The film’s style and language can make the viewer think these stories were isolated to the ‘80s, a decade built on high fashion, and to New York City, a haven for subcultures. But rewatching “Paris Is Burning” while international protests for justice over George Floyd’s death extend into the beginning of Pride Month, it is clear that the scores of drag queen performers featured in the film can teach us more about today’s intersectionality, even from their ‘80s scene.
“Paris Is Burning” taught mainstream culture how to “vogue,” how to serve “realness” and, most importantly, about the realities of young genderqueer and gay Black and Latinx individuals. 
Not every character in the film has their biological family to return to; some characters tell their stories about being kicked out of their homes when they came out to their families. Today, LGBTQ+ youth have a 120 percent higher chance of experiencing homelessness, according to a University of Chicago study.
But even without their given families, the Black and Latinx queer community of New York City still made “houses,” or organizations of young queer people who participate in drag balls and runways. Each house has a “mother,” an older, experienced drag queen mentor who shelters and trains new performers. New members usually adopt the house name as their own surname.
The House of LaBeija, featured in the film, has been welcoming youth since the '70s and is still performing. Created by Black drag queen Crystal LaBeija, you can see members of the house, like Pepper LaBeija, perform in the film.
“This is white America,” Pepper LaBeija says in the film when discussing the struggles Black drag queens face in mainstream society. “And when it comes to the minorities; especially Black — we as a people, for the past 400 years — is the greatest example of behavior modification in the history of civilization. We have had everything taken away from us, and yet we have all learned how to survive. That is why, in the ballroom circuit, it is so obvious that if you have captured the great white way of living, or looking, or dressing, or speaking — you is a marvel.”
Watching the film today, LaBeija’s quote stands out because it echoes the conversation America has been submerged in, following the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Tony McDade, a Black trans man, at the hands of police officers.
Their deaths have brought protesters and Black leaders around the country to the streets against the systemic struggles they have faced in law enforcement and government for the past 400 years. “Paris Is Burning” shows that these conversations were happening in the ‘80s, but especially in the spaces occupied by persecuted Black queer individuals.
LaBeija’s quote also calls forward the contradictory nature of “realness” in drag competitions. “Realness” is the performer’s ability to pass off as something that they are not, “to be able to blend,” the film explains. Competition categories, like “executive realness” and “looking like the boy who robbed you a few minutes before coming to Paris’ ball,” test whether performers can assimilate into the category with fine accessories that they maybe attained through, as the film explains, theft or prostitution. 
“The idea of realness is to look as much as possible as your straight counterpart,” queen Octavia St. Laurent says. “You look like a real woman, or you look like a real man, the straight man … It’s really a case of going back into the closet … Rather than have to go through prejudices about your life and your lifestyle, you can walk around comfortable, blending in with everyone else.”
While the ball circuit and the film celebrates being able to show “realness” when performers win tall gilded trophies, it still notes the contradiction of asking queer people to hide their identities for recognition. The idea of assimilation, of being able to become the figure you may never fully be able to be because systemic homophobia and racism requires you to discard a valuable identity, is true performance.
Over thirty years later, LGBTQ+ people are still “performing realness” in their daily lives. Twenty-nine states do not fully protect LGBTQ+ people against discrimination on either sexual identity, gender identity, or at all in public and private sectors.
After the extravagant dancing, creative costuming, exaggerated makeup, the juxtaposition of small, crammed New York City apartments and the hard nightlives of queer and gay men trying to survive, the film takes an even harsher look at reality of not only life, but death.
Venus Xtravaganza, a young and recurring performer, was murdered. The film theorizes that one of Venus’ wealthy companions discovered she was transgender and killed her. “But that’s part of being transsexual in New York, that’s surviving,” Angie Xtravaganza, Venus’ house mother, says in the film.
When a transgender man, Tony McDade, was killed in an police officer-involved shooting on May 27, Gina Duncan, the director of Transgender Equality for Equality Florida told Mother Jones, “Talking about Tony’s earlier brushes with the law should not diminish the humanity of this being a person who is now dead and certainly shouldn’t diminish the fact that society failed Tony.”
It’s depressing to know about Venus’ murder and wonder how society in the ‘80s failed her.
The overlap of Black Lives Matter protests and Pride this year hightlights the enhanced persecution of Black queer people and the importance of intersectionality in both movements. 
“Paris Is Burning” shows that these two moments have been and still are inextricable. The queer community featured in the film cannot talk about their experience as gay or transgender people without also talking about the effect their racial identity has on their sexual and gender expression.
For non-Black or non-queer people, watching this film can be a starting point for understanding the world of these identities, the language that is used to start communities and the daily individual and long-term systemic hardships Black, Latinx and queer people face due to unchangeable identities. The decades-old film is as contemporary as films that feature these communities now, like “Port Authority” released in 2019.
“Paris Is Burning” made “vogue” dancing mainstream, but it can also help make mainstream the ideas of acceptance and anti-discriminatory policy. The film shows that there is still more to be done, there is still more to learn. So in the great tradition of “Paris Is Burning,” start reading.
kmcdonnell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
