The Katzen Arts Center at American University. 
Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
In the wake of the coronavirus, every department at American University has had to adapt. However, singing has become a distinct challenge due to COVID-19 that the University’s Department of Performing Arts and student-run a cappella groups have had to grapple with. 
Dan Abraham, chair of the Department of Performing Arts and director of AU Chamber Singers, said that he and his colleagues worked constantly in the weeks following the University’s decision to switch entirely to remote instruction. 
Originally, Abraham said that his department was looking into four pillars of safety: masking, hygiene, distancing and air exchange. During the warmer months, Abraham expected to hold some of Chamber Singers’ rehearsals outdoors. Now, in an online semester, there is very little opportunity for students in the DPA to convene in-person. 
Students are able to request swipe access to Katzen if they need a practice room, but capacity will remain limited. 
“In order to promote the highest quality online teaching in the performing arts, we’ve set up four spaces within the Katzen Center and Greenberg Theatre to have telecast possibilities,” Abraham said.
Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that, in March, about 53 people in a 122-member choir were assumed to have gotten COVID-19 after attending a choir rehearsal. Singing may play a role in transmitting the virus via aerosols, in addition to droplets.
Music ensembles are holding online synchronous classes and creating asynchronous projects, according to Abraham. 
“We’re looking at doing some recording that’ll be both in-house as well as people from outside simultaneously recording together, so that’s pretty complicated,” said Abraham, in regards to Chamber Singers. 
Ensembles are relying heavily on online software for classes and rehearsals. William Brent, associate professor of audio technology, has been working with the software making this possible. The software, called JackTrip, allows students to “send full-quality, multi-channel audio over internet connections with extremely low latency,” Brent said. 
“You can’t just sing together in a 20-person choir and be musically accurate in a Zoom call because there’s so much delay going on,” Brent said. 
Brent teaches a graduate course called Telematic Music Production. This semester, his students will be focusing on mastering about 20 virtual programs. The goal of the course is for the students to use the techniques they learn to produce a virtual concert. 
“We don’t have to be in the same spaces, and we can still put on a concert together,” Brent said. 
Although Brent said that he is excited about the new ways the department is adapting to remote learning, he is concerned about unequal access to the technology and internet connection needed for the software to function properly.
“We can do everything within our power to try to equalize it where we can, but some students need better computers, some students need a better internet connection because this stuff does take a lot of bandwidth,” Brent said. “You need maximal bandwidth to be able to do this effectively, and not everyone has a $150 a month internet connection.” 
In previous semesters, the Kay Spiritual Life Center was often turned into a concert hall for AU’s a cappella groups on a weekend night. Now, student-led a cappella groups have had to take their rehearsals, performances and auditions in a new direction. 
Tez Byrnes, a senior at AU and president of the co-ed a cappella group Dime a Dozen, said that with the switch to remote learning and activities, Dime a Dozen will no longer hold auditions in the fall. She said that it would be difficult to introduce new people to the group in a virtual setting.
Byrnes said that Dime a Dozen is going to attempt to hold synchronous rehearsals every few weeks. 
During a typical semester, the ensemble would hold rehearsals two nights a week. However, Byrnes said that many members of the group have taken on new jobs and responsibilities due to the pandemic. Additionally, she said it is hard to emulate the traditional feel of a cappella in a virtual setting since singers cannot be physically close to one another. 
Dime a Dozen is still planning on holding virtual concerts throughout the semester. Over the summer, the group put together a Zoom rendition of their group song, called “Change,” and posted it to Instagram. Byrnes expects the group to do more of this throughout the semester. She said that she has been in contact with the other presidents of AU a cappella groups, and that they are also hoping to do these kinds of virtual events. 
“I think everybody’s at a pretty general consensus that the best we can do is just kind of keep up an online presence for the time being,” Byrnes said. 
Although this semester will be different for singers, performers at AU have not been silenced by COVID-19. There are hopes that new techniques will be positive tools for students in the future. 
“Even if we don’t have to keep six feet apart, these techniques will still be useful, and they’ll make more music creation possible beyond the pandemic,” Brent said. 
ltarallo@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
If you miss popping into your favorite campus coffee shop between classes for that mid-morning caffeine boost, you’re not alone. Branching out and trying new types of coffee between virtual classes can be hard, especially if you’re trying to mimic that freshly-brewed café flavor. 
No one can blame you for not having that top-notch commercial espresso machine on your counter, but if you love caffeine as much as the next stressed college student, chances are you own one of the five different types of basic coffee makers: stovetop coffee/espresso maker, drip coffee machine, single-serve capsule coffee maker, French press or pour-over coffee maker. Each one serves a different purpose and creates a different type of brew. 
Whether you have been swearing by your French press for years or just bought a Keurig, here are six easy coffee recipes for each piece of equipment. Although some recipes require milk, it can be swapped with your favorite dairy-free alternative.
For the chocolate lovers with a single-serve capsule coffee maker, make this caffè mocha.
A caffè mocha, also called mochaccino or mocha, is a chocolate-flavored latte. Mochas are easy to make on your own because they require few ingredients and little time. You can simplify this chocolatey drink by combining a pod of single-serve hot chocolate with your favorite single-serve dark roast, and save whatever doesn’t fit in your favorite mug for an iced mocha the next day. Making a caffè mocha is a great way to experiment with the best chocolate-to-coffee ratio that suits your taste.
If you’re an avid French press user, drink this French press chai latte.
In less than 10 minutes, you could be sipping on your own coffee-infused chai latte. With minimal ingredients needed, this is the perfect fall drink for the French press advocate who wants to change their morning coffee routine. Although this is not a traditional style chai, French pressing chai into coffee really brings out the flavor of the chai spices. If you love tea and are just starting to experiment into the realm of coffee, this drink is a great place to start.
This Spanish café con leche recipe is a must try with your stovetop coffee or espresso maker.
Although a stovetop espresso maker is not technically espresso according to the Italian Espresso National Institute, it still makes an incredibly dark pot of coffee that is the perfect base for this café con leche. This recipe can also be used with a Nespresso machine or any type of espresso maker. The bold flavor of the coffee in this drink really compliments the creaminess of the milk. Café con leche is popular in Spain for a reason — it’s delicious and easy to throw together before your morning class.
Do you have a drip coffee maker? Try making a cup of Japanese-style iced coffee.
Despite what some may say, iced coffee can be enjoyed year round. Japanese-style iced coffee is brewed directly onto ice, causing it to chill rapidly. Brewing coffee onto ice creates a fuller-bodied ice coffee compared to traditional ice coffee, mimicking the flavor of a cold brew without waiting for six to 12 hours for a cup. Try this recipe if you’re looking for a change in your drip coffee or are looking for a different flavor profile from your iced coffee.
If you’re trying to up your pour-over game, experiment with Vietnamese iced coffee.
Vietnamese coffee has a stronger taste, creates a thicker brew and typically involves some over-roasted beans. It has a very sweet and distinctive flavor, thanks to the addition of sweetened condensed milk. Vietnamese coffee is very easy to make and can be done using a pour over coffee maker. If you typically enjoy a black coffee to really wake you up, try making a Vietnamese coffee when you are in need of a caffeine boost and are craving a sweet treat after lunch.
If you’re looking for something sweet for these warm fall days, attempt this at-home Starbucks pumpkin cream cold brew.
TikTok has become a great place to look for new coffee recipes since instant whipped coffee went viral at the start of the pandemic. Because cold brew can be made without a coffee maker or purchased from the store (like the video tutorial shows), anyone can enjoy this drink. This Starbucks copy-cat drink may be even better than the original because it can be customized to your liking. If you want to take this fall beverage to another level, try making your own vanilla syrup and experiment with different spices. 
Although experimenting with coffee can seem like an intimidating venture, it doesn’t have to be. These recipes were picked for their simplicity and versatility, meant to inspire a new coffee drink when your average cup of joe just won't cut it. 
ewalsh@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A D.C. District Court judge moved forward elements of a case on Sept. 18 involving an American University student who sued AU in 2019 over the handling of a Title IX investigation.
Title IX is a federal law aimed at protecting against sex discrimination in education. The court granted AU’s motion to dismiss a count of negligence, but it denied the University’s motion to dismiss multiple other counts. 
In October 2019, an unnamed student, who is referred to in the case under the pseudonym John Doe, alleged in a civil suit that the University’s Title IX office mishandled a sexual assault investigation after an AU student, under the pseudonym Jane Roe, filed a complaint against him.
Doe filed a complaint with the court in 2019 after he was suspended from AU for a year and a half, two and a half years after the event transpired between Doe and Roe in 2016, the lawsuit alleges. Doe went to court to challenge his suspension on the grounds of gender discrimination and breaches of contract.
In a memo, Judge Amit P. Mehta detailed both Doe and Roe’s accounts of the event that transpired in 2016, with the point of contention in their accounts being the nature of the consent that was given.
Background
On April 22, 2016, Doe, Roe and a friend of Doe’s gathered at Doe’s apartment, according to the memo. It states that Doe and the friend drank alcohol, and Roe ate a marijuana-laced brownie. The memo states that in Doe’s account, later that night, he began to make sexual advances on Roe, repeatedly asking for consent before doing so. Doe said that Roe gave consent each time.
According to Roe’s account, the memo states that she described feeling dizzy after eating a portion of the brownie, and she “hit the floor like a rock,” with her memory blurry from that point on. She remembered being confused when Doe asked her if she consented to sexual advances. Later in the evening, Roe alleges that Doe pressured her to finish the rest of the brownie and forced her to say “yes” when she didn’t respond immediately to questions about consent. Doe proceeded to make painful sexual advances on Roe, she alleges, to which she screamed “no” before leaving the apartment.
On Jan. 9, 2019, Roe filed a complaint with Title IX investigator Fariha Quasem, who was the sole investigator at the time, according to the memo. In May 2019, Quasem completed a report about the investigation, where she issued a split decision that there was not sufficient evidence to prove that Doe raped Roe; however, Quasem did find that Doe violated the Student Conduct Code and did not ask for consent before making certain advances. The memo states that Quasem’s investigation found Doe responsible for sexual assault.
In the latest version of AU’s Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Policy, which was amended in 2018, consent is defined as “words or conduct indicating a freely given agreement to have sexual intercourse or to participate in sexual activities. Silence or lack of resistance does not imply consent.”
According to the policy, sexual activity is considered “without consent” when no clear verbal or nonverbal consent is given, if it is inflicted through force or coercion or if the person is physically or mentally incapacitated.
Quasem’s findings were based on the preponderance of the evidence — meaning that it was more likely than not that Doe had violated University policy.
She presented her findings to AU’s office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution Services, and a sanctioning panel suspended Doe from July 1, 2019, to Dec. 31, 2020. Doe appealed the decision on July 15, 2019, alleging that Quasem failed to interview certain people during the investigation and that his punishment was excessive. His appeal was found “not viable” on July 25, 2019.
Quasem did not respond to a request for comment, and the Office of Equity and Title IX referred comment requests to the University’s communications office.
Breach of contract claims
In his 2019 lawsuit, Doe argued that the University breached its contract with him on a number of grounds, with the first being AU’s failure to apply its one-year limitation to Roe’s nearly three-year-old claims against Doe.
In 2016, when the event in question occurred, the code stated that “the complainant will have one year from the date of discovery to file a complaint as set forth in these policies.”
However, when Roe filed her complaint in 2019, the Student Conduct Code no longer contained the one-year timing provision, and complainants were told to “file a complaint as soon as possible following the alleged discrimination.”
Doe said in his complaint that the University should have obliged with the guidelines that were in place when the event occurred, and since it didn’t, AU breached its contract. Mehta agreed in the memo –– Roe did not provide a written statement of extenuating circumstances for filing late –– and said in the case that this argument will move forward.
The other two of the six elements of Doe’s case that survived were breaches of contract through Quasem’s alleged failure to provide a thorough and impartial investigation and alleged failure to provide Doe with information on the sanctioning panel.
The Student Conduct Code outlines the procedure that must be followed once a Title IX complaint is filed. According to the 2018-2019 Student Conduct Code, if students are suspended, they are entitled to a disciplinary hearing before a sanctioning panel that consists of the panel members, administrators, complainants and respondents. In those situations, respondents are provided with written notice of the allegation, reasonable access to the case, the opportunity to respond to the evidence and a right to be accompanied by an adviser.
Doe argued in his complaint that he was not provided with the identities of the sanctioning panel members and not given the opportunity to request their recusal, which was a breach of the conduct code.
The 2018-2019 Student Conduct Code states that “students accused of conduct violations are entitled to ... request that any person conducting a disciplinary proceeding or serving as a Conduct Council member or hearing administrator, be disqualified on the grounds of conflict of interest.”
Doe could not physically attend the sanctioning panel because he was in Kuwait at the time, and as a result, he was told that he could not challenge anyone. Nothing in the code suggested this, so Mehta agreed that this was a breach of contract.
Gender discrimination claim
Mehta wrote in the memo that in order for Doe to successfully argue that there was gender discrimination in the investigation, he had to prove that “gender bias was a motivating factor behind the erroneous finding.”
Mehta wrote that Quasem never questioned Roe’s ability to recall events three years later, even with Roe admitting that her memory was blurry, but latched on to “minor critiques of Doe’s credibility.”
For example, the memo said that the testimony of Doe’s friend starkly contrasted Roe’s, because the friend said that he never saw any physical contact between Doe and Roe, but Roe said the opposite. 
Mehta said this was indicative of “plausible gender bias.”
Doe also pointed to pressure that AU had to hold men accountable for sexual assault during the time of the investigation, which began in 2014 when leaked text messages and emails of fraternity members of Epsilon Iota revealed sexist comments toward women at AU.
Following the national attention that the fraternity’s actions garnered, AU adopted an investigative model in 2017, which many sexual assault survivor advocates argue reduces trauma for survivors, when compared to a live hearing. Doe alleged that Quasem “brings a bias in favor of female complainants into every case she investigates and adjudicates.”
Doe alleged in his suit that Quasem’s approach to sexual assault education and training has centered around violence by men against women, claiming that she could not be impartial in his investigation.
Mehta ruled that the gender discrimination claim will move forward.
University response 
“American University’s Title IX policies and procedures are designed to enable the University to respond to reports in good faith, in accordance with applicable law, and in a manner that promotes fairness, impartiality, and prompt resolution for all parties,” AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess said in an email to The Eagle. “The Office of Equity and Title IX’s critical responsibilities include formal and informal complaint resolution, as well as training and prevention and awareness programming. We cannot comment on specifics of pending litigation.”
In March 2019, AU was the only university in the country to have five open federal Title IX investigations into potential sexual violence violations, as previously reported by The Eagle and AWOL.
In July, AU President Sylvia Burwell announced the establishment of the new Office of Equity and Title IX to further “continuing efforts to dismantle structural racism, eliminate gender-based violence, support survivors, and address barriers that prevent members of our community from full participation and access.”
The new office went into effect this year on Aug. 14.
On Sept. 24, AU asked the court for a two-week extension to file an answer to the complaint.
asheffey@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
