Learn about anti-racism and support the Black community with these 10 movies and series 
George Floyd’s killing by police last month in Minneapolis spurred outrage and protests across the United States and the world around deep-seated, systemic racial injustice. As people sign petitions, call representatives and raise millions of dollars of funds, many also seek to educate themselves about racism and Black people’s experiences living in this country. 
Resources from books to shows, movies to art, podcasts to articles and even Twitter threads, are circulating around social media. Films like “I Am Not Your Negro” and “Just Mercy” are free to the public to encourage education, and streaming services like Netflix and Hulu have made collections to highlight the Black experience. A Netflix spokesperson tweeted about the new Black Lives Matter collection: “When we say ‘Black Lives Matter,’ we also mean ‘Black storytelling matters.’ With an understanding that our commitment to true, systemic change will take time – we're starting by highlighting powerful and complex narratives about the Black experience.”
To continue the momentum of the BLM movement, and become more informed about Black stories, check out these 10 powerful movies and series. 
DOCUMENTARIES
Although “13th,” by renowned director Ava DuVernay, originated on Netflix, the documentary’s influence has become so great that the streaming service decided to release it on YouTube. The documentary takes an unflinching deep dive into the lasting effects of the 13th Amendment and its creation of injustices that fuel the United States’ mass incarceration problem. DuVernay weaves together archival footage, facts and figures, and interviews with influential political and academic figures to construct a powerful resource that educates, inspires, moves and holds a mirror to the persistent racism that exists in America’s criminal justice system. 
Available on Netflix and YouTube.
In 1991, Rodney King, a young Black man, was savagely beaten by Los Angeles police officers. King suffered skull fractures, broken bones and teeth, and permanent brain damage, and the broadcasted footage of the attack sparked national outrage. A year later, four officers who had been charged with excessive use of force were found not guilty. The verdict led to six days of riots with assaults, looting and arson broadcasted on TV news to a shocked nation. “LA 92” uses rare archival footage with no interviews or other narration of any kind to conjure up the violence and raw emotions of people who experienced the riots first hand. The dimensions of police brutality, pervasive racism in our justice system and protests provide uncanny parallels to recent unrest. 
Available on Netflix.
BIOPICS
In 1989, five young Black and Hispanic men ranging from 14 to 16 years old were falsely accused of raping and assaulting a jogger in Central Park. The young men — boys, really — who were publically named the Central Park Five, were prosecuted based on police-coerced confessions and spent six to 13 years in prison. “When They See Us,” directed by Ava DuVernay, beautifully and hauntingly reenacts their stories across their entire timeline: from prosecution, to jail time, to ultimate exoneration and life afterward.
Available on Netflix.
Based on the autobiographical book of the same name, “Just Mercy” tells the story of one of Bryan Stevenson’s first cases as a young civil rights lawyer. In 1989, Stevenson, played by Michael B. Jordan, traveled to Alabama, after hearing about the case of Walter McMillian, played by Jamie Foxx, an innocent Black man awaiting the death penalty after a wrongful murder indictment. The film is a glaring portrayal of a true story that continues to take on varying, yet familiar forms to this day.
Available for free across numerous platforms.
“12 Years a Slave” is the Oscar-winning biographical adaptation of the 1853 memoir of the same name. The story follows the life  of Solomon Northup, an African American man born free in New York who is later kidnapped in D.C., and enslaved. Solomon spends 12 years in slavery before getting a chance to meet with a white abolitionist, which changes his course. The film is a horrifying and haunting portrayal of slavery’s systemic dehumanization, destruction of families and unspeakable brutality. The film also empowers the resilience and bravery of a man who risked it all for his freedom and to be reconnected with his family. 
Available on Amazon.
SERIES/DOCUSERIES
“Little Fires Everywhere” is an eight-part series based on the New York Times bestselling book of the same name. The show follows the intertwining of two very different families in a suburban town: a “picture-perfect” white family and a Black “enigmatic” mother and daughter duo upend their lives when they move to the town. Grounded in the standout performances of Kerry Washington and Reese Witherspoon, the series explores the themes of motherhood, identity, class dynamics and racism. 
Available on Hulu.
The Innocence Project, founded in 1992 by two law professors, is an organization committed to overturning wrongful criminal convictions using DNA evidence in addition to advocating for criminal justice reform. Since then, the organization has managed to help exonerate 367 people, 21 of whom served time on death row. Directed by Oscar-winning documentarian Roger Ross Williams, this nine-episode series draws from a few real Innocence Project cases, shedding light on the people and injustices behind the facts and figures. The episodes are grouped into three sections, evidence, witnesses and prosecution, which dismantle the evidence previously deemed unimpeachable and systems perceived as just. 
Available on Netflix.
“Dear White People” is a Netflix original series based on the film that holds the same name. The series follows a group of Black students at a predominately white Ivy League college. Characters navigate identity and personal path formation amid a terrain of misplaced activism, a culture of political correctness, social injustice and cultural bias. The series uses comedy and satire to explore race relations for young people in modern day America. 
Available on Netflix.
FEATURE FILMS
Based on the award-winning novel of the same name, “The Hate U Give” tells the story of Starr (Amandla Stenberg), a high schooler who feels as though she lives two lives. During the day, she attends an elite private school with very little diversity on the wealthy side of town. At home, she is a member of a close-knit family in a predominantly Black and underserved community. After witnessing police murder her childhood friend, mistaking her hairbrush for a gun, Starr’s world comes crashing down. Amid trauma, uncertainty and a struggle with personal identity, Starr finds her voice and advocates on behalf of her friend. 
Available on Amazon.
“Selma,” directed by Ava DuVernay, is a historical drama based on the 1965 Selma to Montgomery marches for voting rights, led by James Bevel, Martin Luther King Jr., Hosea Williams and John Lewis. King is “demythologized” as the film presents his tactical and strategist sides alongside his flawed moments of infidelity and hesitation. As some events were rearranged for dramatic effect, some academics identify that the film is not necessarily historically accurate but it is historically correct. “Selma” provides a gripping and powerful look into the civil rights movement while also unveiling the humanity behind civil rights figures.
Available on Amazon.
dharvey@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University, in unison with the Patriot League, announced the cancelation of its fall sports season on Monday, due to the ongoing challenges caused by the coronavirus pandemic. 
Decisions on winter and spring sports will be made at a later date, according to the Patriot League’s press release, with training and practice opportunities for athletes being permitted with the necessary health and safety precautions, according to each state’s guidelines. Athletes are also not allowed to travel for any sports in the fall.
“The collegiate athletics experience at all Patriot League institutions is valuable to fulfilling our educational and developmental missions, and the League recognizes that any degree of non-competition this fall is deeply disappointing to our student-athletes, coaches and fans,” the league’s press release said. “However, the health and safety of our campuses and communities must be our highest priority.”
This decision to cancel the season comes less than a month after the Patriot League announced its plans to resume fall sports in September with new health and safety protocols. The Patriot League is now the second conference within the NCAA to cancel its fall season, following the Ivy League’s cancelation of its season last week.
"From a health and well-being standpoint, things are not getting better in this country," said Patriot League Commissioner Jennifer Heppel in an interview with ESPN. "As we get closer to the point where students are going to be making plans to how they travel back to our campuses, as well as student-athletes, it became clear for us that this wasn't going to be in the best interest of our communities to have athletics this fall."
For AU, this means its cross country, volleyball, field hockey and soccer seasons will not be played this fall. When the spring sports season was canceled in March, the NCAA gave the option of an extra year of eligibility to spring sports athletes who had their seasons cut short midway through. It has not been announced how eligibility will work for the Patriot League’s fall athletes, though the Ivy League announced its fall athletes will not use a season of eligibility, whether they enroll or not.
The Patriot League also stated its desire to explore creative alternatives “to providing future competitive experiences to our fall sport student-athletes, including the possibility of conducting fall sport competition and championships in the second semester.” 
abranch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Office of Campus Life
Correction: This article has been updated to say that Allie Rivera is a rising junior, not a rising sophomore.
A call to abolish social Greek life from several student social media accounts has led to mass member disaffiliations among Greek organizations across campus, including an entire fraternity chapter. 
These accounts accused social Greek life at AU of perpetuating rape culture and racism on campus. 
“I was still remaining complicit in the Greek life community, and I think it’s pretty impossible to deny that it creates a safe space for abusers and racists,” Graham Payne-Reichert, a rising junior and the former vice president of AU’s chapter of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity. 
AU’s chapter of Delta Tau Delta currently has no active members, as they have all voluntarily disaffiliated. 
The referenced social media pages are dedicated to amplifying allegations of sexual assault and racism. The Eagle has not independently investigated the claims on these social media accounts and has decided against naming the pages for this reason.
On July 1, AU’s chapter of Alpha Xi Delta, a women’s fraternity, posted to its Instagram account that all of its executive board members resigned from their positions and suspended their memberships. 
Gabrielle Kalisz, a rising senior who left Alpha Xi Delta, said that the Instagram pages helped change the conversation surrounding Greek life. 
Kalisz said that Greek life “created a power dynamic for people to be abused or taken advantage of” that she no longer wanted to take part in. 
“I always left parties feeling uncomfortable and feeling like someone had crossed the line, but not knowing how to respond,” Kalisz said.  
However, leaving these organizations does not come without pushback. Greek chapters on college campuses are overseen by national organizations that define the rules and standards that members of a fraternity or sorority must abide by. 
On June 29, AU’s chapter of the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity announced, in a since-deleted Instagram post, that all of its members disaffiliated from the organization, “in hopes of sparking the process of disbandment and ending the cycle of abuse, misogyny, and racism perpetuated by Greek life organizations.” 
The original post was deleted after the national organization gave the now-former brothers a cease and desist letter, which ordered them to immediately cease and desist “all activity in the name of the Fraternity.” They were also ordered to turn over all chapter social media accounts to a chapter advisor, according to an email obtained by The Eagle. After that, a similar post was circulated on the now-former brothers’ social media accounts.
In the case of Delta Tau Delta, even though it now has no active members, it still remains an active chapter as designated by its national organization. Thus, it maintains recruiting privileges on AU’s campus. In a Facebook post obtained by The Eagle, the national Chief Executive Officer of Delta Tau Delta Jack Kreman responded to campus pressure.
“Delta Tau Delta does not intend to close the chapter at this time,” Kreman wrote. “We have enjoyed a good relationship with you and the University for nearly 30 years. Our task will be to best position the rebuilding of Theta Epsilon with different men.”
In a statement sent to The Eagle, Kreman wrote that “Delta Tau Delta is committed to working in collaboration with the Interfraternity Council and other stakeholders to address and improve campus safety and culture,” and that the chapter will remain open.
Elysia Gallivan, the national executive director of Alpha Xi Delta sorority, said that she hoped the organization could remain part of campus life. 
“We feel that being part of the community would allow us the avenue to make the change we believe needs to happen, easier than just stepping away from the community,” Gallivan told The Eagle.
In an email obtained by The Eagle, individual members of Alpha Xi Delta who suspended their memberships were also ordered to cease and desist “all activities in the name of Alpha Xi Delta, use of any marks or premises of future Alpha Xi Delta membership.” 
Some former members of AU’s Greek organizations aren’t convinced that change can come from within the organizations. According to Payne-Reichert, reform is not possible when it comes to the organizations that fall under the IFC. 
Both Ethan McInerney, the IFC president, and Bella Dixon Smith, the former Panhellenic Council president, declined to comment. 
Some students, like Payne-Reichert, said that they initially believed they could change the culture of fraternities and sororities by joining them.
“I was thinking like, ‘hey, these are good guys, you know, they seem to really, really care about this,” Payne-Reichert said. “I think that kind of justified [joining] in my mind. And, initially, I thought that if Greek life is so messed up culturally, that maybe I could try to affect some change from inside.” 
Marc Steiner, a rising senior who recently disaffiliated from the fraternity Sigma Phi Epsilon, said that Greek life “has really done a lot more negative for this campus and just for campuses everywhere.” 
Students say that the harm done by social Greek life cannot be overlooked for their own personal gains, and that it perpetuates a harmful culture. 
“The topic of drugging [in Greek life] has become so normalized that it’s passed over in conversation,” Kalisz said. “Especially with party culture you kind of just learn that these things are normal.” 
Kalisz said that at an event with a fraternity she asked a brother for a soda, and she does not “remember six hours” of her life.
While individual members may choose to disaffiliate from Greek life, the organizations will still remain on AU’s campus, for now. The specifics of disbanding differ across organizations, but many of them involve discussions with the national organizations, alumni, current members and the University. 
“We definitely support whatever students are trying to do, but we want to make sure that we're doing the best for the community and the impact that it has on the community,” said Travis Roberts, the assistant director of Fraternity and Sorority Life and IFC advisor. 
Allie Rivera, a rising junior and member of the sorority Phi Sigma Sigma, said she wants to disaffiliate from her chapter, however the national organization put a three-week hold on disaffiliations until dues that coincided with the coronavirus pandemic could be refunded to members. 
Rivera, who is Hispanic, said that from the time she joined her sorority, she didn’t feel comfortable in the organization, but decided to initially stick with it and give it a chance. 
“Looking back on it, I didn’t have the context to see that my organization was part of a larger group. And I guess I never realized that being a part of it is aiding the systems of racism, homophobia, transphobia, everything.” Rivera said. 
Rivera also said that the ignorance she came across while in Greek life was “astounding” and that she felt she had to work extra hard to prove her worth in her organization. 
“I really do think that if you've ever called yourself an ally, or if you identify currently as an ally, that there's no other choice. You need to disaffiliate,” Rivera said. 
nheller@theeagleonline.com, frahman@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
