AU alum Sarah McBride speaks at the Democratic National Convention on July 28. 
Sarah McBride, an American University alumna and former Student Government president, is expected to become the country’s first openly transgender state senator after winning her Delaware Senate Democratic primary race in September.
McBride overwhelmingly won in the primary, and given the makeup of her district, she is a heavy favorite to win the seat in November. 
“The best way that I can do justice by the LGBTQ community is to do right by my district, and to work my heart out and to be the best state senator I can be for every single resident of the first senate district. That's how I honor and uphold the responsibility I have to the broader LGBTQ+ community,” said McBride, in an interview with The Eagle.  
Democrat Harris McDowell III, the longest-serving legislator in Delaware history, is retiring and endorsed McBride.  
“This moment calls for a politics that is centering our people and our communities and that is really focused on the issues that matter most to people and making progress on them,” McBride said. “I think that we have a responsibility to feed this moment with full action that makes a real difference in our family's lives.”
Her campaign has been focused on health care, paid family and medical leave and education. If elected, she said her immediate priority would be to get her state through the coronavirus crisis. 
“This campaign has reinforced for me that people are hungry for conversations in our politics that are rooted in kindness and compassion, and it's reinforced for me the desire for change and progress. The desire for progress on issues ranging from better health care to education to the environment,” McBride said. 
Despite the historic nature of her campaign, McBride emphasized that her gender is not the focus of her campaign. 
“I’m not running to be a transgender state senator, I’m not running to make headlines,” McBride said. “I’m running to make a difference in my community.” 
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, McBride’s campaign did a lot of door-knocking and face-to-face interaction with voters. Despite now having to virtually interact with voters, she said her campaign has not slowed down, and she is still able to have meaningful conversations with voters.
She said, being a millennial herself, she has also made it a priority to engage with and listen to young voters throughout the course of her campaign. 
“It means making sure that when we're talking to voters, we're actually including young voters in that universe and that we're truly, meaningfully, listening to young voters as we are having those conversations with voters across the district,” McBride said. 
While Democrats outnumber Republicans more than 3-to-1 in Delaware’s first senate district, McBride said she is not taking any chances. 
“I'm not taking anything for granted. I am working my heart out over the next few weeks to talk to as many voters as possible," McBride said. "Democrats, Republicans and Independents alike, we're leaving no stone unturned.”
nheller@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University, which has emphasized growing STEM in recent years, launched a new Department of Neuroscience and Behavior on July 1 within the College of Arts and Sciences. 
The department aims to integrate CAS faculty into projects that improve the understanding of the interrelationship between the brain and behavior, according to the website. The department currently offers a Bachelor of Science in neuroscience and a Ph.D. in behavior, cognition and neuroscience. 
CAS professor Terry Davidson, who heads the new department, said students majoring in neuroscience prior to the department’s launch faced various challenges.
“One of the issues with the undergraduates was that, because they didn't belong to a department, they couldn't really compete for departmental awards like outstanding senior and things like that,” said Davidson, who was named a distinguished professor by the Board of Trustees in February. “Also the resources that were available to them were probably more limited perhaps than they might be now.”
Davidson said that the department’s founding will provide more attention toward neuroscience students and help garner resources for the rising field. 
“Having a department helps us form its own distinction, which then will promote the research enterprise,” Davidson said. “It makes us more competitive for students when it comes to neuroscience programs, and also for external funding.”
Students like junior Donia Siroonian, a neuroscience major, now have a community of like-minded students to share similar goals with.
“I'm excited for us to just get more news out there and just more people knowing what's going on because I feel like for the longest time, people would ask me, ‘we have a neuroscience major at AU?’ and I would be like, ‘yes we do and it's a great [field],’” Siroonian said.
Siroonian’s passion for neuroscience sparked from an early age and she hopes to further expand it at AU.
“I was always drawn to that section in the science classes, and it was shortly after seventh grade that my grandmother got diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease,” Siroonian said. “And so I've spent a lot of time in hospitals, and in special health care for people with neurodegenerative diseases.” 
In addition to this department, students are looking forward to the opportunities that the newly built Hall of Science will bring, as neuroscience is a lab-intensive field. 
“With the new science building, it's going to be incredible to actually be able to be in labs, especially for neuroscience because we didn't get to do too many of them before,” Siroonian said. “The research is going to be able to grow, the classes are already getting more exciting and we're able to use more platforms and new technologies.”
With the COVID-19 pandemic and online classes, it has made it difficult for students to get the hands-on experience that they need in order to pursue a neuroscience profession.
“We're trying to do everything we can online, but for the most part, it's limiting how much time our students can spend on labs and to actually work in the lab, and our undergraduates, their lab courses are not the same as before,” Davidson said. “It's been difficult to get new activities going, and there's things that are slowing us in the sense of not only accomplishing what our mission is but also just getting the world to know we exist, we're out there.”
Although there have been challenges with online learning, Davidson said he is looking forward to what students and professors achieve with this growing field as new discoveries are made.
“I'm very proud of our faculty and the work the people we have in [this field have done],” Davidson said. “If we look around the country, there are neuroscience majors, and more and more neuroscience departments and so I think we're becoming more competitive for those people who want to do work in that area.”
rrafi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
