Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
Students who rely on on-campus jobs are grappling with the challenges of fewer in-person employment opportunities on and around campus this fall; however, they may now apply for remote positions with the University.
AU’s Office of Human Resources announced on Aug. 13 that all students, including those with Federal Work-Study and graduate financial aid stipends, will be eligible to apply and work remote jobs. This announcement comes after some students were told that they would not be eligible if they were not living in the D.C. area.
“This fall, there will be significant remote opportunities for student workers normally working on campus,” AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess said in an email to The Eagle. “Some limited in-person student jobs will continue, such as library support and desk coverage. Student job layoffs are not anticipated at this time.”
Patrick Donoughe, a junior who received a FWS award, said that he lost a resident assistant position and a position with the University Conference and Guest Services because of the shift online. Before finding out that students living outside of the D.C. area could still be eligible for FWS, Donoughe said that he decided to move in with family who live in the DMV, partly due to limited internet access at his home.
Donoughe said that while he wished the announcement that students could telework came earlier, he said the University made the right call. 
“This is AU looking out for us. This is AU responding to our needs,” Donoughe said, who is trying to transition a position in the Kogod School of Business to an online format.
Jesse Cross, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, is one of the few students who may continue to work on campus in the fall. While he would have been a co-lead for AU’s Zero Waste intern team, also known as the “compost crew,” Cross will likely continue as a grounds intern.
“Instead of doing something I'm super interested in, I'm weeding and mulching,” Cross said. “I'm definitely not complaining about having a job, but it's not as suited for my career interests.” 
Benjamin Scheiner, a junior in the Kogod School of Business, also works in facilities on the compost crew as a project manager and a grounds intern on a FWS award. Cross and Scheiner were in charge of organizing hiring for the compost crew interns for the fall, which would have all been FWS positions.
They were in the process of hiring more than 10 students for these positions when the University made the call to move fully online. 
“No students on campus means no compost to be collected,” Cross said.
Many students, however, are taking advantage of the available remote jobs to piece together a full schedule and income. 
PJ Chandra, a junior in the School of Public Affairs, had three virtual internships this summer. He said that being able to work remotely has allowed him to have access to more opportunities all over the country. 
“Yes, things are going to be different,” Chandra said. “But there’s this hidden value in online virtual internships.” 
Emmy Goyette, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, is also working multiple remote jobs, including teaching a virtual fitness class through the fitness center. Goyette said that, while her direct bosses have been supportive and communicative, she wishes that the administration would have been more straightforward with their plans.
Goyette said that the University should have clarified earlier on that students with FWS awards would be able to work remotely and receive compensation.
The University held two virtual FWS fairs on Aug. 26 and Aug. 27. AU is also hosting a virtual Job and Internship Fair on Sept. 16.
aveitch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University’s student activity fee, which provides funding for student-run organizations, was reduced by 30 percent for the fall semester as online classes and a lack of in-person events reduce its use by students.
Instead of paying the usual $88.50 fee, students are now required to pay $62. Many organizations that depend on the fee said they aren’t worried about having enough money to provide virtual experiences to students over the next few months. 
“There definitely is enough money, and we made sure that when we made the decision to reduce the fee that it wouldn't impact clubs negatively,” said Daniel Cohen, the finance director for AU Club Council, which provides support and funding for on-campus clubs.
The fee reduction was voted on by the Budget Advisory Committee, which is made up of members from Student Government, Club Council and Student Media Board. After deciding the amount of the reduction, the committee gave a recommendation to the University so the reduction could be approved. 
While activities will be entirely virtual, organizations will still need funding to cover events like hosting speakers or other virtual experiences, which is why the fee was not eliminated entirely.
Typically, Student Government, which includes the Kennedy Political Union, Women’s Initiative and Student Union Board, receives about half of the money from the fee, while the other 50 percent is split between Club Council and Student Media Board. SG’s budget was increased by three percent this year. 
According to SG Comptroller Justin Levine, who oversees the organization’s finances, $158,000 are left in the SG budget from last year, and $118,000 of that surplus is available to be spent. 
SG was advised not to spend all of the rollover money so they can allow for “wiggle room” for future semesters, Levine said. 
Levine said the organization will still be in a good financial position to operate this year, and it’s willing to assist Club Council and Student Media if they need more funding. 
Chloe K. Li, a co-chair of the Student Media Board, said the main adjustments this semester for student media organizations are the reductions in stipends for some positions and the absence of an in-person media release party at the end of the semester. In Fall 2019, the media release party cost $700, which is an increase from previous years in part due to a higher price for food. 
According to Li, the current estimate for stipend reductions is 51 percent. 
Unlike the other groups that receive student activity fee funds, the Student Media Board is being advised to spend the leftover money from last semester since they usually have more money left over than other organizations in a typical semester. Li said she does not expect student media organizations to face any real financial struggles.
“It's just a way to make sure that we're actually spending our money and not just holding it from the student body and using it for things that we need.” Li said. 
Li anticipates that student media organizations will primarily need funding for expenses such as editing software, as students are left without access to expensive equipment they can access on campus. 
“It's less that we had a cut in budgets and more the fact that COVID-19 is happening so there's restricted access to the campus. That's going to be the issue for student media this semester,” Li said.
In the past, changes to the student activity fee have been controversial, with a referendum to raise it in Fall 2018 failing by a significant margin. However, according to Levine, this semester’s fee reduction is not likely to be permanent. 
“I think we have to let this semester run its course because obviously there has been in recent years, contentious debates on pricing and raising and lowering [the] student activity fee,” Levine said. 
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
