A Boston University study published this past February found that depression and anxiety amongst U.S. college students has reached an all-time high. These results are not particularly shocking considering the pandemic and the general unrest in this country combined with the usual financial, emotional and mental toll that college enrollment takes on the average student. 
To cope with this distress, some students attempt to reframe their unsavory situations and try to find positives within them. We may placate our anxieties by reminding ourselves of the privilege it is to go to college, especially a private institution like American University. We drown our upsets with reminders that someone out there inevitably has it worse, or that “everything happens for a reason.” Social media and interactions with other students reinforce the idea that positive thinking is the most superior method for dealing with our stressors. 
In conversations with peers, I noticed that when we discuss mental health, we tend to veer towards extremes. Either we find solace in the fact that everything is horrible all the time or we denounce any negative thought in favor of the Band-Aid “good vibes only” mindset. The latter is typically referred to as “toxic positivity” in the mental health community. I became compelled to further research this term after not only observing others, but noticing my own disposition. After a series of unfortunate events took a toll on my mental health, however, I noticed that no amount of material distractions and deflections could truly bring me peace. 
Like most things in life, when dealing with our emotions, balance is important. Rather than suppressing them to conform to a world where happiness eclipses the myriad of other feelings that come with the human experience, research encourages individuals to allow ourselves to feel both positive and negative emotions. It is fully possible to collect ourselves to carry out our daily responsibilities without gaslighting ourselves into keeping our spirits high. This is a life skill that can prove culturally incongruent, as our society treats negativity as inherently taboo by shaming sadness. 
College students in particular could benefit from improving our approach to comfort. An effective support system empathizes with a struggling individual, and encourages them to take all of the time they need to recuperate from emotional distress. These actions are more impactful than any attempt to offer a new perspective on a situation. 
For the politically involved AU student body, being aware of our toxic positivity tendencies can also prove helpful in the way we approach social issues. When horrible events occur that are major stressors for students, especially BIPOC and LGBTQ+ individuals, it is most important to promote self awareness and open dialogue. I have observed AU students, who lack the bandwidth to empathize, minimizing the feelings of affected parties over events they deem insignificant or inconsequential. It has even occurred in AUx, a program that promotes itself as a space for self reflection and openness. It is important that we learn to approach sensitive topics with emotional nuance, which is just as impactful as an intellectual conversation, and recognize that our respective life experiences inform our reactions differently. Compassion plays a vital role in a flourishing community. Professors and administrators have to make conscious efforts to combat placating and condescending attitudes and instead confront strong emotions. 
Sometimes, things are just difficult, without a greater positive reason or learning experience. Things have gone wrong and things will continue to go wrong. As students, we can learn to stop encouraging each other to participate in the excess of positivity. Here at AU, where so many students aspire to make the world a better place, we must learn that this cannot occur by forcibly suppressing negativity, but by accepting it as a part of the human condition and addressing the root cause. 
Diana Gertsenshteyn is a rising sophomore in the School of International Service and a columnist for The Eagle.
dgertsenshteyn@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Annette” might be the most ambitious movie of 2021. Leos Carax’s genre-morphing musical is technically executed to near perfection. But is his flamboyant style just a front for a film lacking in thematic depth?
The 2021 Cannes Film Festival opener details the tumultuous relationship of Henry McHenry (Adam Driver) and Ann Defrasnoux (Marion Cotillard). Henry is a stand-up comedian and provocateur who grows increasingly envious of Ann. Her career as an opera singer is flourishing, while his popularity dwindles. The arrival of their unique baby daughter, Annette (Devyn McDowell), complicates things further as the struggles of parenthood put even more strain on their already fragile relationship. From here, the film tracks the hectic course of the family’s existence as they deal with jealousy, hostility, exploitation and life in the limelight.
“Annette” fluctuates in quality and tone throughout its entirety, but if there’s one constant, it’s Driver’s performance. His raw charisma is the film’s main propellent for the whole way through. In one particularly memorable scene, Henry is performing as his stage persona, a bizarro world Bo Burnham-esque character named “the Ape of God;” he seems to go through great anguish as he details the way in which he has tickled his wife to death. 
There’s an exuberant absurdity to his delivery that Driver has displayed before in his “Saturday Night Live” appearances, but here he proves that he can bring the same emotional effect to his dramatic roles. Henry’s more subdued moments pack an equally powerful punch. His intimidating stature and steely-eyed gaze make many scenes feel like they’re out of a horror film with Driver as the unfeeling monster.
Cotillard excels in her role as well. Her singing abilities are never in doubt as she puts on performances with staggering vocal range. Simon Helberg turns in another solid performance as The Conductor, Ann’s ex-lover and piano accompanist turned orchestral maestro. While Cotillard and Helberg are both commendable, their characters are hardly given enough time in the spotlight. They feel underdeveloped as they play second-fiddle to Henry, the film’s only character with a true arc. 
Along with Driver’s performance, Carax’s direction is one of the most entertaining aspects of “Annette.” The first act in particular uses bold colors and interesting visuals to grab our attention right out of the gate. Carax’s filmography is full of references to the supernatural, and his latest film is no exception. Physical manifestations of the demons Henry fails to outrun from his past are shown in the forms of phantom-like visions. Blurring the line between reality and the paranormal lends an interesting energy to a movie that tends to drag as it goes along.
One of the less successful features of “Annette’s” direction is the jarring shifts in tone that frequently occur. Dramatic sequences are regularly interrupted by light-hearted musical numbers, cutting tension before it ever has the chance to build. The first few times that such interruptions occur, it's admittedly unexpected. But around the halfway mark, I found myself disengaged from developing scenes because I worried that they would never amount to anything substantial. 
Sadly, I was usually right. Dispositional changes in the middle of a scene are a hard feat to pull off in cinema. Bong Joon Ho has found great success in this form of undulatory storytelling in films such as “Memories of Murder” and “Parasite.” He keeps the audience on their toes, seamlessly crossing boundaries of genre and mood. Whereas Bong feels like a skilled composer, knowing how and when to build and cut tension, Carax’s sudden mood swings feel out of control.
The musical aspects’ success in “Annette” wavers as frequently as the rest of its elements. The sound design provides a unique auditory feast on par with films like “Sound of Metal” and “Whiplash.” However, the soundtrack’s success is a bit more varied. Toe-tapping numbers like the opener “So May We Start” bring a cheerful bit of life to a movie that can feel overbearingly dark at times. Other songs, like “Aria (The Forest)” and “Let’s Waltz in the Storm!,” are so entrenched in theatricality that they fail to move the story along. There are many moments where “Annette’s” success as an audio-visual experience outweighs its narrative merit, which isn’t exactly what I’m looking for when I go to a movie theater. 
“Annette” comes off as an impressive mess of a film that’s sure to leave moviegoers simultaneously wowed and underwhelmed. The chasm dividing its successes and failures creates an unbridgeable distance between the two. Carrax thrives on subverting his audience’s expectations, but in the end it's hard to tell whether or not he’s just as confused as we are.
shoover@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
