The American University Student Government Undergraduate Senate approved the allocation of $178,000 to the spring 2022 budget Dec. 5. 
Additionally, the Senate passed bills to roll over unused fall 2021 funds and change some members’ stipends. 
The Kennedy Political Union was given $68,000, totaling $80,000 with rollover funds, and the Student Union Board was allocated $79,604.90, totaling $82,516.40 when accounting for rollover funds.
Traditionally, KPU has received the largest amount of funding between the three main boards — KPU, SUB and Women’s Initiative — but that was changed in the spring 2022 budget because of KPU’s ability to bring in free speakers and use unspent funds from the fall 2021 budget. 
“They’re the only board that can bring speakers for free. Elected officials have no cost and we’re hopeful that they will utilize that more often,” finance committee chairman and junior Ryan Hale said in the meeting. “Secondly, KPU left $12,000 unspent this semester and the committee did not want to encourage stakeholders to not spend their entire budget in the semester it was allocated.”
Additionally, the finance committee requested KPU’s report to bring in one right-of-center speaker and one progressive, leftist speaker. If KPU does not submit this report by March 6, the finance committee will withhold its funding, they said.
“In this semester, it’s essential that communication is present and diversity of thought is maintained,” Hale said. 
The constitutionality of this will be left up to the Judicial Board when they are nominated and take office in the spring. 
Women’s Initiative took a funding cut compared to the $66,750 they were given in fall 2021. They received an additional $10,968.09 in funding, bringing its spring 2022 total to $50,000. The funds for spring 2022 for Women’s Initiative are still higher than they were pre-pandemic. The Eagle previously reported SG funding reallocation to Women’s Initiative, which grew significantly in spring 2021 but fell in fall 2021 slightly. If needed, they can request additional funding from the reserves account, Hale said.
“Women's Initiative spent significantly less than their allocation for the past several semesters, so they should receive less money than this current semester,” Hale said. 
The SG general fund received an additional $3,250, totaling $5,000. This was done so money for SG President Chyna Brodie’s State of the Union Gala was reallocated to this account, rather than from the president’s programming fund. 
Additionally, the Center for Student Involvement allocated $22,000 for stipends for SG stipends. 
“The committee tried to change it, and we were overruled,” Hale said when explaining how the committee wanted more funds for stipends. 
All the executive positions, except the president, were given a raise in their stipend at the expense of the stipends for currently vacant positions. In fall 2021, the president received $2,500. Before the pandemic, the president’s stipend was around $9,000, The Eagle previously reported. 
“This was done not because the committee felt that the president had underperformed in her duties, but instead because the committee felt the other executives were paid less than their responsibilities demanded,” Hale said.
During the meeting, SG President Chyna Brodie advocated for a raise in the president’s stipend. Brodie said she works around 30 hours a week as SG president, and she enjoys getting to connect with students in her role. 
“I feel that my stipend should reflect the amount of work I’m doing day in and day out as president,” Brodie said. 
In an amended bill, the secretary’s cabinet fund decided to allocate $100 from their stipend to the president’s stipend, bringing the stipend total to $2,600 for spring 2022. 
The amended stipend bill passed, with six aye’s and three nays. 
The Undergraduate Senate also passed a bill to use $44,500 from the SG reserves account to allocate to Founders Week, now totaling the Founders budget at $104,000. 
Founders traditionally receives around $200,000, according to Founders Director Jeremy Ward. 
Additionally, the bill to roll over unused funds passed, with only one objection from class of 2023 Senator Fernanda Reyes.
SG wrapped up their last meeting of the 16th Undergraduate Senate and prepared for the 17th Undergraduate Senate for spring 2022. 
The meeting was followed by a town hall allowing students to understand the allocation of their student activity fund. 
“For students, it is imperative that we remain the most transparent recipient of student money,” Hale said in the meeting. 
aturner@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Christina Coulter, Fernando Rocha and nick on the set of "Disturbed."
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
“Disturbed,” a new short film created by American University alumna Ismah Khan, is a brief look at the short-term troubles — and long-term effects — of living with mental illness. Unsettling and remarkably modern, the film makes right on a subject that has so long been misrepresented by Hollywood.
The short follows protagonist Monica (Christina Coulter) as she battles insomnia caused by her mental illness — both of which are misunderstood by her friends. She carries the burden of her affliction while being further weighed down by the distrust and disappointment cast on her by the other individuals in her life. 
Inspired by filmmaking icons Ari Aster, known most for “Hereditary” and “Midsommar,” and Darren Aronofsky — known for “Pi” and “The Fountain” — the crowd-funded horror movie lives fundamentally in tones of blue, with the only source of warm coloring radiating from medication that Monica takes. And while the audience follows along directly with Monica’s journey, they are forced to confront whether they believe her lived experience or the judgement placed on her situation by other characters. 
The viewers must also evaluate the source of the monster (Keon Jones) following Monica: is the figure real or fake? A figment of the imagination or a true demon? Khan makes it a point to leave the answer to these questions up to the interpretation of those watching.
“I wanted it to be about the fact that we don’t really listen to people when they have pleas that are quite serious regarding how they feel,” Khan said. “I wanted [to have] these deeper conversations about how we participate in the conversation of mental illness, or how we perceive mental illness.”
For Khan, who has bipolar disorder, this project is an important one that has been in the making for over a year. Her personal relationship to the subject matter is particularly crucial when considering the tumultuous relationship that the filmmaking industry has historically had with accurately depicting mental illness and those impacted by it.
“One of the problems I came across — especially because I was on medication — was thinking: what role is medication going to play in this film? Is it going to be the typical ‘medicine makes this person crazy?’ I really didn't want that, because that's such an unhealthy narrative to put out there,” Khan said. “In fact, [medication] can do the opposite in a lot of cases.” 
During the creation process, Khan said she wanted to make it clear that the medication being taken did nothing to impact the manifestation or resilience of the monster. It is another important step away from the Hollywood obsession with medication and the tendency it has to vilify it. 
“It is medication: it works for what it’s intended for,” Khan said. “It’s not what causes the monster, it’s not what makes these nightmares happen. And I wanted to be very intentional about that.”
As for the technical side of production, Khan is not the only AU alum on the film: actor Valarie McFatter and tech members Fernando Rocha and Reignon Prillman all graduated from AU. The crew of the film is also predominantly BIPOC, a decision that Khan takes great pride in.
“I feel like as a filmmaker and creator that it’s my duty to raise other BIPOC individuals with me,” Khan said. “Anything I do in terms of my career is always connected to people of color and making sure that we’re creating a network within ourselves.”
Khan said she knows that “Disturbed” is just the beginning of the hard-hitting work she intends to create. 
“I would love to keep making films, and keep getting better, and tell more poignant stories,” Khan said. “I think ‘Disturbed’ is just right at the surface of all the things I want to say.”
“Disturbed” premiered on Oct. 25 on YouTube. It is available to steam here. 
okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
American University Football: Still Undefeated.
You can buy the shirt with that slogan on the back at the AU bookstore for $24. The gag is obvious — AU doesn’t actually have a football team, but the inside joke belies a lack of school spirit to many.
“There’s not a lot of school spirit,” School of Public Affairs junior Dylan Judge said. “It’s the culture of the school.”
Other students who spoke to The Eagle echoed a similar collective apathy toward AU athletics.
“I’m extremely indifferent,” School of Communication sophomore Olivia Tudor said. “I feel like a lot of people didn’t come here because of the school spirit.”
In fact, many students either think the Eagles never flew across the gridiron or only played a few games long ago. The story is much more complex: multiple teams wore the pads for AU, and unlike the slogan, they lost — a lot.
Losing streaks, car crashes and cheerleaders in disguise: The American University Football Team 1925-1941
AU played its first two football games in 1925 against George Washington University and Emerson Institute — according to AU records — and lost both games. 
The Eagles wore blue and orange, and they played in a ravine adjacent to the University President’s house that is now the site of the Wesley Theological Seminary in the 1930s, according to 2003 reporting from The Eagle.
Losses were a theme for the Eagles during their 1925-1941 existence. AU went 24-67-6, according to AU’s official record. Their best season was in 1926 when they went 4-3-1, and they never had another winning season. An analysis of the former AU yearbook — the AUCOLA (1927-1955) — reveals that the Eagles had three zero-win seasons, and were usually thoroughly outclassed by their opponents.
AU played 34 teams in its history and had a winning record against eight. Regular rivals were St. John’s University, Hampden Sydney College and Randolph-Macon College. The Eagles played the three schools 27 times and beat St. John’s once.
AU’s Achilles’ heel was their inability to score — the Eagles were shut out 32 times. The Eagles were outscored by their opponents by at least 30 points 24 times, proving their defensive ineptitude and offensive incompetence.
In the span of four weeks in 1928, AU lost to Gettysburg College 81-0, Catholic University 69-0, St. John’s University 63-0 and Gallaudet University 37-7. The Eagle commended AU for its “spectacular tackles” in the recap of the humiliations.
Despite the losing, AU’s actual record is disputed. The Eagle’s records prove inconsistent over the years, and AU has no official record book for the football team. The only source that kept regular records was the yearbook. 
What is undisputed are the interesting people who played and coached for the Eagles. Fullback Tom Sawyer played for AU during the 1926-1927 season. He was a two-sport star, as captain of the basketball team in 1926, and captain of the football team in 1927. However, Sawyer’s successful career crashed and burned soon after.
After just two games, Tom Sawyer and three other players were suspended from the team for “training violations,” according to a 1927 Washington Post article. While no official reason was given, the Post reported the four players had been involved in a car crash after driving home from a party. The suspensions forced AU to cancel its game against William & Mary and AU finished the season 1-5. Sawyer withdrew from AU soon after, according to The Eagle.
There was also Gus Welch who coached AU from 1937-38 and compiled a 2-10-1 record. Welch had a strong resume as a player, suiting up for coaching legend Pop Warner and playing alongside football great Jim Thorpe. Welch was hired to turn AU’s fortunes around, but he went down in AU lore for the many stunts he allegedly attempted as head coach.
In 1938, The Washington Post reported that Welch tried to start a woman as a placekicker for the Eagles, but AU’s dean of women denied the idea. Welch was also known for his “30-second football” lectures to new players before throwing them into games for the first time. 
In the same article, the Post also alleged that Welch, fretting how small his teams were, dressed cheerleaders and students as players to fool opponents into thinking he had more players than he actually had. In an interview with The Eagle in 1959, Stafford “Pop” Cassell — whose name adorns Cassell Hall and who played and coached for the football team — quoted Welch allegedly saying, “The only way for us to get a crowd is to play at the half of a Redskin game.”
The team didn’t improve during Welch’s tenure and he resigned after the 1938 season. With the onset of World War II, the University eliminated the football team because there weren’t enough men on campus to field a team, The Eagle reported. 
The University considered reviving football, but AU deemed it “impossible” in 1959, and an official team has never suited up for AU since. 
Despite this, AU students were not done with the gridiron.
Beer drinkers, debt and X-rated films: The 1970s
Upon arriving as a student at AU, Terry McLarney wanted to keep playing football. He played at Wheaton High School in Maryland, and then went to Jacksonville State University to begin his college football career. After a year, he transferred to Montgomery College to continue playing football. However, academic pursuits led him to AU in 1973, McLarney said in an interview with The Eagle.
Now a Lieutenant in the Baltimore Police Department, McLarney said that he didn’t know that AU had a club football team when he got to campus. But after a chance encounter at the cafeteria on registration day, McLarney joined the team and played center and guard from 1973-74. McLarney said that the team was a tight-knit group with a sense of camaraderie.
The team played at Reeves Field and went 5-2-1— according to the AU yearbook— and McLarney said the team was invited to play a bowl game in Oswego, New York, which they lost. Despite the success, McLarney wasn’t blind to the apathy the student body had for the team.
“No one really cared that there was a football team,” McLarney said. “However, when we would play a home game and walk over there in full gear … People would come out and watch. Once we were walking over and I heard someone saying ‘we have a football team?’”
1977 alumnus Lowell Lease laughed when he heard the story. 
“I don’t know if anybody had realized that there was a football team,” Lease said.
Lease played football with McLarney in high school and said McLarney had told him about the club football team. When he came to AU in 1974, he signed up to play as a defensive end.
Lease played one year for the Eagles — a hand and head injury cut his career short — but he said he liked the team atmosphere.
“It was a real cross-section of guys,” Lease said. “The chemistry was good, we all got along and did really well. We had good cohesiveness in defense and offense and it was a lot of fun.”
McLarney and Lease’s teams only got to suit up after years of grassroots efforts to bring football back to AU.
In 1965, a group of students created the AU Football Club to promote tackle football’s return to campus, and after four years of advocacy, the AU student government, known as the “Student Confederation” at the time, pledged to fund the team, according to The Eagle’s reporting in 1969. The club team played from 1970-1976, but its tenure was fraught with controversy.
Relations between the team and the SC were tense from the beginning. According to The Eagle in 1970, the two sides disagreed about cost. The comptroller in 1970 suggested the club football team was not forthcoming with the actual cost of the team and called the pro football faction “a little tribe of beerdrinkers.” 
The two sides continued to disagree on the club’s expenses, and The Eagle frequently reported the student government repeatedly charged the team with overspending. Neither Lease nor McLarney remembered the debate, but the money dispute ultimately doomed the team.
In 1973, an Eagle investigation found that the club was nearly four thousand dollars in debt. In 1974, SC said the club owed a travel agency $1,800 and $1,000 to a motel in Oswego for the game, according to The Eagle’s reporting in 1974. McLarney said he didn’t remember the team being in debt or having any problems with the Oswego trip.
The team held fundraisers to try and keep the club afloat, including a Las Vegas night and an “X-rated movie night” that turned a profit, according to a 1974 Eagle article.
The fundraisers didn’t raise enough funds and SC refused to fund them in 1975, according to a 1975 Eagle report, spelling the end of the club football team.
The 1976 season was football’s last gasp at AU, and the team was disbanded. Football had finally faded from AU for good. 
Despite this, both Lease and McLarney said that their time at AU has stuck with them in their respective careers and that a football team could give the school some much-needed spirit.
“You go through life and there’s so many parallels,” McLarney said. “You reap what you sow, if you don’t work out, you don’t go practice, you’re not going to be decent and gut it out during tough times. The teamwork and caring, and all that kind of stuff — for me, it was football.”
bmorse@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Every semester, The Eagle hires two Student Government beat reporters. For several current staffers, myself included, it is one of the first jobs they had at The Eagle. In this role, the reporters attend Undergraduate Senate meetings, stay up to date on initiatives and happenings within SG and, most importantly, hold student government accountable. One of the things that make this job so important is that it is where many of us have learned the fundamentals of reporting. SG reporters learn how to find and maintain sources, follow up on stories and be persistent. 
When I was a freshman SG reporter, an older Eagle staffer and former SG reporter told me that when covering SG, remember that 18 to 22-year-olds are in charge of almost a quarter of a million dollars of student money every year. Our job at The Eagle, they said, was to make sure that SG was using such funds responsibly. This is one of the first pieces of advice I now give to new SG reporters, and in my view, one of the most important ones. 
In covering SG, The Eagle is committed to making sure SG is accountable for truly advocating for and representing the student body. Whether that be the spending of student money, or looking into new initiatives and events, it is the job of our reporters to ask questions and seek their answers. Covering SG doesn’t mean looking to the loudest voices about what is happening, but thinking about the issues that can have the biggest impact on students’ lives. 
According to the SG website, its mission is to “further the interests and promote the welfare of all students at AU.” Our mission, then, is to make sure SG is living up to its mission. Just like when we cover the University’s administration, our job when covering SG isn’t to be their public relations arm. 
Per the Society of Professional Journalists Code of Ethics, ethical journalism should be accurate and fair. Our reporters will always seek the truth in their reporting and newsgathering, even when that truth is not necessarily favorable to the institutions in question. That doesn’t mean our reporters come in hoping to find wrongdoing committed by SG. Instead, our reporters come in with questions that they are seeking the answers to. 
We can’t cover every single Undergraduate Senate bill or meeting by a subcommittee. SG reporters have a lot to cover, and they do their best to bring the AU community the most newsworthy information about SG. If there is something important you think we are missing, feel free to reach out to me or Editor-in-Chief Clare Mulroy at editor@theeagleonline.com. 
I’m proud of The Eagle’s work covering such an important body on campus. Although SG may not be on the top of every single student’s mind all of the time, holding SG accountable through our coverage is central to our mission as the campus newspaper. 
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The American University wrestling team (1-5) fell to the Hofstra University Lions (2-2) 27-13 but notched their first win of the year against the Duke University Blue Devils (3-4) 22-18 during a Dec. 5 tri-meet in Bender Arena. 
The Eagles won their first three consecutive matches against Duke with gritty wins by freshmen Andy Fallon and Jack Maida along with sophomore 141-pounder Ethan Szerencsits. The Blue Devils then went on to win four of the next five matches. 
With three matches left, the Eagles’ lead shrunk to 16-12. It was then that the 165-pound redshirt junior, Tim Fitzpatrick, trotted to the center of the mat to face off against Duke’s 184-pounder, Vincent Baker. Fitzpatrick, who found himself wrestling up two weight classes, came in clutch for the Eagles, earning a 6-3 decision over Baker to extend the lead to 19-12.
“Tim’s a great leader for us and a state qualifier,” head coach Jason Borrelli said. “So when we talked about it [wrestling up two weight classes] with him before the duals, he had no problems. Tim challenges himself with a lot of 184 pounders in our room. So I knew the size wouldn’t be something that would mentally get in his way,” Borrelli said.
Sophomore heavyweight Isaac Righter clinched the win in the final match for the Eagles. Righter defended a late takedown attempt in the third period against junior Jonah Niesenbaum, winning his match 5-3 and giving coach Borrelli his first win as American University’s head coach, 22-18.
With previous nail-biter losses to Sacred Heart University and George Mason University, the win over Duke proves AU’s young roster can persevere late in close matches. 
“Our guys showed a lot of resilience,” Borrelli said. “Our attitude is to remain positive despite any setbacks or heartbreaking losses. Our guys stay positive and they keep coming to practice eager and hungry. I think that mentality pays off and I’ve shared that message with them.”
Hofstra, who beat both AU and Duke at the tri-meet, handily beat AU 27-13, but not without controversy. Fitzpatrick’s match saw three sudden-death overtime periods and two coach’s challenges before its conclusion. Two controversial calls went against Fitzpatrick, one reversed takedown and one non-takedown in which Borrelli’s challenge was upheld. Fitzpatrick eventually lost 2-1.
“I thought we had a takedown,” Borrelli said. “We had both legs. The guy was on his hip. He was defenseless other than holding his [Fitzpatrick’s] toe. That shouldn’t negate the takedown but unfortunately, the referee didn't see it that way.”
Despite the loss to Hofstra, Borrelli said the Eagles should be proud of performing under pressure.
“Sometimes people don’t see the struggle that programs and individuals go through,” Borrelli said. “They just see the end result and they think that people just get there. In reality, there’s a lot of hard work but also a lot of setbacks that go into being great.”
The next time the Eagles take the mat will be on Dec. 19 in Nevada at the all-day Reno Tournament of Champions.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As students near the end of the fall semester, transfer students reflect on the successes and challenges of adjusting to American University life, particularly those where they feel there is little support.
Since spring 2020, 367 undergraduates have transferred to AU, according to Associate Director of Admissions Jesse Tomczak. According to Beth Deal, the University’s assistant vice president for community and internal communication, the resources that the University provides are found on their transfer student website, which includes a unique checklist for transfer students and a specially designed AUx program. 
Mikala Drake, a sophomore transfer student in the School of International Service, said it was hard for her to make friends on campus, especially with many more University-sponsored events focusing on the freshman class. 
Despite this, Drake said that AU has been much more accommodating with her disability than her last school, Mercer University, which placed her in a communal dorm without an accessible shower or disability stall for a few weeks. 
“I have an accessible room, I don’t have a roommate,” Drake said. “Everything is at my perfect reach level, height level and then I use ASAC office for extended time on tests and things like that and other accommodations, so I would say it’s been very helpful.”
Julianna Mac, a transfer student in the SIS and the College of Arts and Sciences, has had difficulty with transferring credits and registering for classes.
Mac said that her academic schedule was “messed up for the longest time.” 
Only regular emailing on her part with the transcript articulation services caused the issue to be resolved. Her advisor also said her schedule was fine when she realized after looking over it again that she would not have graduated on time if she went with that plan, Mac said. 
“As a transfer student, you have to focus on your four-year or three-year planning because there’s no room to mess up,” Mac said.
Ginger Felberg transferred because she had heard of the “knowledgeable professors” at AU and the reputable programs for many majors. 
“The classes, especially the reputation of the professors here, is super high from the way people talk about it,” Felberg said. “The information on my end was just that the professors are pretty knowledgeable and good at what they do and so far it has been true.”
Felberg and Drake both said that the location of AU in the heart of D.C. was a big draw to why they transferred from their previous universities. 
“I wanted the city experience,” Drake said.“That’s what I always thought about when I thought of college experience and so I knew that I could get that here” 
The coronavirus also turned out to be influential in their decision not to come to AU last year. Felberg said she was planning on going to a school in Boston, but she attended community college for a year instead and then applied to AU.
Mac and Drake both explained how the University could improve in helping transfer students feel supported and become acclimated to campus. 
If AU had more “transfer-based get-togethers,” Mac said it would make it much easier to be connected with the community and make friends.
Drake suggested creating more ways for transfer students to grow in relationships with one another in the summer before they even arrive on campus.
“I would say maybe try to make it more easy for other transfer students to contact each other over the summer, which is something I know that AU did with the incoming class,” Drake said.
Mac said how she wants a space to connect with students like herself who are also transfer students as well as with undergraduate students just in their grade. Mac suggested school-affiliated extracurricular activities for transfer students.
Like first-year students, Mac shared how she wishes AU would focus on helping transfer students get acclimated to the school as well.
“I love AU like it’s been great so far,” Mac said. “But I would say there is a lot of focus on, of course, first-year students, but I also just kind of feel like transfer students tend to get overlooked.”
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
