After waiting 604 days to perform, the AU Improv Troupe returned to the stage on Oct. 23 with an eagerness and excitement to entertain.
The AU community reciprocated this excitement not only with their enthusiastic participation in the skits, but also the sheer number of students that came out to show their support. The Wechsler Theatre was at full capacity, with people sitting in aisles and standing on the sides of the room. Noticing the packed house, co-director and School of Communication junior Jadyn Newman jokingly commented at the beginning of the show: “Hopefully we’re funny enough to make it worth it!”
And it definitely was worth it. 
The troupe kicked off the night with a dating game, having three members act as contestants with individual quirks selected by the audience. Humpty dumpty, British man and girlboss were selected as the three quirks, and each character competed for the heart of Pastor Mark, played by Newman, who was “sent by God to find love.” 
The improv troupe encouraged the audience to continuously contribute to the performance throughout the night, asking the audience to call out different ideas to incorporate into their skits. This led to the audience helping shape unusual scenarios, such as having the troupe reenact in the entirety of “Bee Movie” in two minutes and making the troupe debate the topic of pineapple on pizza while acting as senior citizens. 
A 100-year-old senior, played by College of Arts and Sciences sophomore Stevie Early, was particularly passionate, giving a soapbox speech about how limiting toppings choices goes against the values of America. A brawl broke out, however, when another senior citizen, played by School of International Studies sophomore Luke Stowell, interrupted: “If they’re really 100-years-old, their taste buds would’ve stopped working and therefore can’t have an opinion on pineapple on pizza.” 
This lively skit is just one of the many amusing moments the actors created on the fly, leaving the audience laughing throughout the entire performance. 
“It was so exhilarating,” said Jason Shrago, AU Improv co-director and School of Public Affairs junior, in an interview with The Eagle. “It was just amazing to see how the things we find funny also crack other people up, especially since our job is to make others laugh.”
For both Shrago and Newman, the ability to have active audience participation again was the most rewarding part.
“It just doesn’t feel the same when everyone’s virtual,” Newman said, reflecting on performing live after almost two years. “When you’re performing live you have people to give you feedback.”
Shrago also explained how, in order to create this unified feeling, the troupe needs to bond with each other: improv is a collaborative medium of art that requires trust and communication. 
“We have movie nights and other team bonding events,” Newman said. “It’s really important, since our job is making others laugh, to also laugh and be joyful together.” 
AU improv shared that joy with the audience, reminding the AU community of the importance of comedy and creating art together. 
The AU Improv Troupe’s next show is Nov. 19 at 7 p.m. in the Wechsler Theatre, MGC 315. 
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Books on the shelves of the American University library reported feeling immensely disappointed that no student, faculty or staff member had checked them out in a long time.
“I haven’t been checked out since 2012,” a copy of “Ancient Greek Literature and Society” said. “It’s coming up on 10 years of no physical affection. That really takes a toll.” 
Reference books had the lowest level of student contact, according to interviews with a representative sample of books in each section.
“Those online databases are really what did us in,” said the 1995 edition of “Congressional Quarterly Almanac.” “I’m sitting here dutifully waiting for a public policy student to come pick me up, but instead they just go on the computer.” 
Some books have had better luck.
“I got checked out just last week,” said an excited “Friction: An Ethnography of Global Connection.” “But it turns out the only reason the student chose me was because all of my online siblings were unavailable. It’s a disgrace that we print books are relegated to being second class educational materials.”
At press time, a disgruntled “Marx-Engels Reader” was seen leading other books in the political science section in a revolt against the AU Library computer mainframe. 
Owen Boice is a senior in the School of Public Affairs and the satire editor at The Eagle.
oboice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Indie-rocker Lucy Dacus concluded the first leg of her tour for her newest album “Home Video” at the 9:30 Club on Oct. 29 on the heels of two sold-out shows at the venue the previous week.
The show felt distinctly unique due to Dacus’ relationship with D.C. As a native of Richmond, Virginia, she shared stories of coming to shows in the area from a young age and meeting boygenius groupmate Julien Baker at a D.C. show.
“It feels really special to be here,” Dacus said to the crowd. “It’s a special city to me.”
Before Dacus came on, folk singer Tomberlin started things off with a minimalistic set, aided only by her acoustic guitar and casual, joking demeanor. Although an artist with a more upbeat style might have provided more energy to open the show, Tomberlin’s voice was undeniably beautiful, making for some especially powerful vocal moments. 
While Tomberlin gave off delightfully awkward, just-getting-back-to-in-person-shows charm, Dacus and her backing band were ripe with stage presence as they arrived onstage for the main show. Dressed in coordinating light-colored outfits, the musicians interacted beautifully throughout the show, from the times when all five were mixing their instruments in loud, euphoric symphony, to when Dacus’ guitarist accompanied her on a quiet, acoustic version of her song “Partner in Crime.” 
Adding another layer of excitement to the night, Dacus revealed that her dad was in the audience, even pointing toward him during her song “Going Going Gone,” as she sang, “I always had to be home by eight / My dad would kill me if I was late,” prompting laughter from the audience. 
Both that song and one unreleased song by Tomberlin saw the artists explicitly asking the audience to sing along. These moments of direct interaction between artist and audience were simply joys to behold and partake in. Especially after the hiatus from live music during the height of the coronavirus pandemic, even small moments like those served as reminders of what was lost in the time without live music, and what musicians and concertgoers have finally been able to experience once again. 
The intimate feel of the show was clear throughout the night, from a fan passing a homemade embroidery hoop to Dacus onstage to Dacus ending the show with an unreleased song that she asked fans not to record. As Dacus played, trusting the audience to restrain themselves and just enjoy the moment, it was a wonderful way to end the night. Although the pre-encore ending song — the cinematic and explosive “Night Shift” — would have been a beyond satisfying finale in and of itself, the encore was just the cherry on top.
Dacus and her band gave a truly impressive performance through their musicianship and stage presence. The rapturous applause proved the show a success, transforming a rainy end of the week into an excitement-filled start to the weekend. Right then, it was clear that the D.C. music scene would welcome back Dacus and her band with open arms whenever they decided to return for a night of insatiable live music once again.
zkallenekos@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The One Card & Dining Services office in the Mary Graydon Center. 
American University’s campus dining has joined forces with Grubhub to allow students to preorder food to some on-campus dining locations. 
Students on University meal plans can choose to use EagleBucks or meal exchanges when purchasing their food on Grubhub. 
American University previously offered mobile ordering for campus dining through the Tapingo app in 2018. 
The San Francisco-based company was launched in 2012 to facilitate mobile preorder for dining on college campuses. Grubhub acquired Tapingo in 2018 with a cash payment of $150 million. 
The Spring Valley Cafe in the Spring Valley Building was the first campus retail site to offer pickup through Grubhub this fall. Current offerings have been expanded to include WONK Burger, The District Pickle, Absurd Bird, Campus Coffee & Tea Co., Einstein Bros. Bagels, as well as the Subway and Starbucks in Butler Pavilion. 
According to the Grubhub American University on-campus dining page, East Campus’ BUILD: Pizza by Design is coming soon.
Whether or not D.C. Eats, which houses the School of Public Affairs’ Aloha Poke Co., will be offered through the app is yet to be announced. The dining retail venue appears on the app but is listed as closed rather than coming soon. 
Kogod School of Business sophomore Matthew Lee decided to test the new on-campus dining service with an order from WONK Burger via Grubhub. 
“They weren’t really accurate with my order,” Lee said. “I ordered a bacon cheeseburger and they just gave me a cheeseburger.” 
Even with the omission of bacon, Lee was relatively pleased with his experience. 
“Honestly, I think it went pretty smoothly,” Lee said. “I probably would do it again, on a weekday when it’s more busy, though.”
The convenience of preordering for pickup incentivizes ordering through Grubhub for busy students, who may not have time to wait in long lines between classes. 
But not all students who’ve ordered campus food through Grubhub think that this is a practical solution for those hoping to grab a quick bite. 
“If I wanted food and it was busy, I wouldn’t bother with something like that,” said School of International Service sophomore Ella Doyle. Although she said her experience was decent, Ella felt relying on Grubhub ordering “would be more chaotic than it needed to be.” 
Doyle is one of the more than 500 students who participated in the spring 2021 Mid-Semester Residential Experience, known as the “mini-mester,” and said ordering campus food on Grubhub was reminiscent of dining in the spring. 
Students were encouraged to use the Transact Mobile Ordering app to preorder food for pickup during the Mid-Semester Residential Experience. 
“I think the Grubhub medium is a lot easier to navigate than [Transact Mobile Ordering] was,” Doyle said.
Customization options offered vary depending on the dining location selected. 
Lee said he was impressed by the customization options offered from WONK Burger. 
“I know that ordering in person it may be a little hard for the cashier to hear what you want and don’t want on your burger, but through the app it’s just a selection menu,” Lee said. “I think that’s much more convenient.”
Grubhub prompts users to make certain customizations when ordering from WONK Burger, Absurd Bird, Einstein Bros. Bagels and Subway. But students are limited to these predetermined options which may not address the dietary needs or preferences of each individual.
Revenue in the online food ordering industry grew approximately 33.5 percent from 2019 to 2020, as consumers looked for alternatives to dining out. Many online ordering platforms offer notes sections for users to make alterations beyond the predetermined options or have additional dietary concerns. 
American University on-campus dining via Grubhub does not provide the opportunity for additional notes when placing an order. 
One improvement Lee would like to see made is clearer pickup instructions. 
“I wasn’t sure if I should just go up or if they were going to call my name,” Lee said. “Maybe right when you order in the app it can give instructions.” 
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor’s Note: The last name of an undocumented student has been omitted in this article for privacy and protection.
When law student Andrea Rodriguez Burckhardt arrived in D.C. to study at American University’s Washington College of Law, she was surprised by the lack of community with undocumented students on campus.
Burckhardt, a student in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, studied as an undergraduate at the University of Texas at Austin. At UT, Burckhardt said she felt community “from day one” as an undocumented student with a strong support system of student-led organizations at the public university.
According to the Higher Ed Immigration Portal, less than 20 percent of undocumented and DACA-eligible students attend private institutions as compared to public colleges.
Saba Ahmed, the supervising attorney for WCL’s “Defending the AU Dream Initiative,” is working to change that. Created in 2019, AU Dream operates out of WCL’s Immigration Justice Clinic and provides free legal support for immigrant and undocumented students. Ahmed hosted “DACA & Dinner” on Nov. 4 to allow students to learn about DACA under the Biden administration and undocumented students on AU’s campus.
Rodriguez, Ahmed and undocumented graduate student Ellie spoke at the event about their experiences at AU and encouraged students to sign a petition urging the University to publicly support DACA. The event was hosted by a coalition of student groups including the Asian American Student Union, African Students’ Organization, AU Por Colombia, AU League of United Latin American Citizens, AU Dream and the Center for Community Engagement and Service.
Ahmed’s vision is to expand the current services of AU Dream — asylum issues, humanitarian visas, family petitions, advance parole and more — to become a “hub of support” to holistically address the needs of undocumented and immigrant students. 
“I definitely have put in a lot of effort over the past few months to even have people aware that we exist,” Ahmed said in an interview with The Eagle. She added, “I think it’s hard to feel empowered to speak out if there’s no solidarity, and there’s no support.”
DACA and undocumented students find opportunity in AU Dream
After beginning her degree, Burckhardt anxiously anticipated the chance to study abroad. But as a student with DACA during the Trump administration, she struggled to obtain advance parole travel documents.
In September 2017, the Department of Homeland Security announced measures to reject any new or pending applications for advance parole.
Burckhardt found opportunity in AU Dream and worked with the organization for months to apply for advance parole to study abroad. But even with legal help from AU Dream, Burckhardt faced something else that is part of many DACA students’ experience — financial barriers.
“The cost of the application, not even to find out if you go or not on advance parole, is [$575],” Burckhardt said. “So I would be spending close to $600 more than any other student by trying to see if I could even get into a study abroad [program].”
Ellie also utilized AU Dream to help ease financial burdens. With the help of Ahmed and AU Dream, Ellie was able to receive tuition aid and internship opportunities. 
“I’m not qualified for DACA and I have to pay out of pocket,” Ellie said. “I’ve been supported by family overseas, but then COVID[-19] hits and everyone is in financial difficulty at this time.”
Though undocumented students are unable to qualify for financial aid, states like California and Texas, where Ellie and Rodriguez studied for undergrad, have opportunities for grants. California and Texas are the two states with the highest number of undocumented immigrants, with about 2.2 million and 1.6 million undocumented immigrants, respectively, according to Pew Research Center estimates.
Ahmed also cited housing and food insecurity as well as mental health concerns, particularly for those who are victims of crime or dealing with significant trauma. 
“Someone’s immigration status in itself can be a barrier to higher education,” Ahmed said. “And the students that we see in colleges and universities have had to work incredibly hard to overcome barriers that citizens students might not have.”
Turning the personal into passion — AU students advocate for undocumented community 
Ellie said she wants to see greater University-wide training for faculty who may encounter an undocumented student who needs assistance. When she first looked into resources on campus, Ellie was regularly referred to international student services, even though she was specifically seeking support for undocumented students.
Burckhardt said she believes the University’s next step could be connecting with affinity groups. 
“Living undocumented is a lot of hiding your status, especially when you’re growing up in small towns, or in more conservative areas, you have to hide your status; it’s a lot of living in the shadows,” Burckhardt said. “And having that support in UT allowed me to just stand forward to be heard and feel like I was a student with needs worth recognizing.”
Burckhardt works for the International Human Rights Law Clinic and is also a student who has benefited from its services. She said her experiences have shaped her passion for immigration law, but learning about immigration law started as a way to educate herself and her family.
When she was young, Burckhardt’s family came to the U.S. from Peru on a tourist visa. When the family learned their supposed sponsor was scamming them, they were left without money and papers. Burckhardt hopes she can change the story for future immigrant families.
“The law is something that I see as something that’s really unreachable for a lot of people, and in having the opportunity to learn it, I want to translate it and give it to a lot of others that don’t get the opportunity to do the same,” Burckhardt, whose family is Colombian, said.
Ahmed, Burckhardt and Ellie stressed supporting undocumented community members through listening to their stories and continuing conversations about undocumented students. 
“I do hope people who are undocumented or DACA [are] able to speak up and voice their opinions and talk to people at their comfortability and tell people that it’s important to let others know about this story; this community here,” Ellie said.
Correction: Burckhardt's work in the International Human Rights Law Clinic was misstated in a previous version of this article. This article has been updated with a more accurate and earlier memorandum from the Trump administration about advance parole.
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
