THE EAGLE
Despite closing campus due to coronavirus concerns, American University’s athletic department made the decision to continue athletics in some capacity. The athletic department’s announcement of a shutdown on Feb. 5, however, indicates that the safety of athletes, staff and the surrounding community is likely threatened by the travel and the inevitable close contact in most sports. Despite this threat, communication remains scarce, and there is insufficient understanding of what safety measures are in place. The University has a responsibility to question its COVID-19 procedures for the athletic department during this shutdown brought on by an increase in cases. 
The Eagle Editorial Board wants to make clear that it does not speak for the athletes.
The most apparent issue that this shutdown brings up for discussion is transparency. Student athletes, whether they live on or off campus, have an impact on the people that live and work around them. If they live on campus, they interact with other students and staff. Those that live off campus come into contact with families, neighbors and anybody in the surrounding D.C. community. These people all have a stake in the COVID-19 safety procedures that athletes follow, arguably even moreso as athletes travel and interact with people from different schools. Still, the University’s athletic department has remained largely silent on what rules are in place for athletes beyond regular testing. 
The University has failed to outline the real benefits of endangering athletes, staff and anyone who comes in contact with them by allowing athletics to continue this semester. It’s important to note that COVID-19 spread within AU’s athletic programs impacts a broader community. AU, or even the Patriot League, does not have the infrastructure or resources of a national sports league to create a secure bubble, employ daily testing and enforce rigorous guidelines. When the professional leagues are experiencing outbreaks, how can college-level sports put various groups of people at risk by attempting to carry on with their seasons? Is this risk worth playing a handful of games that keep getting postponed?
Boston University is requiring basketball teams to wear masks while playing. The AU community needs to know if the administration and the athletic department has entertained that discussion. Still, if players have to go to the lengths of wearing a mask, or two according to CDC recommendations, should they be playing at all? The University has not offered up a valid reason to routinely expose athletes to the threat of illness. Even if sports do continue, the department must reevaluate its policies to protect the health of the community.
COVID-19 has resulted in endless lifestyle adjustments. AU students graduated college in their childhood homes, theatre majors put on capstone performances over Zoom, clubs and organizations were forced fully online these past months, and yet, the University continues to engage with in-person athletic events. Obviously, there is no way to hold basketball games online, but we have all adjusted for our own safety and for the sake of public health. Why are sports more worth it than any of these other areas? 
The 10-day shutdown imposed by AU’s athletic department is reflective of an administration that does not have enough control. The COVID-19 guidelines for athletes not only affect the athletes themselves, but also students and staff on campus and the surrounding D.C. community. AU needs to justify the continuation of athletics for the semester and provide a clear line of communication that helps people understand their risk of getting sick. If the University does not have the resources to make this work in a safe way, it must explain its next steps to AU athletes and the entire AU population.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In writer and director Lev Grossman’s science fiction romantic comedy, “The Map of Tiny Perfect Things,” the idea of living for today because of the uncertainty of tomorrow is untrue for 17-year-old aspiring art student Mark (Kyle Allen). Just like Phil (Bill Murray) in “Groundhog Day,” Mark lives the same day over and over again, starting each morning asleep in bed and waking up to the sound of his mom’s car leaving for work. 
He at first relishes in the time anomaly’s opportunities: finishing his family’s sentences, winning the Powerball and saving the supposed girl of his dream every day by the pool as she nearly falls in after getting hit in the head with a beachball. However, every time he succeeds in saving her, she’s never interested in him. 
One day, as he prepares to save her again, another girl, Margaret (Kathryn Newton), catches the beachball mid-air and tosses it aside as she keeps walking. A stunned Mark realizes that she is stuck in the same anomaly as him, and the two become friends.
Together, Mark and Margaret map out the perfect things in their hometown that happen during the time loop: traffic stopping for a turtle, petals floating on a pond, a woman dancing after winning a game of cards, a custodian worker playing the piano. Eventually, Mark falls for Margaret only to be rejected. She explains that all she can offer him is friendship and he can either take it or leave it. He decides to take it. 
His unacquainted love is not the only thing he and Margaret differ on, however. They also don’t agree on the worth of getting out of the time loop — Margaret isn’t ready to go back to reality.
In an hour and a half, Grossman sets up a quiet, dreamlike film. Even as we watch “loud” moments happen, like Mark and Margaret destroying a show house, we don’t react with shock or uneasiness. This is not because the emotional arc of the film is unclear, but rather because the protagonists' developments are subtle and situated within the humor of them effortlessly reliving the same day.
Where audiences may expect to find the overdramatized climax — perhaps a massive fight between the undefined lovers — instead we find Mark realizing that while he still loves Margaret, this story was never his to tell. Then, without giving away the twist entirely, the last third of the film suddenly switches narrators. This switch flows flawlessly and makes for a more dimensionalized exploration of an important character. 
The ending of “The Map of Tiny Perfect Things” left something to be desired with its employment of the tired romantic comedy trope of “the girl finally realizing she actually does like the boy.” However, the science fiction time loop seems to be limitless in its use.
In a tweet by Grossman on Jan. 28, he said, “I know people are saying the premise is like Palm Springs — because it is! — but it's actually based on an old short story of mine from 2016. We were already filming by the time we heard about Palm Springs. Parallel evolution.” Max Barbakow’s 2020 film “Palm Springs” bears a similar Groundhog Day-like plot, with two wedding guests sparking a romance while they live the same day over and over.
More seasoned cinema audiences may crave constant variety, but from my vantage point, the time loop trope isn’t trite just yet. If “The Map of Tiny Perfect Things” is like “Palm Springs,” I say the more the merrier.
The film’s assumed moral also isn’t trite: appreciating the little things is what will make the long spans of repetitive days worth it. Many have compared life in the pandemic to our own “Groundhog Day.” In the 1993 classic, Murray managed to escape the time loop by finding love. While Mark and Margaret escape similarly, they also have the perfect things to thank, a pleasant reminder to never stop looking for all that is good.
“The Map of Tiny Perfect Things” will be available for streaming this Friday on Amazon Prime.
smirah@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Correction: This article has been updated since it was first published to correct that the release date is Feb. 12, not Feb. 13.
“Barb and Star Go to Vista Del Mar” is bright, tropical and often downright outrageous, relying on bizzare and sometimes banal humor to entertain. Starring and written by Kirsten Wiig and Annie Mumolo, it marks a mediocre comeback following the success of their first collaboration, “Bridesmaids.” 
The film follows two women, Star (Wiig) and Barb (Mumolo), as they attempt to reconnect with their inner “shimmer” through an impromptu visit to Vista Del Mar, Florida. Perhaps drawing inspiration from the “Austin Powers” franchise, the film’s antagonist, Sharon Gordon Fisherman, is also played by Wiig. Sharon’s subplot is relatively detached from the plights of Star and Barb. Rather predictably, the plots collide once Sharon’s employee Edgar (Jamie Dornan) begins a romantic relationship with Star.
Prior to becoming involved with Star, Edgar had long-held feelings for Sharon. He spends the beginning of the film repeating his desire to become an ‘official couple’ with her; his redundant use of this phrase is probably one of the most humorous aspects of the script. While it is quite a departure from his previous work, Dornan proves to be a strong comedic performer.
No matter where they go, Star and Barb feel strangely anachronistic in their space. The film uses dialogue and dynamics to set them apart from their social environment, making it clear that they don’t blend in with others when placed in groups of people. While they can converse with each other for hours on end, they tend to seem wildly disconnected from the community that exists outside of their friendship. This choice creates an atmosphere for awkwardness, and almost any interaction with others is comedic to some degree. 
Apart from Wiig and Mumolo, the film is composed of a star-studded cast of female comedians, including Vanessa Bayer, Rose Abdoo, Phyllis Smith and Wendi McLendon-Covey in minor roles. While their appearances are brief, and could have been expanded upon, they are certainly enjoyable. 
“Barb and Star” will resonate best with an audience that enjoys odd-ball, over-the-top comedy. While quirky one-liners make up most of the script, there are also a few fully-staged musical numbers. They begin spontaneously, dramatically evolving in the style of MTV music videos. Even with the music specifically written for the movie, I believe that the best musical choice was utilizing a “My Heart Will Go On” dance remix during a clubbing scene. 
Overall, the film’s greatest asset is it’s campy quality. Exaggerated scene transitions, bright color schemes and formulaic comedy make it appeal to a wide audience. And after the year we’ve had, absurd humor is something we all could use a little more of.  
“Barb and Star Go to Vista Del Mar” is set to release on streaming platforms Feb. 12.
okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Shannon Clark and Aaron Howe distribute supplies to DC’s unhoused residents
Anticipating violence near the Capitol building before President Joe Biden’s inauguration, two American University students entered the “Red Zone” established by the National Guard to provide an escape plan to those with the least access to mobility –– D.C.’s unhoused residents. 
Shannon Clark and Aaron Howe, both Ph.D. students in the University’s anthropology program, distributed over 60 Metro cards and maps of the closed Metro stops to unhoused residents located downtown in neighborhoods like NoMa, they said.
“It was basically just like an emergency evacuation plan so that people could get out if they decided it got unsafe,” Clark said. “This way, they had more freedom and autonomy to make that decision for themselves instead of relying on or being told by other outreach people.”
Clark and Howe have been providing essential supplies to unhoused residents throughout D.C. since the coronavirus pandemic erupted in the U.S. last March. 
As co-organizers of the Remora House, an unhoused outreach group, what started with small weekly dispatches of hand sanitizer and facial masks soon became a larger distribution network providing tents, sleeping bags and, more recently, Metro cards. The pair has utilized social media and email request forms to spread awareness of their cause and provide an avenue for donations.
“I mean, I know I have a pile of Metro cards because I just forget them at home, and then I have to get a new one if I go out,” Clark said. “So we asked people to send these likely unused Metro cards. And sure enough, most people that sent them sent like four or five or six.”
Clark said that she and Howe now permanently carry sleeping bags, tarps and tents in their cars to provide to unhoused residents in the case that their property is destroyed or damaged.
“It’s happened before in other cities, and that far-righters have attacked unhoused people and destroyed their property,” Clark said. “And so we wanted to be able to quickly respond, in case anything like that happened, and be sure that people had an immediate replacement for whatever shelter or other property that they might lose to violence.”
After the Capitol insurrection on Jan. 6, Howe and Clark checked in on unhoused residents around the city. 
“After that, we felt like we hadn’t done enough preemptive planning and safety planning,” Clark said. “And we really wanted to be able to offer more than just a warning to unhoused people that lived in the area and might potentially get caught up in any violence.”
No known political violence occurred in D.C. on the day of Biden’s inauguration in late January, but other unhoused advocacy and mutual aid groups like Black Lives Matter D.C. and the Sunrise Movement initiated a push to help situate unhoused people in hotel rooms. Clark said that people were able to use their Metro cards to get back to their camps or places of shelter after their stays.
Howe said the pair will continue to hand out Metro cards to unhoused residents; at the beginning of the COVID-19 shutdown, the buses were free, but now they are starting to charge fares. 
The pandemic has brought other unique challenges to unhoused residents, including the closure of bathrooms. However, Clark said that mutual aid groups are doing whatever they can to aid in these challenges.
“One of the really wonderful things that’s come out of the uprisings of last summer is a lot of that energy that was being put into like those protests has really shifted to mutual aid work and survival programs,” Clark said. “That’s really what I think of with this enhanced outreach, more so as a survival program to try and get people through the winter mostly.”
ssolano@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
