President Sylvia Burwell announced plans for an in-person spring 2022 semester in an email to the American University community Wednesday.
The University is monitoring the Omicron variant of the coronavirus but said their current health and safety guidelines will keep the current in-person operations.
“Should any further safety measures be necessary, we will provide updates to the community,” Burwell wrote in her email.
Classes will continue to be conducted in-person, while some sections with more than 50 students will be offered online.
Additionally, the current hybrid work environment used in fall 2021 will continue. 
Masks will continue to be required inside all campus buildings. This decision follows the University’s announcement to keep masking protocols in place after Mayor Muriel Bowser lifted the district’s mask mandate. Bowser then issued a “mask advisory” two weeks later.
“This safety measure not only supports our COVID-19 mitigation efforts but also helps reduce the spread of flu and other respiratory ailments,” Burwell said. 
COVID-19 testing will continue at the current locations. In her email, Burwell recommended testing before leaving for break and upon returning to campus. On-campus activities will continue under the health and safety guidelines.
Information regarding updated guest and visitor policies will be released later this week. 
The email encouraged those in the community who are eligible to receive their COVID-19 booster dose. Burwell also reminded staff to complete their proof of vaccination process that was announced last week. 
All AU employees will need to submit proof of vaccination by Dec. 23, in compliance with new federal requirements. Previously, AU employees without approved exemptions were required to be vaccinated but not required to upload proof.
“While the pandemic endures, we must not only be vigilant in our health and safety protocols, but also continue moving forward with our mission, our daily lives, and our engagement with each other.” Burwell said. 
The administration is also considering mandating booster shots for the AU community for the spring, Vice President of Campus Life and Inclusive Excellence Fanta Aw told The Eagle. To make the decision, officials are considering data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, consultations with D.C. Department of Health and other resources.
“The CDC guidance states that if you’re 18 or older, you should take the booster shots,” Aw said. “The other thing also is that there is more and more research that indicates that the booster shots really do in many ways … increase the antibodies.”
The AU community should expect a decision from the administration on a booster shot mandate on or before Jan. 1. To give students and other community members enough time to receive a booster, Aw said that the potential policy would likely not go into effect until the beginning of February. Aw added that the administration would ensure the community has access to boosters if they are required.
This story has been updated with additional information from Fanta Aw.
aturner@theeagleonline.com and jschlanger@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In this episode, Tristan, Olivia and Spenser sit down to talk about their favorite and least favorite biopics. Get ready for a good old lesson on ethics and a few giggles.
Beasts of No Nation, First They Killed My Father, Schindler's List, BlacKkKlansman, Malcolm X, Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters, Selena, I, Tonya, I, Robot, The Theory of Everything, Judy, Harriet, Bohemian Rhapsody, The Last King of Scotland, Forrest Gump, Titanic, The Irishman, Goodfellas, Spotlight, Black Mass, Bonnie and Clyde, Mindhunter (2017-2019), Zola, American Crime Stor (2016-), The Social Network, The West Wing (1999-2006), The Trial of the Chicago 7, Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan, Malcolm & Marie, We Bought a Zoo and Sound of Metal.
This episode was produced by Chloe Irwin.
tau@theeagleonline.com, okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com and shoover@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
This fall, the Office of Sustainability officially launched the EcoRep Program at American University in an effort to continue its commitment to the environment, providing a way for the student body to take sustainability on campus into their own hands.
While the program was piloted during the Mid-Semester Residential Experience last spring with a much smaller group of students, there are 40 undergraduate students who signed up as EcoReps this semester. EcoReps are required to volunteer two hours of their time each week to promote sustainability through individual behavior change among students, faculty and staff. School of Public Affairs sophomore Joel Ploski, who is an EcoRep, feels this requirement is easy to accomplish. 
“The Office of Sustainability makes it really easy for us to do a wide variety of things,” Ploski said. “It can be anywhere from going to a climate strike to doing a waste audit.” 
From staffing compost educational programs in the Terrace Dining Room to posting sustainability information on social media, there are many different ways to volunteer. Ploski volunteers his time by doing waste audits and waste sorting education in TDR. According to the Office of Sustainability, on the first three occasions that EcoReps tabled at TDR next to the dish return, they helped save 146 pounds of food waste from going to the landfill and being composted instead.
Recently, EcoReps have been promoting a new outreach program, EcoPledge, in which anyone on campus can pledge to take at least 10 different sustainable actions. Those who pledge receive a monthly newsletter with tips on how to complete their pledge commitments and can win environmentally-friendly prizes such as reusable straws. 
“It kind of removes this stigma that sustainability might be something that is really difficult or intimidating to get into,” Ploski said. “Really it’s just like small, little steps that you take day by day. Just by doing those you can be a lot more sustainable.” 
Mimi Beckemeier, an intern for the Office of Sustainability and a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences, helps manage the EcoRep Program. She says she believes that increased individual action will amount to a more substantial change overall. While there is a big push among climate activists to focus on holding corporations and our government accountable, Beckemeier said that individual action is still important, especially at AU. 
“When it comes down to it, the real way we’re going to end emissions and solve a lot of the issues is by regulating corporations,” Beckemeier said. “However, when we’re talking about AU, because we’re such a small school, we’re so close-knit that our impact is much larger.” 
According to Tacy Lambiase, the Office of Sustainability’s communications and outreach manager in charge of the EcoRep Program, the importance of individual action goes beyond those efforts adding up. 
“Individual actions are crucial because they act as a gateway for getting folks involved,” Lambiase said. “We’re asking students to take simple actions on campus like reducing their use of single-use plastics. That action alone is not going to solve the climate crisis, but if we can get students engaged and interested in doing one small action, they are more likely to take bigger actions down the road.” 
Lambiase reports 182 students have already been certified with EcoPledge and the initiative will continue throughout the rest of the academic year. Additionally, EcoReps have been promoting CampusCup 2021 — a campaign to provide free menstrual cups on campus — alongside AU’s Health Promotion and Advocacy Center in efforts to alleviate typical menstrual waste and grant access to free reusable menstrual products. This campaign formed out of a partnership with the Office of Sustainability and AllMatters, a sustainable-period-product company. While the campaign ran, 452 students signed up to receive free reusable menstrual cups, according to the Office of Sustainability.
Outside of working with HPAC and promoting EcoPledge, EcoReps have also worked with senior capstone students in promoting a reducing food waste application, Too Good To Go. The EcoRep program will continue to work alongside different climate campaigns and intends to partner with climate groups on campus.
Applications to become an EcoRep will reopen next semester, and Lambiase recommends becoming an EcoRep as a great stepping stone for students to get involved. 
“It’s definitely more fun and more effective to drive change when you're doing it with other people,” Lambiase said. “We don’t want students to feel like they're going at this alone.”
jschwartz@theeaglineonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
During the fully online semesters of the 2020-2021 school year, the budget allocated to American University Student Government decreased due to cuts to the student activity fee.
The student activity fee, which is the source of SG’s funding, was decreased from $88 to $62 during the 2020-2021 academic year, according to Comptroller Paul Relyea, a junior in the School of Public Affairs. 
In turn, the money allocated to organizations like the Kennedy Political Union, Student Union Board, Women’s Initiative, Founders Week and other organizations decreased. KPU received $88,725 per semester during the 2019-2020 school year but $75,000 for the spring 2021 semester, according to SG spending bills. Stipends among members of SG were cut to adjust for the decreased activity fee as well.
“I do understand why that money had to change because we’re just not bringing [in what we used to],” said SG President Chyna Brodie, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the College of Arts and Sciences. “We’re just not doing events in the same way. So I would just say it’s been an adjustment.”
Prior to the coronavirus pandemic, the SG president received a stipend of $9,000, according to Relyea. Stipends for the SG president and the rest of the executive board for this year are $2,500, according to SG’s 2021-2022 budget breakdown. 
Before the virtual semesters, the budget was allocated for the entire year. Now, the budget is calculated each semester because of the recent fluctuations in the student activity fee. 
“We moved to a semester basis, which I actually prefer because it provides ... the senate the opportunity to hold people accountable, halfway through the year,” Relyea said. 
Despite budget cuts across the board for SG organizations, SG saved $7,483 from the fall semester of 2020, which rolled over to the spring semester. 
“People didn’t have to pay for speakers or staging, there were no VIP access or catering events with food,” Relyea said. 
The leftover money was then put into SG’s reserves account, Relyea said, and was reallocated to the following semester’s budget. 
“From the virtual year my finance committee rolled everything over, so we introduced the [AUSG Reserve Roll-Overs Fall 2021] bill. We rolled everything over that went into reserves for this semester,” Relyea said. 
According to Relyea, money from the reserve fund is reallocated fairly based on the percentage of the budget the organization usually gets. However, some organizations saw a higher increase in their budget than others. 

Women’s Initiative did not lose as much funding as other organizations in SG. In the 2019-2020 academic year, the Women’s Initiative received $40,000 in funding for the two semesters. That increased to $60,000 in spring 2021 but fell to $46,750 in fall 2021.
The increase in funding over the course of the pandemic can be explained by a few factors, one of which was the expansion of the Women’s Initiative. Founded in the 1960s, the organization has shifted from hosting exclusively community-based events to bringing on more high-profile guests.
“As the years go by, it’s just getting progressively more [high-profile],” said Women’s Initiative Director Kaniya Harris, a sophomore in SPA. “Last year we did have a lot of higher-scale speakers, but we weren’t doing a lot of small-scale events because we were online.”
The Women’s Initiative, like all SG organizations, has also been allowed to roll over leftover money from each semester. This has significantly increased the funding available for the Women’s Initiative at the beginning of each semester, due to the lower costs associated with hosting events and bringing guest speakers to the AU community during the pandemic.
“We’ve just continued that trend to ensure that they are bringing incredible speakers in,” said SG Senator At-Large and Finance Committee Chairman Ryan Hale, a junior in SPA. “That’s one of the best things, I think, that we could have done, increasing their funding.” 
Other SG organizations have also benefited from the decreased event costs. In recent years, KPU hosted between five and nine speakers and panels per year, but during the 2020-2021 academic year, it increased that number to 14 guests.
Similarly, SUB typically hosts between three and five performers a year. During the 2020-2021 academic year, however, this number increased to 11 performers. 
The directors of the KPU and SUB, Sonali Doshi and Keana Brooks respectively, were unable to be reached for an interview.
Different undergraduate councils are also seeing an increase in funding from leftover money from the online semesters. Each undergraduate council is allotted around five percent of a $3,800 council fund and the councils for the individual schools are allotted around 10.5 percent of the same fund.
“It’s the first time I think in over five years, it might be up to 10 years, that our undergraduate councils got funding, and it’s panning out,” Hale said. “The SIS council account is spending money. The 2024 council is working on spending money, and just providing good programming that otherwise wouldn’t be possible.”
This semester, the student activity fee is still lower than usual, at $75. But with expected increases in the student activity fee to come next semester, SG believes its budget will increase proportionally with the increase in the fee. 
With University policy still requiring speakers to be virtual, money is still being saved on travel expenses for high-profile speakers, which will lead to more money being added to the reserves.
“The committee with administration — myself, the president and the senate finance chair — we begin meeting in November, and that’s essentially where that big pool with all the money is broken down,” Relyea said. “So we have a much better idea then, but my anticipation is that it’ll go up, approximately by whatever percentage the student activity fee has gone up.”
jschlanger@theeagleonline.com and aturner@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
