In an email sent out to the University community on Friday, President Sylvia Burwell announced updates to American University’s health and safety protocols. 
The updates shared the recent change to mask mandates on campus — on July 30, the University announced it would reinstate indoor mask wearing in accordance with a reintroduced D.C. indoor mask mandate.
“With cases rising once more, the prospect of adhering to numerous safety protocols again, when we took precautions and made sacrifices for so long, weighs on us all,” Burwell wrote. “We are committed to doing everything we can to safeguard our community, as well as supporting our friends and colleagues who are understandably concerned about young children or immunocompromised family members who cannot yet be vaccinated.”
Vaccinations are also required for all students, faculty, staff and contractors with a presence on campus. Burwell shared that more than 9,500 students and 3,400 faculty and staff members are either fully vaccinated or in the process of getting their COVID-19 vaccinations. The deadline for students to upload their proof of vaccination is Aug. 17 for students with housing assignments and Aug. 24 for all students, according to an email sent to students on July 30. 
The Friday email reiterated that unvaccinated students, faculty and staff with approved exemptions will be tested twice each week. 
Regardless of vaccination status, any community member will be subject to testing if they come in contact with an individual who has tested positive or if they exhibit COVID-19 symptoms. Fully vaccinated students, faculty and staff will not be subject to regular testing, but have the option to get tested as a safety precaution. 
Like last semester, testing will take place at Constitution Hall on East Campus. 
When returning to campus, partially vaccinated students — those who have received only one dose of a two-dose vaccine or those who have not been fully vaccinated for 14 days — are instructed to self-quarantine for seven days if coming from outside of the D.C., Maryland and Virginia area. 
The University also announced that it will be limiting in-person events such as Convocation and the Sophomore Welcome at the beginning of the semester. 
“Most business meetings will continue online to preserve campus space for student-focused activities,” Burwell wrote. “Given the vaccine requirements, faculty, staff, and students can meet in small groups (e.g., 2-3 people) in offices if mask mandates are followed. Schools and units can use their conference rooms for team meetings with masking.”
The University plans to discuss these health and safety protocols at greater length during a community webinar next Wednesday at 2 p.m.
kcorliss@theeagleonline.com and cmulroy@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This review contains spoilers for “The Suicide Squad.”
Spawning from a rather lackluster 2016 film of the same name and similar premise, James Gunn’s “The Suicide Squad” is a well-blended medley of comedy, carnage and compassion. While undeniably a bit cheeky, and perhaps even a bit unhinged, the film fits nicely in the DC Extended Universe and is a welcome replacement for its predecessor.
In true Suicide Squad style, the film follows a cast of ex-convicts as they are ordered on a covert mission by shady government agent Amanda Waller (Viola Davis). The plot primarily revolves around the mercenary Bloodsport (Idris Elba), who is forced to follow Waller’s plan in order to stop the government from imprisoning his daughter, Tyla (Storm Reid). 
He is joined on his mission by the illustrious Harley Quinn (Margot Robbie) and the agitator Peacemaker (John Cena), as well as secondary players Nanaue (Sylvester Stallone), Colonel Rick Flag (Joel Kinnaman), Ratcatcher (Daniela Melchoir) and Polka-Dot Man (David Dastmalchian). 
Unsurprisingly, the movie’s strongest asset is its incomparable cast. Elba and Melchoir both deliver standout performances that bring a multifaceted life to the once two-dimensional characters. This is particularly true as Bloodsport grows to view Ratcatcher as a daughter figure: their chemistry is both delicate and unpredictable. The same tender bond applies to Reid and Elba, whose scenes are charming in a grounded, heartfelt manner. Within these familial subplots, the actors work in tandem to provide depth to what could have been a frivolous film.
Of course, the film is most successful in its predicted, quick-witted comedy. To that end, it would be remiss not to mention that the film wouldn’t go far without Robbie’s iconic Harley Quinn performance: she generally stands to be one of the greatest draws of the franchise. In true Quinn form, the movie allows both Robbie's acting versatility and natural beauty to shine. Her costumes are also markedly less sexualized than the ones worn in the first “Suicide Squad,” likely a result of the backlash received on the first film, which was appreciated. 
Beyond headliner Robbie, if you come to the film to see comedic giants Pete Davidson (Blackguard) and Flula Borg (Javelin), you may leave disappointed. While they both have some notable one-liners that riff off of their established comedic stylings, they don’t really live long enough to justify their exaggerated advertising pull. 
As for the content, ultraviolence is an understatement, to say the least. The film is certainly not for the faint of heart, nor anyone who avoids gore without it carrying a deeper meaning. Almost every action scene features some form of limb-ripping, body-tearing or throat-slashing — and that’s just scratching the surface. 
However, Gunn does make a point to differ the action sequences from one another. While one battle takes place in the reflection of Peacemaker’s helmet — undeniably a form of foreshadowing and irony — another incorporates exploding flower graphics behind the conqueress Harley Quinn. As bloody as the film may be, it rarely feels redundant in its presentation.
And for those that can stomach the brutal scenes, the film does come with worthwhile subplots about empathy and compassion. It also provides some sort of social criticism of America, with the final sequences of the movie forcing the characters to re-examine their own relationship with the concept of American exceptionalism. And while this subplot is arguably a strong addition to the storyline, the way it concluded — practically with a shrug of Elba’s shoulders — felt a bit empty, as if the concept had not been fully fleshed out. Which is ironic, considering the sheer amount of flesh in this film. 
As for impact, we’re likely to see an influx of red-dress Harley Quinn costumes this Halloween. But for now, the film can be chalked up to a witty, well-paced and self-aware comedy; as far as villain redemption flicks go, it’s worth the watch. 
“The Suicide Squad” will release in theaters and on HBO Max starting August 6, 2021. 
okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
