Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
As doses run low and appointments fill up, many District residents now eligible to receive a coronavirus vaccine wait in long lines to get their shots. High demand for the vaccines has left American University and other D.C. college students wondering when it will be their turn. 
Beginning the week of Jan. 11, D.C. residents aged 65 and older became eligible to make appointments to receive a vaccine. Essential workers, including D.C. Public School teachers and support staff, were allowed to make appointments beginning the week of Jan. 25. 
According to D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser, the delay in vaccine distribution is due to a lack of supply rather than an inability to distribute. As of Tuesday, nearly two-thirds of vaccine doses delivered to the district have been used, according to The New York Times.
“I think that Bowser and the District are doing the best given the limited resources to distribute the vaccine in an efficient and equitable way,” said Melissa Hawkins, director of AU’s Public Health Scholars Program. “I think having an online system has definitely made for more efficient scheduling compared to waiting in line or phone calls that we're hearing about in other jurisdictions.”
The D.C. Department of Health dictates the vaccine distribution schedule, and Dr. David Reitman, the medical director at AU’s Student Health Center, said it could be a while before students get their turn. 
“They’re still in the very early processes of immunizing healthcare providers, frontline workers [and] people over 65. Having enough vaccines available to distribute widely to younger people is not going to be for at least a few months down the road, and they’re not even close to giving us any plans for that at this time,” Reitman said. 
No decisions have been made regarding a vaccine requirement for students returning to campus in the fall. According to Reitman, the University must first consider the efficacy of the vaccines over the next few months, as well as safety profile and vaccine availability. 
The D.C. Department of Health announced plans to give vaccine priority to residents with certain preexisting conditions beginning in February. AU’s Student Health Center plans to assist out-of-state students living in the D.C. area with eligible preexisting conditions in receiving a vaccine.
Some students have taken opportunities to skip the line and get a vaccine early. 
Senior Rolando Cantú, who took part in a National Institutes of Health vaccine trial, received the first dose of the Moderna vaccine on Feb. 4 after receiving two doses of a placebo in August and September. Cantú said the only side effect he experienced was soreness at the injection site.
“I wanted to highlight my experience because I know there’s a lot of hesitancy with the vaccine, especially with my community - the Latino community - [I want to] make sure that people do get vaccinated because these communities are at risk the most of COVID have the most vaccine hesitancy,” Cantú said. “It’s nothing malicious, these people are 100 percent transparent.”
Reitman believes that once D.C. has enough supply of the COVID-19 vaccines to distribute to all ages, informational campaigns aimed at educating on the safety of the vaccines will likely increase. 
Cantú hopes that the University will use the opportunity to properly educate all students on the vaccines. 
“Reaching out to student leaders, especially within certain affinity groups, like the Latino community, like the Black community, like the Muslim community, because I think if you have one general statement from one person from one group that really others probably won’t trust the person saying that message,” Cantú said.
Hawkins seconded Cantú’s sentiment that students may be the best source to relay vaccine information. 
“It’s about trust, right? There are many different ways that you may be getting information or hearing information,” Hawkins said. “But certainly peer-to-peer information is a great way to be able to empower students and to be able to support students to be able to learn about how to get the vaccine.” 
D.C. lawmakers have argued that the city should reserve vaccine appointments for less affluent and majority-Black wards. Residents aged 65 and older in Ward 3, an affluent area where AU is located, made up about one-third of the first round of vaccine appointments offered in the district. 
According to the director of the D.C. Department of Health, Dr. LaQuandra Nesbitt, health clinics in Wards 5, 7 and 8, the city’s poorest wards, can administer more doses per day than other wards. However, Nesbitt said the city will not deny a vaccine to any resident at any location based on their address.
gnewton@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Mary Graydon Center, pictured in 2016. 
Lawyers for American University and Gianna Wheeler, a student who sued AU after AUPD forcibly removed her from her apartment in 2019, filed a motion for a protective order Monday. 
The University also motioned to request that Kimberly C. Ohanuka, an associate at the law firm Carr Maloney P.C., serve as co-counsel in the case. The motion was denied Tuesday, because she didn’t declare whether she is a member of the District of Columbia Bar or if she has an application pending, according to the minute order. However, AU filed a motion again on Wednesday.
AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess told The Eagle in an email Wednesday that the University doesn’t comment on pending litigation. 
The lawsuit, which alleges that Wheeler was discriminated against based on her race and mental health condition, was filed in September 2020. 
Wheeler is being represented by the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs. 
The protective order, which was issued on Monday by U.S. District Judge Christopher R. Cooper, classifies multiple elements of the case as confidential, including personal, identifiable information. 
All confidential information will be treated as proprietary, meaning that the information brought forth in the case remains private from the general public. The order lays out specific guidelines on who is allowed access to what information, and how it can be shared in a timely manner. Confidential information will only be disclosed to specifically named parties. 
The protective order was jointly filed by all parties to protect the confidential information of the case, Burgess said.
Wheeler’s lawyers and AU’s counsel Paul Maloney have not responded to The Eagle when asked for comment on the update. 
smattalian@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Mary Graydon Center, pictured in 2016. 
President Sylvia Burwell released a new progress report of the second year of American University’s Changemakers for a Changing World strategic plan that outlined the second phase of the Inclusive Excellence plan in an email to the AU community Wednesday. 
AU’s Inclusive Excellence plan just wrapped up its first phase, according to Burwell. Beginning in 2018, the plan was part of the greater five-year strategic plan, AU’s Changemakers for a Changing World, which just completed its second year. Burwell said the University met many of its goals regarding the Inclusive Excellence plan.
Some of these achievements include the creation of Black Affinity Housing, an increase in new tenure-line faculty hired who identify as faculty of color and the addition of 47 faculty affiliates in the Antiracist Research and Policy Center.
“There will still be many challenges ahead in this space, both within the university and throughout the national reckoning with systemic racism,” Burwell wrote. “But if we can stay focused on our goals and our plan, this strategy will help us move toward a more inclusive AU.”
Goals of the second phase include developing an inclusive campus and climate, creating and updating University policies and procedures to ensure diversity and transparency, and recruiting and retaining a diverse body of students, faculty and staff with a focus on racial equity. 
In terms of the broader five-year strategic plan, Burwell highlighted some achievements which included a 20 percent growth of faculty research proposals for external funding, an increase in the number of underrepresented students in the incoming class, the AU District Scholars initiative and the new Office of Equity and Title IX.
“In a year dominated by upheaval and uncertainty, I am proud that our community not only remained committed to our strategy, but also demonstrated creativity and flexibility in advancing this important work throughout the challenges presented by COVID-19,” Burwell wrote.
emurray@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sometimes good is not enough. To be the best, to become a household name, one cannot just simply be good. One must be broken down to your core, look at yourself in the mirror and ask yourself if you have what it takes to be the best. The last scene of “Whiplash” explores this theme of success and asks, considering the sacrifices, was it worth it?
Whiplash is the story of how a backup jazz drummer can turn into the next Charlie Parker with the help of a mentor who is obsessed with perfection. Andrew Neiman (Miles Teller) is a first-year drummer at an elite music conservatory who has high ambitions but little self-worth. Terence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) is the instructor for the top jazz band at the conservatory and is looking for players, which is where he stumbles into Andrew. Fletcher invites Andrew to play for him and Andrew accepts, but he was too naive to know how Fletcher instructed his band. 
Fletcher abuses Andrew for months — verbally and physically assaulting Andrew and indoctrinating him with his idea of how to become the best. Andrew’s aspiration to be at the top blinds him to his instructor’s abuse, and he starts associating being successful with appeasing Fletcher. The mentorship leads Andrew to end his relationship with his girlfriend, distance himself from his father and suffer endless physical injuries. He is eventually kicked off of the conservatory for assaulting Fletcher during a concert after having a breakdown from the months of inflicted psychological pain. But, in the process, Andrew becomes a top-notch jazz drummer and his confidence improves.
One would think Andrew would quit jazz after those months of suffering, but his obsession to satisfy Fletcher overtakes him. He stumbles into Fletcher months after his mental breakdown, and his abusive instructor tells him the story of how legendary Jazz saxophonist Charlie Parker became the perfect musician. Andrew identifies with Charlie Parker in this story, and his obsession kicks in once more. When Fletcher invites him to play at a professional concert with his own jazz band, Andrew hesitates, knowing how much pain Fletcher inflicted on him but accepts. The concert is the make or break for Andrew’s jazz career but more importantly, it is his final chance to prove his worth to Fletcher.
The final concert scene makes viewers rethink how much of their hard work and resilience was done to satisfy themselves or just to prove themselves to someone.
Andrew steps on stage feeling confident, as Fletcher has trusted him to be in his band once more. He was too naive, again. Fletcher told Andrew that the band would play his old jazz band music, but when the band begins to play, Andrew notices he has never heard of the music the band was actually playing. Fletcher lied to him; the invitation was a ploy to get vengeance because Fletcher was kicked off of the conservatory due to his abusive conduct. After all, he does not think Andrew has what it takes to become the best. A lost, confused and betrayed Andrew sits in front of the audience watching Fletcher smirk at him. Andrew runs from the set backstage toward his father and hugs him desperately. 
Teller's performance is something to admire. He punctuates this scene not only with tension but also with sadness and disappointment. Director Damien Chazelle’s writing makes the viewer fear for Andrew’s failure.
This moment of defeat is when Andrew realizes that all of the months of suffering, indoctrination and practice led to this moment. Andrew goes back on stage and starts drumming his heart out. Sweat and blood streaming down his hand, he cues the rest of the band and continues to play like never before. Fletcher cannot believe what he is witnessing: perfection. His teachings were paying off for once. The song ends, the lights turn off, but Andrew keeps playing. He has a point to prove. Fletcher stands in awe, even helping Andrew as his cymbal falls to the ground. Andrew reaches the climax and end of his solo, and, exhausted, looks up at Fletcher for his reaction. Fletcher meets his eyes and smiles knowing he has succeeded. Andrew’s face lights up with accomplishment and he smiles. He has played an awe-inspiring set and finally satisfied his instructor. 
While Andrew was able to succeed, his final performance leads the audience to question if his suffering was worth it. Sure, Andrew was ambitious, but had it not been because of Fletcher’s own obsession he could not have become that last jazz drummer the viewer sees. The final scene leaves the viewer struggling for a concrete conclusion. The audience does not know if Andrew became a great, but knows that he is satisfied. Does success in Andrew’s eyes mean proving he was a great drummer or appeasing Fletcher to prove him wrong? 
psoto@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
One of the five love languages is touch, and Barry Jenkins seems to worship it in his film “Moonlight.” In its quietest moments, the film reaches out, fingers spread, begging to be held, carried, caressed and touched.
But it isn’t just touch between anybody; it’s touch between Black men that Jenkins reveres.
“Moonlight” has many feats, including its representation of Black-centric life and community in the absence of invading whiteness and its enchanting cinematography, but one of its most important achievements is how we, as witnesses to the film, are shown touch and its impact on Black men. 
It’s important to consume films made by Black creatives all the time, but especially during Black History Month, which comes amid a public reckoning with racial justice and a pandemic that has left us with only media to tell our stories.
“Moonlight” is important to watch now because it’s a story about Black queer people whose voices aren’t often heard. It navigates the intersection of being gay and being Black, of being alive while being terrified, of feeling loved while knowing there are those out there who may hate you for who you are. And Jenkins’ reverence toward touch, its ability to transform and inscribe, is especially beautiful as unlimited touch has been taken from us for almost a year. Seeing how healing touch can be is cathartic now. 
Jenkins’ reflection on Black men at peace with touch is also an image that subverts the videos of murdered Black men we’ve seen reposted on social media and rebroadcast by news outlets without reservation. This past summer, Black Lives Matter activists protested for the need to be visible, the right to even be alive. Back in 2016, with “Moonlight,” Jenkins affirmed the need for everyone to see what it means for Black men — and Black love — to live.
In “Moonlight,” Black men are not the violent criminals media outlets so often make them out to be. From D.W. Griffith’s villain in blackface in “The Birth of a Nation” to today’s oversaturation in news about crimes committed by Black men, Black men in media are criminal, despicable and brutish.
Jenkins lets us glimpse reality, however, and we see genuine touch between Black men that doesn’t fit the buck mold of Hollywood stereotypes. To witness Jenkins’ representation of Black men is to witness the truth.
“Moonlight” follows the main character, Chiron, from his youth to his adulthood, along the way documenting how touch transforms his sense of self. Black men are the catalysts for Chiron’s personal discoveries and adaptations of sexuality and masculinity, and he experiences the multitudes of what it means to be a Black man.
One of the film’s most memorable and beautiful moments is when Juan, played by a nearly omnipotent Mahershala Ali, carries Chiron into the ocean to teach him to swim. Chiron has grown up without a father figure, but here Juan cradles him chest to chest, like a father. The Black man is on display, but it isn’t to be physical or intimidating; it’s to be human.
As waves lap over Chiron and even onto the camera lens, Juan’s comforting touch baptizes Chiron. For the first time, Chiron sees Black masculinity as holy, reverential, everything opposite of what we, especially white viewers, might expect of Black men.
Jenkins’ ode to touch continues at the beach when Chiron experiences his first sexual awakening with his long-time friend, Kevin (Jharrel Jerome). In this instance though, Jenkins switches tactics. Rather than showing us the touch and letting us invade this transformative moment through our voyeuristic needs, he cuts away. 
We watch the backs of their heads resting together, Kevin cradling Chiron as Juan did. We don’t get to imbue our expectations of Black men or Black sexuality onto Chiron and Kevin. Under the blue tinted moonlight, this experience of touch is theirs alone.
Chiron may be the main character of this film, but he certainly doesn’t vocalize much. It’s the touch he receives and gives that expresses himself, intimately and subversively. Chiron’s connections with other Black men shape him without the interference of any outsiders (“Moonlight” does not feature any white people), including the audience.
“Moonlight” will not join the ranks of past cinema that fetishized or brutalized Black men. Jenkins lets Black men exist as they are, together and close and alive, within the reach of fingertips. 
Our desire to look without reservation has been challenged. Film is all about looking, but how do our gazes impact those we look upon? What do we miss? When we are forced to think about what we’re seeing and how we’re seeing it, who are we setting free?
And when we get to touch again, limitlessly, touch gently, fingers spread and know you’re living.
kmcdonnell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
