The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Despite its reputation for politics and international affairs, American University boasts a growing population of science majors. A tight-knit community of five, the science students spoke with The Seagle at the grand opening of the new science building last week.
“Sophomore year, I spent $26.99 on a hard copy of Mary Wollstonecraft’s ‘A Vindication of the Rights of Women’ just so I could use the front cover to conceal my Calculus textbook,” rising senior Daniya Newman said. 
While Newman lamented financial losses, others grieved the loss of time spent trying to fit in with their peers. 
“My first year at AU, I struggled to make friends. As an alternative to Greek life, I familiarized myself with common topics in international relations,” neuroscience major Travis Massey said. “I started with the anarchical structure of the global order and spiraled from there, eventually publishing a piece in AU’s undergraduate research journal ‘Clocks and Clouds’ on the long-run viability of democratic peace theory.” 
Massey looks forward to pursuing his goal of becoming a chemist without the pressure to fit in with the IR majors. 
Other student interviewees included Yasmin Ayad and Nick Johnson, both of whom are data science majors and occupy a unique space between the “in” and “out” groups. While Ayad completes her homework in the bathroom, Johnson opts not to complete it at all. 
“The decision to forgo homework entirely was very hard,” said Johnson, “but ultimately worth the public humiliation it would have cost me to pull up an Excel sheet in public.” Ayad nodded in agreement. 
“But was it worth the internal humiliation of succumbing to the external pressures of the student body and in turn becoming somewhat of an undriven cattle roaming aimlessly towards a false promise of reward?” Massey added. 
Johnson’s face turned red. “Sorry,” he said, “I’m just trying to play devil’s advocate.”
When President Sylvia Burwell finally snipped the ribbon and unveiled the bright halls of the new building, the students erupted with applause. They marveled at their newfound place of study, beaming at the sight of empty tables devoid of IR students and CLEG majors. 
Undoubtedly, the day marked a new beginning for all five science majors alike. 
During editing, The Seagle was informed that there are only four science majors, as “Nick Johnson” and “Nicholas Johnson” are the same person. 
Nora Sullivan is a rising junior in the School of International Service and a satire columnist at The Eagle. 
nsullivan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Intuitive eating is the name of the game nowadays — that means listening to your body’s hunger signals without restricting your diet in an unhealthy manner. So when you get those cravings, it’s okay to indulge. Here are a few options that are perfect to snack on during the summer.
Popcorn
My all-time favorite snack is making my own popcorn in an at-home air popper. It’s perfect for when you want to customize your own toppings. Salt, chili powder, Tajin: there’s a million different toppings you can add and it’s all up to your choosing.
Organic popcorn with olive oil is a low-effort alternative to air-popped popcorn as well because you can buy it straight from the shelves of Trader Joe’s or a local grocery store. With three grams of dietary fiber and 130 calories per two cups of popcorn from the Trader Joe’s brand, there isn’t much added artificially to make you feel too full. 
Watermelon
Watermelon is finally in season in D.C., which means that heading over to the closest farmers market should definitely be on your bucket list. The Palisades Farmers Market opens every Sunday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. You can get there in 30 minutes from campus via public transportation or eight minutes via bike. Produce from farmers markets often has a freshness that beats the grocery store, and you’ll also be supporting local businesses and reducing transportation costs and emissions. It’s the perfect treat to share with friends too.
Milkshakes and Fries
Summertime also means road trips and late nights, and I’d suggest stopping by your favorite fast food chain for some milkshakes and fries. The sweet and salty mix complements each other well. In the D.C. area, there are plenty of options, like Tenleytown favorite Z-Burger or Thomas Sweet, just outside of Georgetown. 
Homemade trail mix
Customizing your own trail mix means adding more of what you actually like and avoiding all those snacks that end up staying at the bottom of your store-bought mixes. Nuts, like peanuts, almonds and cashews, take me out of my “hangry” mood with their plant protein content — they’re especially great for those who don’t eat meat. Trail mix can be the perfect on-the-go snack for a midday hike or an outdoor adventure this summer. 
I lean toward buying raw cashews to make it easier to customize my trail mix to my tastes. It acts as a good base for all of my other snacks, leaving me feeling satisfied until my next meal. Eating healthy foods like XYZ can also help you study more effectively and concentrate better on the task at hand. 
At the end of the day, eat what makes you happy and satisfied. Eat what makes you feel good, physically and emotionally. You deserve it. 
mhowell@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
