Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on theeaglecoronavirusproject.com, a separate website created by Eagle staff at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Articles from that website have been migrated to The Eagle’s main site and backdated with the dates they were originally published in order to allow readers to access them more easily. 
As American University students arrived on campus for the Mid-Semester Residential Experience, originally referred to as the “mini-mester,” in early March, community members surrounding the University had to readjust to living in a college town once again. 
The two month residential program allows a limited number of undergraduate students to experience life on campus. Of the allotted about 1,250 spots provided for the program, approximately 549 students decided to participate in the MSRE.  
“I'm glad that the University is taking some action to try and build a stronger community among students, especially right now with the pandemic, but I am worried that with the COVID[-19] outbreak that we've been seeing at universities across the District, especially at Georgetown, that we might see something similar at AU when [students] return to campus,” ANC Ward 3D07 commissioner Christian Damiana said. 
Damiana, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, referred to rising case numbers at Georgetown University, where 279 positive tests were reported for Jan. 3 through Feb. 13. 
As of March 8, AU has reported 77 total cases during the spring semester, 62 of which have been from off-campus students.
“The University needs to continue to make sure that they're being forthcoming with all of their COVID[-19] data, they've done a good job this semester, being very transparent, but that is something we want to keep seeing and making sure they're communicative,” Damiana said. 
AU’s Assistant Vice President of Community and Government Relations Edward Fisher assured that the University worked with the D.C. Department of Health and the Office of Planning in creating plans for the MSRE. 
Students living on campus will receive a PCR test twice a week and must follow guidelines put in place by the District. 
“We have informed students that the student code of conduct still guides their actions when they're off campus, so we want to make sure that they abide by our code and our good neighbor guideline policy,” Fisher said. 
The University informed the immediate neighbors and community of the MSRE in January through its neighborhood newsletter, according to Fisher. 
Some neighbors welcomed the students participating in the MSRE, citing that it could ultimately benefit both parties. 
“In my opinion, we need to take steps to return to normalcy. I don’t mind if students move into my neighborhood. I would hope that they follow COVID[-19] precautions and realize that while they are in a low risk group, many of their neighbors may not be,” said Dina Atwell, a resident of the Palisades neighborhood. “Hopefully more students moving in will help small businesses as well, as students are more apt to order take out and still patronize businesses in the area.” 
AU Park resident Jenny Paul said she's seen students around her area since the fall, but hasn't felt worried. 
"Everyone seems to be behaving pretty responsibly when we see them," Paul said. "I think especially with the vaccines rolling out that this is a good step for AU to be taking. [It's good that] everyone can continue their learning experience and their development." 
Other neighborhood residents feel that the community has been relatively compliant in terms of following coronavirus protocol, and fear students returning to campus could reverse AU’s mitigation. 
Various AU Park residents raised concerns about both the return of students to campus and students living off campus citing that they understand the difficult restraints that COVID-19 guidelines have placed on young people’s social lives, but that they hope students will remain respectful of the neighbors. 
gnewton@theeagleonline.com 

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University volleyball fell to Bucknell Sunday night, losing in five sets with scores of 22-25, 25-23, 22-25, 25-21 and 11-15. The Eagles’ loss to Bucknell was its second-ever loss to the program and its first since 1996. As the figurative doormat of the Patriot League for the past decade, Bucknell has had an in-conference record of 47-107 since 2010.
Despite the historical loss, AU’s seniors put forth solid efforts. Senior Helena Elbaek had an impressive K:D ratio, with 21 kills and 17 digs. She now needs just 15 kills to reach 1,000 for her career. Senior libero Chiara Bosetti tied Elbaek with a team-high of 17 digs.
In addition to the seniors, the sophomore tandem of Asli Celikkol and Inbal Peleg had a dynamic night. Celikkol had 13 digs, three blocks and eight kills, while Peleg messed around and recorded a double-double with 20 assists and 11 digs. Junior transfer Carlie Fikse led the team in blocks with seven and only committed a single error.
The loss comes two days after the Eagles handily defeated Bucknell in the season opener, 3-1. Head coach Barry Goldberg believes the team is still finding its footing.
“Great job by Bucknell and their effort to make things tough on us,” Goldberg said. “Attacking and defense were fairly even, but they were just a little better tonight. Our team is forming and we had many emotional moments that we did not control very well. We knew from Friday's match that they were playing hungry, and this was the result. We will regroup and see what we can do to make our team more complete.”
While the Eagles played with heart, issues with hitting and errors ultimately made the difference. The Eagles came out strong, taking a 20-15 lead on the first set, but couldn’t close it out as they finished on a 10-2 skid. The second set was suspenseful and the Eagles managed to pull it out despite 10 ties and five lead changes. Momentum was in favor of the Bison for the rest of the match, as they out-hit the Eagles .279 to .136. The Bison's Delanie Lewis ended the match with a kill in the fifth set, giving Bucknell the 3-2 win. 
The Eagles will get a shot at redemption soon. The second weekend of play finds the Eagles hosting Lafayette on Friday night, March 12, and traveling to face the Leopards again on Sunday, March 14.
odunn@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Professor Oliver Reed invaded his class’s Zoom chat on Tuesday, leading to an outcry from some students.  
“Good insight Kelly!” Reed typed in the Zoom chat box. 
This occurred about one minute after sophomore Kelly Anderson wrote three sentences in the chat about her views on the ethics of participant-observation ethnography. 
“I like it when students use the chat feature on Zoom,” Reed said. “It shows me who’s really paying attention versus who opened the computer, walked away and started cooking lunch.” 
Anderson said she appreciated the praise. 
“This is the first time a professor has said something to me in the chat,” she said. “At first I thought professors couldn’t see the chat, but I guess most of them just don’t care.” 
Other than Anderson, students did not appreciate Reed’s intrusion. 
“Wait, what? Professors can see what we write in the chat?!” freshman Lucas Prater said. “I guess I’m going to have to find another outlet for bashing my professors.”
Students displayed varying levels of understanding how Zoom works. 
“Like at least knock first before barging into the chat room,” sophomore Colby Grant said. 
Sophomore Judie Hill explained her frustration at Reed. 
“Knowing he can read our chat messages means we have to think before typing anything,” she said. “Where are all of us going to catch up on each other’s latest exploits if we can’t do it in the chat during a lecture?” 
One student summed up the way some students think about the chat. 
“The chat box is a student-centered space,” sophomore Libby Goode said. “If a professor wants to talk at us all class, at least let us have the chat to ourselves.” 
The University has not responded to this incident, but an AU spokesperson said students and faculty can expect a long-winded email in a matter of days that tries to appease all parties, without mentioning any concrete details.  
Owen Boice is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
oboice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
