Trader Joe’s is known for its unique, name-brand items that make for quick and tasty meals. For college students who are either cooking at home or on their own, making simple but delicious meals is everything. Here are some of the best pantry items for Trader Joe's fanatics in need of simple ways to spice up easy meals. 
Instant Miso Ramen 
Instant ramen is a well-loved classic in the college community. The rich, flavorful broth and slurpable noodles of Trader Joe’s instant miso ramen and spicy ramen will have you trading in your ordinary instant ramen for this steaming bowl of deliciousness. The miso broth is comforting and tasty, and the noodles are the perfect al dente and taste as if they have been freshly hand-pulled. With a few extra steps, you can turn this ramen into restaurant quality. My favorite way to prepare this ramen is to follow the instructions on the packaging by adding boiling water to the cup and, while that sits, I soft boil an egg for six minutes and add Trader Joe’s dried seaweed snacks. If you want to add something more substantial, I recommend sautéing mushrooms in sesame oil and coconut aminos to give it an extra flavor burst.
Turkey Chili
The Trader Joe’s canned turkey chili recipe will be a fan favorite for the wintertime. Add some extra ground turkey and brown sugar to the pot of simmering chili. If you want a Southern twist to this pantry item, put a layer of the Trader Joe’s corn dippers at the bottom of your bowl with a sprinkle of cheese. Next, place the turkey chili on top of corn chips and top it with more cheese and more corn chips to make the perfect Frito pie.
Hot and Sweet Jalapeños
These hot and sweet jalapeños will perfect any dish you create. Add them on top of a Tex-Mex dish or even eat them on their own. They are extremely flavorful and the perfect mix of sweet, spicy and tangy. My favorite way to enjoy these is on avocado toast. After spreading avocado on your favorite toasted bread, I recommend sprinkling salt and crushing pepper onto your avocado. Then, add a dash of garlic powder, red pepper flakes and a healthy amount of Everything but the Bagel Sesame Seasoning Blend. Finally, scoop out the hot and sweet jalapeños and cover your avocado with them as well as adding some of the juice to your toast. Bonus points if you add hot sauce as well!
Taco Seasoning
The Trader Joe’s taco seasoning is magical and can heighten your dish, especially when paired with their chili seasoning blend. Add your favorite veggies to a sheet pan with a drizzle of olive oil and heavily sprinkle the taco seasoning over your produce and roast until tender. I like to add the veggies to a bowl and top it off with an avocado lime sauce made of avocado, lime, Greek yogurt, and salt and pepper along with the Trader Joe’s chile lime seasoning.
You can also use this to make a quick and easy chicken tortilla soup. Add onions, garlic, and salt and pepper to a big soup pot and simmer until the onions become translucent. Then, add a can or two of diced tomatoes along with the taco seasoning and chili seasoning, and let that simmer. Later, add your broth of choice. Trader Joe’s low-sodium chicken broth and veggie broth are delicious. After this mixture has simmered for a while, it is time for the add-ins. You can add either shredded chicken or Trader Joe’s canned green jackfruit for a vegan option. The jackfruit has a similar texture to chicken or pork when shredded and will soak up all the flavor of the soup. I also like to add black beans, Trader Joe’s frozen sweet corn and whatever I can find in my fridge at the time. Finish seasoning the soup with a couple of limes, and add the taco and chili seasoning to taste. While this mixture simmers, cut corn tortillas in triangles or small strip shapes. Drizzle oil on top of them along with the taco seasoning and place them in the oven to make tortilla chips. Once those are crispy, top your soup with fresh avocado, lime and your tortilla chips.
Vegan Kale, Cashew, Basil Pesto
This pesto is one of the freshest tasting store-bought pestos I have tried. The mint-forward flavor makes it so fresh-tasting. There are so many ways to enjoy a good pesto, but my favorite is on a veggie sandwich. Get a delicious multigrain bread (I enjoy the Trader Joe’s gluten-free whole grain bread), and spread the pesto on one of the slices of bread and your favorite hummus on the other. Add Dijon mustard for zing. Layer on veggies of your choice — I recommend cucumbers, bell peppers, lettuce, avocado, onion and tomatoes. Top with salt, pepper and a drizzle of olive oil.
There is nothing better than creating an easy, quick meal that tastes amazing. After trying these Trader Joe’s ingredients and simple tips, you will refuse to have another boring meal again!
amelsheimer@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
While so much of life now revolves around technology, it’s hard to find moments of escape from news alerts and social media scrolling, and it’s even harder to maintain our jagged and anxious attention. Film began as an imaginative outlook where the camera transformed our world, let us look at ourselves differently and took us to new places. All the time, and all at once, Americans have looked to film as a way to feel better in brief, collective moments, apart from their anxieties, fears and anger. Here are some great films that can help you escape, if only for an hour and then some.
Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009) - Available on Disney+
Directed by artistically inclined director Wes Anderson, “Fantastic Mr. Fox” is a perfect, fall escapism film because it’s crafted to draw you in. The animals are cute, witty and motivated. The film is composed along symmetrical lines — Wes Anderson loves his vertical centers — with neat trees, buildings and color blocking. The precision is the exact opposite of the world around us, and it’s a pleasing relief. The film’s plot follows a family of foxes and their rodent neighbors, whose homes are suddenly attacked by neighboring produce corporations. Like the Robin Hood fairytale, Mr. Fox (George Clooney) decides to steal from the rich and save his home and friends. The plot is softly political, so conscious viewers will be eager to root for Mr. Fox and his cohorts, but it’s not jarring enough to keep your mind reeling with the reality of politics occurring outside of Anderson’s claymation creation.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople (2016) - Available on Netflix and Hulu
A grumpy, old man named Hec (Sam Neill) and a young, quirky kid named Ricky (Julian Dennison) adventure together through the New Zealand bush, on the run from child protective services and police. The pair come across unexpected, yet sympathetic characters - like a rural father-daughter duo and a man who goes by the nickname “Psycho” Sam (Rhys Darby). The film is sprinkled with emotionally sincere moments between the mostly comedic and ironic narrative orchestrated by director Taika Waititi. Waititi’s quick-hit comedy lines and the main characters’ unexplainable quirks are engaging and endearing, bringing any viewer along for an easy-paced film that ends with a touching realization of personal flaws and working together.
Ocean’s 8 (2018) - Available on HBO Max and Hulu (with certain subscriptions)
Beautiful, many famous, women commit crimes together — that’s the plot. Like any other “Ocean’s” film, this Sandra Bullock-led reboot has a simple mission made complicated by clever planning, sleuthing, lying and cheating to rob the glorious Met Gala in New York City. “Ocean’s 8” delivers intensity, comedy and teamwork through a wide-range of character types and fan-favorite actresses. Rihanna, who plays Nine Ball, subverts the nerdy hacker trope to one of cool mystery. Sarah Paulson makes the underestimated mother type an independent agent. Celebrity cameos give the film a hint of realism that makes it more fun to watch. “Ocean’s 8” is a good escape through its familiar plot but entertaining maze of planning that has a million-dollar payoff.
Catch Me If You Can (2002) - Available on Netflix and Hulu (with certain subscriptions)
Tom Hanks and Leonardo DiCaprio are always one-step in the wrong direction throughout this 2002 film, which is based on a true story. Hanks delivers his usual good-guy performance as an FBI agent named Carl Hanratty, but he’s unrelenting in his pursuit of the most successful young robber and forger in American history. Hanks is a great liaison for the viewer, especially as DiCaprio’s character, Frank Abagnale Jr., seems to trick the untrickable and evade capture at every turn through complex schemes. Abagnale is able to disguise himself in plain sight as a pilot, doctor and prosecutor, all before he turns 19-years-old. But he has to be caught eventually, or else we’d never have this wonderful film. The joy of the chase is a great escape from the daily Zoom routines.
Dolemite Is My Name (2019) - Available on Netflix
This underrated movie about movies dives into the overlooked history of Black American filmmakers in the 1970s. Eddie Murphy plays the struggling entertainer Rudy Ray Moore, the man behind the cult-classic “Dolemite” films. Dolemite becomes Moore’s on-stage comedic persona and then eventually an on-screen karate-fighting, suit-wearing hero. “Dolemite is My Name” is a remarkable story about Black success and creativity in an industry in which they are often shunned. It’s also a fun yet sentimental return to the screen for Murphy, who hasn’t been in a film since 2016. “Dolemite Is My Name” is joyful, which is definitely needed these days. The outrageous camp costuming and funky music is a wonderful escape.
The Rocky Horror Picture Show (1975) - Available to rent on Amazon Prime for $3.99
“The Rocky Horror Picture Show” is a cult-classic, musical, science fiction (“double feature”) starring the unforgettable Tim Curry. This low-budget film barely made waves in box offices when it was released in 1975, but over the decades it’s grown to prominence in small-town art-deco theaters. When white-bread characters Janet (Susan Sarandon) and Brad (Barry Bostwick) stumble upon a castle in the woods, they meet mysterious and unpredictable characters with hidden secrets. This is a perfect escapism film because the plot is hardly existent, but the music and acting is so up-tempo and melodramatic that you’ll enjoy yourself, while also wondering what is happening on screen. Songs like “The Time Warp” and “Touch-a, Touch-a, Touch-a, Touch Me” are incredibly fun scenes, making subtle commentary on sexuality and conservative social norms of the ‘70s. The film features romance, infidelity, murder and aliens, so it’s a catch-all for any time you want some great, ‘70s rock songs with a dash of plot.
What a Girl Wants (2003) - Available on Netflix
When was the last time you thought about Amanda Bynes? It was probably 2003, when this teenage romantic-comedy was released. Bynes plays Daphne Reynolds, the tomboy teen who embarks on her independent journey to reconnect with her estranged father, Henry Dashwood (Colin Firth), a candidate for Britain’s prime minister. Bynes reminds her father of his younger rock-n-roll lifestyle while she faces public scrutiny from the media and her father’s fiancée for not fitting into the right mold. “What a Girl Wants” has typical 2000s montages, complete with the archetypal fitting room scene and a motorcycle ride around London, and cringeworthy moments that make the film funny and easy. With a familiar message of being yourself and reuniting with loved ones, “What a Girl Wants” is a great throwback to simpler times.
kmcdonnell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
