Ricky Staub’s directorial debut, “Concrete Cowboy,” tells the age-old story of familial reconciliation in a not-so-common setting.
The film follows the relationship between Cole (Caleb McLaughlin), a 15-year-old inner-city trouble maker, and his estranged father, Harp (Idris Elba). 
Upon Cole’s expulsion from school in Detroit, his mother, Amahle (Liz Priestley), drops him off at Harp’s house in an urban part of Philadelphia for the summer. Cole is dismayed to find his new home in terrible condition, containing nothing but beaten-up furniture, a fridge filled solely with soda and old beer and Boo, one of the many horses that Harp takes care of with his team at the Fletcher Street Urban Riding Club. A fed-up Cole leaves Harp’s place to go hang out with his cousin, Smush (Jharrel Jerome), who we quickly learn deals drugs. 
Throughout the rest of the film, we watch Cole’s journey as he decides whether to follow in Harp’s footsteps or run with Smush. Eventually, he will choose the former option.
“Concrete Cowboy” ends with a reunion between Cole and his parents as they all embrace each other for the first time in years.
All in all, the film is predictable. Smush fulfills the tried and true narrative of the inner-city kid who couldn’t quite make it out of his environment in time, (think “Boyz n the Hood,” “Menace II Society,” etc.) and “Concrete Cowboy” has no problem embracing it.
Equally as predictable is the family reconciliation at the end of the film. From the get-go, we can tell that Cole and Harp will eventually bond with each other. And while this may be intentioned as heart-warming or redemptive, it largely comes off as trite.
While the reunion is easy to spot, it’s also forced. There’s no logical progression from estrangement to reunion; the script simply insists that they must learn to like each other.
The film does have its merits, though. Elba’s grizzled, “I’ve-seen-some-stuff-in-my-day” delivery is aptly paired with his cowboy persona. His do-it-yourself attitude and the cigarette that never seems to leave his mouth hearkens back to the classic outlaws of old Westerns.
Staub’s direction also shows flashes of brilliance. He uses the camera masterfully to elicit visceral feelings in the audience.
During the moment before Smush’s demise, we watch through Cole’s eyes as his cousin walks up to the front of the gas station where the deal is to go down. There’s a quiet calm-before-the-storm buildup to the shooting, as we are forced to look on in silence, as helpless as Cole is to stop the inevitable. The camera suddenly fades to black. Gunshots blare out at high volume, and we’re jolted right back into the scene with a force via a shaky POV shot that follows Cole running towards the crime scene. 
We feel the full emotional impact of the situation no matter how certain the outcome was. No amount of foresight can prepare us for sudden loss, and the frantic camera movements combine perfectly with distorted street sounds to capture that feeling.
“Concrete Cowboy” is far from a perfect film. Its results are expected and its story is nothing new. Yet we can’t help but feel emotionally drawn to the characters’ performances and the story’s oddly enticing Western mystique in the midst of Northern Philadelphia. 
Deep down, we all want to ride off into the sunset just as Cole and Harp do, together.
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sister Circle, an organization at American University dedicated to cultivating conversations about health, hosted an online discussion on April 14 centered around topics such as colorism, texturism, featurism and how they affect relationships. 
Conversations Understanding Relationships, Love, & Sex (C.U.R.L.S.), was hosted by Donna Oriowo, a first-generation Nigerian American, author of “Cocoa Butter & Hair Grease: A Self Love Journey Through Hair and Skin” and a sex and relationship therapist in the D.C. area. The event was also in partnership with the Health Promotion and Advocacy Center and Student Health Center.
The 90-minute talk started with an icebreaker to bring the participants together and progressed into conversations surrounding colorism and texturism. The discussion examined how society upholds anti-Blackness and white supremacy simultaneously. 
Deborah Tadesse, a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences, said that she loved how freely and passionately her peers spoke about these issues. 
“Going to this event allowed me to see that there is a community for me where I could have these shared experiences,” Tadesse said. “I’ll absolutely be on the lookout for events such as this one in the future.” 
They discussed how society has preferences for lighter skin tones and how textured hair conjures negative connotations compared to straighter hair. 
The talk also looked at how these “messages” are learned at a young age, particularly by young girls. “The average age a girl learns what their skin tone and hair texture means is at age 5,” Oriowo said. “Now it’s looking more like 4 to 5 years old.”
Oriowo also discussed fetishization and stereotypes of races based on skin tone and hair texture, and it prompted a discussion about how these messages are part of our subconsciousness. 
“We ask the ‘what are you?’ question more than we think,” Oriowo said. “What we don’t realize is that we ask this so racism knows how to treat you.”
mallen@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Since students moved onto campus for American University’s Mid-Semester Residential Experience (MSRE), dining has become a key focus of many residents’ questions and concerns.
Due to new coronavirus procedures implemented to keep students and staff safe, most dining options on campus have been to-go, while some dining locations on campus haven’t opened at all. Starbucks, Subway and Einstein Bros. Bagels have been “closed for training” during the 2021 MSRE, according to the AU Mobile Order App. 
But what is commonly referred to as the mini-mester has been noticeably different from semesters before it, and residents and staff alike have had varying experiences with the MSRE. 
AU Mobile Order
While on campus for the mini-mester, residents have been able to download the AU Mobile Order app to place their orders at a variety of on-campus dining locations and pick it up once their meal is ready.
On the app, students have the option to order from TDR, Wonk Burger, Absurd Bird, BUILD, the Dav and the Bridge Cafe. And though the app has been working for a majority of the time during the MSRE, there have been times where students have noted issues with ordering or issues with the app functioning altogether. 
School of International Service freshman Jehane Djedjro said that she feels as though having a mobile order option has made things easier than they might have been otherwise.
“This is my first semester on campus,” Djedjro said. “I wasn’t sure how TDR functioned last semester, but I definitely think that having an app makes things so much easier, especially being able to order it ahead of time and going to pick it up.”
Though Djedjro noted these positives about AU’s mobile ordering, she also said that there are “specific times during the day” where the app shuts down.
The University also offered students the ability to use EagleBucks on the food delivery app Grubhub this year when they sign up with their student ID or email. 
SIS sophomore Dean Lefebvre said that this particular program has been helpful on nights where he wants to order in later than 5 or 6 p.m.
Housing and Residence Life at AU have also acknowledged issues with the mobile order app, and have sent emails to current residents throughout the “mini-mester” to alert them of times when the app was down. 
Wait times
Wait times on campus have also greatly differed, and residents have found themselves with varying experiences waiting to get their food.
SPA freshman Isabella Paracca found most of her orders to be done before they said they would be, and Djedjro described the wait times themselves as “very short” and “extremely fast.” 
Not everyone has found the wait times to be as quick nor as flexible. 
Lefebvre explained that though he believes AU has gotten better with their wait times and app issues, he still has to be “smart about it” to plan ahead.
“Usually, you can tell a line based on the menu,” Lefebvre said. “If you know that this is a menu that people are gonna want, then you order early.” 
Lefebvre elaborated that though he has experienced some longer wait times during MSRE, he also said that not every on-campus location has the same issue.
“Wonk Burger has actually been really good about it,” Lefebvre said. “And TDR generally is okay.”
MSRE food options
When it comes to the food itself though, residents seem to have mixed opinions.
While options at The Dav and Absurd Bird remain the same, menus at TDR change each day, though some choices like fruit, mac and cheese, garden salads and Belgian waffles are consistently available. Between breakfast, lunch and dinner, food choices at TDR vary, with options ranging from sweet potato wedges to cilantro rice or baked ham. 
“I definitely think that the quality of food is good for what AU is — a university,” Djedjro said when speaking of the dining options during the MSRE.
Lefebvre said that he wished AU opened a “few more of their options” for dining during the MSRE. Lefebvre expressed disappointment in early closing times, suggesting that staying open for even another hour or so may help to alleviate the lines and wait times for both residents and staff.
Behind the MSRE dining experience: food service workers
Chartwells, AU’s contracted dining provider, notified furloughed service workers about returning to work in January, according to Anthony Randolph, an organizer for AU’s food service union and a dining worker.
Approximately 35 workers have returned to campus to handle Chartwells’ dining offers in TDR and in the Tavern. Over 190 hourly staff were furloughed, according to University spokesperson Stacie Burgess.
Randolph said he decided not to return to campus to work because he was concerned about safety amid the pandemic. Workers were given the opportunity to opt-out of returning to work when they were notified in January, Randolph said.
“They did do some things to keep workers and students safe, and I was glad they were able to do that in a short period of time before opening up,” Randolph said. He visited campus in March to check in on what measures the University and Chartwells had taken to keep dining employees safe. “The workers are thankful that they have opportunities in terms of work.”
Despite gratefulness to be back to work, Randolph said there have been issues with understaffing at the dining locations as well as delays in receiving payroll.
Maurice Jackson, who worked at TDR’s salad station said he hadn’t been paid for a week upon returning from the pandemic and that he was frustrated. He had been working at AU since 1999.
Jackson said he wasn’t worried about safety upon returning to work in March because he’d been vaccinated. 
“I didn’t care about no pandemic, I was working anyway, coming in and working with students,” Jackson said. “I had to make some money.”
He added that workers were provided protection equipment, like masks, though he said one dining service worker did catch COVID-19. A University spokesperson said that contracted workers, like dining staff, are tested for COVID-19 twice per week.
“We continue to implement increased cleaning of high-traffic areas and provide hand sanitizing stations across campus, including dining areas. Additionally, there are health and safety measures which Chartwells requires of their workers,” said Burgess in an email to The Eagle.
Throughout the pandemic, food service employees were furloughed by the University. Randolph said he didn’t receive much communication from the University or from Chartwells, but the University was still providing for the workers on furlough.
“They’ve always been in our corner, they were providing health care for our workers,” Randolph said, when speaking about the University. “They were on our side, they were making sure we were getting things that were making workers comfortable during this pandemic. They made sure we had health care, they made sure we had gift cards. I appreciate them for doing that. Like I said, people were relying on health care and having some assistance for food and things that were allowing them to live.”
Another food service worker, Alvesta Richardson, said that she was hesitant about how the University and Chartwells would ensure service workers’ safety. Richardson said that Chartwells did not reach out to her, or any other workers she had talked to, throughout the pandemic.
Richardson said Chartwells plans on bringing back more workers in August as the Fall 2021 semester begins. 
Chartwells did not respond to request for comment.
“Currently, we are planning for a return to full dining services in the fall and contractors will be returning to campus-based on student enrollment and dining needs. The specific process for dining contractors to return is determined by Chartwells and its collective bargaining agreement with the union representing the workers,” Burgess said in an email.
swinick@theeagleonline.com and kmcdonnell@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
