"Diplo, Main Stage @ExitFestival 2013" by Exit Festival is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 2.0
After over a year of quarantining and social distancing, live music is finally back. As of June 11, restrictions for indoor capacity limits have been lifted entirely in D.C., meaning bars, clubs and music venues can now open up at full capacity. With this, here are 4 concerts you should attend this summer.
July 21 Japanese Breakfast 
Michelle Zauner, the front woman of the band Japanese Breakfast, is currently on tour for her third album, “Jubilee.” The album features her hit song “Be Sweet,” which has over 6 million plays on Spotify. Zauner executes and modernizes her indie rock sound with electro-pop influences in her latest record, creating an eclectic, avant-garde piece. If you enjoy Soccer Mommy, Snail Mail or Lucy Dacus, Zauner could be your next favorite artist.
Japanese Breakfast is playing at the Fillmore in Silver Spring, Maryland on July 21 at 8 p.m. Tickets start at $28 and can be found here. 
July 23 DIPLO
Iconic DJ, record label owner, and music producer Diplo is known as the mastermind behind DJ group Major Lazer and for collaborations with various Top-100 artists including Dua Lipa, Noah Cyrus, Sia and Justin Bieber. With a newly released album, the music producer is touring the country, stopping in D.C. on the first leg of the tour. If you’re looking through this list for a concert you can dance your heart out at, this is the one.
Diplo is playing at Echostage on July 23 at 9 p.m.Tickets start at $65 and can be found here. 
July 24 MEDUZA
Italian electronic music production trio MEDUZA is known best for their songs “Lose Control”, featuring Goodboys and Becky Hill, and “Piece of Your Heart.” The house music trio generated success from these releases with the latter reaching No. 1 on Billboard’s Dance Chart Upstart and a Grammy nomination in 2019. Since 2019, the group has produced remixes for artists including Dermot Kennedy, Ritual and John Legend, displaying their classic upbeat and bold electronic sound in every track. 
Meduza is playing at Echostage on July 24 at 9 p.m. Tickets start at $39 and can be found here.
August 7: The Backseat Lovers
Utah based rock band The Backseat Lovers are most notable for their song “Kilby Girl” from their debut album released in 2019. The band was unable to tour for their album until now following the coronavirus pandemic. With a classic indie rock sound, it’s hard not to adore The Backseat Lovers if you’re a fan of alternative rock. If you listen to The Kooks, Briston Maroney or Peach Pit, you’ll enjoy this band. Not only is the band highly rated, but so are the drinks and food at Union Stage, a newer D.C. venue. 
The Backseat Lovers are playing at Union Stage on August 7 at 8 p.m. Tickets start at $18 and can be found here. 
While live music has just opened up, there are more concerts scheduled for late September and October. If you’re ready to get out and experience new music after a year without live music, these concerts are for you. 
jschwartz@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University Housing and Residence Life (HRL) asked returning students who were originally assigned to live in Leonard Hall for the upcoming year to relocate to a different residence hall or move off-campus to accommodate an increased number of incoming first-year students. 
In a June 17 email, HRL announced that both sophomores and upperclassmen originally assigned to live in Leonard Hall would have to move elsewhere after AU accepted more students than average during the past admissions cycle. The Eagle previously reported that the incoming first-year class is expected to be about 2,005 students, when it was about 1,780 last year.
According to the email, only one floor in Leonard will remain available for returning students originally assigned to live there. Upperclassmen can move to the Frequency Apartments, located next to the Tenleytown Metro station, or remain in Leonard for the same housing cost. Sophomores can either move to Duber Hall for a higher cost or remain in Leonard. It was not clarified in the email how the decisions would be made as to who would remain in Leonard.
Nathan Payson, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, is moving to Duber instead of Leonard and realized the financial impact this decision will have on him and many returning students formerly assigned to Leonard.
“I think for a lot of people, [the housing assignment update] is more frustrating,” Payson said. “It’s an upgrade; it’s just some people don’t want to pay for that upgrade and don’t have the ability to pay for the upgrade.”
Payson said that it is “absurd” to expect returning students to pay an increased housing rate due to a mistake on the University’s part. A double room in Duber has a semester rate of $6,155, compared to the $5,048 for a traditional double room in Leonard, per the Housing and Residence Life website. For upperclassmen, an apartment style room in Frequency ranges from $6,350 to $8,115.
“From an equity standpoint, it’s very problematic,” Payson said.
Helena Milburn, a sophomore majoring in CLEG and journalism, is also choosing to relocate to Duber although she said she would have preferred to remain in Leonard.
“When COVID was happening, I understand why the University had to shut down, but with this, it really seems like it’s the University messing up and not some sort of global pandemic, big situation,” Milburn said. “Just frustrated and annoyed is what I’ve been feeling.”
The email asked that affected students complete a reassignment form on the AU Housing Portal by June 28. Housing and Residence Life set a goal to share students’ new assignments last Thursday.
Instead, Milburn and other affected students received an email that their new room assignments would be distributed at a later time.
“Logistically, I just need to know whether I need to look for an apartment and find roommates for that,” Milburn said. “Classes start August 30, and so that would give me a month and a half to find an apartment, which really isn’t ideal.”
Director of Residence Life Lisa Freeman said that HRL will offer support to affected students.
“We understand that every student will be impacted differently by this reassignment and we are actively working on all ramifications of this move, including additional financial aid, support and relocation options,” Freeman said. “Students impacted will receive an [update] on our assignments process later this week.”
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
