Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In front of a rowdy crowd, the American University volleyball team (4-3, 0-0 PL) defeated the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (1-7, 0-0 America East) on Tuesday in Bender Arena.
With this week’s win, the Eagles extended their lifetime dominance over the Retrievers to 21-3 since their first meeting in 1989. UMBC’s last victory over AU was in 1996.
AU went into the game trying to rebound off a tough weekend road trip in North Carolina where they went 1-2. They entered Tuesday’s game still looking a little rocky and dropped the first set to UMBC. 
Going into the second set, the arena came alive along with the team. As the Eagles went back and forth with the Retrievers, fans wielding school flags and a big head cutout of AU head coach Barry Goldberg cheered throughout a very even set. UMBC held the lead until late in the set when the Eagles rallied to finally overtake the Retrievers. AU came out on top in the second set and looked to carry that momentum with them throughout the rest of the match.
The Eagles began the third set dominating, opening with a 3-0 run. It looked like AU finally had control of the match after a tough opening. However, the Retrievers managed to come back and tie it 20-20 before the Eagles managed to end off a tired UMBC squad to take the third set and the lead 2-1.
Into the fourth and final set, AU clearly held the game in their hands. The Retrievers held on for as long as they could, trailing by less than 3 points for most of the set, but one final run by the Eagles to go up by 5 late in the fourth sealed the match. AU took the fourth and final set when junior Asli Celikkol had an impressive block around the net to send the Retrievers home, winning the match 3-1.
Celikkol's impressive performance against UMBC helped carry AU to victory. She led the entire match in kills with 15, also putting up 6 blocks. Sophomore Allie Burke also had a stellar game, leading the match with a career-high 12 blocks. Burke’s outstanding achievement also put her atop the entire NCAA for most blocks in a game this season on a Division I team.
Other notable statistical leaders included senior Fanny Ahman, who finished with a career-high 18 digs, and juniors Zeynep Uzen and Inbal Peleg, who finished with their third and fourth double-doubles of the season, respectively. 
Celikkol said post-game that, after a tough weekend tournament at the Aggie-Spartan Invitational in Norfolk, North Carolina, the mentality going into the match was that the team wanted to “show everyone who we actually are.”
Burke agreed with Celikkol, saying that since it was a home game, the Eagles really wanted to “go win this at our court, just play fun, play loose, play volleyball.”
Goldberg said the win over UMBC was great, especially coming right off a long weekend in North Carolina. “That’s how it goes, up and down a little bit,” Goldberg said post-game. “We’re happy with tonight for sure. It was a good win.”
The Eagles are now above .500 on the season sitting at 4-3. “We needed that,” Burke said. “It’s really good for us.”
The Eagles return to Bender Arena on Sept. 17 to face no. 11 ranked Oregon at 7 p.m. ET.
apowers@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As the fall semester at American University begins and students are back in the dorms and on campus, snacks and easy-to-make meals are more important than ever.
Between upcoming cold winter days and long study breaks throughout the semester, it can be hard to decide on which will be most helpful and filling throughout the next few months. This list of the best foods to keep in your dorm has everything you need for a successful semester.
Oreos
What would a study break be without some Oreos to help pass the time? Easy to find, purchase and store in a drawer, shelf or cabinet, Oreos are the perfect snack to have on hand for any snack or dessert during the week — especially dipped in milk. Oreos are fit for any time of year and will satiate your hunger in the best way.
Campbell’s microwaveable soup
This next food is perfect for a cold day or a quick meal between classes no matter the season, and the variety of flavors is sure to make for an easy meal. Whether it’s Chicken Noodle or Creamy Tomato, Campbell’s soup is warm, filling and perfect for any lunch or dinner in your dorm.
Cereal
Though TDR is open every day for breakfast, not everyone wants to get out of bed and walk to MGC first thing in the morning to eat. Having some kind of cereal in your dorm is perfect for those relaxed mornings or time before class. With endless options like Frosted Cheerios or Lucky Charms, cereal is excellent for a quick breakfast and an easy-to-clean-up meal.
Pringles
Alongside sweeter food choices like Oreos, Pringles are the perfect salty snack to keep in your room that comes in a variety of flavors ranging from Barbecue to Cheddar and Sour Cream. Pringles are an easy food to store and bring around with you as you go through the day.
Chocolate
This list wouldn’t be complete without chocolate, and whether you like sweeter options like Twix or something more bitter like dark chocolate Brookside, chocolate is the perfect snack to keep in your dorm when you need that extra push to keep studying or a sweet way to end the day and one that’s sure to cheer everyone up. 
There are endless options of foods to keep with you throughout the semester, and this list is the perfect starting point to gather the snacks that are best for you. You can use EagleBucks to purchase any of these snacks at either of AU’s on-campus markets, or pick them up at a local grocery store to stock up on your dorm snack supply.
swinick@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
As students, staff and faculty settle into the fall semester, apprehension and excitement coexist. 
With indoor masking and a vaccine mandate, American University has taken precautions against a surge in cases on campus and in the surrounding area. Still, the recent testing wave across four floors in three residence halls in response to two positive COVID-19 cases indicates that the precautionary measures can only do so much. 
While the return to normalcy has been much anticipated, the University is still navigating the most effective way to deal with positive cases. In a situation involving health risks, one of the most important things the University can do is be clear about the terms they use to discuss this ongoing health crisis. While a growth in positive cases might be inevitable, the University can help the American University community feel the most prepared by defining the variety of terms and thresholds used to discuss the COVID-19 situation on campus. 
Various members of the administration have used similar language to discuss COVID-19 cases on campus, including “cluster,” “proximity” and “close contact.” When reporting the story of confirmed positives in residence halls, The Eagle used the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention definition of close contact to provide clarity. The University should clearly define this term in all communication relating to COVID-19 cases, especially when the term identifies the personal risk members of the AU community should feel after notification of a positive COVID-19 case. The University should explain what it classifies as a “cluster” in order to give the community a realistic understanding of the level of threat. The University should explain its threshold for determining what percentage of cases pose enough danger to switch operations to a hybrid system or completely online. The AU community has a right to be aware of these definitions as it moves through this unique semester. 
The overwhelming majority of the Eagle Editorial Board favored testing “out of an abundance of caution.” The University can also consider mandating regular testing for all people with a campus presence. 
AU’s Good Neighbor Policy is routinely used to remind the AU community of its commitment to the surrounding residents of D.C. Given the threat of the highly-transmissible delta variant, not mandating regular testing regardless of vaccine status can be seen as a threat to the surrounding community. 
The University’s decision to inform the community of the positive cases was necessary and it should continue to be as transparent as possible without violating the private health information of individuals. This transparency should include updating the COVID-19 dashboard to differentiate between on-campus and off-campus confirmed positive cases. Clear communication and guidelines prevents panic and allows individuals to better assess the risk to their health as everyone cautiously returns to a “normal” AU experience. 
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As students return to in-person classes for the first time in 17 months, the University’s coronavirus response is being put to the test in real-time, leaving some students with concerns about its effectiveness.
Within the first two weeks of classes, questions arose about procedures involving class sizes, contact tracing and COVID-19 testing.
“The first domino to fall”
After just two days of class, two sections of an economics lecture were moved online after meeting in person once. According to the University’s fall plan, classes with 50 or more students were to take place online. Despite this, the class was listed as an in-person class for the students who registered for it. 
Zamaan Qureshi, a sophomore in the School of International Service, is a student in one of these classes that moved online.
Qureshi said that this felt like “the first domino to fall” in regards to the University’s response to COVID-19 this semester. 
Matthew Bennett, the University’s chief communications officer, confirmed in an email to The Eagle that two economics classes had been moved online in accordance with the University’s health and safety measures. Bennett did not specify why the classes had been permitted to be in-person to begin with, despite them being larger than the University’s 50 person threshold.
“The two in-person Economics classes that had grown beyond the 50 student threshold were moved online in accordance with our health and safety measures, and we are currently working to create smaller, in-person discussion sections that are accessible to all the students in the class,” Bennett wrote. 
Qureshi said that was notified of the change in course modality the night before the class was supposed to meet. 
“I personally hadn’t received any information that there was any kind of development regarding COVID, within our class or the University more broadly,” Qureshi said. “The policy change confused me in that regard and that the communication was relatively limited on short notice and quite a drastic change for an educational experience for a class.”
Still, Qureshi said that he felt safe being in the class in person, despite its large size. 
“I personally feel that there’s a general response from American University students that we take this virus seriously, and we take the policies at the school seriously and we want to protect the health of our community, be that AU, and the Washington, D.C. area,” he said. 
Bennett said that the University is working to create smaller, in-person discussion sections available to all students in the class, but that the main lectures will continue to be online. 
Qureshi said that the University’s communication this semester has so far been very mixed. 
“If the thought process all along was that this kind of size class was going to be virtual, why tell students at the beginning of the semester, and offer this class as an in-person class?” Qureshi said. “Quite frankly, it’s misleading.” 
Case notification procedures 
As of Sept. 7, the University has sent proximity notifications to 28 classes based on 17 positive cases, according to Bennett. 
Bennett said that once a student tests positive for the coronavirus, all members of the class are notified.
“All members of the class are notified as an extra layer of risk mitigation and out of an abundance of caution,” Bennett said. “This testing can help identify and isolate any potential further cases.”
Victoria Opperman, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and School of Communication, received one of those emails after a student in her Chemistry of Cooking lecture class tested positive. The class has 48 seats in it and meets twice a week in person. Opperman received an email from the University’s COVID-19 notification system on Sept. 7 after a student in her class that met on Sept. 2 tested positive. The email said that she was “not a close contact” and encouraged her to take part in voluntary COVID-19 testing.
The email she received said that she was still expected to continue attending her campus activities, including attending class. 
“In retrospect, it also did feel a little bit weird to be going around in daily life after getting that email,” she said. 
Opperman said she wishes that the University had been clearer from the beginning of the semester for what the COVID-19 policies and procedures are.
“It does feel a little bit weird that we didn’t get an initial email kind of being like ‘hey here’s what these emails mean, here’s what professors are allowed to do with masking. Here's what we suggest that you do in terms of seating in a lecture hall that's bigger,’” she said. 
Students petition for mandatory COVID-19 testing 
A group of Resident Assistants and Desk Receptionists across several residence halls started a petition to implement mandatory COVID-19 testing for all students, regardless of vaccination status. The petition is addressed to Vice President of Campus Life and Inclusive Excellence Fanta Aw, Housing and Residence Life Director Lisa Freeman and Director of COVID-19 Student Support Services Paul Calhoun. The petition is asking that this testing occur on a biweekly basis at minimum. 
The petition is also asking the University to publish information regarding outbreaks and infection rates in residence halls. The University has since launched a COVID-19 dashboard, though the data does not break down cases by on-campus residency and off-campus residency like it did in previous semesters. 
“Residents and their residential staff have the right to know about the threat of COVID-19 that lurks in their home. Simply having the present mask mandate in place is not enough as full enforcement is impossible,” the petition reads. 
RAs and desk receptionists, who are employed by the Office of Housing and Residence Life, are responsible for enforcing the University’s mask mandate, being HRL’s “frontline enforcers” for COVID-19 policies in the residence halls. 
“My first night on duty, I walked into a room and there were over 20 [students]; it was standing room only in a person's dorm, no masks. And in some ways, it feels like COVID is like flying out the window at times,” said Josh Hall, an RA in Centennial Hall who helped to start the petition. 
Hall said that he chooses to get tested weekly, and encourages his residents to get tested as well. Because testing is not mandatory, he said that some of the issues he has had to deal with among his residents have stemmed from differing views on COVID-19 precautions amongst roommates. 
“The worst part was not knowing how much COVID was in the dorms, because you’d only hear about the cases that you’ve heard while you were on duty, or from your individual floor through the grapevine,” Hall said. “But there’s kind of that dark figure lingering there. And [the dashboard] helps partially with it, but it still exists because they’re not testing everyone within there.”
Aw said in an email to The Eagle that the University is applying a “comprehensive approach” to its health and safety measures. 
“To mandate testing for students living on campus presume that those students are at greater risk of infection than others and the science and data is not here to back that up. We have found based on past covid testing prior to the vaccination that off-campus students were at higher levels of infection,” Aw said. “We must understand the importance of a layered approach to health and safety and the fact is that at the university we mandated vaccinations, we have a mask mandate, we test based on risks, and we conduct robust contact tracing.”
Hall said that he hopes the University listens to the RAs, especially as they are putting their lives on the line for their jobs. 
“It’s not a fault-proof system. And [the University] said they would keep it that way until they had reason to do otherwise,” Hall said. “And my question is, why keep that fault line there? Why wait for something bad to happen, when we have the tools to prevent it?” 
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
