American University staff and students protested on the quad Thursday afternoon for a second time, seeking to raise awareness about the low wages for staff, adjunct and graduate students at AU. 
This protest focused on increased attention upon wage issues at AU, after the first protest brought initial attention to the issue.
This time, more undergraduate students came out to support their professors and teaching assistants in getting the wages they’ve spent over a year advocating for. 
There are currently over 1,800 AU employees that are unionized with SEIU Local 500, according to internal statistics obtained by The Eagle. Staff organized the second protest after what they alleged was slow progress in the University’s negotiation of wages with the labor unions after their initial protest in October. David Jacobs, an adjunct professor in the Kogod School of Business, said that the second protest was not only to address wage issues but AU’s “snail-like movement” to get negotiations done. 
Organizers said they are hoping that increased awareness and public attention on their current wage issues will place more pressure on the University. Through this added pressure, the staff is hoping the University will approach the negotiations with more urgency.
However, Jacobs and other staff members expressed that they do not expect much improvement in their contracts over the three years AU has proposed to them. 
“Now what AU is proposing is less than one percent per year, and what is ultimately like three percent over three years,” Jacobs said. “AU is dealing with increased demands from us employees that have decided that we cannot survive under prior conditions. We depend on AU to pay us adequately.” 
“I am an adjunct professor that used to work full-time,” Jacobs said. “The only way I can survive at this point is to rely on my pension and I basically am working hours as though I’m still full-time.”
Thomas Nowak, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, first heard about the working conditions for AU staff after they protested in October. He said he felt compelled to join them this time after hearing personal stories from his professors and TAs.
“We should be advocating for our professors, their pay affects us,” Nowak said. “If [the University] wants us to support academic institutions then we need the faith that the people teaching us will have a secure job.”
Salvatore Cottone and Ella Henderson, students in the School of International Service and College of Arts and Sciences respectively, are both freshmen who participated in the protest and cited disappointment and frustration with staff wage struggles. 
“I was expecting to be downtown protesting, not demanding that my own campus be paying my own professors a liveable wage,” Cottone said.
Sam Sadow, a full-time staff member and adjunct lecturer for the art department in the CAS, led speeches throughout the protest. Sadow believes that people showing up to the last protest worked. 
“It’s been hard, but I have to say the next bargaining session was productive,” he said. “We’ll be back until AU settles a negotiation with us.” 
The University said they are carefully handling the negotiation process and not allowing the public to influence any part of the process.
“While community members are welcomed and encouraged to express their views, a contract can only be concluded in the negotiating process between the university and the union representing the bargaining unit,” Elizabeth Deal, a University spokesperson, said in an email to The Eagle. 
Deal said the University is and will continue negotiations under procedures set by the National Labor Relations Board with SEIU in good faith. 
The University is one of the biggest sources of employment for students after they graduate based on exit surveys by graduating classes every year, according to Career Services Systems Administrator Aubrey Hill. These exit surveys are used to statistically indicate where AU graduates are being employed. However, Hill said there is a concerning difference in how the University treats its alumni working for the school from those working elsewhere.
According to Hill, because the University knows that students feel grateful for the school after they graduate, many students accept job offerings at AU after they graduate despite lower pay than other employers might offer. She said that while the University seems to celebrate successful alumni who don’t take AU-affiliated jobs, those who accept positions with the University are blindsided by the lack of benefits and raises available to them. 
Daniel Jenks, a TA for the sociology department, is a member of the graduate student union and is a member of their bargaining committee between the union and the University. Jenks and Hill have shared experiences in dealing with the University
“There’s been a lot of resistance from the University to receive anything meaningful from them,” Jenks said. They also said that the University’s starting offer for the graduate student union was a $0 raise in the first year, followed by subsequent minimal raises. The talks after the protest in October have been successful in raising the offer by a little, but not by the amount it should have been raised, according to Jenks. 
With the current wages AU has set, graduate students say they are struggling to support themselves.
“Washington, D.C. is one of the most expensive places to live in the country, and most [graduate students] are all, by and large, renters,” Jenks said. “A raise for me would equate to a month of groceries and I still struggle for groceries with just this job alone.”
According to a flyer given out at the rally, 14 of the highest-paid officers at AU currently earn more than all 568 adjunct faculty members combined. The officers earned a combined total of $7,039,207 in the school year ending June 30, 2020, according to both the flyer and the University’s most recent tax filing. 
Deal told The Eagle that the University is working to confirm those numbers, and that there are “a number of nuances to the issue.”
Issues such as lack of extra compensation for staffers who have to cover other AU employees who have left or have taken on additional work were also outlined in a newsletter among the AU staff union. An earlier publication of this newsletter said that graduate students were offered nothing, while adjuncts were offered 0.6 percent for 2021.
Mirashaye Basa is a member of the Library Staff Union, which is covered within Service Employees International Union Local 500. Basa is a new working full-time staff member at the university and has only started to notice the lack of AU listening to their workers. 
“I would really like all of the staff, especially [those] here, to be respected and for our wages and our rights to be changed,” Basa said. “The progress society has made with wages and pay have not been reflected at the University.” 
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available. Correction appended.
mallen@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Plants are a great way to brighten up any living space, especially dorm rooms. Although we can’t have a full jungle in our dorms, a few plants around the room can still give that same feeling. 
The best plants to keep in a dorm room are low maintenance plants, meaning they need little to no care to stay alive. These plants only need to be watered every few weeks and can be placed pretty much anywhere in the room for sunlight.
Getting started: what tools to buy
Before purchasing your first plant for your dorm, you should make sure you have the right tools. Terracotta pots are the best pots for any kind of plant and are the most affordable. You’ll only need to buy a new pot if the roots are coming out of the holes on the bottom of the plant's original pot, indicating it needs to be put in a bigger pot. If you purchase a plant that looks like this or see this happening to a plant in the future, you’ll have to repot it, so make sure you have potting soil to do so. Some more difficult plants need special kinds of soil, but for these low maintenance plants, indoor potting soil works best. 
The spring and summer months are considered the “growing season” for most plants, and this is when it is best to fertilize your plant. Low maintenance plants can be fertilized with indoor plant food, but some plants, similar to soil, need specific fertilizer. Once you have the correct tools for your plants, you’re ready to learn how to care for them.
Low-maintenance plant ideas
Contrary to popular belief, cacti and succulents are harder to take care of than most people think. They are very sensitive to overwatering and dim lighting, so if you have a bright dorm room and don’t want to pay much attention to your plants, then these are the best plants for you. Cacti and succulents like direct sunlight, meaning they should be placed on a windowsill or very close to one. They only need to be watered every two to four weeks, or when the soil is completely dry all the way through. 
Philodendron and pothos are similar plants and require similar care. These plants can be placed anywhere in your dorm room, but prefer to be near a window but not on a window sill. This is called “indirect sunlight,” as the plants will receive enough sunlight but do not need it directly on them to survive. Philodendrons and pothos should be watered every one to two weeks, or whenever the top two inches of soil are dry. 
ZZ plants, Chinese evergreens and snake plants are by far the easiest plants to take care of. These plants can be placed anywhere in your dorm room and will adapt to whatever type of light your room receives. These plants should be watered every two to four weeks, or when the top two inches of the soil are dry. These plants thrive off little to no attention, so don’t be discouraged if you forget to water them.
Where to buy plants & plant tools
These plants can be found at hardware stores or local nurseries. REWILD is a great nursery with locations in Shaw and Georgetown. They have a wide variety of plants that are affordable for college students. 
Little Leaf is also located in Shaw. They are also known for their wide variety of plants, especially their cacti and succulent varieties. 
Ginkgo Gardens is another plant nursery located near Navy Yard. They are known for their variety of indoor and outdoor plants as well as their plant tools.
No matter your confidence in plant care, these low maintenance plants are sure to keep your hopes up. You may even find yourself buying more difficult plants as your skills continue to grow.
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The American University Student Government is enacting a pilot program to start creating yearbooks for the student body. 
This initiative comes from SG President Chyna Brodie, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the College of Arts and Sciences, who advocated for creating a yearbook to strengthen the community during her campaign. 
“I think that’s just a very fundamental part of our college experience,” Brodie said. “In 20 years, when I look back at these years, I want to have something tangible.”
Polling of the student body by the yearbook staff showed that 95 percent of students were in favor of the yearbooks, according to Brodie. 
“We were just really happy to see that because, honestly, I was expecting high levels of engagement with that because it’s a pretty foundational idea to have a college yearbook,” Brodie said. 
Under the pilot, around 1,500 to 1,700 books will be produced, with plans to increase the number of books in the future. AUSG will give out the books on a first-come, first-served basis inside of MGC in the spring, Brodie said. 
“The pilot programs usually provide to 20 percent of the students to see how they liked it and how it goes, and then the next year, it potentially scales up to be more than that,” Comptroller Paul Relyea, a junior in the School of Public Affairs, said. 
In addition, the books will be provided to students free of charge, resulting in an average cost of $33 per student who receives a book. Relyea compared this cost to the average cost per student attending a Kennedy Political Union event, which is around $25 to $33. In total, the initiative will cost around $56,000.
“So, both are things that not everybody was able to or will be able to access, but the spending per student about tracks to be the same,” Relyea said. “And of course, they’re all going to be provided to students, free of charge; nobody’s charged for a KPU event, WI [Women’s Initiative] event.”
This year, the money for these books was drawn from the SG budget reserves, where leftover money from previous semesters is allocated. 
During the 2020-2021 semesters, online programming due to the coronavirus resulted in unused funds. The funds were then rolled over to SG reserves. 
“My estimation is that as much as 95 percent of that money is actually from student activity fees paid by students who have since graduated when underspending and saving was more common,” Relyea said. 
If the pilot program is successful, the funds for future yearbooks will be pulled from the current student activity fee, according to Relyea. 
Looking toward the future, Brodie says the yearbook will be a place to highlight all different types of students and activities. 
“I think that goes back to something that's just really important to me, as president, is to just really advocate for all students,” Brodie said. “It shouldn’t just be for a certain group, but to really advocate for everyone.”
aturner@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The American University men’s soccer team sunk the Navy Midshipmen 4-2 to push on to the Patriot League championship game on Tuesday.
The match did not have a dull moment and each team pushed back and forth in their attempts to seal the win. Four goals were scored in the first half alone, three for AU and one penalty kick for Navy. Scoring came from all over for the Eagles. Junior midfielder Mattias Cooper was the common denominator on three of the four goals as he proved to be an assisting machine off the bench.
The Eagles came out fast for the first goal with senior forward David Coly scoring off an assist by sophomore midfielder Ethan Boyle in the 11th minute. AU scored another goal in the 36th minute with an exceptional header and first career goal from junior forward Max Wright. Cooper sent a wide pass to sophomore defender Nevin Baer who followed it up with a deft cross into the box to find Wright’s head. 
Navy got back into the game with a penalty kick in the 42nd minute from sophomore David Jackson, but the Eagles weren’t done battering the Midshipmen. The final goal of the first half was a resounding strike into the top right of the goal from sophomore midfielder Evan Schweickert for his first career goal, assisted again by Cooper.
“We’ve shared a lot of goals this year through a lot of guys, so it isn’t too surprising,” said head coach Zach Samol on the two first career goals. “Max has been a bit unlucky with some of his other chances to score and so for him to get one today was pretty special, it was a great header too. Then Scheickert, you know he’ll get a goal at some point and today happened to be the one.”
The second half was a battle as the Midshipmen aggressively tried to claw their way out of the deficit. Navy tightened the score in the 59th minute with an excellent corner into the box to find the head of senior Jacob Williams to put the game within drawing distance. 
The Eagles had no interest in allowing Navy back into the game, and Boyle sealed the game with a goal in the 74th minute, assisted by Cooper. Cooper hit a short pass in front of Boyle who slid the ball to the far post for the final goal of the game. Navy continued to put pressure on the Eagles, but the AU defense held strong.
The Eagles are a victory away from repeating as Patriot League champions and punching their ticket to the NCAA tournament. The challenge has been something the team has embraced, according to senior defender Nicolas Blassou.
“We just feel like the energy is really high,” Blassou said. “When you win a championship the next season is really tough, cause you have a target on your back. I think we have done a good job to embrace that challenge and here we are again competing for a championship.”
The Eagles will now face the first seeded Loyola Greyhounds at Loyola in a titanic battle for the Patriot League championship this Saturday at noon ET.
lclarke@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
