Climate change is often presented in the media using the future tense, discussing temperature changes, deadlines, and initiatives set to occur by 2035 or 2050. 
Diane Burko’s new art exhibit “Seeing Climate Change,” currently at the American University’s Katzen Arts Center, however, demystifies the climate crisis, forcing visitors to recognize this issue as a current and dire reality. 
Burko’s “Seeing Climate Change” echoes her previous collections, including “Politics of Snow” and “Glacial Shifts, Changing Perspectives.” This time, there is added context of the coronavirus and increased urgency as the effects of climate change become more visible and frequent. 
Burko has always captured the intrinsic value of nature through her art, and has been an advocate for using art to address climate change. It wasn’t until 2006, however, that she began to incorporate climate change into her work.
Burko started as a landscape painter in the 1990s. An avid traveller, Burko would often take aerial shots from planes, flying over grand landscapes. Burko said she wanted to depict “an implied history of the Earth,” showing not just the mountains and glaciers, but paying homage to the greater forces and equilibriums that create these phenomena. 
In an interview, Burko explained that as her work accumulated, she began to notice shifts in the landscapes. As Burko saw the snow slowly disappear from mountains and glaciers start to recede, she asked herself: “What’s the point of painting a landscape if it’s going to disappear?” 
As Burko’s focus shifted, so did her artistic style, with her work becoming increasingly abstract. In “Seeing Climate Change,” there are nods to 18th and 19th-century Romantic painters, displaying the grandeur and power of massive landscapes and natural phenomena. 
“I’m an artist who hones in on the sublime,'' Burko said. 
Burko’s pieces seek to raise awareness and concern on the topic of climate change by articulating how it affects the aesthetic experience, documenting the beauty remaining in nature. The grand landscapes created are mirrored by the size of Burko’s work, which required the AU Museum to extend walls and build entirely new ones to host Burko’s majestically catastrophe landscapes. 
The size forces viewers to engage with the pieces, looking from far away and then stepping closer to observe the layered media and color. 
“I struggle to use the language of paint to develop new vocabulary to make visual poetry imbuing it all with something that draws you in — compels you to look more closely and then reveals some ugly truths,” Burko said.
Burko describes her artistic process as a “dance between having intention and being open to possibility.” This unstructured process has led to the creation of compelling multimedia pieces, including “Unprecedented,” one of her more recent works that reflects on the climate crisis in conjunction with the coronavirus. Within the gestural abstract brushstrokes, viewers find scientific graphs geometric shapes, showing the power of art and science working in collaboration. 
“Artists respond to their time,” Burko said about how the pandemic influenced the trajectory of her work. 
Burko said she uses her art to show how the pandemic is a metaphor and warning for what’s ahead. Instead of giving into a full dystopian narrative, Burko instead juxtaposes the catastrophic landscape of warm and cool colors clashing together with a piece of burnt wood attached at the bottom of the piece, leaving a reminder that forest fires caused by global warming bring both destruction and new growth. 
From the pandemic to the existential threat of climate change, Burko’s exhibit helps audiences cope with the current state of the world, giving viewers the awareness that the situation demands. These time capsules of grand landscapes show the audience what is at stake, encouraging viewers to lean into the melancholic beauty and respond with conversations that hopefully catalyze change. 
The American University Museum is open from 11 a.m.- 4 p.m. Friday through Sunday, and Burko’s exhibit will be available until Dec. 12. Burko will be giving a virtual gallery talk on Oct. 12 from 6 p.m.- 7 p.m. ET. Click here to register. 
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This review contains spoilers for “Lamb.”
Coming off of an ambitious summer, A24 connoisseurs should expect nothing less than daring decisions in the studio’s latest: Valdimar Jóhannsson’s debut feature, “Lamb,” which premiered at Cannes Film Festival and took home the award for originality. 
As we travel to Iceland, the film takes us to a secluded and timeless valley filled with foreboding fog, imposing inclines and oddly, hybrid human-sheep.
Opening with the point-of-view of a heavy-breathing figure, viewers are ushered through a grayscale world enshrouded in an opaque fog and howling wind at a measured pace. This slow-burn tempo carries throughout the majority of the film, contrary to the promised jump-scares and violence of the film’s trailer. There’s an added tension of silences lasting for long periods of time with only strangely emotive baa-ing to fill the space. Moreover, the pervasive sunlight of the northern hemisphere never allows for any seclusion or veiling of the action, a tactical reversal of the horror tropes that A24 films usually embrace and execute masterfully.
The film follows shepherds Maria (Noomi Rapace) and Ingvar (Hilmir Snær Guðnason), a childless married couple living alone in the middle of an unspecific Icelandic valley. Their location serves as a remote and seemingly magical place of opportunity and strife for the couple, who make a shocking discovery: one of their sheep has given birth to a half-human, half-sheep baby. The film does not dwell on the specifics of the science of how this happened, but rather the emotional ramifications of this defiance of nature.
Reflecting its fairy tale and folklore aspects, the film is divided into numbered chapters that center on relatively distinct conflicts. Chapter I cleverly hides the truth of the couple’s fascination with this specific lamb, Ada, until the reveal of her literal half-human and half-sheep features. 
Chapter II focuses mostly on Maria, who, while sharing the name of a supposed archetypal figure of motherhood, proves unstably jealous of her child’s sheep mother. She eventually kills and buries the child’s sheep mother in a violent fervor, along with an unsettling long burial sequence empathetic to the slaughtered ewe. Ingvar’s brother, Petur (Björn Hlynur Haraldsson), arrives and immediately escalates the tension with the couple’s newfound domestic “happiness,” and his persistent romantic interest in Maria. 
One of the main takeaways was Jóhannsson’s unique ability to create suspense. While much of the film is slow-moving and character-driven, Chapter III constructs a nail-biting, unsettling feeling that only swells in the film’s final moments. Contrasting intercut images — Maria, Ingvar and Petur dancing around the house drunk juxtaposed by Ada looking at herself in the sheep-barn mirror — spawns growing questions at the seemingly lackadaisical lack of resolve to the mounting tension. 
The titular promised focus on sheep seems muddled, as we do not see the domestic relationship between the couple and their flock after Chapter I, but for an eerie gathering of some tougher-looking, horned sheep interposed within the action of Chapter III. Finally, after Maria rejects Petur’s sexual advances and persuades him to leave, the climax of the film grows to a point: in an intense shoot-out scene by a minotaur-esque sheepman, Ada utters her first and final word: “Dada.” Closing on Maria’s screams and searching after she finds Ingvar’s body — powered by a searing performance by Rapace — the film offers no explanations, just the notes of Haendel’s “Sarabande.” 
As much as it contains suspense and considerable shock value facilitated through clever cinematographic tricks and strategic withholding of information, it is hard to gauge whether or not the film has something more to say in its portrayal of modern animal husbandry and its definitions of what it means to be a human, or worthy of being raised as such. 
While the sheep-herding tradition remains important in Icelandic culture, what does it mean to have an animal-human relationship literalized into a complex, emotional psycho-thriller, especially when anthropomorphic or humanoid sheep are not recognizably Icelandic folklore? Jóhannsson’s intentions are unclear, especially with his probable warning about mistreating animals. However, his incorporation of meta elements, such as the characters watching movies and reading books about folklore and magical realism, suggests a deeper lesson or meaning to be grasped, as most fables provide. 
Granting the multitude of interpretations anthropomorphism offers, “Lamb” still provides an extenuated, suspenseful and at times voyeuristic exploration of a very niche subset of society unfamiliar to international audiences.
“Lamb” was released in theaters on Oct. 8, 2021.
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
American University adjunct faculty, graduate students and staff told the University that “change can’t wait” and asked it to “accept this challenge” in regards to COVID-19 safety concerns and unfair wages on Oct. 5. 
The Eagle Editorial Board finds the demands of the protesters to be reasonable and urges the University to work with protesters. AU staff should not have to ask just to get by. 
The Eagle is made up mostly of undergraduate students, but the Editorial Board recognizes that we are part of a larger AU community — a community that has adjunct faculty, staff, graduate students and more. We must support the protesters in their demands for campus to be a safer environment, especially during a pandemic, and for the University to be an employer that supports its workers. 
Unionization is a long and frustrating process. It takes an average of 409 days from certification of a union representative election by the National Labor Relations Board to a first negotiated contract, according to Bloomberg Law. Previous attempts of campus organizations to unionize have had difficulty achieving success due to a variety of factors, including the large responsibilities on workers to organize and the University's apparent aloof attitude or unwillingness to cooperate. The work of fighting for workers falls on people that already have full time jobs, they are fighting this uphill battle on their own time. When graduate students started the unionization process in September 2016, it took months of discussion and work till February 2017 when they finally filed to unionize. For adjunct faculty, Eagle reporting from 2012 and 2013 tracks the bureaucratic and taxing process of working towards their goals. 
In Eagle reporting on the protest, adjunct professor Zein El-Amine made the point that “there’s no difference in the quality of education that we’re providing.” According to Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 500, even a full-time course load would not be enough to support an adjunct professor. The quality of education students receive from adjunct faculty is no different than full-time faculty. It is unacceptable that adjunct faculty wages are so low that 98 percent of them cannot support themselves and one child even with a full-time course load, according to SEIU’s reported numbers. Through its inaction, the University is telling adjunct professors that their time and effort is not as valuable. This inaction is impacting people’s ability to support themselves and dependents. 
The unwillingness of the University to meet these demands shows a fundamental misunderstanding of AU’s day-to-day functions: the people who protested are the people who make this University run. Without adjunct faculty, graduate students and other staff doing their job, there would be no AU experience.They deserve compensation that reflects that hard work or, at the very least, constitutes livable wages. 
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Athletes at private colleges, including American University, qualify as employees under federal labor law, National Labor Relations Board General Counsel Jennifer Abruzzo said in a memo on Sept. 29. 
The announcement creates protections for athlete unionization and prevents retaliation for advocacy concerning pay and working conditions. Until now, the NLRB has declined to consider whether college athletes are employees for the purposes of collective bargaining over unionization or other aspects of employment. 
“Players at Academic Institutions perform services for institutions in return for compensation,” Abruzzo said in a statement. “Certain Players at Academic Institutions are statutory employees, who have the right to act collectively to improve their terms and conditions of employment.” 
Although the memo itself has no real legal power, it shows the intentions of the board, said Sam C. Ehrlich, an assistant professor of legal studies at Boise State University. 
“Abruzzo said she and the rest of the board will focus on this, putting the NCAA and schools on notice that continued misclassification of athletes as students rather than employees will be attacked,” Ehrlich said. “That will change the game.”
Abruzzo also warned that the continued use of the phrase “student-athlete” by universities could have a “chilling effect” on athletes to exercise their rights under Section 7 of the Wagner Act, which states that workers have the right to unionize, and that the designation is a violation of Section 8 of the National Labor Relations Act., which says that labor organizations cannot restrain workers from exercising their rights to unionize and collectively bargain. However, Abruzzo did not specify how the phrase violated the NLRA. 
AU currently displays the phrase “student-athlete” on multiple pages of both its main website and sports website.
The NCAA coined the phrase “student-athlete” in the 1950s to distinguish college athletes as amateurs, and the moniker came into common use after the NCAA won a ruling from the Colorado Supreme Court that said the nonprofit didn’t have to pay workers compensation benefits after a collegiate football player died midgame. However, with the new NLRB ruling, Ehrlich said that the conversation around the controversial phrase has changed for the better.
“Just seeing it from someone at this level in government, talking about how the term ‘student-athlete’ is problematic from a labor perspective is huge for those of us who have fought against it,” Ehrlich said. 
Turning intention into action
In a statement to The Eagle, Chief Communications Officer Matthew Bennett said AU had not decided how they will continue to classify their athletes.
“American University is reviewing today’s memo from the National Labor Relations Board, as well as other factors across the NCAA landscape that may affect student athletes’ status in the future,” Bennett wrote in an email on the day of the announcement. 
Practically, it may take time for significant changes to occur at the college level. NLRB precedent is set via decisions regarding individual attempts at unionization, similar to court cases. While the memo lays out Abruzzo’s perspective and intention to find organizing attempts where the view can be solidified by a full NLRB decision, athletes need to take the first steps themselves. 
“When are athletes gonna unionize? That depends on the athletes,” Ehrlich said. “There are real practical concerns — getting all the athletes in a room together and getting them on the same page. That’s even more challenging.”
In addition, different sports have different needs, Ehrlich said. Athletes from different sports may be interested in contrasting protections that might make the process of forming a union complicated. Discussions around college athlete unionization have recently centered around the most profitable sports: football and basketball, and AU only hosts the latter. Ehrlich was unsure of how many sports may be covered under the memo.
Protection for protest as well
Beyond unionization, the memo also lays out protections from retaliation over advocacy for pay or better working conditions. That sort of speech was highlighted during the George Floyd protests last summer and calls for greater safety measures during the pandemic, when players may have felt exposed for advocating for themselves, Ehrlich said. 
The NLRB’s decision has already been met with praise. Senior captain of the AU women’s soccer team Juliana Saling has been at the forefront of athletes pushing for empowerment at AU. Saling is a founding member and now president of the AU Black Athlete Coalition, which seeks to “provide a safe and open environment for Black student-athletes at American University.” 
Saling said that she had been following the issue of protecting college athletes’ rights since the NCAA allowed players to profit off their likeness at the end of June.
“I think that this is just a further step in the modernization of certain NCAA regulations, and I think that it does provide student-athletes more liberty to demand better treatment, to be able to make an income while also balancing a rigorous academic and athletic schedule,” Saling said. “But [the NLRB’s ruling] also recognizes the immense time commitment that being a student-athlete makes your daily life. Not being able to go to work at the same hours as other people, having very tight schedules, and not necessarily being able to have that flexibility to take an internship over the summer.”
Saling has not signed a deal to profit off of her likeness, but she said that while sports need to be more representative of the people who play them, the NLRB’s decision provides protections and opportunities for athletes of color.
“I think when it comes to empowerment, having that administrative legal support, knowing that you have that safety to take certain advancements or steps … is a really amazing opportunity,” Saling said.
The NLRB’s decision comes after a triumphant year for advocates of college athlete compensation. The Supreme Court ruled that the NCAA violated antitrust rules by limiting player compensation in a June 2021 decision, and later that month, the NCAA granted college athletes the ability to profit off their name, image and likeness (NIL), something AU athletes have recently embraced. 
dpapscun@theeagleonline.com and bmorse@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
