What do you get when a record-breaking track and field athlete returns to American University to coach a training program? A team of happy and healthy runners from all walks of life.
That is exactly what Coach Bri Belo has achieved through AHealthyU’s faculty and staff Couch to 5K/10K virtual training program. With three previous semesters of coaching experience, Belo, who graduated with a bachelor’s degree from AU in 2018 and a master’s in 2019, knows how to get the AU community on their feet.
Belo and her team began their 10-week remote program on March 1. Normally, Couch to 5K is eight weeks long, but when the coronavirus pandemic closed down campus in spring 2020, AHealthyU decided to extend the program. 
Belo, who has been a coach for AHealthyU since fall 2019, is responsible for creating the virtual training plan, responding to participants’ emails and facilitating biweekly check-ins with the team over Zoom. 
The 10 weeks of training usually culminate in a race depending on ability level and preference. This year, since in-person races are not readily offered, participants hope to complete a “final race” independently in May.
A typical day for a Couch to 5K runner is a warm-up run — either walking or jogging — then an interval workout. 
“Right now, because there’s not access to a track, that looks like a fartlek run; alternating paces,” said Belo. “So if they’re not used to running for 10 minutes flat out, that means running for one or two minutes depending on what they’re comfortable with, and walking, then picking up and running again.”
Fartlek, a Swedish word for “speed play,” is a work-rest interval that helps runners build endurance. Alternating between fast segments and slow jogs, fartlek training is especially manageable for newer runners. 
Belo said that she hopes to encourage members who have less running experience since she had not run more than two miles consecutively before joining the AU track and field team.
“There’s a range of people who participate in this program: there’s people who’ve never run before and there’s people who have been running for years,” Belo said. “I don’t think there’s any criteria that you need to consider yourself a runner. The second you get yourself out there, you’re a runner.”
Belo said that one of her primary goals is to get participants to find an exercise routine that works for them.
“For me, being outside and moving has been key for my mental health,” Belo said.
Members of the Couch to 5K program, like Kogod Career Advisor Daniel Dehollander, agree. With the encouragement of Belo and the other Couch to 5K participants, Dehollander said he is more motivated than ever to stay active.
“[Running is] something that’s in my calendar; something I prioritize now,” Dehollander said. “Especially if the weather’s getting nicer, warmer and the days are getting longer, there’s no excuse not to be out there.”
Dehollander has participated in AHealthyU’s Couch to 5K program for the past four or five years but has been running since long before. He said that this semester of the training program has been one of progress compared to last fall.
“When I started, I could probably jog about three miles,” Dehollander said. “I’d usually slow down because of shin splints or my hips feeling sore, but … now I regularly go for six-mile runs and feel absolutely comfortable doing it.”
Dehollander said that he hopes to run a 10K in under one hour by the end of this training season, which he also achieved last year. He said another personal goal is to run a half marathon after the program ends for the semester.
Psychology professor Maria Gomez, who has participated in the Couch to 5K program for more than five years, said she benefits from the team dynamic.
“I am not a beginner runner, but I am a ‘lazy runner,’” Gomez said. “I need a push.”
That “push” to get outside and run comes in the form of Belo’s Sunday emails, the Couch to 5K Facebook group and the support of her fellow runners, Gomez said. 
Gomez said she hopes to complete a 5K — the equivalent of about 3.11 miles — in less than 28 minutes. But the training program, she said, goes beyond running; there is a community aspect, too.
“You meet all these people that you would never meet because we don’t cross paths often,” Gomez said. “You get out of your bubble and meet a diverse range of the community. I think it’s one of my favorite parts.”
Dehollander agrees. He said that he appreciates the casual setting where all of the various titles and labels associated with the University fall away.
“What I like about the program is you see staff and faculty from all backgrounds, all expertises, all levels, and we’re all just in our gym clothes,” said Dehollander. “It’s like an even playing field.”
Ashley Wallace, the assistant director for facility and event services, decided to join Couch to 5K in 2018, after Dehollander, her best friend, expressed interest in the program. However, Wallace did not consider herself a runner in any sense of the word.
“I used to say, when I started the program, that I don’t run,” Wallace said. “I was doing [the program] because ‘Why not?’ It definitely helped fuel a healthier lifestyle, so I continued with it.”
Now, Wallace runs three days a week and cross-trains the other days. She said her motivation also comes from Belo and the running community.
Unlike Dehollander and Gomez, Wallace does not have a time goal for an end-of-semester race.
“My goal this semester was … just to be a part of the program and stay active,” Wallace said.
Despite the coronavirus pandemic changing operations, that mentality persists. The Couch to 5K runners will continue to get outside and run, with the support of their colleagues. 
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University has consistently under-tested its on-campus student population since doubling in-person classes and tripling the number of campus residents for the Mid-Semester Residential Experience that began in early March. 
Although the University required the 767 individuals living on campus to get tested twice weekly, an Eagle analysis of publicly available data found that the goal has never been met, with approximately 300 to 500 tests going unadministered each week. Since the MSRE began on March 14, the University has administered an average of 1,055 tests a week to on-campus students. 
Dr. David Reitman, the medical director of the Student Health Center, explained that 30 students who lived on campus were exempt from testing since they contracted the coronavirus in the past 90 days and an average of five to 10 students were traveling on any given week. Vaccinated students were still required to be tested, he said. 
At most, that explains 80 of the missing weekly tests, leaving hundreds of tests unaccounted for. 
Reitman couldn’t explain why so many tests were missing beyond students skipping one or both required tests in a week but said that the testing deficit didn’t concern him. 
“Looking at the numbers, looking at how many students are being exempted from [testing] for one reason or another, this is probably along the lines of what we expected,” Reitman said. “I don’t think anyone is intentionally … trying to game the system and get out of getting a test.”  
The University also failed to meet its testing requirement spring semester prior to the MSRE, when only 240 students were located on campus in emergency housing.
Reitman said that bringing students back to campus for the spring semester was a “learning curve” during which the University confronted unanticipated challenges like tracking traveling students and trying to get every student tested twice a week. 
“I think it leaves us with room for improvement,” Reitman said. “We have a lot of lessons learned with regard to [bringing students back to campus] and it’s really set us up to be in a much stronger position for the fall.” 
Students who repeatedly miss required testing can be sent to the conduct office, but University officials have repeatedly emphasized that the focus is on keeping the student body safe rather than “policing” them. 
Despite AU’s testing deficiency, the University has managed to keep coronavirus cases low. When compared to Georgetown and George Washington Universities, AU has reported the lowest number of coronavirus cases both on campus and across the entire community. 
The University’s low on-campus case count is likely due to less than half of the available 1,250 MSRE slots filling, bringing AU’s residential community to 767 students. Comparatively, Georgetown and George Washington each welcomed over 1,000 students to campus this spring. 
A total of 25 on-campus cases have been reported by the University during the spring semester. One coronavirus cluster of four students was confirmed in emergency housing in March. Fanta Aw, the vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence, said that there were no other instances where three or more on-campus cases were connected. 
In a statement to The Eagle, Aw credited the relatively low coronavirus caseload to the University teams that prioritized health and safety over the past year. 
“From testing, to education, to contact of affiliates, and health and safety ambassadors, to the work of health center and residence life teams, we appreciate the partnership with our AU community,” Aw wrote. “We are looking forward to a fall term and applying the learning, collaboration and ongoing work on health and safety and achieving our core mission of teaching and learning.” 
Aw added that vaccinations now occupy the University’s ongoing work in preparation for the fall semester.
Creating a safe residential experience 
Students who spoke with The Eagle about their experience in emergency or MSRE housing were generally satisfied with how the University handled residential living, despite reports that health guidelines weren’t always strongly enforced. 
Shira Cohen, a freshman who lived in a D.C. hotel during the fall semester, said that she found on-campus living to be safer and more socially gratifying. During her fall semester stay at the Marriott Residence Inn, a series of COVID-19 cases forced her to self-isolate.  
“It wasn’t good, just being cooped up in a hotel room, not really knowing what to do or who has COVID who doesn’t,” Cohen said. “I’d rather be in an environment where it’s much more controlled and I don’t have to worry as much about who’s getting COVID-19.”
Cohen described her MSRE experience as “amazing” and said that since moving into Anderson Hall, she’s enjoyed making new friends, getting outside more and petting Wonk Cat. 
Though a current copy of the residential assistant handbook obtained by The Eagle contained no reference to COVID-19, Lisa Freeman, the director of residence life, said that RAs were given separate materials about health and safety based on existing national policies. 
“These are not guidelines that are specific to the residence halls,” Freeman said. “Wearing a mask, social distancing, that’s the University’s requirements for health and safety for any of its community members, me included.” 
Tyler Moore, a resident assistant in Anderson Hall, previously told The Eagle that her residents were so spread out over the floor that being present for them in any capacity was challenging. Freeman said that RA living locations were designated before any students were placed. She was unsure whether room assignments were given to students based on their proximity to an RA. 
Freeman explained that residential staff were not tasked with policing students and said it’s the responsibility of the community to enforce the University’s expectations and guidelines, not vice versa.
Re-opening campus to the public 
With a larger number of students living on campus and D.C. loosening its coronavirus restrictions, AU resumed modified campus tours in late January. 
Tours are now conducted entirely outside and are capped at 30 people who must wear masks and socially distance the entire time, Director of Public Affairs Stacie Burgess said. Visitors must complete a COVID-19 symptom self-assessment but are not required to show proof of a negative test or vaccination card. 
AU Ambassador Ames Jewart, a junior who’s been volunteering with the program for three years, is happy that tours are running again. 
“We really wanted to make sure that we were able to welcome those prospective students and families to help them make their decision,” Jewart said. “Obviously it’s different, but I think we’re doing the absolute best we can.”
A few tour leaders have removed individuals for refusing to wear a mask, but visitors have otherwise respected health guidelines, Jewart said.
Freshman Jehane Djedjro, who lives on campus, said she’s appreciated seeing a diverse range of people touring campus during the MSRE but said that the number of visitors letting themselves into buildings can be distracting. 
“Now with finals coming up, if I’m being completely honest, there’s not too much private space to really study without visitors walking by,” Djedjro said. 
Though she wishes the University would have limited the number of tours during finals week, Djedjro said she’s enjoyed her time on campus so much that she’ll be staying over the summer. 
Most students have left campus since the MSRE ended on May 5, but Djedjro is transitioning into a new job with the University’s guest services. After recently getting her first vaccine shot, Djedjro hopes to recharge after a long year and prepare for a very different fall semester.
switley@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As an American University student, alumna Alexis Varecka took a class called “The Business of Fashion and Luxury Goods” where she developed a business plan for a mobile app that would create a platform for artists and brands to sell their unique merchandise. 
Varecka graduated from AU in fall 2018. She majored in business administration with a specialization in representing talent and a minor in French language. Now, about two years later, Varecka is attending law school at California Western School of Law remotely and her website, The Fletcher Collective, is carrying through the vision of the business plan she wrote up as an undergrad.
“The Fletcher Collective is basically a platform for emerging artists to be featured from all around the world that have unique designs, similar to Etsy,” Varecka said. “We have different designers that are going to be featured on the site, with different social causes pertaining to their collections.”
The idea has undergone a few changes, but its focus remains the same: giving artists and creatives a platform to showcase their work. 
“[The Fletcher Collective] is just bringing together different artwork through music, fashion, to give a space to feature creatives,” Varecka said. 
The Fletcher Collective, named for Varecka’s grandmother’s maiden name, sold its first item from the website in 2020. Varecka said that the coronavirus pandemic was a big influence on her starting up the brand. 
“I was more so just alone at home with not as much to do, and I went back to the business plan and thought about what other ways can I apply this,” Varecka said. “I thought I could apply the fashion to more social issues, a lot of things that happened last year that we could highlight different artists on. It kind of prompted me to restart the brand.”
Varecka said that she designs most of the products on the website. When she works with other artists, she is usually on the administrative side of production. 
Right now, The Fletcher Collective team is Varecka and her hometown friend, Alexandra Schubach, in administrative positions, and two interns.
They are currently working on a sustainable fashion line with MotorMouth Co., a sustainable fashion brand run by AU students. This upcoming collection will soon be sold on The Fletcher Collective website.
The Fletcher Collective has worked with other artists and creatives from AU in the past as well through its “Purpose for the Passion” series on YouTube. One of its recent interviews features Svetlana Karapetyan, an audio engineer and artist manager who goes by Mixed By Lana. 
The Fletcher Collective often donates a share of its profits to a charity or organization associated with its merchandise, depending on the focus of the collection. For example, a portion of the money earned from the debut collection, King Leo x Princess P, went to Clarence High School in New York, Varecka said. 
The Fletcher Collective is looking to produce a collection in October to raise money and awareness for breast cancer. Varecka said that they also hope to potentially do a collection with the organization Mental Health Matters.
Once the pandemic allows, Varecka hopes that The Fletcher Collective will be able to participate in events, such as art festivals, in order to expand their brand and raise more money. 
Varecka said that while there are similar platforms, such as Etsy, The Fletcher Collective’s aim and purpose is unique. 
“People on Etsy are just selling for profit,” Varecka said. “We're trying to raise awareness about different things, different cultures, and then give back to those causes.” 
ggeorge@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
