Though many films use color as a predominant theme, often displayed in lighting and set design, no film uses color quite like David Lowery’s “The Green Knight,” an eccentric but refreshing take on the 14th-century Arthurian poem.
“The Green Knight” follows Gawain (Dev Patel), a young man who finds himself without a story to tell at the round table on Christmas Day while in the company of legends such as King Arthur (Sean Harris) and his queen, Guinevere (Kate Dickie). Luckily for Gawain, a man who appears to be carved from a tree approaches the table: The Green Knight. He challenges anyone in the room to strike a blow on him in exchange for his axe. The catch? Whoever deals this blow must meet him at the Green Chapel in a year’s time to have that same blow inflicted upon them. Gawain, in his eagerness to prove himself, decapitates the Green Knight. The Green Knight merely picks his own head up off the floor and departs, laughing. The film then follows Gawain’s journey through lush forests and smoldering, wartorn fields to the Green Chapel.
If it hasn’t already been made clear, “The Green Knight” uses the color green — a lot. While color is typically used to provoke a specific emotion, Lowery injects it right into the dialogue. Nowhere is this more distinct than in Lady Bertilak’s chilling monologue about the color green, brilliantly performed by Alicia Vikander. 
Lady Bertilak begins by musing about the irony of green, how we use it to “deck our halls” and “dye our linens,” but as soon as we see its unwanted approach we attempt to destroy it. Green always returns. She then introduces another color: red. The color of lust and passion, it’s what men seek out while they’re running from the inevitable green. However, green is exactly what red will leave behind once they are gone, overtaking their bodies and the history they leave behind.
In the beginning, the Lady is focused on Gawain, smiling in the pauses between her haunting observations. The camera cuts to Gawain only once during this portion of the monologue to show him listening. When Lady Bertilak smiles more broadly, the sound of wind and birds chirping is heard while a simple orchestral piece plays. 
Then, her mood changes. She goes from using “we” to “you” and the sounds of nature disappear, now replaced by thunder: “When you go, your footprints will fill with grass.” While she talks about how everything Gawain holds dear will succumb to green, she seems enraged as the orchestral score clashes against itself. At the Lady’s unexpected fury, Gawain averts his gaze back to the fire for a moment and then back to her. Lady Bertilak returns to a semblance of her former calmness in her final lines: “Your skin. Your bones. Your virtue.”
This monologue is the core of the film: “But should [green] come creeping up the cobbles, we scrub it out, fast as we can.” 
When the Green Knight first approached the round table on Christmas Day, he was met with hostility and fear. Gawain quickly took up Excalibur and cut off his head: “Moss shall cover your tombstone, and as the sun rises, green shall spread over all, in all its shades and hues.” 
Over the course of the film, Gawain travels through forests and interacts with nature in all of its beauty and horror. Alternate versions of his future are shown, like his moss-covered skeleton tied to a tree. 
This scene also speaks to the idea that eventually, even if it takes hundreds of years, nature will triumph over human civilization. Although this takes place in the age of Arthurian legend, its message still applies today. The threat of climate change might not be on every character’s mind in “The Green Knight,” but nature still establishes itself as a worthy opponent through more magical means. Perhaps the way that this film presents nature as an otherworldly force makes it easier for the audience to digest the truth: while we seek passion and lust, nature is creeping up on us, just as it has throughout all of history. The difference now is whether or not we will succumb to it for the final time. 
mbowman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Ep. 6: Silver Screen editor Tristan Au, Life staff members Olivia Kozlevcar and Spenser Hoover, and Eagle contributor Siena Maxwell discuss the rationale and relevancy of Coen Brothers films. Due to the presence of an actual film connoisseur, they are forced to discuss real things such as auteur and cinematography. 
Films Referenced: Dear Evan Hansen (2021), Hail, Caesar! (2016), Fargo (1996), No Country for Old Men (2007), Inside Llewyn Davis (2013), The Ballad of Buster Scruggs (2018), The Big Lebowski (1998), True Grit (2010), Barton Fink (1991), Blood Simple (1984), The Hudsucker Proxy (1994), A Serious Man (2009), The Tragedy of Macbeth (2021), The Searchers (1956), How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying (1967), Reservoir Dogs (1992), Pulp Fiction (1994), Inglourious Basterds (2009) and Once Upon a Time...In Hollywood (2019).
This episode was produced by Chloe Irwin. 
tau@theeagleonline.com, okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com and shoover@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It was raining green cards in D.C. Sunday, as the leaves changed colors and the American University Eagles (6-3) beat the Bucknell Bison (3-2).
American started with the ball, but like many previous matchups with Bucknell, the game quickly turned into a midfield battle. With 8:10 left to go in the first quarter, Bucknell had an offensive corner that was kept without a goal due to stellar defense by senior Maura Phelan. After this corner, AU turned the game around and wouldn’t let Bucknell close to their circle until the end of the third quarter.
On a penalty corner, with just 12:19 left to go in the second quarter, graduate student Gaby de Kock sent the ball flying into the back of the goal, putting the Eagles up 1-0. On AU’s second corner of the quarter, with 7:50 left to go, senior Josie Formica sent a shot into the back of the goal. AU was up 2-0, and all seemed well.
That’s when the green cards began.
With just 1:44 to go in the second quarter, the first green card was called on senior Aidan Rossman.
The third quarter began with another green card on Rossman, and a midfield battle, with both teams coming close to scoring throughout the quarter. Both teams heavily utilized the sideline, and graduate student Noor Coenen showed off her air-dribbling skills on an impressive run halfway through the quarter. After a few more minutes of offense, sophomore Imogen Hatton sent a shot into the back of the net with 3:43 left in the quarter, putting the Eagles up 3-0. However, Bucknell wasn’t done — after Rossman’s third green card, the Bison scored with 16 seconds left in the third quarter.
Bucknell scored again with more than 40 seconds left in the game, but AU held on for the win. 
“We executed corners really well in the beginning of the game to go up by two. That was very important,” head coach Steve Jennings said. “We did a good job of being able to hold a lot of possession of the ball for most of the field, and our defense was really outstanding with intercepts and tackling.”
largiropoulos@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Mutual aid organization Heal Da Homies held a Narcan training on campus with a focus on destigmatizing drug use.
Editor’s Note: Kayla Kelly is an opinion columnist for The Eagle. Kelly was not involved in the reporting, writing or editing of this story.
Mutual aid organization Heal Da Homies partnered with HIPS (Honoring Individual Power & Strength) to hold a Narcan training on Sept. 23 to discuss opioid overdose and naloxone distribution.
Abigail Goldner Morris, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, is a certified Narcan trainer through HIPS, an organization that promotes the health and rights of people involved in sex work and/or drug use. She has worked with HIPS since 2019, educating students and community members about harm reduction in terms of opioid use.
“I know that a lot of AU students, staff members [and] faculty don’t even know what Narcan is, or what fentanyl is,” Morris said. “There’s so much misinformation, so any opportunity I have to help folks learn about the overdose epidemic and how preventable overdose can be with the right harm reduction tools is one I’ll take.”
Morris’ presentation covered the symptoms and risk factors of an opioid overdose, overdose prevention strategies, side effects of naloxone — a safe, effective antidote to opioid overdoses — and how to administer Narcan and how to respond to an opioid overdose. 
“This is [an] epidemic that — with the right policies and harm reduction tools — is something we can stop,” Morris said. “We, as individuals, can make a huge difference by carrying Narcan, by being informed, knowing what drugs we’re using, knowing how to test our drugs, knowing other harm reduction tools and knowing how to use Narcan.”
Morris, along with HIPS, takes a harm reduction approach to drug use, as opposed to abstinence. Harm reduction strategies can include overdose education, safer drug use kits and fentanyl test strips.
“I would love to see [Narcan] being handed out in the same way condoms are handed out at HPAC or around campus,” Morris said.
Morris said that people, especially college students, will engage in drug use regardless, so it is better to reduce overdose deaths than further stigmatize drug users.
Kayla Kelly, a sophomore CLEG major and CEO of Heal Da Homies, said they hope that American University students will use their privileges to uplift marginalized communities rather than being bystanders.
“With AU students being members of the D.C. community, it’s our duty to protect our community members,” Kelly said. 
According to NPR, opioid overdose deaths among middle-aged Black men increased 245 percent from 2014 to 2017 in D.C. A study conducted by the National Institute on Drug Abuse at the National Institutes of Health shows that deaths among Black Americans are growing faster than among white Americans. 
“I hope that [attendees] paid special attention to the statistics of how the opioid epidemic plagues the Black community, especially older Black men,” Kelly said. “If they say they’re for Black lives, I hope they take the initiative to actually protect Black lives and not just take this training as something to put on their resume.”
Kelly said that their plan for Heal Da Homies involves future teach-in sessions like this one, in hopes of getting more students to aid surrounding communities for more than mere personal gain.
Sophomore Caleb Burr, who has been a member of Heal Da Homies for the past eight months, attended Thursday’s training to learn what to do if he encountered someone who has overdosed.
“I’m fortunate enough to come from an area that wasn’t really affected by the opioid epidemic all that much,” Burr said. “I didn’t know anything about how to treat someone who’s overdosing or what to do. There are a lot of people who are suffering from opioid addiction and I may possibly come into a situation with someone who’s overdosing.”
Through the training, Burr said he learned valuable information about the opioid epidemic, namely knowing when and how to safely administer Narcan — never in a situation where the person is simply asleep or high. 
“If we’re properly trained and informed about Narcan, we can save [a] person’s life, and that’s really important,” Burr said.
Burr and Morris both agreed on the importance of Narcan to save lives. 
“If someone overdoses and dies, they can never recover. But if someone overdoses and someone has Narcan, that person lives,” Morris said. “It’s really that simple.”
zbell@theeagleonline.com

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
