Throughout all of human history, there’s been nothing more universally agreed upon than the experience of love, longing and memory being innate to the human experience.
Often these experiences are complex and difficult to navigate, bringing us to a head with difficult questions. Namely, what do you do with the feeling of love when memory is gone? The Japanese animated film “Your Name” (“君の名は”) seeks to answer this question.
Mitsuha (Mone Kamishiraishi) and Taki (Ryūnosuke Kamiki) share a unique connection with the ability to switch bodies with each other. The two live different lives — Mitsuha is a girl living in a small rural town, while Taki is a boy living in Tokyo. Taki is launched into Mitsuha’s life after they suddenly switch bodies one night. They keep in touch by writing detailed journal entries about what they did each day in each other’s bodies, though they never meet. What they don’t know but soon discover is that they’re living in two different time frames, three years apart.
Toward the end of the film, Taki and Mitsuha end up atop a mountain at a shrine, while in their different time frames. Because of the contrasting time frames, Taki and Mitsuha cannot see each other, but they can sense each other’s presence. Twilight settles, allowing for Taki and Mitsuha to see each other for just a moment. After twilight ends, they both disappear from sight, almost instantly forgetting the other person but still remembering that there’s someone out there who is precious to them.
This scene struck me as the most memorable in the film. Their brief encounter shows that humans don’t need a face or a name to care for someone; it’s the ability to extend love to the idea of a person or people that counts.
Mitsuha and Taki never knew each other before switching bodies, but just the experience of living one another’s lives and walking in the other’s shoes was enough to build an intimate connection. This truly came to fruition in the scene above, where just the love felt for someone was enough to sense their presence within the space.
The moon plays a key role in this scene, showing both Mitsuha and Taki looking toward it as night falls. Both characters stare at the moon when they lose the memory of the other person, forgetting everything that happened. It glows as a beacon of remembrance of the love that they shared for each other. It’s a visual reminder that you’re not alone, that there’s someone else always looking up. Loss, as Mitsuha and Taki show us in this scene, doesn’t always have to be bittersweet; rather it can be a comfort by just knowing that there’s someone out there who you once loved.
This film was made five years ago, but the story contains a message that never ages. In life, there are always going to be people that you meet and love, and there are always going to be people that don’t stay with you forever. But regardless of one’s absence, the love for someone can transcend beyond memory and time.
Finding the perfect answer to the question posed above — what do you do with the feeling of love when memory is gone? — may be impossible. But “Your Name” and its characters, Mitsuha and Taki, give us a beautiful example to hold onto as we go about our lives, reassuring us that just because someone is gone doesn’t mean that the love is gone too.
whansen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor’s note: Max Rubin, a source for this article, is a staff columnist for The Eagle. He was not involved in its reporting, writing or editing.
Three months after Student Government President Eric Brock first called on AU to implement a stricter camera policy, professors independently still decide whether students may have their cameras off for online classes. 
In December, Brock sent out an email to the student body, reminding them to report professors who require cameras to be on for attendance and participation. He followed this up with a separate email on Feb. 6 giving clarifications on the University’s current policy. 
“The University — specifically the Provost’s office — crafted language on cameras as ‘recommendations,’ rather than actually taking action on the issue,” Brock said in the February email. “The University did not communicate this issue to students.”
He criticized the provost and Faculty Senate for failing to adopt a formal camera policy that would address professors mandating camera use during class instruction. 
“We attempted all of last semester to convince the administration that this was an issue the students were facing,” Brock told The Eagle. “This was the result of the University pandering to the faculty to the point that it jeopardized students’ grades and well-being.” 
Acting Provost Peter Starr responded to Brock’s statement in an email to the AU faculty listing a variety of goals that the University “strongly urges” the faculty to embrace. He declined to comment further on the specifics of Brock’s complaints. 
Included in the list of goals was a reminder to be mindful of the extenuating circumstances that students face, as well as the stress that the use of technology such as lock-down browsers can pose. 
Starr offered several alternatives, including verbal participation and a shift to assignments that focus on the student’s ability to apply what they have learned, instead of what they have memorized. 
Faculty Senate Chair John Heywood said that recommendations could be quickly implemented, whereas a formal policy would require a vote, and more delay.   
“The equity and privacy reasons students have about turning on their cameras are valid, and we respect them,” Heywood said. “At the same time, the faculty are concerned that the quality of teaching diminishes when speaking to blank screens.”
Campus-at-large Senator Max Rubin said that after Starr’s faculty email, students have told him that professors have become more lenient about their class camera policy.
However, many students have still expressed their concerns over professors mandating camera use during class, with some saying faculty have punished students who choose not to turn it on. 
“Last semester, one of my professors docked points off of our overall participation grade if we turned our camera off at any point,” said School of Public Affairs sophomore Helena Chaves. 
Sophomore Thrisha Mohan agreed with Chaves. She said many of her professors have strongly recommended that students keep their cameras on, implying that students who do so may have a leg up in class. 
“I think the requirements of camera use really strains students in classes,” Mohan said. “I have a day where I am in class for seven to eight hours with all my [professors] highly suggesting that cameras stay on.” 
Olivia Higgins contributed reporting to this article. 
bjohansen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
GOP strategist and TV political commentator Ana Navarro spoke about her experiences in politics, media and current events at a Kennedy Political Union event on Thursday. 
The School of Communication and the American University College Republicans co-hosted the conversation with Navarro, which was moderated by SOC professor Jane Hall. Central to the discussion were Navarro’s thoughts on the future of the GOP — a future, she says, that will be without party unity, at least in the short term. That’s not to say that Democrats don’t have their own internal issues, she said. 
“If we’re going to be fair, I think there’s a lot of diversity of thought within the Democratic Party as well. Their divisions, their cracks, their systems — are about ideology, they’re not about personality,” Navarro said in a student media interview before the event. “In the Republican Party, the division and the schism we are seeing right now, it’s not about principles, it’s not about convictions, it’s not about policy issues — it’s about Donald Trump.”
Navarro said she is not sure what will happen to anti-Trump Republicans as the GOP moves forward. Navarro belongs to the prominent group of Republicans, often termed “Never Trumpers,” who broke away from the party following the then-candidate’s nomination in 2016. 
“The purity test that some want to apply [within the GOP] is, ‘do you support Donald Trump or not,’ and so for me, that’s no longer a political party,” Navarro said in the student media interview. “The people who are with Trump think those of us who want should no longer be in the Republican Party and, go I guess die somewhere, knit, pickup golf? Maybe not golf.” 
Now with President Joe Biden’s administration in power, Navarro said that she and her colleagues in multiple networks realized how many topics they can discuss without Trump dominating their time. News has been very U.S.-centric since Trump took office, and Navarro is looking forward to discussing other topics on her shows. 
“We are again as a media talking about things like the Iran deal, talking about things like Syria, talking about things like the Paris Climate accord,” Navarro said in the interview. “We’ve been constantly responding to a 24/7 Twitter live president, and that was to the detriment of looking beyond our borders to what is happening in the world that also affects us.”
During the event, Navarro spoke about her moral reasoning and decision process behind voting for Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris in the 2020 presidential election, despite being a life-long Republican. 
“There was no choice because I’m a human, I’m an American, I’m an immigrant, I’m a Latina, I’m a woman — before being a Republican,” Navarro said. “I’m not going to vote for somebody who I think is just completely unfit, morally, and frankly, intellectually, just because of a party label.”
Navarro also said that she has dealt with a lot of hate — including daily racist and misogynist attacks on social media — and faces constant threats for being vocal about her support for the Biden-Harris administration. Even some of her good friends would turn their faces when seeing Navarro at the same restaurant, she said. 
As an outspoken female political commentator, Navarro advocated for more women to join the field. Especially with more awareness about gender inequality brought up in the #MeToo movement, she said she has noticed some changes within the primarily male-dominated media industry. 
At CNN, for example, where Navarro said most hosts have historically been male, more women are being brought on than ever before. 
In response to a question from AUCR about how to engage in civil discourse with those who hold opposing views, Navarro spoke about her experiences critiquing then-President Barack Obama on CNN with her colleague and former Democratic National Committee Chair Donna Brazile, who Navarro described as an Obama defender and advocate.
“Oftentimes after debating vigorously, we’d go have drinks, and oysters, or whatever watering hole in Washington, and people would walk in and marvel because they have just seen us fighting on TV,” Navarro said. “And I just think you make a conscious decision, ‘okay, I am going to talk to this person. … I’m going to try to listen to what they say and tell them how I feel.’ I do draw a line on conspiracy theorists and white supremacists and racists and bigots.”
rrafi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
