From Blumhouse Television’s second installment of the horror anthology, “Welcome to the Blumhouse,” Maritte Lee Go’s “Black As Night” is a comedic-thriller-meets-vampire-chick-flick that tackles the issue of gentrification among the low-income neighborhoods who face this issue daily. 
The film begins with Shawna (Asjha Cooper), who faces the hardships of living with her father and brother while her mother is staying at Ombreux Heights, New Orleans. The plot revolves around Shawna battling recent vampire outbreaks alongside her best friend, Pedro (Fabrizio Guido) and her high school crush, Chris (Mason Beauchamp). 
Ombreux Heights embodies the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, where many were left without homes and suffered through addiction and poverty. The film hinges on Shawna’s imperfect relationship with her mother, which we witness when Shawna tries to get her mother out of Ombreux Heights. 
One particularly strong scene is the moment where we see Shawna’s mother holding onto her locket necklace with her children’s picture in it. This interaction speaks a lot louder than words because we see the true reality of how difficult it is to overcome addictions for our loved ones. The film also magnifies the race and class issue of minority groups not having access to resources for rehabilitation after trauma-induced events. We see the psychological and behavioral effects addictions can have on individuals through Shawna’s mother, who endures life-threatening situations, yet still asks for more money to continue feeding her addiction. 
After Shawna’s visit, she encounters a group of homeless vampires who emerge from the street and attack her, but she manages to escape. Reluctant to fall into victimhood, she fights alongside Pedro and Chris to end this outbreak once in for all. As vampires start to overrun Ombreux, Shawna’s only choice is to stay and protect its residents. 
Asijha Cooper's performance shines throughout; she beautifully translated the race and class issues of the film from a Black woman’s perspective. Cooper shows Shawna’s character arc from living in fear to becoming a fearless leader. For example, Shawna initially couldn’t bear to look at those who wanted to rebuild Ombreux out of shame. As the film goes on, Shawna changes and we see her giving away posters and taking leadership in this rebuilding project. Cooper’s strong and heroic performance was able to show that character’s growth.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
The plot lingered in some areas for too long while rushing character development, resulting in jarring shifts that felt abrupt for the film’s relatively short runtime. “Black As Night” had the potential of raising other issues, such as exploring Shawna’s contribution to rebuilding Ombreux in order to fight gentrification. 
But all in all, “Black as Night” impresses audiences as it dives into social commentary and the presence of addiction in society through a cleverly disguised horror premise. 
“Black As Night” is available to exclusively stream on Amazon Prime Video as of Oct. 1. 
djimenez@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
DC Fashion Week, which hosted three shows from Sept. 24-26, presented a unique set of designers who shared their crafts with the city. 
The three nights featured the Menswear Show Collection, an Emerging Designers show and the International Couture Showcase. Here is a brief overview of each night and a few of the designers on the catwalk.
Menswear show collection
The menswear show collection kicked off fashion week featuring male designers. With six designers and one slogan being, “it’s his day too,” each fashion line brought a new conversation for what it means to be trendy.
Obioma Fashion is the intersection of West African prints and modern American fashion trends. Pure fun and elegance, the top and bottom sets for men are breathable, multicolored and loud. This collection also offers traditional Ankara pants, which are versatile, and the coolness and execution of each individual outfit are unmatched.
Jimmy Trendy stands out as a swimwear and underwear line for men. Not being afraid to push the norms for gendered presentation, Jimmy Trendy offers a variety of bathing suits like a bright bodysuit with a neon pattern and a matching tote to go with it or a speedo-style suit that is impossible to miss. Out-of-the-box ideas are the main attraction of this line, and the underwear gives a lot to look at, quite literally. 
Emerging designers show
The second night hosted 12 up-and-coming designers to watch out for. These designers did a phenomenal job of marrying creative aesthetics and finding a balance between culture and contemporary style.
Phoebe Jacqueline promoted her line as a made-to-wear sustainability brand with awareness of fast fashion’s impact on global warming. Jaqueline’s clothes consisted of dresses, short pantsuits, and skirt-shirt combinations with design influence from Sweden. Simple yet effective silhouettes displayed the beautiful construction of her outfits. A youthful aesthetic is elevated and taken to a sophisticated level.
DJS Lifestyles appeared on the catwalk with an impossible-to-ignore collection inspired by cultural influences like 1980s Berlin. DJS Lifestyles pushed the androgynous look, incorporating a David Bowie-esque style, and embodying the concept of freedom. The collection seemed to be split into three different parts: part one was full of bootcut pants in jeweled colors — one suit was even bubblegum pink — and flowy haute couture sets. Part two featured reds and blacks with serious belting, like this silk Japanese kimono. Part three was futuristic and more sensual, with manipulated leather to create an armored look.
Rosemary Creations is a Latin-inspired brand, heavily influenced by Buenos Aires, Argentina, said designer Rosemary. These outfits were heavily accessorized with textiles like peacock feathers and satin adorning many outfits. One piece was a black and white Bouclé business dress with a matching plaid bucket hat and leather boots. 
Diversity and representation were incredibly important to the message of DC Fashion Week, according to Ean Williams, a presenting designer and director of the fashion week. 
“Beauty comes in all shapes and sizes and there’s enough room at the table for everyone,” Williams said. “I’m just super excited that we can celebrate the true America with our diversity.”
International couture collection showcase
The grand finale celebrated the global fashion stage. Nine designers from Switzerland, Georgia, Nigeria, France, Egypt, Ukraine, Persia, and the U.S. brought brilliant craftsmanship.
Roksolana Bogutska of Ukraine offered an airy, bright, and floral collection. The designer primarily used linen and silk material with sewed floral patchwork and dresses as a primary focus of the designs. One Midi-Dress was exactly that, but others, like this long-sleeved linen blouse offered the opposite, with more neutral colors dominating the piece.
African Fiesta Café's runway collection was authentic modern culture, from both Switzerland and the Republic of the Congo. Bold traditional African patterns were matched with modern-styled clothing. Draping came into play in a big way and a menswear outfit had both African and Scottish roots.
“We all come together to celebrate the creative economy and we love being here in the District,” Williams said. “Mayor Bowser has made it really welcoming for designers to start their businesses and we are super excited to celebrate our 35th season of DC Fashion Week.”
hlangenfeld@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sammy Rae & The Friends, a Brooklyn-based band whose brilliance is profound to some and unknown to too many, were greeted on Friday by an intimate crowd at The Hamilton in D.C. 
Dolled up in sequined ensembles, the glimmering group played boldly through intricate melodies and dynamic instrumentation. With a setlist that included songs from their two EPs, as well as a Tears for Fears cover and a debut track, the musicians ensured mass-appeal while satisfying the niche interests of their die-hard cult following.
Bandleader Sammy Rae has spent her career building up an effervescent band of players that encapsulate the sound of bliss. Defying most clear-cut categories of music, the band's repertoire is easily identifiable in its spunk and vivacity. 
“Some of us come from rock and roll, some of us come from straight ahead jazz, some of us come from musical theatre, world music or latin music,” Sammy Rae said. “So I think what’s special about the sound of The Friends is that it's a whole bunch of different sounds that you can only achieve when you have those different players playing their different thing as hard as they can all together in the same room.”
Such is the case with their live performances. In between songs, Sammy serenaded the audience with brief, sung anecdotes as the band prepared for their next song. A comforting motif, “I wanna be friends with ya,” reemerged throughout the show and reminded the audience of the raw, tête-à-tête emotion that is channeled through Sammy Rae’s lyrics. The band also maintained interactivity, inviting the audience into casual conversation and choreography. 
Along with her radiant persona and daring composition skills, Sammy Rae is known for the depth and range of her jewel-toned, honey-dipped voice. She is best recognized for her “Dancing Queen” TikTok challenge: a short riff that she created that many vocalists have been repeating in hopes of reproducing her tone and vocal control. Even with the video reaching beyond 3 million views, Sammy Rae mentioned that her TikTok fame has yet to impact the band’s streams.
“TikTok has really taught me a lot about the industry, and I am kind of disappointed sometimes to see that it's not as effective a tool as I’d like it to be,” Sammy Rae said. “But it’s been very affirming for me, as an individual, and in some ways, it’s been very encouraging to look at the success that the band has that we’ve gained through hard work and grassroots community and not some viral fluke.”
The versatility of Sammy Rae’s voice has also given the band room to grow in its live performances. Long-time fans of the Friends are quick to notice how the band’s concert renditions of songs will often deviate greatly from the material put forth on their records. On Friday, the performance of “The Good Life” incorporated modified instrumental solos while other songs, such as “Talk it Up,” had altered melodic lines. For Sammy Rae, these changes come as a result of time and a reimagining of their older material.
“I think it keeps it interesting for me to be able to do some new stuff,” Sammy Rae said. “We’re at this great place where we’re selling out all these rooms, and the band was talking about how [the fans] know every word to the song — they already bought the ticket, they know how it sounds on the record, they already love that song. So why not give them a new version of it?”
As for the future, Sammy Rae and her band are looking forward to the rest of their tour and bringing their music to the crowds that are ready to embrace the group’s dazzling charisma. 
“We’ll be playing some Northeast shows; these are all cities that we’ve played before and every city is sold out, which is really exciting,” Sammy Rae said. “To be able to play a city that you love and then go back a play a larger room for a sold-out crowd is a really tangible mark of growth, and very encouraging for us.”
Sammy Rae & The Friends tour tickets are on sale here. They will be visiting D.C. again on March 4, 2022. 
okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Content warning: This story contains mention of assault. This article has been updated with a recent announcement from the University that Trebat is no longer affiliated with AU.
The Superior Court of the District of Columbia recently granted a modified curfew for a former American University graduate student who is charged with multiple counts of “bias-related” assault so he can attend classes on campus.
Patrick Trebat, a former graduate student in the Kogod School of Business, was arrested on Aug. 7 off of Wisconsin Avenue after he “unlawfully assaulted and threatened” Sean Lai and his parents, fracturing Lai’s finger and leaving his father with a broken wrist and mother with arm pain, according to court documents. Charging documents state that Trebat shouted homophobic slurs and anti-Asian remarks at Lai and his family during the incident. The Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia filed a complaint in the form of criminal charges against Trebat before the Superior Court on one count of assault and two counts of assault with significant bodily injury.
Trebat was released under a High Intensity Supervision Program, which transitioned to a curfew at the end of August. At the beginning of September, Trebat filed a motion to extend his curfew from 10 p.m. to 11:45 p.m. to accommodate an evening class at AU. The court granted this motion. Trebat did not respond to request for comment.
Chief Communications Officer Matthew Bennett confirmed that the University did not play a role in Trebat’s motion to extend the curfew. 
On Saturday morning, Bennett told The Eagle in an email that Patrick Trebat "is no longer affiliated with American University and is not allowed on campus.” Bennett declined to provide specifics, but said that "the matter was concluded" last week. 
Patrick Trebant is no longer affiliated with American University and is not allowed on campus.
Trebat’s counsel, Brandi Harden, is an adjunct professor at the Washington College of Law. Harden declined a request for comment. 
Bennett declined to comment on Harden, but said she “is acting in her non-university capacity in a legal matter that [the] University is not party to.”
According to Bennett, the University closely follows the student code of conduct when faced with off-campus arrests like this one. 
“When we are made aware of a situation like this, it gets referred to the appropriate offices,” Bennett said. “If the case involves a legal proceeding or a police matter, then obviously AUPD is informed as well.”
Section XVIII of the student conduct code states that the dean of students or their designee will administratively adjudicate the case when a student has been accused of a non-academic offense “where the student has been arrested, charged, convicted of, or sentenced for a felony crime” for certain misconduct. 
“Our commitment is to the safety and well-being of our community — that is always first and foremost,” Bennett said. “So we take that into account no matter what is going on with the circumstances of any case, and take the appropriate steps.”
Anti-Asian violence is not new in the United States; anti-Asian hate crimes rose by nearly 150 percent in 2020, according to a report by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. Daniel Chapman, co-chair of the Asian Pacific Islander Queers United for Action DC (AQUA DC), said that the coronavirus has only exacerbated these issues. 
“Since COVID-19 last year, there has been much more anxiety amongst our communities here due to growing anti-Asian sentiment and violence,” he said in an email statement. “As a result, I have definitely felt a stronger sense of solidarity within our diverse community.” 
Chapman also said that community members have set up support networks for affected victims, and AQUA has specifically built networks between queer API folks in addition to donating to causes such as a #StopAsianHate rally in northern Virginia. 
AU Asian American Student Union released a statement on social media Friday evening denouncing the curfew extension and the University’s silence on the matter. AASU is hosting a virtual healing space for the AU Asian American community on Oct. 10 at 4 p.m. and Oct. 11 at 7 p.m., according to the post. Georgetown University's Asian American Student Association, AU's South Asian Student Association, Project Penyou, the Philippine-American Coalition, AU Hawai'i Club and the Korean Student Association cosigned the statement. 
Erin Enriques, a co-president of the AASU, said she wants to see the University respond in a way that holds itself accountable. Enriques, although unsurprised by AU not making the community aware of Trebat’s presence on campus, said she fears for the safety of fellow Asian students.
“I was disappointed, but I wasn’t really surprised … I also was pretty worried for my own friends, we’re all at AASU,” Enriques said. “And because people take classes in the evening, and if [Trebat] is being allowed to take classes in person at night, it still puts people and the community at risk, for both students and faculty.”
Enriques said she doesn’t want the University to respond by increasing police presence on campus, but she’d like to see more transparency.
“In the future, I do want to see AU be more upfront about things, [especially] people who are associated with AU, and especially if they’ve committed hate crimes,” she said. 
Moving forward, Enriques said that AASU plans to work with other AAPI organizations on campus to create spaces and resources for students to feel safe. 
“AU has not done right for their POC students and faculty,” she said. “[The University has] not protected them.”
Matthew Ong, a close friend of Lai for over five years, saw the ways in which the attack deeply impacted Lai and his parents.
“Sean and his elderly parents are severely traumatized by the attack,” he said. “What happened to them is despicable — they don’t deserve to have anti-gay slurs yelled at them or be told ‘you don’t belong here.’ They don’t deserve to get beaten to the ground just for existing.”
Ong, like Lai, is an immigrant of Chinese descent and said that seeing a close friend get hurt because of his identity was “painful and worrying.” Lai, who got his PhD and accepted his identity as a gay man in D.C., feels unsafe in his own neighborhood, Ong said.
However, Ong has hope: “Sean and his family are resilient. They, along with Sean’s diverse community of friends, want justice and accountability,” he said. “Racist beliefs and predatory behavior have no place in our lives.”
In terms of University action, Ong shares the same sentiment as Enriques. 
“Administrators at American University must prioritize the physical and mental well-being of their minority students, faculty and staff,” Ong said. “No one, including Asian and LGBTQ+ people, should have to fear for their lives just for walking down the street.” 
cmulroy@theeagleonline.com and smattalian@theeagleonline.com 
Correction: A previous version of this article contained a typo in data on anti-Asian attacks on the rise. The language surrounding the charges filed has been corrected.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
