From twangy country albums to upbeat pop and Christmas records, Kacey Musgraves has a versatile discography and her latest release is no different. Her fifth studio album “star-crossed” dives into songwriting in a way that no other release of hers has: through the lens of heartbreak.
Musgraves first entered the country-music scene in 2013 with her debut album “Same Trailer Different Park,” but she soared to success in 2019 when her fourth studio album “Golden Hour” won the coveted Grammy for album of the year. She has won six Grammys in total throughout her career. 
While “Golden Hour” is filled with love songs about fellow country singer Ruston Kelly, her newest release is filled with songs about heartbreak following the couple’s divorce. Musgraves and Kelly announced their separation in July 2020 in a statement saying “It simply just didn’t work.” A year later, Musgraves released a 15-track album detailing the confusing and painful experience. 
While Musgraves began her career as a country artist, her last few releases have shifted to a more pop sound mixed with country twang. “star-crossed” is the farthest from country music she has released to date. 
The opening and title track “Star-Crossed” sets the scene for the listener when Musgraves sings, “I signed the papers yesterday/ You came and took your things away/ I moved out of the home we made/ And gave you back your name.” The next track, “Good Wife,” notes the pressure to be the ideal spouse that she felt during her marriage. 
Many of the following tracks detail the different emotions Musgraves felt while grieving the relationship, from the nostalgia of looking back on past memories in “Camera Roll,” to dreaming of the relationship working out in another life in “Angel” and “If This Was a Movie.” She delves into the confusion of moving on, singing that “healing doesn’t happen in a straight line” in the album’s second single “Justified.” Musgraves’ lyrics evoke the many different stages of heartbreak. 
However, Musgraves does take a break from discussing heartache in a few of her tracks. “Simple Times” details her desire to return to the younger years and go to 7-Eleven with her friends and talk on her pager because “being grown-up kinda sucks.” She also makes a statement with her eighth track “Breadwinner” which looks at men who say they want an independent partner, but then end up not being able to handle her success. 
Although this is a divorce album, Musgraves’ lyrics become more hopeful in the final tracks of the album. “What Doesn’t Kill Me,” “There Is a Light” and “Gracias a la Vida,” describe the light within her and how she is thankful for the life she was given. 
Overall, “star-crossed” is another hit record under Musgraves’ belt. Through her lyrics, she takes listeners on a journey into the world of heartbreak and the many emotions that come along with it, proving that she is able to take her pain and create something beautiful. 
sflakus@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As students are returning to D.C., so are your favorite musicians. October brings a variety of musical events students and residents are sure to be excited about. Here are seven concerts to check out this month.
Oct. 8 Mt. Joy and Trampled by Turtles
Mt. Joy is known for their modern folk-rock sound, supported with thoughtful and heartfelt lyrics. The band’s most recent album dropped in 2020 titled “Rearrange Us” with a single titled “New President.” The band will be joined by Trampled by Turtles, another modern folk-rock band, best known for their unique banjo sound and songs such as “Wait so Long,” “Alone” and “Victory.” If you are a fan of The Lumineers and Shakey Graves, Mt. Joy and Trampled by Turtles is a must see concert this October.
Mt. Joy and Trampled by Turtles are performing at The Anthem on Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets start at $89 and can be found here.
Oct. 16 All Things Go Music Festival
The All Things Go Music Festival is an annual outdoor music event held in the fall and is unique to the D.C. area. This year’s festival will be headlined by Haim, St. Vincent, Charli XCX and Lauv. If you’re into indie-pop music or just looking for a cool event to go to with friends, the All Things Go Music Festival is the place to be this month.
All Things Go Music Festival will be held at the Merriweather Post Pavilion, in Columbia, Maryland on Oct. 16 at 12 p.m. Tickets start at $89.50 and can be found here.
Oct. 19 Dayglow
Known for his hit song “Can I Call You Tonight,” released in 2018, Texas-born singer and songwriter Sloan Struble, better known as “Dayglow,” will be coming to D.C. this month. Dayglow’s music can best be described as dreamy indie-pop with a unique genre range that will pull you through a rollercoaster of emotions. Dayglow released his second album in May 2021, “Harmony House,” featuring retro-inspired melodies in songs such as “Close to You” and “Moving Out,” contrasted with a relaxed tempo in “December” and “Woah Man.” Dayglow’s sound is something out of this world, so this is definitely a concert you don’t want to miss out on.
Dayglow is performing at the 9:30 Club on Oct. 19 at 7 p.m. Tickets start at $53 and can be purchased here. 
Oct. 25 H.E.R.
Gabriella Wilson, better known as “H.E.R,” released her third album in June 2021, “Back of My Mind.” In her newest album, H.E.R. demonstrates her vocal and genre range, bringing songs that feature a variety of heartfelt ballads, slow tempos and trap beats. If you’re into artists like Daniel Caesar and SZA, you should check out H.E.R.’s concert.
H.E.R. is performing at The Anthem on Oct. 25 at 6:30 p.m. Tickets start at $80 and can be found here.
Oct. 25 Yves Tumor
Yves Tumour brings an array of eclectic sounds categorized as soulful, punky and electronic to the music scene. Tumor is best known for songs such as “Gospel for a New Century” and “Kerosene” as well as their feature on Joji’s song “Reanimator.” They recently released “The Asymptotical World EP” in July 2021. In the album, Tumor incorporates a heavy metal sound contrasting with ethereal undertones, making this a must listen to album for both new and old listeners. This is a concert that will get you on your feet and introduce you to a whole new world of music.
Yves Tumor is performing at Union Stage on Oct. 25 at 6:30 p.m. Resale tickets can be found here. 
Oct. 26 Arlo Parks
Arlo Parks is a West London-born artist whose music can best be described as soulful indie with hints of pop and spoken word. She released her first album in January titled “Collapsed in Sunbeams,” which she’ll be performing on tour. Arlo Parks is an upcoming, talented artist and a concert you don’t want to miss out on.
Arlo Parks is coming to Union Stage on October 26th at 7 p.m. Resale tickets can be found here.
Oct. 29 100 gecs
In 2015, high school friends Dylan Brady and Laura Les teamed up to become the hyperpop duo known as “100 gecs.” From there they went on to release their first EP titled “100 gecs” which features the TikTok viral song, “Money Machine.” The group returned in 2020 to release “1000 gecs and the Tree of Clues,'' which features big name artists such as Charli XCX, Rico Nasty and Fall Out Boy. 100 gecs’ music is classified as hyperpop with notes of dubstep, punk and pop, providing a unique mix of music.
100 gecs is performing at the 9:30 Club on Oct. 29 at 10 p.m. Tickets start at $49 and can be purchased here.
October will bring many different types of artists to the D.C. area that are sure to excite students as they transition back into school. These upcoming concerts are a good way to bring old and new friends together for a fun night out.
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Bronté Burleigh-Jones is no stranger to American University.
A double Eagle, Burleigh-Jones assumed the role of chief financial officer, treasurer and vice president Monday when her predecessor, Douglas Kudravetz, stepped down. Her appointment to the position was announced on Aug. 2 in an email to the University community by President Sylvia Burwell.
Once an Eagle, always an Eagle
Burleigh-Jones received her bachelor’s degree in business administration and finance in 1991 and later earned an MBA. During her time as an undergraduate student, Burleigh-Jones was a Fredrick Douglass Scholarship recipient. She said she was not initially interested in the program, however, with her main focus being on academics.
“When I applied to AU, I was admitted early decision, and actually was most interested in getting into American and was delighted to get in early decision,” Burleigh-Jones said. “And it wasn’t until I visited campus for the first time, and I met representatives from the Office of Minority Affairs, who made me aware of the scholarship opportunity.”
The scholarship had a lasting impact for Burleigh-Jones. Among the fellow recipients of the scholarship during her year, six of them pledged to the same historically Black sorority, Delta Sigma Theta. According to Burleigh-Jones, they also continue to support and communicate with one another.
“Many of us have continued those contacts, and the degree to which we continue to reach out to one another to be supportive of one another,” Burleigh-Jones said. “It’s the bonds that we formed and the ways in which we serve. We continue to support one another, many years [later]... we still are very supportive of one another.”
After her time at AU, Burleigh-Jones worked for a variety of organizations in finance-related roles, including the Delta Sigma Theta sorority, the Eneric Petroleum Corporation and the state of Texas. 
In 1998, she took over as the assistant dean of financial services at Huston-Tillotson University in Austin, Texas. The university is a historically Black university, which Burleigh-Jones said is particularly meaningful to her.
“I’m a third-generation college student, but all of the other graduates in my family are graduates of historically Black colleges,” Burleigh-Jones said. “So when I made the decision to go to AU, I broke the family mold, and there are members of my family who had very definite feelings about that. So in some ways, I saw going to work for a historically Black college [as] an opportunity to tell and demonstrate to my family that I had not lost track of my roots.”
Advocacy and work beyond D.C.
Burleigh-Jones went on to spend the next nine years working at Huston-Tillotson in a variety of positions, eventually culminating in her taking the position of vice president of finance and administration.
For Burleigh-Jones, her greatest impact at the school was decreasing the student loan default rate. Historically, HBCUs have struggled with this issue, and Huston-Tillotson University was no different.
“Working across the state, we formed a consortium of historically Black colleges and we work collectively to get those default loan default rates down to reasonable levels,” Burleigh-Jones said.
Upon leaving Huston-Tillotson in 2006, Burleigh-Jones took over as the treasurer of St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland. Upon arriving at St. John’s, Burleigh-Jones said she noticed how few students of color were at the school.
“When I first arrived, I actually was questioned by members of the Black community about why I would go work for an organization that had been viewed in the Black community as not welcoming to people of color,” Burleigh-Jones said.
After seven years at St. John’s College, Burleigh-Jones left the school for the role of vice president of finance and administration at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. 
Returning to her alma mater and planning for the future
According to Burleigh-Jones, one of her major areas of focus has been appealing to and recruiting a more diverse undergraduate population. Appealing to a diverse array of prospective students is more important than ever before, she said, as colleges see fewer white students applying and a greater number of students of color looking at colleges.
“Some of our recruitment and retention strategies may need to be altered in order to be as effective going forward,” Burleigh-Jones said. “And then in terms of how we allocate our resources, we may need to program differently, so we may have to shift our resource allocation.”
At AU, Burleigh-Jones is now responsible for overseeing financial growth as the University recovers from the pandemic. According to Burleigh-Jones, the University has done better than most schools in terms of finance throughout the pandemic, with the University projected to end the year with a net growth in assets.
“AU actually weathered the COVID storm in a much stronger position than most institutions,” Burleigh-Jones said. “So my job will be to help grow resources going forward because it's already operating from a place of strength.”
Looking towards the future, Burleigh-Jones believes that the University is in a strong position to continue meeting operational excellence and building upon the fundraising goals set up in the Change Can’t Wait campaign. The initiative has currently raised $283 million of a $500 million goal.
Burleigh-Jones said that some of the funds will go toward research projects that directly impact the local community surrounding the campus.
The most significant aspect of returning to the University as an executive officer, she said, is the honor of serving the University with both the skills and knowledge she gained as a student and the experiences she has had since leaving.
jschlanger@theeagleonline.com
Correction: A previous version of this article misspelled the Frederick Douglass scholarship program.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
