Latinx and American Student Organization (LASO) is continuing to adapt to a virtual environment by hosting online events and sponsoring speakers via Zoom, according to junior Campbell Urrutia, the club’s co-president.
LASO co-sponsored several events via Zoom in the fall semester, including one with the Kennedy Political Union on Sept. 10, featuring former Sec. of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro.
The club also hosted “A Conversation on Anti-Blackness in the Latinx Community,” featuring Olga Pabón, a curriculum and instruction supervisor at Prince George’s County Public Schools, and AU professor Noemí Enchautegui-de-Jesús on Sept. 16. LASO co-sponsored the event with the American University League of United Latin American Citizens. 
Urrutia, who joined LASO his freshman year and became a member of the club’s executive board his second semester, said that LASO uses “Latinx” in the club’s name because of its inclusivity.
“We are an organization centered around creating a safe space and a home away from home for all members of the Latinx community at AU,” Urrutia said. “Our mission is to advocate for and educate about important issues in our communities — in D.C., nationwide and abroad — all while trying to create a space where we can celebrate and uplift the diverse experiences within our community.”
Despite limitations due to coronavirus, LASO was still able to hold club meetings in the fall semester via Zoom.
“Something that [the executive board] definitely noticed is that a lot of organizations are struggling to get a draw on Zoom events,” Urrutia said. “Typically, our general-body meetings would pull about 40 to 50 people, and on Zoom events, it’s … typically around 20 to 30.”
Urrutia said the involvement fair is typically one of the best ways for LASO to recruit new members. However, the number of students who joined LASO’s session at the involvement fair has gone down, due to it being conducted virtually in both the fall 2020 and spring 2021 semesters, he said. 
In spite of the difficulties, the club has big plans for the spring semester. LASO launched the first edition of its weekly newsletter on Feb. 2, which is sent out to club members. The group will also host an upcoming event this semester featuring AU World Languages and Cultures professor Juliana Martinez on the topic of toxic masculinity in the Latinx community.
Urrutia emphasized the importance of hosting enough events for LASO members to enjoy participating in the club, but not so many that they are overwhelmed after already spending so much time online.
While Urrutia enjoys the social aspect of LASO, he said learning about the experiences of those with a different background is the best takeaway from his time in the club. 
“We try really hard to be open to people that aren’t in the mainstream Latinx identity,” Urrutia said. “Getting to learn about and experience different parts of the diaspora through LASO is really, really valuable to me.”
cmarkley@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Valentine’s Day is known for honoring love, connection and generosity. However, the holiday also has a tendency to center around materialism, which can make it difficult to celebrate sustainably. There’s a balance between showing affection to those you care about and showing compassion for the planet.
Before going on an Amazon shopping spree or tossing out your non-biodegradable chocolate boxes, consider these alternatives for a more sustainable Valentine’s Day. 
Make your gifts non-material
It’s easy to feel like you have to purchase a physical gift for your significant other or friends, but there are non-material gifts that can be just as special to your loved ones. Personalized experiences are a great alternative, especially if your partner’s love language is quality time. Consider venturing to an outdoor park (such as the National Arboretum) for a romantic stroll, or catching up with friends with a safe outdoor activity. If it is warm in your area, try supporting a local restaurant by ordering take out and having a picnic. 
Craft a gift
Another great way to minimize waste is by creating a gift. Constructing a scrapbook or writing a personalized letter is a great way to show your appreciation and also a good way to support your local craft store. These gifts tend to be more economically friendly, as they often cost more time than money. These projects are also less wasteful than factory-produced gifts, as you will only purchase what you need. Plus, you may already own the supplies you need for a lovely present.
If you are buying a gift, consider shopping sustainably
If your partner enjoys receiving gifts, do not fret. There are lots of ways to make your shopping more sustainable, like buying secondhand (such as from eBay or Poshmark), or from a small business (check out SkyPrintArt on Etsy).You can also buy from a sustainable company (such as Ocean Plastics), or you can support local stores. 
Recycle what you can
If you plan to purchase candies or gifts from a chain store, consider buying those that come in recyclable packaging. Additionally, think about composting any flowers that you may have been gifted. If you are gifted anything that you feel you will not use, consider dropping it off at a donation center.
Scrapbooking
If you are exceptionally crafty, this suggestion may be the one for you. If you wind up with any non-recyclable materials, or you’d rather preserve those aforementioned flowers, you can fashion them into a collage to preserve memories. Not only will you help reduce the waste produced from your festivities, but you will create something meaningful to remember the day. 
You don’t have to complete everything on this list to have an eco-friendly Valentine’s Day. Small choices toward sustainability may add up and make a big difference. Have a safe and sustainable Valentine’s Day!
okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I cringe when I reflect upon my middle school years, when I became invested in the political zeitgeist. I cackled at memes of Vice President Joe Biden and President Barack Obama’s supposed bromance, I memorized all the words to the “Hamilton” soundtrack and I crowded my walls with posters encouraging people to “feel the Bern.” Meanwhile, former president Obama was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of innocent civilians, the founding fathers personally enslaved people who built a nation on stolen land, and idolizing another Senate seat-warmer leaves little room for the criticism and accountability that democracy functions on. 
Enrolling at American University and being stuck inside my childhood bedroom by a certain coronavirus has left me with little to do but dissect my own political behaviors, past and present. Going to a school where many students discuss their aspirations to occupy the Oval Office has definitely given me a unique insight into how my peers view people in public office. What I’ve found, unsurprisingly, is that many of us fall into a parasocial relationship with politicians we look up to. And that, needless to say, is bad. 
A lot of it is probably just in good fun. We like to watch Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) play Among Us with our favorite streamers. We fawned over Michelle Obama’s perfect curls and Kamala Harris’ stepdaughter Ella Emhoff sporting a fashionable Miu Miu jacket at the 2021 presidential inauguration. 
I hate to be a killjoy, but even enjoying these things passively has harmful effects. That enjoyment eclipses the high stakes nature of politics and can even perpetuate the idea that politics should be a form of entertainment. In reality, politics is a life or death ordeal for many, especially for marginalized communities. A litany of issues plague our public consciousness: the corrupt justice and policing system, the inaccessible healthcare system, the environmental crisis, the horrible handling of the pandemic, the deteriorating infrastructure, the gross cost of higher education and the growing wage gap. The list goes on and on. American BIPOC, LGBTQ+, low-income and AFAB folks are consistently put in positions where they have to witness a referendum on their basic human rights. They cannot afford to pay attention to a politician’s social media antics when they desperately need people in power to act. 
Hence, it is frustrating to see an increasingly smaller focus on political action. These recent trends, bolstered by social media and smart marketing, continue to reduce conversations that should be focused on political ability to something more miniscule — who can be the funniest candidate, the prettiest candidate, the best-dressed candidate or the most iconic “girlboss.” None of these are new concepts by any means. Charisma and likeability have been a determining factor for voters for decades. However, at AU, many of us are privileged to understand the political system thoroughly enough to weigh policy more than optics. 
The truth that perfect politicians don’t exist does not absolve us from our duty of accountability as constituents. Do not become a PR machine for a public figure, especially public figures that should be working entirely on your behalf. You are doing a disservice to yourself and even to the politicians themselves, who very well may not be able to live up to the standards you set for them. Even posthumously.
Perhaps most egregiously, idolization ignores the legions of grassroots activists who have pioneered progressive policy, who have been fighting injustice before it was popular and who have risked their livelihoods for change. While many public servants are doing amazing work in office, painting them as the sole saviors of the United States is erasure. Besides, what’s the use in idolizing a politician advocating for basic human rights? Is that not just basic human decency? Does this not impede the ongoing effort to normalize governance on the basis of morality? 
Whether or not you consider this a non-issue, all of us need to be more introspective about how we have chosen to consume and create political media in the past, so we can be more careful about glorifying politicians in the future. 
Diana Gertsenshteyn is a freshman in the School of International Service and a staff columnist for The Eagle.
dgertsenshteyn@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Mali krug velikih ljudi. It’s a Croatian saying, and if you look it up, you’ll find two things. The first is a song by famous Croatian popstar Massimo, and the second is a phrase that means “a small circle of big people” in Croatian.
The latter of those two meanings happens to hold great significance for American University women’s basketball standout Karla Vreš, and that’s why it’s tucked neatly into her Instagram bio. However, this should come as no surprise once you meet Vreš. For her, the people you associate with are important.
“I like to keep my circle small,” Vreš, a sophomore, said. “I’m private with who I hang out with and people who I consider my closest friends. You meet a lot of people, but not all of those people are going to stick around forever.”
It makes sense for her to have this attitude. Vreš, who moved to Sweden when she was 15, has met a lot of people in her 22 years. However, Vreš’s long journey from her home in Zagreb, Croatia, to AU started with her older brother, Domagoj. 
“My brother inspired me to start playing,” Vreš said. “I always wanted to be like him. Whatever he was doing, I was around, and seeing him play basketball I wanted to play basketball.”
Vreš soon joined a local basketball team and quickly took to the sport. She played for the Croatian National Team in the 2017 U18 Women’s European Championship. 
The experience shows on the court, and head coach Megan Gebbia said Vreš has made the transition to the American college game with ease. After several strong performances to start the year, Gebbia inserted Vreš into the starting lineup.
“The international players are a little bit more mature when they come over, the pace of the game doesn’t surprise them when they come over, and they develop a bit quicker,” Gebbia said. “You see that when you put Karla in; she is instant offense.”
Vreš’s teammates have noticed the change too. Senior guard Indeya Sanders previously saw how talented Vreš was, and now sees her as an integral part of the offense.
“Me as a point guard and as a play creator, this is perfect because I know where she is at her best and where she can score,” Sanders said. “She’s finding her shot in rhythm, and I’m honestly not surprised because I knew what kind of player she is and I saw from her freshman year.”
Her ability to score has really helped the Eagles. The team is undefeated in the three games Vreš played for more than 10 minutes, and Vreš scores with surgical precision.
Vreš leads the Eagles in field goal percentage, 3-point percentage and blocks — which is rather ironic considering both Gebbia and Vreš agree that defense is not the Croatian’s strong suit. She’s also fourth in scoring. 
No matter what Vreš does, she will stand out. She is 6’3’’, the tallest player on the team, and she is lethal from 15 feet out — considered one the most inefficient shots in basketball. However, that isn’t what most people think of when they see her on the court.
Vreš plays with a mask on. While it was an adjustment at first, she said it’s now just a part of playing basketball in a pandemic.
“It’s the least I can do to protect myself and everyone else on the team,” she said. “You have your socks, shoes and now your mask.”
Her teammates, for their part, have gotten used to seeing her play in a mask.
“I first thought she forgot to take it off, but now I don’t even notice,” Sanders said.
While Vreš is now playing for the Eagles and stopping the spread in a sport that makes social distancing impossible, it wasn’t always a guarantee that Vreš would be able to keep playing basketball. 
When she graduated high school, her dream to become a lawyer came into conflict with her love for basketball.
“In Sweden, if I were to do that there was no way I would be able to play basketball and go to school,” Vreš said.
Vreš decided she wasn’t ready to give up either and took a 13-hour plane ride to AU, where she could play basketball and study law.  
She still wants to become a lawyer but hopes that she will be able to continue playing basketball after she leaves AU.
“Ideally I want to keep playing after college, but one day that is going to end,” Vreš said. “So as long as I’m able to play, I want to try and keep playing.”
bmorse@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
