File photo of the White House.
The unexpected fear that grips international students during a time of political turmoil is unlike any other. 
Elena Arango vividly recalls how she felt while traveling between the United States, where she studies at American University, and her home country of Colombia. Then-President Donald Trump’s administration enacted some of the strictest immigration policies to date. His policies and rhetoric about immigrants instilled fear among many international students.
One incident in 2019, when Arango was returning to the U.S. for her sophomore year at AU, stands out as particularly frightening. When security discovered that she was missing one element of her student visa upon arrival, she was threatened with deportation. 
“I was detained at the port of entry … I said, ‘I have the proof that I’m enrolled as a full time student. My transcript, my payment, I’ve done everything,’ but I didn’t know about that signature. No one told me,” said Arango, now a junior in the School of Communication. 
When an officer at the airport took her to a detainment room, which was paneled with one-way mirror glass, he told her, “‘We will maybe have to deport you back,’” she said.
Eventually, Arango called International Student & Scholar Services at AU, which provided her with a lawyer to confirm to the officer that she was in fact a full-time student with a student visa. 
Arango wasn’t aware that the ISSS provides lawyers for students in situations like these. 
“I didn’t know I had a lawyer,” she said. “I didn’t know that I was ever going to need a lawyer.” 
However, the ISSS is subject to executive orders passed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Often, they’re thrust into the position of needing to quickly respond to and communicate with students about policies that are enacted, most notably, the Trump administration’s travel ban.
Senem Bakar, the director of ISSS, remembers the date the ban was issued: Jan. 27, 2017, a Friday morning on which the Trump administration released an executive order placing strict travel restrictions on individuals traveling to the U.S. from several Muslim-majority countries. 
“The very first thing I did as soon as I saw that executive order was ran a quick list of our enrolled students to see who we have from those countries, and how many students would be impacted,” Bakar said. 
She remembers the following week being filled with town halls and contacting lawyers, trying to help students navigate the fallout from the order. 
Bakar said government policies affect the lives of every student. She mentioned one student who lost a brother but was unable to return home for his funeral, as she’d have been prevented from reentering the U.S. to continue her studies. Bakar cited many such examples.
“While the president has lots of power, generally speaking, he has more power in the realm of immigration,” said Amanda Frost, a professor at AU’s Washington College of Law who specializes in citizenship and immigration law, among other areas.
Sparsh Goyal, a freshman in the School of International Service, lives in South Korea. He is considered a “global nomad” at AU, meaning that he has U.S. citizenship but lives abroad. While Goyal hasn’t had struggles with citizenship, he has the experience that comes with traveling in and out of the U.S.
“We are very strict, in comparison to other countries,” Goyal said in reference to immigration policies. 
“I do think that there is a lot of inconsistency in the way that it’s enforced and in the way that it’s understood by those who are by those who it affects, especially to immigrants who are on the poor side,” he said. “It’s a large threat to them to go into immigration without knowing exactly what they’re getting into.”
Ana Camargo, a junior in SIS and CAS, has traveled between the U.S. and Colombia, similar to Arango. On top of the stress of being an international student, she also deals with the culture shock and creation of a new identity that comes with moving to a new country.
“You have to code-switch very quickly. You have to become very proficient with two different lifestyles,” Camargo said, referring to the act of linguistically switching between dialects and cultures. “You start becoming like someone that has to kind of decide where you belong.”
Camargo has observed how intertwined culture and politics are in the U.S. 
“That’s also a transition that I believe every international student goes through, those changes that obviously have an impact on politics and their own professional lives,” Camargo said.
Despite what occurred during the Trump administration, President Joe Biden claims to have a more progressive policy on immigration, with both his language and policies. Biden reversed Trump’s “Muslim ban” on his first day in office. 
“That will, I think, also encourage more students to come,” Frost said. 
Camargo has hope about the change from Trump to Biden and how international students are affected by policy. 
“Thank God that with the Biden administration that's something that’s changing,” she said.
Arango feels relieved at Biden’s election.
“It was a relief for me. When this change of presidency happened,” she said. “I feel that right now I am much more welcome in the United States.”
smattalian@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University plans to hold spring 2021 graduation recognition both online and in-person, depending on permission from the D.C. government, President Sylvia Burwell wrote in an email Monday.
The virtual commencement ceremony will feature remarks from an honorary degree speaker, a message from the president to the new graduates and the conferral of degrees. It will take place over the weekend of May 7 to 9. 
The full ceremony will be followed by ones for individual schools, Burwell wrote, each with remarks from deans and student speakers, along with individual recognition of graduates.
“If we receive permission to host an in-person recognition, we will take every precaution possible to adhere to university and local government COVID-19 guidelines, including mask wearing, physical distancing, and limiting group size to the allowed number under DC regulations,” Burwell wrote. “These protocols will likely only allow for our graduates and a small number of university officials to attend.”
Burwell said families of the graduates will be invited to stream any in-person recognition event.
Washington College of Law will have its own in-person and online commencement, also depending on D.C. guidance, on the weekend of May 22 to 23. D.C.’s COVID-19 guidelines can be found here.
Burwell wrote in her email that, should there be an in-person ceremony as planned, AU will strictly adhere to AU and D.C. government guidelines. She added that final determinations about any in-person events will be made by the second week of April.
“Thank you for your perseverance, understanding, and most importantly, your commitment to doing your very best in pursuit of your degree,” Burwell wrote. “The opportunity to celebrate your accomplishments in May is the culmination of your efforts and experiences at American University, and our entire community is proud of you.”
Further information can be found on the commencement website. RSVPs are not required to attend the online celebrations. The ceremony will be streamed live on the commencement website. 
trecchio@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After 491 days without American University women’s soccer, a new era for the program has arrived. In the first game under head coach Marsha Harper and of the 2021 season, the Eagles fell short in a 1-0 loss to Lehigh University Saturday evening. 
With snow on the sidelines and frigid temperatures in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, AU was held to very few offensive moments with just two shots on goal compared to Lehigh’s four. The only goal of the game came in the 53rd minute, with a cross shot near the AU bench from Lehigh’s Bridget Casey. Sailing over the head of senior goalie Ryleigh Brown into the top left corner, the Mountain Hawks only needed one goal to seal the victory. 
The Eagles approached this season knowing they needed to create more offensive opportunities in games this season, having scored just 19 goals in 18 games last season. Despite the lack of offensive production, AU will look to build on the efforts of its first outing.
"We didn't get a 'W,' but I told the team that we can learn from every moment and every game,” Harper said afterward. “There's absolutely some bright spots in how we played and what we've been working on, especially in moments where we were able to attack in transition. There's also some areas that we know we need to address.” 
Lehigh held a 6-2 advantage in corner kicks, putting pressure on Brown and forcing the defense to come up with big plays to stop the opposing offense. The Mountain Hawks also drew five offside calls compared to two calls for American.
American’s two shots on goal came from senior Reagan Gould in the 56th minute and sophomore Fisayo Iluyomade in the 59th minute, both handled by Lehigh goalie Miranda Royds. Royds had 90 saves for the Mountain Hawks last season and led the Patriot League in saves among goalkeepers, a major factor in this Lehigh team’s makeup. 
American’s defense also shined Saturday night, keeping Lehigh to just seven shots in the opener. Though there wasn’t an offensive tally on the stat sheet for the Eagles, the team’s performance did highlight their strengths as well as components they need to work on.
“Moving forward, we told the team that every moment can be a stepping stone,” Harper said. “This is our first game in however many days that we've been away from the game. It's certainly something we can use in our favor."
Tight-scoring games haven’t been uncommon between these two Patriot League teams. In the last 10 matchups between Lehigh and American, all of them have ended in 1-0 final scores — the latest of which came in both teams’ last games before the pandemic, a 2OT win for American that gave them their only conference win of the year.  
The Eagles will look to get their first win when they hit the road next week in Annapolis, Maryland to face Navy at 7 p.m. on Friday.
cfisher@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
