Attacker Emma Vinall in action against University of Delaware 
American University lacrosse senior attacker Emma Vinall was recently selected as a Preseason All-American honorable mention by Inside Lacrosse, the first such selection in program history. 
Vinall was also named to the Patriot League Preseason All-League Team. The news was met with excitement from her teammates, and they applauded her leadership and tenacity on the field.
“Everyone knows how incredible Emma Vinall is,” midfielder Sydney Wender said. “She is a really hard worker, she’s a great leader, she’s kind-hearted, she is one of the best people I know.”
Midfielder Haley Harkins said that Vinall is one of the best goal scorers she’s ever seen.
“A lot of people look up to her,” Harkins said. “It’s super noticeable when she’s on the field, and it’s a lot more intimidating to play her.”
The pick comes as a birthday gift for Vinall, who was recently named co-captain, and the news was met with even more praise from her teammates on social media. 
Despite the pandemic-shortened seven-game season, Vinall scored 42 goals — the most in Division I lacrosse — while racking up the third-most points in the country. She also scored an AU-record nine goals in a win against Presbyterian. However, those who have followed Vinall should not be shocked at her impressive resume.
Vinall’s career at AU has been all about putting the ball in the net. Vinall was named to the All-Patriot League Second Team in 2019, scoring 51 goals. She led the team both in points and shot percentage for players who shot on goal more than once.
With the new season set to begin in late February, Vinall is on pace to break more records at AU. She is 32 points away from tying American’s career points record and 32 goals away from tying the career goals record. Harkins, for her part, is bullish that Vinall will shatter both marks.
“Just knowing how much she scores it makes a lot of sense,” Harkins said. “She’s going to get them right away.”
With 2021 already off to a strange start, any sort of season expectations are unpredictable. But Vinall is primed for an impressive senior season.
bmorse@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
