The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
University administrators announced Tuesday their plan to hand out leftover sandwich fixings to adjunct faculty, advisors and graduate student employees in lieu of a living wage and decent benefits. 
This proposal comes after months of organizing by AU staff for the University to recognize their union, raise wages above the inflation rate and ensure fair work leave.
“We know these have been hard times,” AU spokesperson Cecelia Wheeler said. “That’s why the president’s cabinet has decided to visit campus dining locations each day and personally pick up breadcrumbs to give to staff as a token of our appreciation.” 
When asked if compensation in crumbs was commensurate with employees’ experience, Wheeler declined to comment.
Most staff did not approve of the crumbs proposal. 
“I knew AU was going to try and co-opt our demands,” said Belinda Waters, an adjunct public policy professor. “I just didn’t expect them to offer literal breadcrumbs when we’re asking to be treated professionally.”
As more staff heard about the University’s crumbs proposal, some speculated that University administrators are not particularly committed to AU’s new brand, “Change Can’t Wait.”
“I don’t know about you, but telling us to make do with leftover sandwich materials sounds a heck of a lot like telling us to wait on decent wages,” academic advisor Keith Connors said. 
According to Senior Marketing Director Simon Buchanan, the University did not expect anyone to take seriously the slogan that was plastered on countless indoor and outdoor surfaces before the start of the semester.
“When we whipped up that ‘Change Can’t Wait’ line over the summer, we never thought anyone would hold us to it,” said Buchanan. “You do realize that was just a way to get undergrads in the door, right?”
In a last ditch effort to renew credibility with staff and students, the University announced it would revise the slogan to “Change Can’t Wait (some restrictions may apply).”
In a press release, AU also committed to spending $15 million to update campus banners, the shuttle bus and bookstore merchandise with the new version of the slogan.
Owen Boice is a senior in the School of Public Affairs and the satire editor at The Eagle.
oboice@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
The entertainment world was struck in a way that was both soul-stirring and inconceivable in March 2020. Theaters, museums and concert halls across the world went dark, leaving creators to look inward and consider more confined ways of making art. For creators at American University, this meant making content from their childhood bedrooms. 
Many found that this time caused unparalleled stress; a waiting game fixated on nothing but the return to in-person work. For others, this time presented a chance to explore the boundaries of art in the most versatile space possible: the internet. And while the coronavirus raged across the country, the social media app TikTok began to emerge as an emotional and creative outlet for young people. 
For individuals who considered themselves performers in the pre-pandemic world, the platform gave them a way to channel their artistic tendencies while engaging with an audience. Such is the case for Grace Bressner (@gracebressner), a dancer and freshman in the Department of Performing Arts at AU. 
“I started blowing up more during the pandemic: there was this one video I posted, and it got me my first million views,” Bressner said. She now has just over one million followers on TikTok. “People were on the app, everyone was starting to join [it], because that’s all there was to do.”
And although Bressner finds that the type of dancing she continues to do on TikTok is very different from her in-studio dance styles, she does feel that it was a great place for her to fill out some of her desire to entertain during lockdown. 
“In the sense of performance and of entertainment qualities, TikTok for sure fulfilled that,” Bressner said. 
She currently creates her own dances and revises the dances of other creators in her own style. One of her dances was even performed by TikTok superstar Charli D’Amelio.
“[The dance] was known for Charli doing it three times,” Bressner said. “But there was also so much hate associated with it. When you create your own TikTok dance, the most common comment and recurring thing that people will say is that it’s just recycled movements.” 
As a result of this reaction, Bressner now spends more of her time recreating the dances of others. She also finds breaks from her virtual presence with in-person dance lessons and through preparation for AU Dances, an event between dance courses where students showcase their learned skills. For her, it’s a welcome return. 
For other entertainment forms, remaining fully virtual seems likely. Content creator Upneet Kaur (@createbyua), who is a senior in the School of International Service, began developing her video crafting skills on the platform. On TikTok, she creates content centered around fashion, art and lifestyle. Her videos amass thousands of views; she currently has a following of upwards of 60 thousand. 
“In terms of short films, I’d never done them before I joined TikTok. I have in the past just filmed videos or taken pictures,” Kaur said. “But compiling it into those videos and giving them a theme was never something I’d done before. It’s something I had always admired that other people did, but not something I thought I would be able to do.”
In learning to create this type of content, Kaur has also developed a unique style that highlights her ability to build aesthetics and redefine the boundaries of modern creative demonstration.
“[It] has given me one more way to express myself,” Kaur said. 
The same is true for Sebastian Aguilar (@sebbylyfe), a junior with 10 thousand followers who considers himself a genreless content creator on TikTok. Self-expression is the primary driving force behind his content, which remains fluid based on his own interests.
“I don’t put myself in a single section of entertainment, I do it more for myself,” Aguilar said. “A lot of my personality comes through the videos that I make, and so I just like expressing myself with other people on the internet. I think a big part of that came because of the pandemic: I didn’t get to share my personality with people in person anymore, and being the extrovert that I am, I found that TikTok could be that platform to give me that opportunity.”
Aguilar also said he feels that TikTok has provided young people with a newfound sense of community, one that remains unparalleled by most platforms. 
“One of the big benefits to TikTok is that you can have an interest that you think nobody else is interested in, but you do find somebody who shares that similar passion,” Aguilar said. “One of the larger projects that I’m working on is to do a collaboration cross-country.”
And for others, like SIS and Kogod School of Business senior Paul Sutton (@paulblartgoestoschool), TikTok creation opened them up to being entertainers. Sutton began using the app as a way to share videos from his work as a park ranger during the pandemic.
“I was never really an entertainer before this,” Sutton said. “I was a park ranger, and that was my job during the summer when I was at home during the pandemic. So if the pandemic didn’t happen, I wouldn’t have had that job, and I wouldn’t have made the TikTok.”
At AU, Sutton is the president of the club soccer team and a member of a professional business fraternity. Following the end of his stint as a park ranger, Sutton now remains relatively popular among the nature fan community. 
“After I ran out of park material, I just started posting more stuff about me,” Sutton said. “Which was kind of nice because I learned to be able to show myself through the app instead of just showing my park life.”
For now, all genres of live performance are slowly beginning to trickle back to the foreground. But TikTok creators — as well as the viewers that fuel the ongoing popularity of the app — seem set on solidifying the app’s spot as a vivacious and valid form of modern entertainment. 
okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
As American University students navigate a pandemic-riddled college experience, the University has made several internal structural changes toward the new vision of AU, including many changes to administration officials. 
Since Sylvia Burwell was appointed president in 2017, her cabinet of 10 administrators has morphed multiple times, four being new hires or assuming new roles in the past three months. 
Other leadership positions at the University, including four dean positions, have also experienced high turnover, many of which have been internally promoted.
The numerous administrative changes come months after the University launched its $500 million fundraising campaign “Change Can’t Wait.” The three pillars of the campaign, listed as “Elevate, Inspire, and Lead,” aim to transform the student experience, expand faculty research and strengthen communities within the campus and city environments. 
Finances
Brontè Burleigh-Jones took over as AU’s chief financial officer, vice president and treasurer on Oct. 4, succeeding Douglas Kudravetz, who retired after working for the University for over 35 years. 
In her new role, Burleigh-Jones will help manage the University’s budget, treasury management and auxiliary services.
“As the chief resource manager, I make sure that we manage the resources to carry out the priorities and goals that have been identified in the campaign,” Burleigh-Jones said.
Provost
Many recent administrative moves involve tenured officials taking on new roles. Peter Starr was announced as permanent provost on Sept. 28. Previously, Starr served as acting provost since summer 2020, and as the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences before that. 
Due to the pandemic, Starr served as acting provost for two years rather than the original plan of serving for one year. In an interview with The Eagle, Starr said that after conducting a “360 review” of his work as acting provost, Burwell named him permanent provost in a September email.
In regards to AU promoting many officials internally, Fanta Aw, vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence, said that “there is no substitute for experience.” She said that there is a benefit to understanding how the specific institution runs. 
One example of this comes from inside the provost’s office. Monica Jackson became the new deputy provost and dean of faculty in July 2020. Jackson previously served as associate dean of undergraduate studies in CAS for the two previous years and as CAS’ first diversity, equity and inclusion officer. Jackson has worked for the University since 2005, originally as a math and statistics professor.
Undergraduate enrollment
Aw was also recently promoted to vice president of undergraduate enrollment, an additional role that she assumed in early October.  
“This new element is really a way to give us an opportunity to think about the student experience holistically,” Aw said. 
Elizabeth Deal, the recently appointed assistant vice president for community and internal communication, told The Eagle in an email that Aw’s new position will help advance the University’s strategic work and better serve the community as a whole. 
“We are prioritizing enrollment work throughout the university to meet the needs of our students, parents, and future Eagles,” she said. “As part of the work, we are elevating undergraduate enrollment to the cabinet-level to further our already strong efforts.”
Chief of staff
Seth Grossman, the vice president of people and external affairs, also led the Office of the President as the chief of staff until recently. On Nov. 1, Sarah Baldassaro assumed the role of chief of staff, while Grossman kept his position in the People and External Relations division. 
This division spans over a wide array of offices at AU, including Human Resources, the Office of Equity and Title IX, Community and Governmental Affairs, WAMU and the strategic plan. 
“As these functions enter important new phases, the updated alignment provides visibility and support across the university and will bolster the contributions of each area to our overall mission,” said Matthew Bennett, the University’s vice president and chief communications officer, in an email to The Eagle regarding the division’s future.
Baldassaro previously spent the past 12 years as interim vice president for communications and marketing at George Washington University. 
Aw said that the role of the chief of staff is vital to the success of the University, specifically pointing out that their role is to ensure that the coordination and communication between the president’s office and cabinet members is intentional. 
Deans
The University has also seen a significant turnover in its deans throughout several schools: new deans were announced for CAS, School of International Service, School of Communication and the Washington College of Law, in addition to the establishment of the School of Education in 2019.
Christine Chin, dean of the SIS, is stepping down at the end of the academic year to take sabbatical leave. Chin, a 25-year veteran of AU, assumed the role in 2018 after serving as interim dean during the previous year. 
“It is an adjustment where we normally hire deans from the outside,” Chin said. “I know my community; my community knows me, but in a different capacity.”
AU has not announced a new dean and Chin said that she will not be involved in the search for a new dean. However, as an alumna of AU, she said that she is hoping that the new dean will continue to elevate AU’s reputation on a nationwide level.
As for the recent dean changes throughout AU, she said that she does not see it as alarming. “In any kind of large organization, you will get change,” Chin said.   
In July 2020, Max Friedman was announced as the interim dean of the CAS, taking over from Peter Starr when he took on the responsibility of acting provost. Sam Fulwood III was also named the new dean of the SOC in January, beginning his deanship in May. 
There have also been recent changes in graduate leadership. Roger A. Fairfax Jr. was named dean of the WCL in April. 
Starr has been involved in the search for deans for multiple schools within AU, including CAS, WCL and SOC. 
“It’s a really, really strong group of leaders now,” Starr told The Eagle. “I’ve done university administrations at two universities for 15 years and it’s a stronger group of leaders than I’ve ever seen.”
bjohansen@theeagleonline.com and zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Eagle sports contributor Alex Walulik chats with sophomore men’s basketball forward Johnny O’Neil, the reigning Patriot League Rookie of the Year. O’Neil talks about his freshman season and the recruiting process that brought him to AU. O'Neil also discusses how his high school career prepared for playing Division I basketball and expectations for the 2021-2022 season. 
This episode was produced by Noah Tanen and Carly Johnson.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
File photo of the White House.
Investments in public transport, the building of electronic vehicle charging stations and the rebuilding of roads and bridges are all changes D.C. residents can expect after the passage of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act last month.
On Nov. 6, 2021, Congress voted to pass the bill, a bipartisan deal that aims to rebuild infrastructure across the country, as well as expand access to services such as drinking water and internet access. 
The infrastructure bill was signed into law by President Joe Biden on Nov. 15. According to a statement released by the White House, the legislation will add an average 1.5 million jobs per year for the next 10 years.
Claire Whitman, a junior in the School of International Service and the president of the American University College Democrats, said she is in favor of the infrastructure bill.
“I’m from a rural state,” Whitman said. “I think we can really see the impacts of rural broadband of crumbling roads and bridges, that’s very basic infrastructure, but also some of the more modern technological investments.”
Whitman said the fact that the infrastructure bill passed in such a bipartisan manner was a big deal to her.
According to the White House, D.C. is expected to receive over $1.2 billion in funding toward the improvement of public transportation over the next five years.
Dr. Andrew Ballard, an assistant professor of government in the School of Public Affairs, said he believes it is good Congress collects and redistributes money toward projects that are beneficial to the public.
“That said, there are all sorts of infrastructure problems in the United States that didn’t make it into this bill,” Ballard said. “So there’s always more work to do. And this is kind of how policymaking in the United States is set up, that it is a lot easier to have incremental changes rather than extremely large changes.”
The passage of the infrastructure bill comes as Build Back Better, a framework created by the Biden Administration, heads to the U.S. Senate for debate and a vote.
Build Back Better, which passed the House of Representatives on Nov. 19, promises to combat climate change, provide universal and free preschool and expand the U.S.’s affordable health care program.
Sal Cottone, a freshman in the SIS and a member of the Sunrise Movement at AU, a youth-led organization dedicated to fighting for climate and environmental justice said both the infrastructure bill and Build Back Better need to be passed together.
“If we kept the infrastructure bill as is, we would have saw nothing towards climate change, it would have actually funded more fossil fuel production and in turn, would have basically went against everything that we were fighting for, which is why we have Build Back Better, which in our opinion, needs to be passed hand in hand with the infrastructure bill,” Cottone said. “You can’t just have one or the other, they both have to go hand in hand.”
While Cottone is worried that Democratic Senator Joe Manchin will vote no on the Build Back Better bill, he remains hopeful.
“In general, I’m hopeful because even if he votes no, I know our generation will rise up like we’ve been doing and even in a bigger fashion, because this is the first step to combat the climate crisis,” Cottone said. “And if it’s voted no on that, we have nothing left.”
The Sunrise Movement at AU is currently on their third week of organizing a sit-in protest for the Build Back Better bill. 
According to Whitman, both the infrastructure and Build Back Better bills address the impacts that these investments have on people’s lives.
“As a Democrat, and as a student who represents the Democratic Party on campus, I’m pleased to see that the party is making these investments, because I think that's really what they were elected to do.”
ewhite@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
