Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University junior MC Clark spent the past year creating her clothing brand &bonez with a mission of sustainability and empathy.
“Being an environmental science major, I wanted [the process] to be as environmentally friendly as possible,” Clark said. 
Before she launched her brand in August, Clark researched the most environmentally friendly clothing design practices and decided to print the designs on the fabrics with a silk screen. Clark also buys the clothing she prints her designs on from thrift stores or wholesale providers. She ensures that the clothing she uses for her designs is either second-hand or made from recycled materials.
The way she prints her designs is also sustainable, producing very little waste.
“I had [my most recent stencil] for four months so far, and it’s still going strong,” Clark said. 
Clark initially drew her hand and skeleton designs for fun until her brother suggested she put them on t-shirts, Clark said. Once she figured out how to do that in an environmentally sustainable way, Clark launched the business with the motto to “do good with your bonez,” following the theme of the skeleton hand that she started with.
Her main designs feature a normal hand reaching toward a skeletal hand in many different forms, such as the hands reaching their pinkies toward each other for a promise or the “re-creation of adam,” in which the hands are inspired by Michelangelo’s “The Creation of Adam.”
&bonez was recently featured on e-commerce platform The Fletcher Collective’s Purpose for the Passion YouTube series, where Clark talked about the brand’s environmental and social impact.
Clark herself “does good with her bones” by donating a portion of her profits to various charities and organizations. The explosion in the Lebanese Port of Beirut occurred the week that Clark planned to start her business, and she donated 40 percent of her profits to Lebanese Red Cross, raising $250.
She donated a portion of her profits from the last week of September 2020 to The Bail Project, a nonprofit that pays bail for those who cannot afford it. During the holiday season, Clark chose to donate a portion of her profits to the Covenant House, a homeless shelter for young people in D.C.
In February, for her limited-edition Valentine’s Day design, Clark donated to the domestic violence intervention agency DC SAFE.
“I figured I should donate towards organizations that help people who aren’t being loved the way they should,” Clark said.
Clark sells t-shirts, totes and sweatpants with her designs, and upon request, can tie-dye products.
When it comes to environmentally conscious shopping, one of Clark’s tips is to look at the fabrics. She said that cotton is one of the most earth-friendly fabrics. Though it uses a lot of water to produce, cotton is naturally plant-based and biodegradable. Clark also suggests shopping at thrift stores or spending a little extra, “to make sure that the person who made [the product] is being paid fairly, and [that the brands] are not damaging the earth.”
&bonez just launched its newest product, a hand embroidered design on the front of the sweatshirt and a printed design that states, “be who you want to be” on the back. All product orders can be requested through direct message with the product and size.
Clark’s hope is that people who buy from her business, “wear [her products] proudly and are actively telling people ‘hey, do good today.’” 
amelsheimer@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Mary Graydon Center, pictured in 2016. 
Editor's Clarification: This article has been updated to clarify that the University raised 54 percent of its goal by October.
American University is embarking on a new “Change Can’t Wait” campaign that aims to raise $500 million, President Sylvia Burwell announced in a live stream Wednesday. 
The University had already raised $270 million, about 54 percent of its goal, by this past October. However, due to the ongoing circumstances of the coronavirus pandemic, they ultimately decided to refrain from announcing the campaign out of sensitivity to the financial hardship being faced by community members, according to Vice President of Development and Alumni Relations Courtney Surls. 
The $500 million goal intends to “transform the student experience, fund scholarly research that produces impact now, and help build better communities,” Burwell wrote in an email.
The announcement called on alumni and the AU community to continue the momentum and included testimonials from faculty and students speaking as to why change “can’t wait.”
“It expands our ability to take on urgent and complex challenges,” Burwell said in the announcement. “From improving mental health and addressing social inequity, to bolstering democracy and building a more inclusive society.”
Planning for “Change Can’t Wait” began in 2017, soon after Burwell’s arrival. Until now, the campaign has been in its “quiet phase.” During a student media briefing on Monday, Surls described it as a period of “testing” to see if alumni would be interested in giving to this cause. 
The announcement accompanies AU’s new “Challenge Accepted” brand campaign. Both efforts are part of the University’s “Changemakers for a Changing World” five-year strategic plan.
Surls explained that the campaign is intended to “raise awareness of some needs of students,” including financial aid, mental health resources and experiential learning opportunities. 
“For 18 years, there wasn’t a concerted effort to tell people what was important to us,” Surls said.
The goal is to invite donors to invest in the student body, which the administration says is ultimately an investment in the future of society at large.
The campaign has three pillars — elevate, inspire and lead. 
According to the website, the first pillar, elevate, is dedicated to making “an AU education more accessible, affordable, and empowering,” with an emphasis on helping first-generation students, growing programs like the Frederick Douglass Distinguished Scholar program and improving the athletic center.
“Elevate” states AU’s commitment to “increased financial aid and scholarships, and greater access to experiential learning.” In specific steps, the University outlines its goal of eliminating debt for outstanding students with the highest need as well as increasing affordability and access for middle-income students. The University also plans to “provide equitable access to internships and experiential learning.”
The second, "inspire," emphasizes faculty research and opportunity. The website cited the Sine Institute and the Polarization and Extremism Research and Innovation Lab. The announcement also shared a recent $5 million donation to the Hall of Science by University trustee and alumnus Gary Abramson. According to the website, the campaign will help the University double the amount of donor-funded chairs, establish endowed chairs and attract more faculty in the areas of data science and analytics, health, security and social equity.
The third pillar is “lead,” which solidifies the University’s commitment to improving the state of education in D.C. through the School of Education and promoting free speech with the School of Public Affairs’ Project on Civil Discourse.
kcorliss@theeagleonline.com and cmulroy@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor's note: The subheading of this story has been corrected with proper spelling of Brock's name.
Outgoing Student Government President Eric Brock’s call to establish a community advisory board over the American University Police Department in February has made progress over the last month, including meetings with University leadership and more concrete plans in development. 
While the plan is still in its early stages, Fanta Aw, vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence at AU, confirmed that Brock’s idea is under consideration after being submitted to Douglas Kudravetz, the outgoing CFO and vice president who oversees AUPD. 
The next step, Aw said, is to develop a more detailed proposal. 
Brock’s plan for the Police Oversight Committee involves three steps. First, implementing a community oversight board over AUPD that would provide accountability and an avenue for community members to make their voices heard on the role of the department. After step two — accountability — is achieved, the majority of the board could vote on a possible step three: defunding the department.
The oversight board would be a transition, Brock said. 
“As a community, we come to the consensus that there needs to be community accountability for AUPD, which then establishes the community oversight for AUPD, then handles all the oversight, handles all the policy recommendations, it moves it out of HR into a more community-oriented format,” Brock said. “Then, that’s where it starts to come to the question — when you’re talking about policies, you’re also talking about defunding.”
According to Brock’s plan, the board would be made up of students, faculty and staff who can formally advocate for changes to AUPD. It would provide a space for the community to share their experiences with the department and to suggest changes and adaptations to benefit the campus as a whole. 
Ideally, Brock said he wants the board located high in AU’s power structure, rather than being relegated to a small, relatively powerless SG committee that he believes administrators could easily ignore. Both the University’s vice president of campus life and the chief financial officer need to sit on it, as their presence in a room with students and faculty will have more of a “bite,” he said. Brock hopes that decisions made in this context will be binding.
But what do oversight and defunding look like? Brock acknowledged that the words mean different things to everyone, but his vision involves moving money from what he terms a more “militarized” AUPD into student programs, the health center, counseling center and the Center for Diversity and Inclusion. Most importantly, he wants to see more investment in students.
However, he’s not interested in collecting signatures or campaigning on the issue again. Brock was elected to advocate, he said, and he’s not concerned about student buy-in, especially during a pandemic. Instead, if you’ve got an opinion, he encourages you to reach out directly.
“For far too long, we’ve waited for the University to take action that would protect Black students,” Brock said in an email to The Eagle. “I don’t think we need to campaign for buy-in. In fact, I think it’s long overdue. And the conversations in the Black community have reflected that for generations.”
It’s absolutely vital, he said, that affinity organizations, students of color and especially Black students are given the platform to oversee and advocate for change surrounding AUPD. Communities of color are disproportionately policed across the U.S., and protests against AUPD in recent years underline the issue. 
Brock isn’t the only student leader calling for the implementation of an oversight board. Christian Damiana, the ANC 3D07 commissioner and a junior in the School of Public Affairs, said he’s “absolutely” in favor of the idea.
“Even when things are going well, there’s still things that students will have opinions about and should be given an opportunity to share,” Damiana said. “First off is how much money is being spent on AUPD. Are those resources that could be better allocated elsewhere?”
While Damiana doesn’t have a firm position on defunding, he believes that students deserve the opportunity to voice their opinions. He’s also concerned about the relationship between AUPD and D.C.’s Metropolitan Police Department, an organization dogged by controversy over police brutality and misconduct in recent years. 
The MPD did not respond to The Eagle’s request for comment. 
Damiana also hopes that the proposed board might include local residents, not just campus community members. Some have had experiences with AUPD, he said, and although most see the department positively, its presence affects much of the surrounding area. 
Interested students should reach out to him, the ANC and President Sylvia Burwell’s office, Damiana said.
Police defunding and abolition have also garnered support from several student organizations. The Asian-American Student Union, Latinx and American Student Organization, Muslim Student Association, AU College Democrats and AU PRIDE cosigned a statement in August, stating that the University “must set an example of what inclusion truly means and abolish AUPD.”
The statement notes disparities in the University’s budget. AUPD and Parking and Commuter Services operated with over $8 million in the fiscal year 2020 while the Office of Campus Life, which is home to 17 different offices including the Counseling Center, received $17 million.
“It’s about reallocating funds to prevention methods because really, the police department is reactionary,” said Jeremy Ward, president of AU College Democrats. “The social services are more preventative. It’s shifting, on campus, money from a reactionary department to an underfunded, preventative department.”
Unlike the existing campus police advisory board at the University of Michigan, which staffs two students, two faculty members and two staff members, Ward said that he would like to see an oversight committee with a larger operating staff.
“The composition of the panel has to look like the University,” Ward said. “That being said, you want to have affinity groups at the table. NAACP should be at the table, BSU or other Black groups, other minority groups and organizations that often don’t get the spotlight. You also want to have students who may not be in on-campus leadership. It has to span different classes. Members of HPAC and the counseling center should be there.”
The conversation of police abolition has been at the forefront since, and even before, the nationwide movement in the summer of 2020. Brock said that while defunding is a possibility in the future, all he’s asking for right now is oversight and a seat at the table. More, he hopes, will come later, once student voices are reliably included in institutional decision-making. 
Brock’s proposal is flexible — a vital component of negotiating with the University, he said. He’s learned that it’s all about compromise, even if that means keeping plans relatively vague for a period. 
Once the University provides him with more comprehensive information about AUPD, such as its budget and policies, Brock plans to get more specific with his request. However, he doesn’t plan to compromise on everything. 
“We’re not interested in defunding small amounts,” Brock said. “We’re not abolishing, but we’re also not interested in getting bargaining chips, right? We want to make sure that this is a proportional amount that actually creates a smart investment in our students, specifically our BIPOC students.”
Brock’s term as student body president has recently ended. While he hopes students will continue the initiative, he recognizes that’s not a guarantee. He’s planning to continue working on the proposal, and has meetings scheduled with University stakeholders, he said. 
“I hope after this pandemic that people really start to question these systemic issues as they have this past summer, and really sit down and start to think, ‘We can use this organization, we can use these sugar-coated positions to really change the dynamics on campus, we can organize in a way that we used to as a people in terms of the civil rights movement,’” Brock said. 
ssolano@theeagleonline.com, dpapscun@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
