The data in this article was last updated Dec. 21.
American University reported 202 new coronavirus cases in the University community from the last week of the fall semester on Dec. 21.
AU administered 3,297 tests between Dec. 13 and Dec. 19, according to its new COVID-19 Dashboard, for an on-campus test positivity rate of 5.31 percent. This marks the highest amount of positive cases this semester and the highest amount of tests administered in a single week. 
AU’s weekly percentage of positive tests is calculated using only on-campus tests, according to Matthew Bennett, AU’s chief communications officer. That means that its reported 1.01 percent positivity rate is based on only 19 of the 28 positive cases listed.
“Self-reported positive tests that were taken off campus (with a primary care provider, for example), are not part of the positivity rate,” Bennett wrote in an email to The Eagle. “Since we don’t know how many total tests were taken off campus, there is no way to compute the rate inclusive of self-reported positives.”
The University reported the first hospitalization this semester last week. 
The University will update the dashboard every Tuesday during the semester, President Sylvia Burwell announced in an email to the community on Sept. 7. 
The dashboard is similar to the reporting system AU utilized in the spring, although it lacks testing and positivity data broken down among on-campus students, off-campus students and faculty and staff. 
According to the D.C. government’s coronavirus dashboard, there were 71,219 total cases in the District as of Dec. 16. 
No members of the community have been hospitalized by the pandemic this week. That data is self-reported, according to the dashboard.
“We expected and are prepared for COVID cases, and the existence of cases is not cause for alarm,” Burwell wrote in her Sept. 7 email. “The data indicates that most breakthrough cases are not severe, and if we continue to follow our health and safety measures, we can limit the spread and support our friends and colleagues who do test positive. With the conclusion of the Labor Day holiday and increases in travel, a growth in cases is expected over the next few weeks.”
On Nov. 16, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser announced plans to lift the current mask mandate beginning Nov. 22. The announcement outlined continuing mask mandates in certain settings, like public transportation, schools and childcare facilities, congregate and correctional facilities, certain government facilities and private businesses who choose to require masks inside.
Total cases reached 177 during the spring semester, according to an Eagle tally. That data was erased when AU updated the dashboard for the fall semester.
“Every member of our community has a responsibility to our health and safety, and we are taking that seriously,” Burwell wrote. “When I see people on quad, in classes, and in the residence halls coming together to learn and build community in a safe way, it is clear that we are each doing our part.”
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available.
dpapscun@theeagleonline.com and cmulroy@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For the first time in two years, the American University volleyball (2-1, 0-0 PL) team played in front of an electric crowd at Bender Arena on a Saturday night, and dominated, defeating George Washington University 3-1 on Aug. 28. 
AU head coach Barry Goldberg said that the return of fans to Bender Arena was “amazing,” and commented on how packed the arena was, with almost 700 fans in attendance. 
The Eagles lost earlier in the day to George Mason, but bounced back for their prime-time matchup to cap off the weekend’s DC Challenge series. 
The match started out fairly even, but AU took the first set by eight points and seemed to be cruising to a victory. However, GW came storming back in the second set and crushed the Eagles by a seven-point margin. The Minutemen didn’t let up in the third set, and it seemed that the Eagles were going to be dominated for the second set in a row. 
Unfortunately for the Minutemen, the Eagles responded with a vicious counterattack that GW was powerless to stop, scoring nine unanswered points to take the lead, and by the time the third set ended, the Eagles hit a rhythm that seemed unstoppable. 
The momentum from the third carried over into the fourth and final set, where AU opened on a 4-0 run. By the time the Eagles had built a 10 point lead, the Colonials were struggling to even respond. With a vocal and energized crowd on their feet, AU fans erupted as the Eagles stifled every attempt GW tried to go on a run and come back. 
The Eagles victory was led by an outstanding performance from junior Zeynep Uzen. Uzen, who was named to the 2021 Patriot League All-Preseason Team and was the 2019 Patriot League Rookie of the Year, scored 18 points off an average four kills per set.
AU freshman Esma Sipahi also had a great performance, chipping in a team-leading 22 assists and a double-double from junior Asli Celikkol, who put up 11 kills and 11 digs off a .400 hitting percentage and helped the Eagles fly to an impressive victory over their crosstown foe.
“We’re gonna take these next couple weeks, get our game together. We learned a lot tonight,” Goldberg said post-game. 
The Eagles are looking to get back to championship contention just two seasons after their remarkable 24-8 record, capped off by a Patriot League championship win. 
Goldberg said that the team is focused on what’s in front of them, looking towards league play, and that the Eagles are “dealing with what you have now.” Goldberg also said they’re using their upcoming road trip as an opportunity to get better in preparation for league play. 
“We’ve got all those nine teams up there, and they’re ready to go,” Goldberg said, as he pointed to the banners of the other nine teams in the Patriot League. “Once we get to [league play], it’s all on the line there.” 
The Eagles will return to Bender Arena to face UMBC tonight at 7 p.m. ET.
apowers@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Cinderella,” the Sony-produced reimagination of the classic fairytale, leaves much to be desired, while also causing sinking disappointment. 
The original story of Cinderella sparks joy and love for both young children and older audiences who grew up with the classic Disney iteration. It should’ve been simple to create a movie appealing to both audiences, but director Kay Cannon fails to do so. The songs are nostalgic for an older teenage audience, while the story itself is silly and less interesting for young viewers. 
At thirty minutes in, it felt as if it were an episode of Glee rather than a retelling of the classic fairytale. With theatrical covers of songs like “Rhythm Nation'' by Janet Jackson, ''Whatta Man'' by Linda Lyndell or “Somebody to Love'' by Freddie Mercury, the film runs the risk of alienating a younger generation of viewers.
In this version, viewers follow our main protagonist, Ella (Camilla Cabello), as she struggles to open her own dress-making business in a society where women are unable to own shops. After meeting Prince Robert (Nicholas Galitzine) in a marketplace, Ella attends the ball and, as the story goes, leaves at midnight. At the ball, Ella is also offered a job by a Queen of a faraway land, bringing her closer to fulfilling her dreams. 
An interesting choice was neglecting the importance of Cinderella’s glass shoe. As a core plot point in many versions of Cinderella, the choice to disregard it here made the movie feel incomplete. It’s even reduced to a gag: Ella throws her glass heel at someone as she leaves the ball in an attempt to escape. 
Rather than a story about love at first sight and magic, this is one about a woman deciding between love and her business. The final conclusion of the story is neither sweet nor fulfilling and leaves a bitter taste in the viewer’s mouth. The “so-called” commitment and romance between the two characters is never explored nor shown. Viewers are told the two characters have “maybe” fallen in love and asked to forgo all contradictory evidence. The prince also doesn’t chase after her when she leaves the ball, so that aspect of the original story is also removed. 
Another struggle that the movie faced was attempting to relate to modern times. They created new characters and changed old ones, hoping to feel more in tune with a newer generation. The film features a younger princess named Gwen (Tallulah Greive) who wishes for the crown and strong environmental policy changes in their kingdom, a stepmother (Idina Menzel) who is not evil, rather just misunderstood and a strange arranged marriage plot: Ella is almost forcibly married off to a creepy man (Rob Beckett). Princess Gwen is a strong character, one of the highlights of this otherwise disappointing film. She stands her ground and while repeatedly shut down, always returns to fight her battles for change. 
The supporting characters bring utterly boring and trivial subplots, with one being a strange, unfunny conversation between the mice as well as a conflict between King and Queen over their marriage problems. The Queen initially believes the King lacks respect for her, but this conflict is swiftly resolved by an awkward serenading scene. If this movie is for children, it sends them the wrong messages by creating an impossible dialogue of marital issues as well as zero conflict resolution.
What the actors lacked in execution through a sagging screenplay was thankfully made up in their singing abilities. Cabello’s raspy and unique sound complimented her character’s quirks, while Galitzine sounds as a prince should: his voice is full-bodied and charming. Billy Porter’s role as Fab G, the fairy godmother, was a wonderful addition to the otherwise flat movie, bringing attitude and energy to the screen.
The dialogue of this movie is also strange, with characters switching between archaic diction and modern terms. Each time a contemporary phrase was used, it felt disconcerting and pulled viewers out of the story. 
“Cinderella” struggles to juggle modern themes while staying true to its classic source material. Unfortunately, Cannon does not manage to charmingly combine the two. In its attempt to create the perfect feminist, girlboss, dream-chasing movie, Cabello’s Cinderella strips the fairytale of its essence. Instead, it’s just a quirky Netflix-esque rom-com that should’ve starred Noah Centineo if it wanted to be so cliche. 
“Cinderella” is available to view in select theaters and on Amazon Prime Video on Sept. 3, 2021.
schokshi@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
