La organización de la escuela KOGOD de líderes empresariales latinx (KOLLAB en Inglés) se lanzó virtualmente al comienzo del semestre. Abierto a estudiantes de pregrado y posgrado, la organización busca conectar a estudiantes latinxs en AU y ofrecerles oportunidades de desarrollo personal y profesional, según los copresidentes y cofundadores de KOLLAB, Kelly Carrera-Goglas y Marco Ruiz.
Carrera-Goglas, una estudiante de posgrado en KOGOD, dijo que los estudiantes de todas las escuelas de AU son bienvenidos.
"Puede ser alguien que está en otra escuela y está realmente interesado en establecer contactos, escuchar sobre la comunidad latinx, y también conocer a líderes de la industria con diversos orígenes,” dijo Carrera-Goglas.
Como muchos de los miembros de KOLLAB son estudiantes internacionales, la organización también ofrece a sus miembros estadounidenses oportunidades para aprender más sobre las diversas culturas empresariales en los países latinoamericanos. Los estudiantes internacionales de origen latino también podrán aprender más acerca de la perspectiva americana respecto a los negocios, dijo Ruiz. 
Ana Quiñonez, tesorera del club y estudiante de posgrado internacional nicaragüense, se unió a KOLLAB para aprender más sobre la cultura empresarial estadounidense y al mismo tiempo compartir con sus compañeros sus experiencias comerciales en Nicaragua. 
“Para mí es una oportunidad para aprender y enseñar a las personas que no han tenido la experiencia de hacer negocios en Latinoamérica cuáles son los puntos que son similares y los puntos que son diferentes al hacer negocios [en los diferentes países],” dijo Quiñonez.
Carrera-Goglas y Ruiz fundaron el club después de expresar interés en un centro latinx en la escuela KOGOD que facilitaría oportunidades para conectar con otros estudiantes y líderes empresariales latinx. Como ambos miembros ya habían trabajado por varios años, sabían lo importante que es una comunidad de contactos profesionales sólida para los latinxs que buscan trabajo.
“No sabía lo importante que sería [tener conexiones latinx profesionales] hasta que entré a la fuerza laboral y vi [que] si quieres conseguir un trabajo en algún lugar, es mucho más fácil conseguirlo si tienes buenas conexiones profesionales,” dijo Carrera-Goglas. “Ser mujer, ser mujer de color, ser latina, puede haber incluso más barreras frente a ti, así que, cuando se me presentó esta oportunidad −le dije a Marco– sí, me quiero unir”.
Actualmente, todos los miembros de KOLLAB son estudiantes de posgrado en programas de dos años. Según Ruiz, el objetivo del primer año de la organización es construir una base sólida para que la organización pueda continuar incluso después de que la mayoría de sus miembros actuales se hayan ido.
Ambos copresidentes se han conectado con varias de las organizaciones de estudiantes más antiguas de AU para absorber todos los consejos y estrategias que éstas han utilizado para promocionar su organización y aumentar la participación de los miembros. 
Mientras que la mayoría de sus reuniones de primavera se concentraran en el reclutamiento de nuevos miembros y establecer relaciones más fuertes entre los miembros del club, KOLLAB tiene varios eventos previstos para el semestre de otoño, incluyendo estrenar una serie de discursos con líderes de negocio latinx, traer attencion al movimiento de realizar el “Día de Apoyar a Negocios Latinos” en una fiesta nacional y colaborar con pequeñas empresas latinas en el distrito. 
KOLLAB ofrece a la gran comunidad hispana y latinx de AU un espacio seguro para interactuar con otros de su comunidad y también expandir sus redes profesionales.
“Quería usar este tiempo para construir algo que [hiciera] que el campus se sintiera más como casa, y me vino a la mente que si creamos [esta organización], tal vez podría hacer que [estar en línea] sea un poco más gratificante para nosotros. [Podríamos] acercarnos como una comunidad,” dijo Ruiz.
Pueden encontrar a KOLLAB en Instagram y LinkedIn, o enviarles un correo electrónico a kollabau20@gmail.com.
gaguilarchee@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sophia Andrews, now an American University freshman, was 14 when she created a nonprofit dedicated to expanding dance and art opportunities for children in Kenya after traveling to Nairobi with her youth group. Gaining national recognition for her organization, she recently appeared on “The Kelly Clarkson Show.”
In early February, Andrews, a student in the School of International Service with a focus on inequality and development in Africa, appeared on the show to discuss her nonprofit Ngoma Kenya with host and singer-songwriter Kelly Clarkson.
“It was definitely one of those life-changing moments,” Andrews said. “It’s something that I’ll never forget.” 
Andrews came up with the idea for the organization in 2016 when she visited Happy Life Children’s Home in Nairobi, Kenya. Teaching a ballet class while there, she wanted to provide their arts program with more resources. Since then, she has expanded Ngoma Kenya to promote other arts and provide humanitarian aid, such as supplying menstrual products to girls in Kenya and launching a feeding program for Kenyan families in need.
“Originally, the focus was just on ballet and dance and the arts, which will forever be the focus because I am so passionate about that,” Andrews said. “But now we’ve shifted it to ‘What are the needs of the community?’”
During her appearance on the show, Clarkson revealed that Canva, a graphic design company, donated $25,000 to Ngoma Kenya. 
Growing up as a ballet dancer and having dance be the inspiration behind her nonprofit, she also received another surprise — ballet dancer Misty Copeland was a guest on the show on the same day. Andrews cited Copeland as her hero.
Andrews said that studying in the SIS has emphasized the importance of centering the needs and voices of those she is working with in Kenya.
“Even though I originated this work, it’s not about me,” Andrews said. “It’s about the people that we work with and making sure that their voices are being heard at every level of the organization.”
Despite her success and recognition at a young age, Andrews said she knows that achieving a formal education will help her future work in Kenya.
“Being a woman in the development field and in the international space, especially being a woman of color, I know that I’m going to need this degree and that it’s something that is going to help with credentials and help with that expertise,” Andrews said. 
This past September, Ngoma Kenya started its Youth Advisory Committee, a group of young adults from both Kenya and the United States. Ginger Matchett, who is also a freshman in the SIS, serves as a social media coordinator for the organization. She also grew up involved in the arts, particularly in areas such as theatre, painting and drawing. 
“I really wanted to give back and do something where I could give that same experience to kids who were less fortunate than I am,” Matchett said. 
Matchett said that she hopes to visit Kenya as soon as it is safe to work directly with the community there. 
Andrews hopes that the organization’s next major project, Ngoma Fellows, will launch in 2021 or 2022. This program will provide mentorship opportunities for Kenyan Youth and encourage them to pursue the arts as a career. 
When she started her organization, Andrews questioned if she was too young or not qualified enough to do the work she wanted to do. However, she said she is glad she did not let her fears stop her. 
“Everyone’s voice is so powerful, and it’s important that we use ours to make a difference in the lives of others,” Andrews said. “Just don’t be afraid to do what you’re passionate about.”
zkallenekos@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Caroline Largoza spent four days wrapped in blankets and cooking her meals over a fireplace in a freezing house without power. Still, the spring semester droned on. With no Wi-Fi or heat, Largoza, a freshman in the School of Public Affairs from San Antonio, Texas, said she struggled to handle the effects of Texas’s February winter storm that left nearly 4.5 million people without power.
“Everybody was really nervous because we didn’t know when we’d get heat back,” Largoza said. “It was below freezing all week. It’s a very daunting feeling to not know when you’ll be able to heat your food up again or get warm.”
Largoza was just one of hundreds of American University students from Texas handling the aftermath of the storm and infrastructure failure, either in-person or from afar. With little support from the University, Largoza said she was unable to attend classes. 
It took her two weeks to finish all of her overdue assignments.
“Only one professor reached out to check up on me,” Largoza said. “Other professors tried to set new deadlines, but on the day of the extended deadlines, I still needed more time because the power was still out. They weren’t as understanding as I thought they would be.”
AU spokesperson Stacie Burgess said the University provided support for families experiencing power outages by communicating with professors.
“Acting Provost Peter Starr has asked faculty to provide as much flexibility as possible for students who may be unable to attend classes, submit assignments or respond to emails promptly,” Burgess said. “Additionally, he advised faculty to reach out to students’ academic advisors or use the Care Network to notify the Office of the Dean of Students if additional support is required.”
Hannah Ames, a freshman from a suburb just outside Dallas, said that her power came back on the Tuesday following Sunday’s Feb. 14 storm, though it never went out for longer than a few hours at a time, and never on any particular schedule. The high school she attended flooded in some places and students in her school district are still off from in-person classes as the district handles the damages. Though she never missed a full online class, her sporadic Wi-Fi connection made it difficult to attend classes in full. 
“I got really lucky,” Ames said. “We didn’t have a lot of the issues that we could have. If the power was going to get turned back on anywhere, it was here. This is the richer, whiter part of town. There were a lot of problems where it was pretty obvious where power was getting turned back on.”
Junior Fernanda Pérez said that since her hometown of El Paso is on a different power grid than most of the state, the power outages at her house were sporadic but short. Though she was able to attend classes, she instead chose to help distribute supplies to residents, including her family, across the Mexican border in El Paso’s sister city of Juárez, which faced several days without electricity following the storm.
“Seeing that contrast over and over again is really disheartening and not surprising,” Pérez said. “There are so many disparities in the way that we distribute resources, and it often comes down to mutual aid to decrease those disparities. At the end of the day, the people that are alleviating these communities are the people from these communities themselves.”
Though many AU students from Texas were not in their home state at the time of the storm, they still felt the effects of the disaster through their families. Caleb Farris, a freshman whose family lives in Austin, said that the pipes in his mother’s apartment froze and burst after the storm. 
Since his family was preparing to move at the time of the storm, boxes were strewn across the floor. Flooding from the frozen pipes resulted in an estimated $8,000 to $10,000 in damage to their boxed belongings, Farris said. While the family will be able to recoup their losses through insurance claims, the loss of these books, clothes and personal items has taken a toll.
Junior Jasmine Singh said that she lost contact with her family for four days as they went without electricity and Wi-Fi, hearing about the storm and its effects only through social media and the news. Her sister, a student at the University of Houston, went without power and communication like her family, and her father drove down icy roads to deliver supplies that her university did not provide.
Singh, an environmental science major, said that this situation could have been avoided with better statewide infrastructure. 
“The energy companies prioritize profit over public safety,” Singh said. “When given the chance to address this and create change, our leaders in Texas decided this would be a good time to bash green energy and blame renewable efforts for people not having energy. The wind turbines did freeze. But so did the coal and the natural gas pipelines. It’s an infrastructure problem our leaders should be addressing since we realize that Texas being on its own energy grid could cause problems in the future.”
Sophomore Robert Roseman, whose family has lived in Texas for four generations, said that they have never seen such issues arise because of a snowstorm. His family home in Dallas did not lose power, but homes along the opposite side of the street went several days with no electricity, which, he said, points to the sporadic and random power distribution in the area. The pipes in his grandparent’s house across the state burst, leaving them with the burden of building a new ceiling and replacing carpets. 
“This isn’t a problem that is going to go away overnight. It’s going to be a problem for a really long time,” Roseman said. “The cost from this is going to be extraordinary. Not just on an individual level, but on a state level.”
Despite these challenges, Roseman said that he can still find positive takeaways from the disaster, noting the charity work that has kept residents afloat during this tumultuous time. 
“The damage is horrible, but look at the good that’s coming from this,” Roseman said. “People are coming together and providing supplies and shelter. People are opening their doors to house other people when their houses are 30 degrees. That’s a beautiful thing. I prefer to dwell on the beauty of that more than the pain and suffering that other people are feeling.”
ssolano@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU women's basketball falls to Boston University in March 11 Patriot League Semifinals.
The American University women’s basketball team (7-4) fell to Boston University (12-2) in the Patriot League Semifinals 72-51, ending the Eagles wild year in the same building where they fell last season. Though the Eagles had hoped to reverse last year’s 46-44 loss in the quarterfinals, they were unable to punch their ticket to the Patriot League Championship game.
BU’s staunch 2-3 zone became AU’s kryptonite throughout the contest, as the Eagles found themselves on protracted scoreless stretches in the second and third quarters. BU allowed the fewest points per game in the Patriot League this year and held AU to its lowest scoring output of the season.
“I thought we started the game okay and ended the game fine, it was the second and third quarters that just took the wind out of our sails,” head coach Megan Gebbia said. “I wish it could have been better, but I do think it has inspired this group … so hopefully it lights a fire under them as we head into the summertime and get better.”
As they did over the weekend, eurosteps from junior guard Emily Fisher and blocks from sophomore forward Karla Vres ignited the Eagles early on. AU couldn’t get much going toward the end of the first quarter, but Fisher provided enough as a zone-breaker to make it 16-14 after one quarter. That was the last time AU had real hope in the game.
The second quarter couldn’t have gone any worse for AU, and ultimately, their spiral prevented them from ever making a serious comeback in this game. After one quick AU bucket, BU went on a 17-0 run. After outscoring AU 26-9 in the second quarter, it ended the half up 42-23.
“When you get a deficit that big, it just deflates you as a group,” Gebbia said.
The Eagles came into the game as winners of six straight games but knew the Terriers would present challenges. Before the contest, Gebbia cautioned that BU is difficult to prepare for because it runs so many different sets on offense and plays as a cohesive unit on defense. AU would also be wary of the Terriers perimeter shooting, which caught fire in the quarterfinals with a season-high 13 3-pointers. But five of their first seven attempts fell through the net — four of which came from BU sophomore guard Sydney Johnson — and each of which came as a proverbial dagger into AU’s title hopes.
Johnson led the Terriers with 17 first-half points and finished with a career-high 23 in the game as she shot 5-6 from deep. Junior guard Emily Esposito also added 16 points off-the-bench.
“Esposito and Johnson played one of their best games. We took away the other three, so we took away [Katie] Nelson for the most part, [Maggie] Pina and [Maren Durant],” Gebbia said. “So we went in saying we needed to do that and then the other two kids stepped up and we just didn’t have an answer for them.”
The zone forced AU’s upperclassmen to make crisp offensive decisions, but even when they did, the shots didn’t fall. AU junior guard Jade Edwards led the Patriot League in scoring and was typically the vessel through which AU got most of its offense going during the regular season. But BU threw everything it had at Edwards Thursday, holding her to a season-low six points and bodying her up all game. Fisher was the lone Eagle to overperform her usual output, as she finished with a team-high 16 points. 
AU’s offense started to click at the start of the third quarter, but the Terriers continued to match their opponent shot-for-shot. And as soon as the Eagles heated up, BU cooled them down. After a few shots went their way, they had another six-minute scoreless stretch in the last six minutes of the third quarter and entered the final frame down 57-30.
“You just have to tip your cap to them, they played well and they shot the ball better than they normally shoot it,” Gebbia said. “When you’re on the home floor and they’re shooting that way, it’s tough to beat teams.”
Though AU put a solid final frame together, the deficit it had built for itself in the preceding three quarters was too much to return from. 
After the game, Gebbia said that the junior class would take the extra year of eligibility that the NCAA offered, which means their AU careers are extended through two more seasons.
This was the last game of senior guard Indeya Sanders’ career. She made her mark on the Eagles’ as a suave facilitator and staunch defender, earning an All-Defensive nod last season.
“We were crying a little bit in the locker room,” Gebbia said. “She’s just a steadying force, like she’s just one of those kids who is selfless, that believes in the system … She’s the first real local kid that we’ve offered and signed that believed in us, and to me, that means everything. I’m glad we can win her at least one championship. If we beat BU next year, it’s going to be for Indeya and for Katie [Marenyi] and all those people that BU ended our seasons with.”
BU will go on to face Lehigh in the Patriot League Championships as the Eagles get set for a long off-season. 
snusbaum@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
