After American University failed to guarantee on-campus housing for enough students, Advisory Neighborhood Commission 3D issued a resolution Wednesday requiring the University to provide monthly updates on student housing requirements beginning in late January.
The 2011 and 2021 campus plans, which were created by AU and approved by the ANC, require the University to provide housing for at least 67 percent of undergraduates, but AU underestimated the number of students who would actually enroll at the University after being admitted, meaning about 300 students didn’t have guaranteed access to on-campus housing.
The University did not inform the ANC or the D.C. Zoning Commission of its noncompliance until this week, as discussed during the ANC 3D’s Dec. 8 meeting.
Elizabeth Deal, the University’s assistant vice president for community and internal communication, told The Eagle in an email that housing data was not available until Dec. 1. According to Deal, this is typical because the annual data is not finalized until late November after the deadline to unenroll and make other changes that affect the final enrollment count.
“Once the data was available, we reported to the Neighborhood Partnership and the [Community Liaison Commission], which are additional key representatives of the community, as we do every December,” Deal said. “The ANC recognized that this unique year created unique challenges that we continue to address.”
Deal said that there is no specific requirement to inform the ANC of campus data.
The Zoning Commission is involved with the University’s campus plan to help prevent an excess spillover of students into the surrounding neighborhoods, which could limit housing options for D.C. residents not affiliated with the AU community.
Even if the over-enrolled students did not necessarily want to live in on-campus residences, space issues could pose a problem in the future if more students choose to live on campus, ANC 3D Commissioner and AU senior Christian Damiana said. He said he worries that students who require affordable housing on campus may not be able to access it in the future.
“Sometimes things happen and if they had come to us earlier, it could have been possible to mitigate those impacts and collaboratively find a way to make sure it wasn’t an issue,” Damiana said. “But instead, they just kept it a secret.”
Passed unanimously after little discussion, the ANC’s resolution also requires that the University share its written plans regarding compliance with the 67 percent rule for the spring and fall 2022 semesters with the ANC in preparation for its Jan. 5 meeting. The ANC is also asking University officials to meet with the neighborhood commission at that time to discuss these plans and other pandemic-related housing and enrollment issues. 
In accordance with the city’s conflict of interest laws, Damiana abstained from voting on the resolution. He also said that the monthly check on the University’s housing data can help keep them in compliance with its requirements.
“Sometimes, housing really can change from month to month, with students coming back from study abroad and things like that,” Damiana said. “It is obviously a volatile situation with the pandemic and I think we’re going to be running up right against that 67 percent number.”
Damiana is concerned that the University’s failure to alert the ANC of their over admittance could diminish the ANC’s credibility with the Zoning Commission. When approving the 2021 campus plan in July, the ANC told the Zoning Commission that the University was trustworthy and, as Damiana paraphrased, “did not need to be micromanaged.”
“It turned out that maybe they needed to be managed a little bit more than we thought,” Damiana said.
The ANC does not hold any power to penalize the University for noncompliance, but Damiana said he expects AU to provide those monthly updates in accordance with the resolution to remain in good standing with the ANC. 
The ANC is using this resolution as an opportunity to be firm with the University and to act in the best interest of students and members of the surrounding neighborhood, Damiana said.
“I don’t think this is something that the University necessarily deserves to be completely admonished for,” Damiana said. “Mistakes happen. The campus plan is very specific in some areas, but it also can’t happen again. We’re going to take action in the future to stop it.”
ssolano@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The sci-fi thriller “Encounter,” from director Michael Pearce, perfectly balances razor-sharp tension and deep-seated emotional connection. While the powerful performances make for a worthwhile piece of entertainment alone, the sound design additionally makes the film a thrilling work of art.
For a world that remains obsessed with the threat of the coronavirus, “Encounter” has a deep resonance. A decorated marine, Malik Khan (Riz Ahmed), races to rescue his young sons, Jay (Lucian-River Chauhan) and Bobby (Aditya Geddada), from the unseen invasion of a small parasitic alien that travels through seemingly innocuous bug bites. As the boys follow their father to his base, they slowly begin to realize their father isn’t being completely honest with them, forcing them to leave their childhoods behind. 
The entire film vibrates with palpable tension. By focusing on tiny instances of violence — like a mantis eating a smaller bug or moths dying in a bug zapper — Pearce creates a stark contrast between the desperate flight of the protagonists and the daily happenings of the rest of the world. His decision to use sound, making the struggles of a wasp seem as significant as the protagonists, also work to increase the tension of every scene. The movie keeps you suspended between the fantasy of alien invasion and the dawning realization of humanity’s darkness. 
Although the pacing at times feels choppy, jolting between intensity and calm sweeping scenery, the script is masterful in its understanding of the audience. 
Writers Pearce and Joe Barton do a fantastic job of littering their script's with red herrings, convincing the viewer that they’ve figured it out and know how the movie ends, but then completely flipping those assumptions on their head. 
The film also makes captivating narrative choices, placing the customary thriller twist about midway through the film rather than at the end, so the viewer is not only experiencing the realization of the twist but also the fallout. Octavia Spencer’s performance as Hattie is a perfect emotional proxy as she masterfully inhabits her character with the grace and ease indicative of her work. 
Ahmed also gives an outstanding performance as Malik and creates a deeply sympathetic character through his nuanced and touching performance. Although Malik’s dialogue is occasionally vaguely reminiscent of a ‘90s cartoon action hero, Ahmed’s earnest performance rescues the character from any cliche moments, making them so forgivable as to be forgettable. 
Geddada gives a nuanced performance as Bobby, especially considering his young age and the fact that this is his first feature film. He pulls off the dramatic moments without a hitch while providing needed tension breaking with well delivered one-liners. 
Chauhan, however, is the true stand out of this film and it's his performance as Jay that takes center stage. He is not only able to hold his own among seasoned and award-winning actors like Ahmed and Spenser but even manages at moments to outshine them. While the film is meant to revolve around Malik’s struggle to save his sons, it’s Jay’s story that feels like the film’s beating heart due to the young actor’s strong performance. 
The film would be incomplete without the spectacular work of the sound department, who have already snagged a British Independent Award nomination for Best Sound. The sound design is the heart of the film’s masterful suspense, using even the smallest of sounds like a moth catching fire in a bug zapper, or the sound of someone falling back and hitting their head on pavement, that causes an entire room to collectively catch their breath. 
It should be noted that since “Encounter” deals extensively with pathogens and insects, it is absolutely not for squeamish filmgoers, especially those suffering from insectophobia. “Encounter” also does not shy away from visceral depictions of violence that could make even a seasoned slasher fan cringe. 
Barring that, “Encounter” is a thriller that well understands how to balance along the razor’s edge of suspense and horror in a world consumed by invisible enemies that threaten individuals just as much as the general public. 
“Encounter” was released in theaters on Dec. 3, and is available to stream on Amazon Prime Video Dec. 10. 
edubose@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
For many American University students, politics and “Hillternships” are the biggest conquests of their college experience. But for Sam Hiller, it’s sports.
Hiller, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, is the co-host of a sports podcast called “The Source” which covers sports games, including predictions, outcomes and breakdowns. Hiller not only cohosts the free podcast, he also built the website — a new challenge for him. With no school and no sports during the coronavirus pandemic, Hiller and his friends decided to take their lively debates over sports teams and turn it into a podcast.
“I think with no sports on [during the pandemic] that was kind of like a driving force of people to our show, like, hey, at least you can listen to these guys talk about it,” Hiller said. “And so I decided, after about two months and 500 followers, that if we’re going to grow, we need to fully invest into this point.”
Hiller co-hosts with fellow sports fanatic Job Goddard, a 2020 AU graduate. 
According to Hiller, they are taking things one month at a time, creating goals that will then increase as time goes on. For example, they wanted to reach 4,000 Twitter followers by the end of the month, and are now trying for 5,000 by the end of next month.
“We have a few guests that we want to have on, we want to have a certain amount of articles flowing per week,” Hiller said. “So we have a lot of things we want to get done, but I think we’re also trying to make sure that we keep everything in focus.”
Although Hiller is majoring in Justice and Law, he wants sports — particularly football — to play an integral part of his life after college. He also said he’s strengthened his interest in sports media with the help of a sports journalism class in the School of Communication.
“I want to work in a sports organization, whether it be my most likely choice, which is football, working in data analytics,” Hiller said. “I spent the last two years working on a predictive game model that I’ve been sharing with people that’s been, I’d say about 58 percent successful, which is a pretty decent rate in the industry.”
Hiller’s main goal is to be a scout and get to watch college players and evaluate who would be best for what team. Hiller said that scouting is what he “lives and breathes.”
“The running joke in the NFL for people who are 20 years old working in scouting is called the 2020 Club. Because you’re 20-something-years-old, making 20-something-thousand dollars a year, and it’s s--- work,” Hiller said. “But you do it because you love doing it, and then hopefully you can move up into the player personnel and more general management front office kind of world.”
Hiller’s podcast is a continuation of him doing what he is passionate about and forging his path in life.
“I’m a very firm believer that we have one life, and you gotta live it to the fullest for yourself,” Hiller said. “And that means trying to do what you’re passionate about by almost any means necessary.”
gdinardo@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in our December 2021 print edition. You can find the digital version here.
Students walked onto campus early on the morning of Aug. 30 for the first day of in-person classes at American University since spring 2020. 
For some, the walk across campus was familiar, but for others, it was an entirely new experience. From moving in, studying abroad and performing, students are still adjusting to what life at AU now looks like. 
For Lilliana Silver, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and the College of Arts and Sciences, the experience of arriving on campus this fall to attend in-person classes was strange. Despite completing her freshman year at AU, she hadn’t been in a classroom since her senior year of high school. 
“March came and [my high school’s administration] was like, ‘We’re going to go online for two weeks’ ... and then we did not go back, and now I’m a sophomore in college,” she said. 
While most members of the class of 2024’s last experience in a classroom was just under two years ago, some non-traditional students like Kai Yuen Suherwan, a sophomore in the School of International Services, haven’t been in a classroom in three years. After graduating high school in 2018 and then enrolling in the Singaporean army for two years, the delay of another year of the college experience wasn’t expected. 
“I would think about the typical American college experience, I would think about the parties, actually going to lecture halls and stuff, and I was looking at the School of International Service and I was like I can’t wait to go here,” Suherwan said. “But then contrast that with me sitting in the basement staring at a screen.”
Now that classes are in-person again, he said he can finally partake in some of the college experiences he’d hoped for. His excitement over being back in person is one that has been echoed by many. 
“For the first time, I was able to look to my left and I had a student there,” said Jehane Djedjro, a sophomore in SIS. “I could talk to them about school and the material we’re learning. Mentally, it’s just brought me to a better place.”
What normalcy looks like has been a question that all students have faced in their return to campus this year. The two remaining classes — the class of 2022 and 2023 — are the only ones that have experienced the University pre-pandemic.
Victoria Guillen, a junior in SIS, said that the return to in-person learning came with a different campus experience than the one she recalled from her freshman year. 
“Returning to campus, socially a lot of stuff changed for me,” Guillen said. “A lot of my friends from freshman year either graduated, took a gap year, transferred or dropped out. So everyone is in a completely different position than where we were before. And that’s been a lot to digest too.”
Borders begin to reopen and students look abroad 
Guillen and many others were planning to study abroad in spring 2022, and while some programs are being offered in a limited capacity, many plans have been put on hold. For many, the opportunity to study abroad is what drew them to AU. According to U.S. News & World Report, AU is a top-ranked university for those wanting to study abroad. At some point during their time at the University, 54 percent of students will study abroad, the University’s website says. One of these programs is the Sakura Scholars program, where SIS students can spend two years abroad at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto, Japan.
This year, Mizuki Brent, a sophomore Sakura Scholar, was the only member in their cohort allowed entrance to Japan through their Japanese citizenship to follow the program’s typical progression.
“I haven’t actually met any of my cohorts yet just because my whole freshman year was online, but I’ve been in touch with a couple of them on the phone,” Brent said. “It’s not that I really feel like I’ve been missing out on any friendships because I haven’t been able to meet them yet, but I’ve been able to meet some of the other kids [here in Japan].”
Brent said that AU isn’t the only university where students have felt disconnected during the pandemic. Ritsumeikan University just started allowing students to attend in-person classes due to low COVID-19 numbers. 
“Classrooms are much emptier than normal, classes are mostly all hybrid, and there are a lot of kids in South Korea and China that can’t make it over,” Brent said.
Performing arts returns to the stage
While classrooms across the globe have begun to look more normal as campuses navigate COVID-19 protocols, auditoriums for the performing arts are still just starting to get live audiences back. 
Nicole Klokiw, a senior in CAS, said that the University’s Department of Performing Arts looks very different under post-pandemic restrictions than it did before. Audience capacity is maxed at 50 percent, crew and orchestra members are masked and staging is socially distanced. 
But after performing in two shows last year over Zoom, Klokiw said that even though in-person performances look different than they used to, she’s happy to be back on stage for this fall’s production of “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.”
“This is the first in-person show I’ve been in, in three years,” Klokiw said of the late October show. “Being able to look into the audience … is really nice. It’s pretty encouraging actually to see and hear people reacting. It makes me happy.”
Not all shows have been in person. Kelsey Walker, a junior in CAS said that this fall’s production of Shakespeare’s “A Winter’s Tale” is being filmed. While the decision was made in order to be able to accommodate the possibility of the University closing in-person shows, Walker said that the transition back to campus has still been difficult. 
“I lost a lot of trust in the thing I love to do most, which is really hard to grapple with,” Walker said. “It’s hard to place trust in theater itself, or in an institution like AU when things change so constantly. And I know that you just have to deal with it, but it’s hard when you’re like ‘okay, this isn’t how it used to be, or this isn’t how I want it to be,’ ... Like that’s all I want to be doing, and I don’t really feel like we’re back yet.”
The uncertainty of what the future holds is a sentiment that all students share. With the pandemic still unfolding, students have learned to be flexible and how to deal with the challenges of living in unprecedented times. While what “normal” looks like will continue to change over time, AU students have proven resilient. 
whansen@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The fashion scene at American University has gone green.
In room 327 of the Mary Graydon Center, racks of vibrant, eye-catching used clothing are up for grabs. Anyone who brings attire of their own has the chance to exchange it for other articles of their choice.
According to organizer Emma Walker, a College of Arts and Sciences senior majoring in Environmental Studies, Wonk Trade represents countless hours of planning behind the scenes. 
“This project has been a dream of the Zero Waste Club for [over] five years,” Walker said. “We’ve been working tirelessly to get this up and running.”
In the beginning, Walker and her environmentally-conscious peers noticed a problem on campus and decided to solve it. 
“They were noticing the amount of clothing waste that happens every semester,” Walker said. “And they thought, ‘Why don’t we make a place where people can trade it?’ And here we are.”
But is sustainable fashion really worth the trouble? The short answer is yes. Reusing and recycling textiles today saves 425 million pounds of CO2 and 19 million gallons of water per year. That’s the same as taking 42,000 cars off the road, or replenishing the water usage of 174,000 American households.
“I love how sustainable it is,” said Rachel Leykin, a freshman in CAS. “I love the clothing swap. It just makes it so much better when you’re getting clothing in a sustainable way.”
As an operation, Wonk Trade strives for cleanliness as well as sustainability. Participants are strongly encouraged to wash any clothing they bring before donating it, and any items that still appear dirty will be washed again by event organizers.
For fashion-forward students such as School of Public Affairs senior Isa Dinsmore, Wonk Trade represents the chance to stay current on the latest looks — and even create some of their own.
“I think it’s pretty cool that you can see all the different styles that are represented at AU, and different tastes that people have, and just see what might be trending on campus,” Dinsmore said. “I myself like to sew and embroider. I get something from a thrift store [and] add on to it with my personal touch.”
For now, the shop is open on Tuesdays from 2:00 to 5:00 and Fridays from 1:00 to 5:00. But Walker has bigger plans for Wonk Trade in the future.
“We would love to keep this as a long-term thing, and to turn it into something like the Dav and the Bridge that are student-run and student-led,” she said.
Walker also plans to add another central component to her boutique: money.
“Right now we’re just doing trade-for-trade. Getting money incorporated in the future would be awesome. Just making a long-term sustainable business would be awesome.”
From comfy shirts and shorts to formal dresses and outerwear, Wonk Trade is AU’s destination for green apparel of all sorts.
“Thrifting is a great way [of] upcycling,” Dinsmore said, rifling through a rack of colorful clothing. “It just shows that you’re willing to go the extra mile, taking something that has been previously worn and reusing it in a new way.”
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
