In honor of “No Nuance November,” I posed a question on my Instagram story to my followers, asking them about their unpopular opinions. The answers I received were interesting, to say the least, and different from what’s “socially acceptable.” They ranged from believing that working class Donald Trump voters are going to be an important part of the progressive movement, to thinking that golfing should be banned. 
A person would usually respond to these ideas with, “Wow! I never saw this issue from that perspective,” which for most of us translates to, “Wow! The media usually shows a one-sided point of view that makes people share a single idea and you’ve challenged the status quo.” This is called the false consensus effect, which is the idea where we think that our own opinions, attitudes and beliefs are common, so we believe that others may feel the exact same way. When we hold a certain belief, we tend to estimate that belief to be more ubiquitous than it actually is.
With the frequent sharing of opinions and information on social media, one can be easily blindsided by the thoughts of other users or even their own friends. Limiting our sources of knowledge to those with similar views makes us subconsciously believe that we hold the “model belief” and that the opposing side is completely undesirable because they don’t “get it” and aren’t as morally superior and intelligent as we are. Subconscious actions like these prevent us from having productive, nuanced conversations and are overall counterproductive if we strive to be understood ourselves. How can we attain collective liberation if we aren’t able to converse within the communities that we reside in?
This shouldn’t be interpreted as going out to meet with a full-blown racist and discuss politics over coffee. Rather, we must prepare ourselves to enter into every issue with a possibility that we might be incorrect and that our ego bubbles should be popped. Self-aggrandizing behaviors were most apparent during the presidential election, where many white liberals coerced members of the Black community to vote for a specific candidate that made them comfortable in their own racism. It’s impossible to consider yourself an “ally” for BIPOC communities only to turn around and belittle those who don’t agree with your performative activism. 
On the other hand, the act of trying to engage in discourse with an individual that ends up making no progress is unproductive. With this uprising of online activism, white people are still asking Black people to teach them how to understand white privilege and racism. The problem with this? The information, statistics, documentaries and numerous studies had already exposed these issues in its raw form. Black individuals having to operate under this repressive system for centuries makes the act of white people asking how they can care now borderline offensive.
After reading the book, “Why I’m No Longer Talking to White People about Race” by Reni Eddo-Lodge, I wholeheartedly agree with the opinions presented. This doesn’t apply to all white individuals, but to the number of them who refuse to accept the existence of structural racism and how they’re actively upholding it. I see an emotional disconnect that a white person displays when I explain my experiences as a Black woman. This stems from being oblivious to the fact that their skin color is the default and anything darker is “other.” 
Many Black individuals tread carefully when sharing their experiences, because once we show any signs of frustration or exasperation, people will tap into their preconceived racist notions about “aggressive” Black people who are supposedly a threat to them. Even if they claim to “hear us,” they’re not really listening. 
Nonconformists, during this social media age of “hot takes,” often have to undergo self-censorship to avoid the reprisals of challenging the beliefs of others. It isn’t fair to live with a never-questioned entitlement and to expand your superiority complex - it perpetuates a cycle of intellectual stagnancy. 
The next time that you repost information on your social media concerning current events, I challenge you to ask yourself why you’re doing so. Does it provide information of a perspective that you haven’t previously shared? Or does it conform to your preconceived ideas that you share within your circle of friends? 
Kayla Kelly is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and an opinion staff columnist for The Eagle.
kkelly@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Keegan Theater’s virtual productions of “Trans Am” and “From Gumbo to Mumbo” ran from Nov. 12 until Nov. 29. “Trans Am” focused on LGBTQ+ rights, and “From Gumbo to Mumbo” explored race relations in the United States in a mostly personal manner, accompanied by expressive and powerfully emotional music. 
“Trans Am” is a rock musical and a solo act featuring Lisa Stephen Friday, a real-life rock star who formed a group called Lisa Jackson and Girl Friday. The play focuses on Friday’s life story as she transitioned and overcame the many challenges she faced from her childhood. 
Friday told the audience of her story accompanied by her acoustic guitar. She performed music by Lisa Jackson and Girl Friday after she shared specific experiences. When Friday recalled her experience of coming out as a transgender woman, it was particularly haunting. 
“You know how they say how people should treat us? I didn’t know how to tell my family how to treat me,” Friday said during her performance when recounting her coming out experience. 
Friday was raised in a conservative family in Fayetteville, Ga. She expressed frustration early in her performance about the binary social lens in which she grew up. Even when she came out in 2004, there was not the vocabulary that we use today to describe transgender or non-binary individuals. 
Friday also recounted her experience dealing with her family’s negative perception of her as a drag queen. This perception emerged when she was playing music with her group at the Parkside Lounge in New York City. She collaborated with people such as influential trans rocker Jayne County at the time.
In an interview with Metro Weekly magazine, Friday said, “Unless you have a trans person in your life, or you’re an extremely aware person, you don’t know what that struggle is.” 
She also pointed out that anyone who is not white, heterosexual and Christian is incredibly vulnerable and that transgender people are especially vulnerable to discrimination and prejudicial attacks. In “Trans Am,” Friday uses her own experience of coming out as a transgender woman to talk about how alone transgender people are when they transition. 
“And there I stood. Silent. Shamed. Judged. Completely alone,” Friday said during her performance. 
“From Gumbo to Mumbo” is a New Orleans-based play discussing race-related problems in the U.S. The play explores what it means to be “authentic” in American culture and politics and it reflects on the search for love and happiness.
The play features two local actors, Drew Anderson and Dwayne Lawson-Brown. Anderson is a former science teacher who founded Spit Dat, an open mic in Washington, and Lawson-Brown is a hip-hop artist. 
The play opens with New Orleanian music and a Family Feud spoof. The stage background, lighting and each actor’s colorful outfit reflected New Orleans culture. At the beginning of the play, Anderson’s outfit stood out particularly with a Zion Williamson New Orleans Pelicans jersey and multi-colored necklaces.
Anderson or Brown addressed race relations in their monologues, while footage of anti-Vietnam War protests and race riots in the 1960s and today was shown on a series of small TV screens. The discussion then shifted to police brutality and instances where unarmed, innocent Black men were shot and killed by police because of the color of their skin. 
Further imagery of candlelight vigils with faces of Black men and women killed by police showed the many people who died senselessly because of police brutality, while also keeping these names alive. 
Another powerful visual was Brown’s T-shirt, which showed names of police brutality victims. The combination of rap, hip-hop, poetry, New Orleans culture and visuals made “From Gumbo to Mumbo” an effective play for understanding the times we live in today. 
The play was nominated for a Helen Hayes Award.
trecchio@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
At a Nov. 10 virtual event hosted by American University Student Government Women’s Initiative, environmentalist and Native American activist Winona LaDuke spoke about renewable energy, the future of the economy, sustainable food systems and biodiversity.
“My idea of when America was great is when there was tremendous agrobiodiversity; about 8000 varieties of corn, [a] thousand varieties of potatoes, 50 million buffalo, tremendous biodiversity [and] 250 different species of grass,” said LaDuke, a former vice presidential candidate for the Green Party. “That’s when America was great, and ecological restoration in this moment in time involves not only acknowledging what is lost but also working to restore some of that.”
LaDuke also touched on how biodiversity helps keep food systems reliable and prosperous. She said society always has always thought that a bigger system in scale with the economy is the best method, but as the coronavirus pandemic has exposed some of the flaws in industrial food systems, the opposite might be true.
“It turns out that ‘big’ cannot transform easily during crisis. And so you saw millions of gallons of milk being poured off, you saw all kinds of chickens and eggs being killed and pigs. What you need is systems that are resilient,” LaDuke said. “They’re studying these Indigenous potato varieties for climate change because biodiversity — we probably learned that from the Irish Potato Famine — but biodiversity is what you really need at a time of climate change. You need to figure out what plants will do good.”
She also spoke about her interest in renewable energy, specifically wind energy and solar power, and how that can help facilitate the transition into what she describes as the “next economy.”
“That’s to say this last economy didn’t do so well for Indigenous people — a lot of land [and] water poisoning, a lot of environmental justice challenges,” LaDuke said. “So I’m all ready to get to the table for the next economy and make some renewable energy so [we] have some security for my village.” 
LaDuke also discussed how cannabis-based materials can be employed in the next economy in an effort to decrease the use of fossil fuels because of the quick speed that it takes to grow.
In addition, plants, including cannabis and hemp, play a role in capturing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
“I think it’s time to move on and move beyond fossil fuels because we need to be done with them, we just need to evolve,” LaDuke said.
On top of that, LaDuke spoke about the need for the inclusion of Indigenous people and people of color and how justice should be delivered.
“I think that there’s a lot of places where Indigenous people and people of color need to be at the table in all of the value-added aspects. And you know certainly as well as I do that the war on drugs has criminalized more people of color, you know than white people, and so dispensaries should be owned by people of color,” LaDuke said. “We’ve had such energy injustices in our territory, so I want to create the next energy economy, and I want us to get paid for it.”
jyoung@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
