The Mary Graydon Center, pictured in 2016. 
The few classes at American University and Washington College of Law meant to be held in-person following the beginning of the spring semester will be held online through Jan. 24 due to “security concerns,” University officials announced in an email on Tuesday. 
While most courses were already planning to meet online, a few exceptions for certain classes are still impacted. In addition, the officials asked community members to avoid AU’s campus — especially via public transportation — until Jan. 25. 
University officials and the Office of Information Technology also requested that faculty members increase security for their online classes and other meetings held via Zoom by limiting access to only those with AU email accounts. They also advised faculty to carefully manage access for meetings with external personnel. Officials hope that these changes will prevent instances of “Zoom bombing,” where hostile users connect to a meeting to disrupt it, as AU College Democrats experienced during a Student Government debate in April. 
“With the ongoing security concerns in Washington, DC following the January 6 events at the US Capitol and in preparation for any potential incidents in the lead-up to the January 20 presidential inauguration, all AU class meetings, including at the Washington College of Law, will be fully online through January 24,” the officials wrote. [Emphasis from original]. 
The guidance from Acting Provost Peter Starr, Vice President of Campus Life and Inclusive Excellence Fanta Aw and Vice President and Chief Information Officer Steve Munson follows the insurrection at the Capitol on Wednesday and an email from Aw on Monday advising students to avoid downtown D.C. due to safety concerns surrounding the presidential inauguration and possible increased coronavirus spread from the crowds. 
They also encouraged faculty to set up recurring Zoom class meetings with the additional security guidance, and directed anyone with questions to the OIT Help Desk at helpdesk@american.edu. 
On Monday, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser asked Americans to participate virtually in the presidential inauguration instead of coming to the District. Bowser also enacted an order last Wednesday to extend a state of emergency until Jan 21. 
dpapscun@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Senior Indeya Sanders (#12) in a game against Lehigh University on Jan. 11
While the American University women’s basketball team (0-2) failed to come back in an 89-71 loss to Lehigh (4-0) in the team’s second game of the 2021 season, it had standout moments that gave the Eagles confidence moving forward.
AU started the game on a 6-0 run, and although the team had a few more small leads throughout the first quarter, it simply couldn’t keep up with Lehigh’s sharpshooting from beyond the arc. The Mountain Hawks hit 16 3-pointers in the game, which tied the Patriot League record and knocked them down at a 44 percent clip. Despite Lehigh’s hot shooting, head coach Megan Gebbia was optimistic about aspects of AU’s defense.
“It felt like our defense was a little more aggressive; we were getting some steals and stuff, so it was nice to see our defense be turned up a little bit,” Gebbia said. “The problem is, though, that we can't sustain it right now because we're just not in good enough shape. … Lehigh today was one of those teams that just makes you pay every time you make a mistake.”
Gebbia also credited AU’s rebounding ability and lack of turnovers as highlights of the game, and praised the Eagle’ field goal percentage — although they didn’t shoot many threes, they scored a lot in the paint.
Increased travel due to the pandemic has also had an impact on the team’s away games this season, according to Gebbia.
“I do think that’s part of it,” Gebbia said. “We’ve never done this before, ever. We’ve never had to travel three and a half hours, get off the bus and go straight into a game without practicing before.”
Junior guard Jade Edwards was yet again a bright spot in the loss, recording career-highs with 31 points, 13 rebounds and five steals. While the sample size is smaller than that of her peers, she currently leads the country in steals per game and leads the Patriot League in points per game. When asked about breaking more personal records this season, Edwards put it bluntly: “Whatever happens, happens.” 
Senior guard Indeya Sanders also helped AU both offensively and defensively, finishing with 8 points, six rebounds and four assists. Offensively, junior guard Emily Fisher and junior forward Taylor Brown stood out with 10 and 11 points, respectively. Freshman guard Kayla Henning also hit an impressive pull-up jumper in transition late into the game, the first bucket of her career.
Although its past two games have ended in losses, it’s clear that the AU women’s basketball team is cautiously optimistic for the future. The Eagles will hit the road next weekend for two more road games against Navy (0-4). Saturday’s tip-off is at 3 p.m.
largiropoulos@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Fanta Aw, American University’s vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence, advised students in an email Monday to avoid downtown D.C. amid the risk of coronavirus spread and threats of violence.
The announcement comes following Wednesday’s Capitol insurrection. COVID-19 cases are also at record levels as President-elect Joe Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration approaches. 
“Staying away from crowds, areas of high traffic, and locations where individuals are failing to distance or practice safety measures is crucial to protecting the health and safety of individuals and our community,” Aw wrote.
She encouraged students to limit using public transit, download the Rave Guardian safety app, register for D.C. alerts and sign up for D.C. government updates by texting INAUG2021 to 888-777.
“You had a group of folks that feel emboldened who were in many ways incited to violence," Aw said about the insurrection in an interview with The Eagle. "And to believe that it will just stop is something that I am not very optimistic about."
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser released an update Monday asking Americans not to come to the District for the presidential inauguration, citing COVID-19 and safety concerns. On Wednesday, amid the deadly Capitol riot, Bowser extended a state of emergency until Jan. 21, meaning in part that she can alter businesses’ hours if she establishes a curfew. 
President Sylvia Burwell wrote in an email to the AU community Monday that the University still plans to ramp up on-campus operations as the spring semester progresses and return to in-person classes in the fall. 
Aw wrote that students will have limited access to campus prior to Jan. 25. Students will need to use their AU IDs to access campus buildings.
“Our campus is secure and likely not close to where demonstrations may occur,” Aw wrote. “However, we will continue to monitor events and adjust our security precautions as necessary.”
Kelsey Carolan contributed reporting to this article.
saustin@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
