Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“And there was already water there,” professor Britta Joy Peterson read in a calming voice from an essay she wrote. 
Metaphors describing existence in her non-public essay, “Lapping Against the Shores of Attention,” would eventually inspire Peterson to name the immersive installation she directed called “already there.” 
The Department of Performing Arts professor is an award-winning choreographer, who directed “already there” using her multifaceted background in the arts. Peterson created “already there” with a team of artists amid the coronavirus pandemic. The immersive installation was built so audiences could take away their own message from the piece that premiered at The Reach’s Studio K at the Kennedy Center. 
Her knowledge in forms of dance, digital design and teaching skills helped her pick a team she could collaborate with, she said.
“It's a bit of a joke with some of my friends that I am a curator of souls,” Peterson said. 
Peterson said her background allowed her to “speak the language” of every artist she worked with in “already there” to be a successful collaborator. 
The installation’s music was composed by American University professor Sean Doyle and was a 25-minute experience enjoyed by small groups. Groups walked through hallways and rooms using the installation’s light, sound and projections of people dancing as their signals to move from one space to another. 
Other members of Peterson’s team are a part of the AU community: three AU alumni — Olivia Webber, Dylan Lambert and Vyette Tiya — were involved in the production. Peterson said AU students are opinionated and want to contribute their ideas, which made them valuable to the project. 
The project required dancers to be vocalists as well, which is not something all dancers can easily do, according to Peterson. 
“They need to be not just interested in but invested in and experienced in collaboration,” Peterson said. 
Peterson said she had the idea for “already there” starting in 2018, but the piece did not premiere until 2021 due to the pandemic. The installation showed Oct. 28-30 this year. Originally the work was designed for a 16-person performance ensemble that would use movements and sounds to captivate an audience but was changed into an immersive installation work. 
“In this new world this installation, variation of the original ideas came into being,” Peterson said. “And frankly, it is better than the original idea.”
Peterson also added that the Kennedy Center is not known for installation style pieces. If she proposed her installation idea in 2018 to the Center she would have probably been denied, she said.
“Because of the circumstances, they find themselves in a place where they must be pliable, they must be receptive to different structures of performance,” Peterson said.
Dancers rehearsed in pods, everything was choreographed in groups of three and there was only one full group performance, according to Peterson. Due to COVID-19 considerations, everyone was filmed individually, edited and projected on the installation screens to look like movement was filmed together. 
At one moment, audiences might experience visuals of dancers whose fluid movements match instrumentals playing, only to be interrupted by complete silence followed by sounds of the outdoors. At another point, audiences can expect to hear a fan blowing while watching a curtain bellow over a bench of grass they can sit on. 
“It's like a carnival ride of sorts, or like a carwash for the senses,” Peterson said. 
Because parts of the installation required audiences to walk through the installation, there were considerations about accessibility, Peterson said. She worked with a couple of consultants, one from Access Smithsonian and another from the Institute for Human-Centered Design, to make sure seating and other accessibility features were offered. 
“already there” allowed audiences to use their own lived experiences as a tactic to filter out information to find personal meaning, according to Peterson. How one processes “already there” depends on influences ranging from religion to socio-economic background, Peterson said. She said she hopes to allow audiences to find their own meaning after processing the elements of the show.
“I can meaningfully contribute to this conversation without necessarily taking up space in a way that is oppressive,” Peterson said. 
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Let’s set the mood for the evening: dim lighting with a pink undertone, brick walls that smelled of a good time and one center stage with a luminescent spotlight. 
On Oct. 14, this spotlight presented Corinne Fisher and Krystyna Hutchinson live at the DC Improv Comedy Club. They are famously known for their comedy duo “Sorry About Last Night” and are also the creators of the “Guys we have f****d” podcast. 
Fisher and Hutchinson put on quite the raunchy display, but regardless of how vulgar and down to earth their content was, it’s up to par with the funnier stand-up comedy routines to come about in recent years. 
The show started off with a simple opening act — another performer, Naomi Karavani, set the tone for a good show with a few witty one-liners. 
Karavani said that women and men who play football are similar: once they hit 30 years old, they start looking at younger athletes — college athletes or even high school athletes. And, to rub salt in the wound of all 30-year-old football players, she took a direct hit at Tom Brady, and said that however much gender is a construct, so are Tom Brady’s knees. The room responded positively to the newbie on stage — she set a laid back and humorous environment for the upcoming comedy duo.
Shifting attention, Fisher was first up to bat and automatically hit a home run with her jokes. The room was in uproar, with every punch line delivered to a tee.
Fisher started with commentary on how everyone always looks for love in tall men but are completely “overlooking” short guys. You can never trust a tall man since they are always so far away, she said, they might just be cheating on you all the way up there. 
This quickly turns into the point of the show — “Sorry About Last Night” — and Fisher joked about her overconfidence and slight self-obsession proving a lack of competence in the bedroom. Discovering this about herself, she said it came as a shock to her ego, but made for a good laugh. Fisher gave ease and insight into the world of dating and hookups. It bordered right on the line of pathetic but did not cross over humility. 
Hutchinson was up to the plate next, yet another homerun. Every joke was delivered with such character: with a range of facial expressions, voice impressions and overall realness, she was fearless. Laying into every joke with an experience made the content all the better — knowing that this was fact, not fiction added an extra laugh because it was relatable.
Her comedy was a spectrum of topics from her past trauma to family dysfunction and the chaos that was having a brand-new puppy at the start of quarantine — as Hutchinson put it, “I wasn’t going to go through it alone”.
That statement is what rounded out the entire show: their content spoke to every person in the room, and created a comfortable environment where you could learn to laugh at life’s mishaps. Everyone has ‘dumb b****h’ moments as the two said, and that’s okay — Fisher and Hutchinson showed that with a little laughter and a few drinks, you can overcome the toughest obstacles. 
Conclusively, Fisher and Hutchinson’s stand-up routine is nothing short of a knee slapper. While their live show may no longer be in DC, the two have a podcast with relatively all the same content, just a tad more up to date with their life happenings. This show receives a gold star and a solid two thumbs up. 
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU men's basketball during a game against Holy Cross on Jan. 18.
Senior Stacy Beckton Jr., a guard for the American University men’s basketball team, is not shy about airing his disappointment in how the 2020-21 season ended.
“Last season was kind of tough from the start,” Beckton said. “It just felt like a lot of things kept happening that kind of put us in a tough mental space.”
The Eagles went 4-6 last season and were blown out in the first round of the Patriot League tournament. Beckton says the lack of a full preseason and the cancellation of so many games, due to the pandemic, affected the team. However, the Eagles are set to begin the 2021-22 season in front of a home crowd at Bender Arena, and it is time to examine how the Eagles will stack up to the competition.
Ninth-year Head Coach Mike Brennan said that the Eagles responded well to adversity the pandemic put the Eagles through.
“I thought our guys did a terrific job with so many unknowns starting from the very beginning with the delayed arrival to camp,” Brennan said. “When they had an opportunity to practice, work and get better they took advantage of that.”
Despite the adversity, Beckton said that the team pulled through and stayed cohesive as a unit. As one of the oldest members of this year’s squad, it will be up to him to help guide the Eagles to a winning campaign.
The team Beckton will be a part of is relatively similar to last year’s unit. 
Strengths: Cohesion, youth, size, defense and first-half offense 
The Eagles have a team filled with veteran experience and young talent. Four of AU’s top five minutes per game players returned this year, and the Eagles will be led by seniors Beckton, Connor Nelson, Josh Alexander and graduate student Marvin Bragg. 
The veterans will be joined by several players who had breakout seasons last year and a new freshman class that will help bolster the lineup. Sophomore Johnny O’Neil was the standout freshman for the Eagles in 2020-21. The Florida native was named PL Rookie of the Year, was third on the team in scoring, second in rebound and blocks. In addition to O’Neil, junior Ben Lubarsky started all ten games, sophomores Matt Rogers, Colin Smalls — who was hurt early in the season — and Lorenzo Donadio both saw playing time as freshmen. Beckton said that playing time Rogers, Smalls and Donadio received in 2021 will give them a leg up on the competition. 
“I think those guys are going to gain that learning curve quickly,” Beckton said. 
Brennan also said he was impressed with the sophomores’ play in 2020-21.
“I thought they all played well,” Brennan said. “I think all of these guys will be able to contribute.”
The true strength of the team, however, will lie in its frontcourt led by Alexander.
Alexander, who had a breakout 2020-21 campaign and finished the shortened season averaging 9.6 points, 4.6 rebounds and just over a block per game, will be part of a frontcourt that squashed the competition in 2021. Along with O’Neil, Rodgers and 6’9 senior Christian Lorng, who Brennan said played hurt all year last season, the Eagles led the PL in blocked shots per game. Alexander and O’Neil led the blocking brigade — the pair combining for over half of the team’s blocks — and the Eagles finished the 2020-21 season fourth of ten in points allowed per game and second in three-point percentage allowed.
AU’s first-half offense and defense have been a strength the last few years. An Eagle data analysis of the last three seasons found that AU outscored its opponents 34 to 31. While AU was in the bottom half of the PL in average points scored per game and fifth of ten in field goal percentage in 2021, the Eagles had four of the top 30 PL leading scorers last season. However, scoring, in general, was a problem for the Eagles last season, and the offseason has only made the problem more acute.
Weaknesses: The departure of Jamir Harris, second-half offense, rebounding and turnovers
Before he graduated, Jamir Harris was the lifeblood of the Eagles in 2021. The successor to AU’s all-time leading scorer Sa’eed Nelson, Harris led AU in minutes played per game, points per game and assists. The Eagle’s data analysis of the 2021 season showed that Harris’ 205 points scored made up 30 percent of AU’s total offense. 
Harris announced in March his plans to transfer to Seton Hall and the Eagles will need to find scoring from other sources this season. However, replacing Harris is no easy feat. While Beckton was second on the team in points per game with 13.1 points per game, he and Brennan agreed that it will have to be a team effort to replace Harris’s prolific production and team leadership.
“Every year you lose guys,” Brennan said, continuing that he wishes the best for Harris. “I never really think about somebody filling someone else’s role … I don’t identify the guy who’s the leader; I think it will happen naturally.” 
Regardless, the Eagles’ struggle to find a score when it matters most has been a struggle for the team, with a history of losing games they were winning at halftime. An analysis of the Eagles’ box score over the last three years found that AU had lost 15 games they led going into intermission and that the Eagles have lost several games after leading by double digits.
AU’s second-half struggles also affected its defense. On average AU was outscored in the second half on average by one point — the difference also applying for AU’s overtime performances — and the Eagles surrendered 37 points in the second half, six more than they did in the first. 
AU also has a rebounding and turnover problem. The Eagles were fifth of 10 in the PL in defensive rebounding and eighth in offensive rebounding in 2021. With virtually the same frontcourt as last season, it is expected that rebounding will again be a struggle for the high-flying team. Turnovers were the team’s Achilles heel last season. AU had the worst turnover margin in the PL last season and had the most turnovers per game in the conference.
AU will have to protect the ball more this season if they want to have any success this season.
AU has a difficult schedule this season. The Eagles played nine of the non-PL teams in 2019-20, the last pre-pandemic season, and went 3-6. However, the only two teams that have a decisive edge in their recent encounters are Georgetown and George Mason, as the Eagles are a combined 21-76 against their D.C., Maryland and Virginia rivals. 
However, AU is a model of consistency. The Eagles have gone 35-35 the last three seasons, and the Eagles’ propensity to play close, nail-biting games means that there aren’t many games on their schedule they will lose by default. 
With the first game against Marist set to start at 8 p.m. on Nov. 9, the world will know if the Eagles take flight this year.
bmorse@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
