There is little conversation about disability at American University. The only classes that engage with this subject are waitlisted because they fulfill the Habits of Mind requirements. There are still very few supplemental classes for students who are truly interested and affected by these issues. 
On July 14, the College of Arts & Sciences announced that there would be 13 changes made to their programming, including many new opportunities for students to expand their knowledge. The University added a disability studies certificate — Disability, Health and Bodies — a monumental step in starting important conversations about disability and related topics. The certificate requires two American studies disability classes and six credits of approved electives. The certificate is available starting in the Fall 2021 semester. 
While the certificate seems promising, there is little to no push for a department in disability studies. AU is ranked in first place for colleges with the most politically active students, according to the Princeton Review. We must bring our social justice activism to the forefront by including disabled voices.
Emma Jaromin, third-year anthropology major at AU, allies with the disabled community because she has familial experience with its activism. 
“You can’t teach about something that is not represented in your own culture. It is great that we have staff and faculty that can not only run and start this, but support students who identify with the community,” Jaromin said. “But we definitely need advisors and people and experiences within the community itself in order to gain that education so you are not just tokenizing people who were already here.”
Katherine Greenstein, a CLEG major in their second year at AU, wrote in an email “I think disability is generally left out of academia, and when it is included, it's always abled people speaking over our community - especially when it comes to language like ‘special needs’ and ‘differently abled,’ both of which are super offensive.” 
Offensive language continues and disability programs are sometimes run by abled people. As Greenstein puts it, “We need disabled people from all walks of life. Disabled professors, disabled students, disabled activists and administrators, we need people with intense care for this community.”
My vision for the University is to start a whole disability studies program. Students agree. 
“It's really hard to find schools with programs like this, and having one at AU would be great representation and a great opportunity for me to study what I am passionate about and want to pursue,” Greenstein said. “I think if it is run by disabled people, it's a great opportunity to talk about disability in academics and gives us all a space to learn from people who know the most.”
I spoke to professor Tanja Aho, the instructor of AU’s two major classes about disability in the American studies department. 
“I would like to see disability become less of an afterthought in DEI efforts — I think AU should hire a full-time staff member to work on creating disability culture at AU, which other peer institutions have already done,” Aho said. “We want to celebrate our disabled students, faculty and staff, create supportive environments for everyone's flourishing, and make space for disabled folks at AU to foster community amongst ourselves.”
Aho also identifies as neurodivergent and neuroqueer; I believe they would be a great asset to the disability studies program. We must uplift disabled voices of all kinds and Aho’s work in disability studies makes their classes exactly what we need more of. 
Aho agrees and is already thinking about next steps: “I really hope that AU will follow its commitment to DEI and invest in hiring more faculty who can teach disability studies, especially at the intersections with critical race, ethnic and indigenous studies.” 
Aho hopes more people will show interest in the program and support its expansions. A main focus should be finding ways to improve the certificate and potentially launching a whole program. According to Aho, this won’t be easy.
“The certificate currently does not have enough classes that are actually grounded in critical disability studies,” Aho said. “Since I am the only full-time faculty member teaching it, we need more of an investment from the University. Relying on adjunct labor to fill a lot of those electives is not a sustainable solution and does not provide students with the faculty relationships and mentors they deserve in the field.”
As a disabled student myself, I hope to see AU improve and plan to hold them accountable. Accountability starts with making the voices of disabled people heard, and the members of our community deserve to see an improvement in how we teach about disability. We need more faculty like Aho and new classes and funding to make the program successful. AU is not doing enough to make disabled voices heard, and the certificate is less than the bare minimum. 
Darya Iranmaneshis a freshman in the School of Communication and School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle.
diranmanesh@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor’s note: this story contains references to substance abuse and overdoses. 

Six months after her son Eli’s passing, Beth Weinstock sorted through his backpack, a symbol and last memory of who he was. While pulling out school notes, art supplies and candy he saved from Valentine’s Day, she remembered Eli as a “sensitive soul” who connected with people in a unique and special way.
Eli Weinstock passed away this past March. A sophomore in the School of Communication, he was known for his love for his home state of Ohio, his volunteer work at local D.C. organizations and his enthusiasm for his favorite sports teams, like the Ohio State football team.
“He was creative and he also was on track to becoming just a really great man,” Beth Weinstock said. “He was diligent.”
Eli’s passing was a shock to everyone who knew him, especially to his family, Weinstock said. According to the coroner’s report, Weinstock said, Kratom, a legal herbal supplement and Fentanyl, a synthetic opioid, were found in his body. 
Weinstock described her son’s death as an unintentional overdose. 
“Anybody who is taking something or ingesting something that is intentionally poisoned with fentanyl and the person who is ingesting is unaware of the fentanyl, to me that’s murder,” Weinstock said. 
Overdoses have increased by 30 percent from 2019 to 2020, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than 93,000 people died of an overdose in 2020, some of which experts attributed to the rise in the prevalence of fentanyl, according to a New York Times report. 
Weinstock said that knowing her son was a victim of this, she is turning her grief into bringing awareness to the growing problem.
Weinstock and her daughter Olivia, 22, began their own organization called BirdieLight. She said because of Eli’s death and her experience in the medical field, as well as Olivia’s experience in small business development, she was in a “uniquely poised” position to start this campaign.
The organization is focused on bringing awareness to how fentanyl can be laced in drugs like cocaine and heroin that some people might unknowingly ingest at parties or in social gatherings. However, the biggest goal for Weinstock is to place fentanyl testing strips in the hands of high school and college-age people who are experimenting with these drugs.
“I want to push that because I think that is the radical concept of what we want to do that other organizations haven’t pushed for,” Weinstock said. 
According to the National Harm Reduction Coalition, a fentanyl test strip can identify the presence of fentanyl in drugs, since fentanyl doesn’t have a specific taste, smell or color. The strip is dipped into water mixed with a small amount of the drug residue, whether it be some of the powder or a corner of the pill. Weinstock said because of its easy use, she hopes that people will realize that taking a few minutes to test the drug before ingesting it could save their own or others’ lives.
“This is going to a party and maybe trying a line of coke not knowing that it is full of fentanyl,” Weinstock said. “This is killing people in epidemic proportions and this generation is taking the brunt of it. It’s hard for me to share the details of how Eli died, but this ugly truth is affecting families across the country and I am willing to take that pain and turn it into something that will save other kids’ lives.”
BirdieLight is currently not an official nonprofit organization, but Weinstock said she hopes to achieve that status soon. Currently, they are focusing on bringing awareness to the problem in Ohio. 
Weinstock said she thinks Eli would be proud that his tragic passing is being used to bring awareness to something that is killing other young people like him. A scholarship in his name and honor was also established at his high school.
“The drive to start it is really just built on love for Eli,” Weinstock said. “Eli didn’t want to die and he had a great future ahead of him and I think he would be very honored and proud that what happened to him, which is senseless and tragic, puts some good out into the world.”
To seek help or access information about accidental overdoses or harm reduction resources near you, visit the National Harm Reduction Coalition’s resource page. If you or a loved one are experiencing grief or trauma following the death of a loved one, visit the Grief Recovery After a Substance Passing resource page. 
The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration National Helpline can be reached at 1-800-662-HELP(4357) for individuals and families facing mental or substance abuse disorders.
kcarolan@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
