The American University volleyball team (16-12, 10-5 PL) defeated the Lafayette College Leopards (14-9, 11-4 PL) in their Saturday afternoon matchup.
With this win over the Leopards, the Eagles avenged a sweep from earlier in the season.
AU opened the first set by falling behind by three points to Lafayette. The Eagles trailed for large parts of the first set, and this became a trend throughout the whole game, with late-set surges pushing them over the top. 
Despite the constant trailing, the Eagles never let the first set get out of control. They kept the Leopards within striking distance, eventually sealing the set in their favor with two late kills by sophomore Katie Putney. The Eagles took the first set 25-22.
The second set saw a repeat situation, with AU going down early to Lafayette. The Leopards fended off the Eagles easier this time, keeping their lead at a steady four or more points for a majority of the time. AU failed to go on a run, only scoring more than one point consecutively once during the entire set. The Eagles dropped the second set to Lafayette, 18-25.
AU continued to struggle in the scoring department to open the third set. The Leopards took a four point lead early on, continuing their scoring momentum, but the Eagles never rolled over and they slowly chipped away at the score. AU went on a four point run to take the lead 13-12. The lead was short lived, but this stifled the momentum the Leopards had built and put the Eagles back in the match. 
The score remained close throughout the set, which came down to the wire when AU was down two to Lafayette’s match point at 22-24. With their backs against the wall, the Eagles went on a four point run and closed out the set when senior Carlie Fikse got one final kill to seal the set, 26-24.
Following a nail-biting third set, AU looked to close the match out in the fourth. The set remained tight the whole way through, with neither team scoring more than twice consecutively by the time it was tied at 13-13. 
The Leopards managed to stifle any kind of run the Eagles tried to go on for the majority of the set until the Eagles scored five consecutive points to seal the set and match 25-21 after an AU timeout.
The match was highlighted by yet another impressive performance by junior Zeynep Uzen, who was just named Patriot League player of the week for the third straight week. This was her fourth match with 20 or more kills. Uzen is currently ranked third in the Patriot League for kills per game.
The Eagles have three Patriot League matches left before the postseason. With their win over Bucknell on Oct. 29, AU punched their ticket to the Patriot League tournament.
The Eagles returned to Bender Arena on Tuesday night to face the no. 3 ranked University of Pittsburgh. They were swept 0-3 by the Panthers. AU will play their final match of the regular season against Army West Point on Saturday, Nov. 13 at 4 p.m. ET.
apowers@theeagleonline.com.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In this episode, Tristan, Olivia and Spenser discuss the value of the cinematic Blockbuster and the importance of visiting your local Dave & Busters. And don’t worry, Spenser finally got his shot at hosting.
Films Referenced: Dunkirk, Transformers Series (2007-), Jurassic Park, Face/Off, Little Women, Lady Bird, The Green Knight, Midsommar, The Shape of Water, 1917, Spectre, Skyfall, American Beauty, The Avengers, Avengers: Endgame, Avengers: Infinity War, Blade Runner, Blade Runner 2049, Star Wars Sequel Trilogy (2015-2019), Avatar, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan, Harry Potter Series (2001-2011), Black Widow, Hereditary, Bumblebee, Fast and Furious Series (2001-), Fast & Furious Presents: Hobbes & Shaw, Fallen Series (2013-), White House Down, Godzilla, The Godfather Series (1972-1990), Goodfellas, A Streetcar Named Desire, On the Waterfront, Apocalypse Now, WandaVision, Loki, Frozen and Frozen II.
This episode was produced by Chloe Irwin.
tau@theeagleonline.com, okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com and shoover@theeagleonline.com. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor's Note: This article has been updated with additional information from a community-wide email.
A week after announcing a State of the Union gala, American University Student Government President Chyna Brodie shared that the gala will now be postponed until mid-January.
The gala was originally scheduled for Nov. 17, and would have “cocktail attire, dress code will be enforced,” the initial invitation read. 
“In order to remain as accessible and inclusive as possible, President Brodie has decided to move the State of the Union Gala to January of next semester,” Brodie said in a statement to The Eagle. “Check your AU email from AUSG for more details and stay tuned for a specific date drop.”
As previously reported by The Eagle, the gala will host 300 students, and be funded by Brodie’s presidential programming fund, taking up about half of the budget. 
The gala was hailed by Brodie as a way that students who missed prom could take part in a prom-like event. According to statements made by Brodie, the event would have been held in the Katzen Arts Center and catered by a professional catering service.
SG sent an email to the AU community Wednesday night announcing the decision. Students who had already RSVP'd for the event will keep their spot, the email said.
"We want every student that attends the event to feel as confident as possible, and we’ve heard that some students need additional time to get ready for the gala," the email said.
jschlanger@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students learned about drug use and harm reduction at a Narcan training event co-hosted by American University’s Health Promotion and Advocacy Center and the DC Wards 3 & 4 Prevention Center Oct. 28. 
Abigail Goldner Morris, a senior studying American studies and women’s, gender, and sexuality studies, presented the event. Morris works as a housing and outreach worker for HIPS, a harm reduction group based in D.C. The training covered the history of opioids, ways to help those struggling with addiction and how to administer Narcan during an overdose. 
Morris discussed the rise in opioid-related overdoses and deaths in D.C., a trend that she said is the result of many opioids now being mixed with fentanyl.
“Right now in D.C., a lot of drugs are spiked with fentanyl,” Morris said at the event. “It’s one of the things causing the opioid overdose and death epidemic in D.C. The quality and strength of the D.C. supply of drugs has changed … and it’s absolutely fatal.” 
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, opioids were involved in 46,802 overdose deaths in 2018, and deaths from synthetic opioids in D.C. rose to more than 28,000. Signs of an overdose include unresponsiveness, difficulty breathing, small pupils and cold skin. 
One of the most effective ways to reverse an overdose is by administering Narcan, also known as naloxone, which acts as an opioid antagonist by attaching to receptors and blocking the effects of other opioids. The drug can be used through a nasal spray or needle, and typically lasts in the body for about 30 to 90 minutes. 
However, Morris said that harm reduction goes beyond just administering this life-saving drug. Taking measures to prevent overdoses such as making drug-testing kits more widely available and creating supervised consumption sites to reduce the risks of using drugs alone are also important. 
“Harm reduction is a really radical practice rooted in community,” Morris said. “Harm reduction does not minimize or ignore the dangers of drug use, but it also doesn’t have an agenda. Any positive change is a good thing.” 
Morris also spoke about the role that systemic racism plays in the opioid crisis, highlighting the disproportionate effect that this epidemic has had on D.C.’s Black community.
“Black folks are way more likely than any other demographic to be dying of opioid overdoses,” she said. “This is the reality of systemic racism and poverty in D.C.” 
The event was also hosted by Nadine Parker, director of the National Capital Coalition to Prevent Underage Drinking, who emphasized looking at the whole picture of opioid use to support people fighting addiction. 
“At the prevention center, we look at changing the way people think about substance use,” Parker said. “Most people don’t understand what opioids are. People don’t know whether or not they have the ability to become addicted. Opioids are the hardest drug abuse to kick.” 
School of Public Affairs sophomore Helena Milburn said that Narcan training is important for teaching students to handle potential emergencies on campus. 
“I think it’s good to know what to do, or at least have someone that knows, in a situation like that, just in case,” Milburn said. “I feel much more prepared to deal with an overdose situation than I did before.” 
Morris said that the key to stopping opioid overdoses and deaths is deconstructing the stigma around addiction. 
“Even if you don’t think [opioid use] is in the realm of possibility in your communities, it often is because people don’t want to talk about it,” she said. “That’s why it’s so important to break stigmas, because stigma kills people everyday.”
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A video circulating on social media this weekend showed an American University bus driver closing the bus’ door on a passenger’s arm and refusing to let other passengers off the bus after a student allegedly violated the University’s mask policy.
Louri-Ann Foster, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences, said she was exiting an AU bus when the driver, upon noticing a student wearing their mask incorrectly, shut the bus doors, trapping Foster’s arm and bag containing a laptop outside of the bus. The driver proceeded to pull away from the stop near Kerwin Hall, Foster said.
The Instagram account @stoolamerican posted a video of the incident on Saturday with the caption “Breaking: Wonk bus driver holds AU students hostage.”
In the video that she recorded, Foster can be heard telling the bus driver to open the door: “My hand is in the door.” 
AU shuttle bus doors are pliable rubber, Assistant Vice President for Community and Internal Communications Elizabeth Deal confirmed to The Eagle via email.
After the driver noticed Foster’s phone, he opened the doors and allowed the passengers to exit, Foster said. While she did not sustain any injury, Foster said she is “concerned” about how the situation would have played out had she not captured the interaction on video.
“Had I not started recording, I don’t think [the driver] would’ve let us off at Kerwin [Hall],” Foster said. “I just really didn’t know how long that was going to last.”
While she and her family are looking into legal matters, Foster said she would like a proper apology and response from the University.
“There’s just so much concern about how [the driver] handled that situation, especially because it had nothing to do with me,” Foster said.
In response to the video, the University’s Instagram account commented on the post, saying, “We are aware of the situation shown in this video and are working to obtain further information. The safety of our community is our priority and we appreciate when concerns are shared with us so we can take the appropriate steps. Please contact shuttle operations at shuttle@american.edu.”
Deal told The Eagle in an email that the University is investigating the matter thoroughly. 
“There are health and safety rules for the AU bus,” Deal wrote. “The driver was re-enforcing those rules to a student, who is a repeat offender of not wearing his mask or wearing it properly.”
Foster said she agrees with the mask mandate, but that the bus driver could have handled the situation differently.
“I completely agree and understand how vital mask mandates are, but at the same time, to be a danger toward other students simply because one student isn’t abiding is completely unethical and unsafe,” Foster said.
In an email to The Eagle, Alef Worku, an AU Shuttle spokesperson, said the incident is “under review.”
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available.
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
