It’s feeling like spring here in D.C. The cherry blossoms have bloomed. The quad is filled up with frisbees, spikeball nets and students with open laptops trying to take in the fresh air. The sun is coming out behind grey clouds. Yet, things aren’t normal. We are still wearing masks and social distancing. Most of us are desperate for the vaccine, because we can’t return to normal without it. Our summer won’t be the same until we have herd immunity. 
College students, unless they are essential workers or immunocompromised, were largely left out of the original equation when rolling out the vaccine. That tune has started to change. On campuses across the nation, public and research colleges and universities are beginning to vaccinate or put in motion plans to vaccinate their students.
At the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, all 30,000 students are able to get vaccinated on campus. UNC plans to administer at least 2,000 doses per week. Similarly, the University of Arizona is dishing out 4,000 shots per day to its student body. The University of Texas at Austin is starting to schedule student vaccination appointments on campus. These advances in vaccine rollout are in part due to good implementation of vaccinating other, more at-risk communities by the cities these schools are in. It’s important to note that D.C. is still struggling to vaccinate those who are most at-risk.
There are also examples of private institutions that have promised to require that students get vaccinated.
However, American University has yet to state that AU plans to vaccinate students when possible. In an email to the AU community on Jan. 14, President Sylvia Burwell simply said that AU “will not administer vaccines at this time.” After a period of silence from the University, in a student media briefing on April 8, Fanta Aw, the vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence, said that the University was beginning to explore options to assist students with vaccinations, but AU has not committed to a vaccine mandate at this time (administrators are still in talks about this). AU should make plans to either administer vaccines to us or help D.C. vaccinate its residents so we can get the vaccine quickly. It’s the least they can do since blindsiding us all in the fall. 
The University should also require vaccines in order to participate in the on-campus presence in the fall. Unvaccinated students (excluding those who medically cannot get vaccinated or do not have access in their home countries) are a threat to the herd-immunity we need to finally beat this pandemic. 
Burwell was the secretary of Health and Human Services before her time at AU, so she has the skills and connections to lead us through a safe transition back to campus. During her tenure at HHS, she worked hard to implement “Obamacare” and called for a bigger response to the opioid epidemic. I know that vaccines are hard to come by, as they’re controlled by the federal government, but it would be a significant step in the right direction if AU proposed some plans to get its students vaccinated when the time comes, even if it's after the spring semester. Many students still live in D.C. over the summer and will need to be vaccinated. Steps need to be taken. It’s not right that AU is not being as communicative as it should be while students figure out their own vaccine plan. D.C.’s rollout has been relatively slow, as they were given fewer vaccines than states. The city also dealt with registration portal problems that allowed wealthier residents to snatch up vaccines before other D.C. residents.
AU should help us get vaccinated for many reasons. For one, students lack transportation to vaccination sites. Many sites are far away from AU’s campus. In addition, unvaccinated students pose a risk to D.C. residents, so it’s unfair to both the students and locals to leave us clamoring for vaccinations in our home states. Among the student body, there seems to be confusion as to whether we actually qualify for vaccines, and if we do, when we are eligible for them. While AU is probably not able to get their hands on vaccines, an email or any information from the administration that clarifies this or provides resources for registration would be a step in the right direction. The University can be a central source of information and even vaccination for students in states all over the country where roll out is at staggeringly different stages. 
AU has a responsibility to help get students, faculty and staff vaccinated. If the University plans to return to in-person instruction and provide students with the classic college experience, then they should be making moves to get us vaccinated. We can have a safe return to campus if everyone is vaccinated and everyone is required to be vaccinated. Not only would this ensure the safety of the students, faculty and staff, but it could also prove to be financially beneficial for the University: in-person instruction means that they could stop the tuition discounts and could charge full-price for room and board. This could provide the school with much-needed capital after a hard financial year. The University has a duty not only to us as students, but to the city as a whole, to get us vaccinated.
Riley Lorgus is a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences and an opinion columnist for The Eagle.
rlorgus@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For the second game in a row, a hard-fought battle ended with a draw in double overtime as American University men’s soccer (2-1-2) and the Navy Midshipmen (4-1-1) each scored only one goal. Ending with a draw, AU has advanced to the four-team Patriot League tournament, notching a top-four seed for the first time since 2016.
The Eagles’ defensive effort was key once again as they dealt with a flurry of shots from the Midshipmen.
“I am very proud of the guys,” head coach Zach Samol said postgame. “I will say, you know, I think the guys are really happy to be advancing, obviously, and you can see it. But there’s also a bit of ‘We can be better’ and handle details better in overtime.”
The Eagles’ sole goal once again came from junior forward David Coly. Sophomore midfielder Jack Green took a free kick to set up Coly after freshman midfielder Jason Bouregy drew a foul outside the goal box. Green found Coly right in front of the goal and, after fighting the defense and an initial deflection off the right post, Coly struck the ball into the back of the net.
However, the Midshipmen outshot the Eagles with 16 total shots, five of which were on goal. AU, who took far fewer shots with four total, shot three on goal. Goalkeeping and stout defense from the Eagles’ back four kept Navy from doing any more damage, as senior goalkeeper Jake Agnew picked up three of the Eagles’ four saves and continued to do excellent work between the posts in the two overtimes.
“I was trying to find some patterns,” Agnew said postgame. “It was a similar play earlier that they tried to cut the ball back, and I just saw the same thing happening. I just tried to get set and make the save.”
The Eagles will look to advance to the Patriot League championships with a win against the South Division’s top-seeded Loyola Greyhounds on Wednesday at 7 p.m. at Loyola.
lclarke@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As American University Student Government elections pass, it has officially been one of the two times I’ve heard from them this year. Countless candidates posted their platforms during the fall election season and explained why I should vote for them. Two semesters later, I have no idea if any of their policy ideas became reality.
I looked through the AUSG Undergraduate Senate (@ausgsenate) and AUSG (@austudentgov) Instagram in an attempt to uncover AUSG's accomplishments this year. With the limited information @ausgsenate offers, I was able to find that the majority of legislation brought to the table is about internal procedural reform, which only affects those in the Senate and not the public they serve. @austudentgov offers even less information regarding the day-to-day tasks of AUSG. AUSG Twitter (@AUSG) was updated for the first time since July 2020 on April 11, 2021, to congratulate the new Executive Board. AUSG Senate Twitter (@AUSGSenate) has not been updated since November 2019.
While several individual senators post about their day-to-day work, I personally don’t want to follow and investigate multiple accounts to figure out what they do. Instead, AUSG should use a centralized place, such as their Instagram and Twitter, to post relevant and easily digestible information about the work they’re doing for the student body. 
Facebook is where AUSG Senate (@AUSGSENATE) primarily updates students. Each Senate meeting is recorded and uploaded. Unfortunately, summaries of these hours-long meetings are not posted. Additionally, not all meetings, such as committee meetings, are posted or have public notes.  
The AUSG website is the final place I went to for information. In the executive branch section, I tried clicking on ‘Official Statements’ and ‘Executive Orders’ but was denied access to both Google Documents. None of the results archive links worked on the ‘Elections’ page either. In the Senate section, I found the agendas and minutes of each meeting as well as a legislation tracker. There, I learned of each piece of legislation introduced in the Senate.
The legislation tracker lists a variety of resolutions I have never heard about, including non-binding resolutions to prohibit professors from disabling the chat feature in online classes, add sharps containers in all public AU restrooms and mandate pronouns for all faculty/staff. These resolutions do not create any immediate change. The University is the only entity with the power to enforce any of these policies. The student body is unaware of the legislation passed due to minimal outreach from AUSG and is therefore unable to show support or assist with the change-making process.
There is a blatant lack of transparency between AUSG and the student body. This is particularly disappointing considering the large number of candidates who ran on a platform of transparency. With the large budget AUSG receives from our student activity fee, there is no excuse for their almost nonexistent communications.
Going forward, AUSG needs to begin using its centralized social media more often, especially the executive branch. While AUSG Senate’s Facebook has recorded meetings, their Twitter and Instagram are missing any information regarding what they’ve accomplished. AUSG Senate should be posting meeting summaries along with the recorded meetings as they are too lengthy for the average person to watch each week. The executive branch has virtually no information on its day-to-day activities leaving me confused about its general purpose. AUSG can rectify this by simply posting their minutes and allowing that information to be public. 
If President Sylvia Burwell is able to condense her work into both a schoolwide email and a public website, surely AUSG can too. Especially with University services being virtual, AUSG has failed to make its services accessible to students. As students struggle to connect to campus remotely, AUSG needs to involve students in their work through better outreach. AU students are interested in and want to hear from the government that represents them, but AUSG must give them the ability to do so. 
Alexis Bernstein is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and a staff columnist for The Eagle. 
abernstein@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
