Editor's Note: The language in this article has been changed to refer to the antisemitic act as vandalism.
Antisemitic vandalism was found in a men’s bathroom stall in the Lower Level of Anderson Hall by an American University student on Sept. 7.
Jason Churchfield, a senior in the School of International Service, found four symbols, three of them Nazi propaganda, carved into the stall. Churchfield promptly posted a picture to his Instagram story.
“I identify as Jewish and have been lucky to have an incident-free four years at AU,” Churchfield said. “So when I saw this, I decided all I had to do was just show people what I saw.” 
The vandalism consists of two swastikas, Nazi SS (Schutzstaffel) bolts and a Star of David. 
Elizabeth McCabe Deal, the assistant vice president for Community and Internal Communication, emailed a statement to The Eagle from Housing and Residence Life on the vandalism.
“Following reports on Thursday morning of hateful vandalism in Anderson Hall, AUPD initiated a full investigation,” McCabe Deal said. 
The vandalism comes in the midst of two major Jewish holidays, Rosh Hashana, the Jewish new year, which occurs from Sept. 6 to 8 and Yom Kippur, which occurs on Sept. 15 and 16. 
In her statement to The Eagle, McCabe Deal addressed the timing of the incident: “There is no place in our community — or anywhere — for hate and intolerance, particularly during this high holy week for the Jewish community.” The statement then went on to offer support to the Jewish community, despite the actions of “disrespect and ignorance.” 
Churchfield said that he has found ways to grow and reflect after finding the vandalism.
“Antisemitism, especially recently, is extremely apparent in the world,” Churchfield said. “It’s something that I’ve taken time to combat in my own ways.”
Doing his part in engaging with his community at AU by bringing University awareness to the vandalism was “one of those ways,” he said. 
AUPD is currently working on an ongoing investigation to identify the parties responsible, and additional steps will be taken as more information is found, according to McCabe Deal. Anonymous tips may be sent via the Rave Guardian Safety App or by writing to investigations@american.edu.
smattalian@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“No se Aceptan Devoluciones” es una película que estrenó en 2013, y fue dirigida, coescrita y protagonizada por el cómico mexicano Eugenio Derbez. 
La he visto varias veces, y esta mezcla de comedia y tragedia te hace reír y llorar. La película narra la historia de un hombre mexicano que se muda a Los Ángeles para buscar a la mamá de su hija, pero a través del desarollo de la película, llega a amar a su hija más que nada. 
A lo largo de la película, Valentín (Eugenio Derbez), un playboy de Acapulco aprende a superar sus miedos con tal de darle una vida mejor a su hija Maggie (Loreto Peralta), que le motiva a crecer como persona. Todo eso es una sorpresa para Valentín, acostumbrado a su vida libre en Acapulco. Aunque al principio de la película no estaba preparado para un bebé, se acaba convirtiendo en uno de los mejores papás que Maggie pudiera pedir, amando a su hija con todo su corazón. 
La escena que me impactó más personalmente fue cuando Valentín habla con un juez y expone todas las razones por las que Maggie debería quedarse con él en lugar de con su mamá. Es un momento muy real, donde el personaje habla desde su corazón, habiendo tenido seis años para enamorarse de la vida con su hija. Sin embargo, Valentín acaba por desesperarse, y no encuentra las palabras para expresar todo lo que siente. En ese momento empieza a recitar parte de la letra de la canción “Cuando Calienta El Sol,” de Luis Miguel. 
La escena es perfecta para la película. Obviamente, Luis Miguel es muy conocido en México, y “Cuando Calienta El Sol” es una de sus canciones más populares. La letra es bonita y suave, y trata del amor hacia una mujer. El hecho de que Valentín utiliza la letra para describir su amor hacia su hija añade un elemento cómico a un momento casi triste. 
El uso del humor mexicano es perfecto para una época en la que la industria cinematográfica está tratando de incluir al público hispano más que nunca. Cuando se estrenó “No se aceptan devoluciones”, no existía ninguna película comparable y ganó 44 millones de dólares.
Eugenio Derbez también actuó en muchas otras películas, como “Milagros del Cielo y Cómo Ser un Latin Lover.”
mhowell@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
You’ll seldom catch new American University head wrestling coach Jason Borrelli using the word “team." 
“We are very strategic in using the word family instead of team,” Borrelli said. “The way you do things for a family and the way you’re selfless for a family to me is sometimes different than being a part of a team. People often feel that teams are temporary. We’re trying to create a lifestyle that is part of us forever. We’re all part of a family”
During his 13 years as Stanford’s head wrestling coach, Borrelli’s belief in familial bonds anchored Stanford’s winning culture, resulting in two coach-of-the-year honors for Borrelli and 21 individual Pac-12 championships for his wrestlers.
Borrelli’s impressive track record as a recruiter speaks volumes as well. In seven of his 12 recruiting seasons, Stanford landed recruiting classes in InterMat's top 25, with six of those classes ranking in the top 15. 
But with a new season comes fresh challenges. Borrelli will navigate his team through a pandemic all while filling the shoes of former head coach Teague Moore, who led the program for nine years. While it may seem daunting, Borrelli is confident that the season will happen and his wrestlers will buy into the process.
“My expectation is that our athletes will buy into a championship lifestyle,” Borrelli said. "They’ll commit to it and be willing to give regardless of anything being promised to them on the back end. You can’t only commit to something because you feel like you are going to get something in return. We can't guarantee a championship in the end but we can guarantee that if you commit to the lifestyle, you’ll be in the very best position to accomplish what you’d like to.”
As for COVID-19, Borrelli hopes his positivity will radiate through the locker room.
“I tend to stay optimistic. In our minds, we’re having a season and we’re gonna have an NCAA tournament,” Borrelli said. “There could be hiccups in the road. If we have to shut down for a week in order to have a season, that’s fine. We’ll do whatever it takes. We just can’t let it rattle us.”
Borrelli won’t be the only former Stanford Cardinal on the coaching staff once the season starts in November. Alex Tirapelle, previously an assistant coach at Stanford from 2010-2014 and 2017-2021, also recently joined the Eagles coaching staff. Tirapelle has head coaching experience as well, as he was the head coach at the University of Pennsylvania for three years, coaching 13 wrestlers to qualify for the NCAA Championships during his tenure.
“[Tirapelle] coaches for all the right reasons,” Borrelli said. “He’s the day-to-day wrestling guru who can help develop our wrestling style. With him, it’s not about the glamour of winning. It’s about being mentors to student-athletes and helping them become better people.”
Tirapelle understands consistency and reliance on one another is key to performing in such a stressful sport. 
“We’re constantly reminding them that it takes a village,” Tirapelle said. “As much as you’re in control of your own fate, up to the point when the whistle blows you’ve relied on a lot of people. You always have to remind the guys that we’re in this together.”
The addition of Tirapelle and Borrelli ushers in a new era of AU wrestling. The new coach’s emphasis on family and the betterment of student-athletes on and off the mat will hopefully accomplish the broader goals they hope to achieve. 
While both coaches hope to see a jump in the teams' ranking at the end of the year NCAA tournament, they're after more than that. They're driven to cultivate an attitude conducive to a selfless culture that helps wrestlers be the best version of themselves for each other. With coaches so invested in their wrestlers, there's a good reason to be excited about the future of AU wrestling.
“We’ll want a group of individuals who’ll commit to the process and be willing to give, so they can be the very best version of themselves,” Borelli said. “That’s the goal.”
odunn@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Assistant coach Scott Greenman has been named the new American University men’s basketball associate head coach. The University announced the promotion on Wednesday in a press release.
According to the press release, as an assistant coach, Greenman helped recruit AU’s all-time leading scorer and 2020 Patriot League Player of the Year Sa’eed Nelson. He also helped with six straight seasons where an AU freshman was named to the Patriot League All-Rookie team. During Greenman’s tenure, The Eagles appeared in the NCAA Tournament once, played in two Patriot League Championship games and finished with 12-6 in Patriot League play in 2019.
Head coach Mike Brennan praised the promotion in the announcement and said Greenman was a leader of the Eagles coaching staff.
“He's someone that I trust and look to regarding everything from recruiting to workouts to in-game coaching,” Brennan wrote in the press release. “He has a great mind for the game, he is an excellent communicator, and he has been ready to be a head coach for a long time. We're lucky to have him here at AU."
In an interview with The Eagle, Greenman said he felt honored to be named associate head coach. While Greenman said day-to-day operations would likely not change, Greenman said the new title was a source of pride.
“Obviously you’re honored to have a new title and to just know that people within the department and your boss think of you like that, I think is a good feeling,” Greenman said.
Greenman also took to Twitter to celebrate and hype up the upcoming season.
It's an honor to get promoted. I am very lucky that I get to work with an unbelievable staff/administration and get to coach great people/players! I couldn't be more excited for the season! https://t.co/whgGF80Irb

Greenman was invited to attend the Jay Bilas Coaches Leadership Program, a well-known training seminar for Division I assistant coaches who want to be future head coaches in June 2021. Silver Wave Media named him one of the top fifty low major coaches in Division I basketball in June 2020, and he was named the third-best assistant coach in the Patriot League by Stadium’s Jeff Goodman the same year. 
According to the press release, Greenman has been involved in every facet of the team in recent years, and while he is eyeing a future run for the Patriot League title, right now Greenman is focused on ensuring the 2021-2022 season goes off without a hitch. 
“We [the coaching staff] want to do everything we can to make it a normal season … given the circumstances,” Greenman said. “The goal is just to improve every day, and work really hard.”
bmorse@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
