Protestors gather outside of the Supreme Court on Friday, June 24. 
Following the Supreme Court’s June decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, national uncertainty has persisted about how abortion access may change and how states may suffer disparate impacts. As the midterm elections loom, voters will weigh abortion as a definitive issue when electing future decision-makers.
The Dobbs v. Jackson decision returned legislative power over abortion to Congress and state governments. Since then, states have imposed abortion bans and restrictions, several more are underway and further such laws may be implemented if the Republican Party gains sufficient control in state legislatures. Federal bans and restrictions are also possible, though not at all likely under the current Congress. 
Research from Pew Research Center suggests that the issue of reproductive rights will be an important issue in the midterm election. Voter registration has surged among women, which points to the fact that abortion is a mobilizing issue for voters.
In D.C., abortion is legal at all stages of pregnancy, but since the district does not have statehood, the future of abortion rights in D.C. differs from states throughout the country.
Congress controls aspects of D.C., as it is a federal district. Though D.C. does have a city council, Congress has exclusive control over the district, according to the Constitution.
As the midterm elections approach in November, which party holds Congress could impact abortion rights in D.C. and nationally.
South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham has proposed a 15-week federal abortion ban, which would ban all abortions after 15 weeks, with limited exceptions carved out for rape, incest or threats to the bearer’s life. This ban cannot pass in the current Democratic-controlled Senate, but this could change if control shifts to the GOP in the midterm elections.
Any abortion legislation, either in its own bill or as a rider on unrelated legislation, would have to pass both houses of Congress and be signed by the president.
In 2011, former President Barack Obama signed a law that had an abortion-related rider attached to it. In signing the bill, the rider portion went into effect, banning local D.C. dollars from going to abortions for low-income people in the district. 
Additionally, abortion-related measures previously passed by D.C. City Council would be void if faced by anti-abortion legislation, D.C. local news reporter Chelsea Cirruzzo said in an interview with The Eagle. 
Potential abortion restrictions in D.C. would disproportionately impact Black residents. In 2015, more than 60 percent of abortions in the district were sought by Black residents. 
Abortion is still legal in D.C. and the broader DMV area. Despite this, there may be barriers even to legal abortion, such as potential costs.
An abortion through Planned Parenthood in D.C. can range in cost from $578 to $2,008. While financial assistance is available, this is an additional hoop abortion-seekers must jump through.
Organizations such as DC Abortion Fund also provide financial assistance to abortion-seekers. Such nonprofits rely on fundraising through events and campaigns, as well as one-off donations to provide this type of support. Other regional abortion funds include the Baltimore Abortion Fund and the Blue Ridge Abortion Fund.
Another barrier abortion-seekers must overcome is having to face anti-choice protesters in order to physically enter clinics. 
The Washington Area Clinic Defense Task Force provides volunteer escorts, also known as “clinic defenders,” to reproductive health clinics in D.C., Maryland and Virginia.
“It is a scary moment, for a lot of people, that moment of walking into the clinic. Because the narratives that are out there about abortion are often so demonizing and scary,” said one local clinic defender, who wished to remain anonymous for safety reasons. “And so we're out there to make sure that protesters don't get out of control, don’t get too close to the patient. Or if they do have those conversations, to be able to say, ‘Hey, it's okay, we can just go inside.’”
At AU, students with reproductive health concerns may seek guidance from the Student Health Center and the Center for Well-Being Programs and Psychological Services.
According to Dr. Ariel White, the university physician at the Student Health Center, the center provides “comprehensive reproductive health services for all students, regardless of gender identification,” as well as pregnancy counseling. The center does not provide abortions, but can refer students to the appropriate resources.
The Center for Well-Being Programs and Psychological Services can provide counseling and supportive services, including for students who have experienced sexual assault, said its director, Dr. Jacquelin Darby. These services are all confidential.
“Our main goal is to support students and make sure that they are well, and so we will work to continue to do that,” Darby said.
aturner@theeagleonline.com, oalafriz@theeagleonline.com 
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that Lindsey Graham represents Kentucky, not South Carolina. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Your billing statement is now available online. Please log into Eagle Service to make a payment, view your account activity and download your PDF billing statement.”
As a student of American University, you will receive this email when your payment is due. If you fail to comply with it, you will be fined. This isn’t just AU — this is how the higher education system operates in America.
Getting a college education isn’t a public good anymore; it is a privilege. Colleges are in never-ending competition with one another, and students are the consumers. Nowadays, education is an investment to improve the human stock by training them for work. We often hear how a college education is a necessity to make money and get a job in the future. On top of that, we are told how much a school’s acceptance rate determines our intelligence. We question whether we are “worthy” enough to receive an education.
We all know how colleges accomplish this. As they send you countless emails telling you about their school’s generous financial aid or how their study abroad program has the highest ratings, they make it sound as if they are offering you a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Each one sounds better than the previous, sending you into a spiral of indecision. Each makes you feel wanted, making you think you can get the best education there. 
This is how the cycle of capitalism works. 
As AU President Sylvia Burwell makes nearly $1 million per year, the underpaid staff union goes on strike during Welcome Week. Student cries intensify every day, trying to pay off our loans, while tuition that’s already above the national average increases. The coronavirus pandemic doesn’t exist anymore: the University ceases to provide isolation housing. Students are left to self-isolate in their dorms with no assistance from the University. Tough luck. The Bridge Cafe loses its name as one of the only sanctuary spaces for people of color on campus; music and the events held become white-centered.
AU ranks eighth in the U.S. for students with learning disabilities as ASAC’s lengthy and invasive application process is insufficient to meet the needs of the disabled community. Students’ health concerns are futile: there’s no need to launch an investigation after hearing countless mold concerns from McDowell Hall residents, which is one of the lowest-priced buildings on campus.
The list could go on and on, but one thing is for sure: the students are the profit — as long as you pay the money, as long as you take out the loans, as long as you contribute to the ratings.
Colleges are trained to make students appear like their number one priority when this is not the case. College isn’t a place where you discover yourself like it’s advertised: it is a place where students drown in debt and loans. It’s a place that exploits students and makes them prisoners of addiction and envy. It’s a place where the diploma you receive determines your rank in society’s hierarchy.
It’s important to distinguish the truth from the fabrications that are told to us about the U.S higher education system. Whether it’s AU or any other college, the narrative is the same. 
President Sylvia Burwell likes to promote the school’s motto as “change can’t wait,” but where is the so-called change when students need it the most?
Meliha Ural is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and School of Communication and a columnist for the Eagle.
mural@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
