The American University Eagles (9-6) defeated the William & Mary Tribe (9-8) 2-1 on Saturday Oct. 29. Freshman forward Frederiek Thierry and senior forward Megan Hoffman scored to close out the regular season with a win. 
Before the game began, a huge crowd of parents, friends and alumni gathered to cheer for the six seniors. 
“They’re such a special group of people. Every senior class is special, but I think this year in particular,” coach Steve Jennings said. “Coming through a really tough time with the pandemic, they missed a lot of the normalcy of a career in terms of development and all that and they stayed together, they pushed through, and really have given us so much determination, skill, heart, and so we're really, really proud of them.”
The Eagles had multiple scoring chances in the first quarter, including a penalty corner and two shots, but the Tribe’s defense was able to stop them. American’s defense was strong as well, especially senior defender Charllene Boshoff who continued her shutdown play. 
The second quarter fared better for William & Mary. The Tribe was able to get their first four shots of the game off on senior goalkeeper Abbie Ortyl. William & Mary was awarded two penalty corners in succession, and senior Tabby Billingham scored for the Tribe on a rebound off the pads of Ortyl. Although down on the scoresheet, the Eagles were not deterred and resumed their typical strong defense for the rest of the quarter.
Halftime featured a recognition of the dozens of program alumni who came out to honor this year’s senior class. Alumni came onto the field together and were recognized by the crowd of family and friends.
The third quarter was rather uneventful, aside from two penalty corners for the Eagles which they were not able to score on. William & Mary played with urgency all game, but especially in the latter half. The game took a turn when William & Mary possessed the ball above their own 25-yard line, and sophomore midfielder Delia Rabatin stole the ball from them. Rabatin then sprinted to the goal and passed to Thierry, who reverse-chipped in the Eagles’ first goal of the game to tie it up. 
Rabatin’s goal with about ten minutes left in the game breathed new life into the Eagles’ offense, and the team continued to dominate possession in the Tribe’s defensive zone. William & Mary was able to steal the ball away and get four shots off on American, but Ortyl continued her strong play in goal. 
After a foul by William & Mary, Federica Turina Dellamaggiore sent the ball into the circle where Imogen Hatton tapped the ball to Hoffman. Hoffman lifted the ball over William & Mary goaltender Maddie George and jumped for joy as the Eagles took the lead. 
“We've been working really hard all together as a team, and as a family, really,” Hoffman said. “I was able to put it in because my teammate passed to me because it came from another teammate.” 
William & Mary’s remaining offensive attacks were fruitless as Ortyl continued to make saves, and the rest of the team cleared the ball from the circle. After securing the win for the senior class, the Eagles hugged and ran a victory lap to greet their adoring fans.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Former Washington Nationals and current Philadelphia Phillies outfielder Bryce Harper in 2016. Image is licensed under CC-BY-2.0.
The Houston Astros defeated the Philadelphia Phillies in the 2022 World Series in six games this past Saturday. The Washington Nationals were nowhere near the championship this year, but there were still a number of people with connections to them, and DC in general, who participated. 
First, on the Astros side of the MLB championship, there were no former Nationals on the roster. However, Astros manager Dusty Baker managed the Nationals for two seasons from 2016 to 2017. Baker had won a ring as a player with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1981, however he had yet to win as a manager. He finally got there this year, 30 years after he was first hired to manage the San Francisco Giants. Plus, Baker was hired by the Astros after the sign-stealing scandal, so you can be happy for him with a clean conscience. 
If you have loyalty to the DMV, you’ll be interested to hear that Astros pitcher Justin Verlander grew up in Manakin-Sabot, Virginia. Verlander has already won a World Series, as he was on the controversial 2017 Astros team, but the American League Cy Young favorite deserved another one. He has a history of poor starts in World Series games, but in game five this year he finally got the World Series pitcher win that had eluded him.
The Astros notably lost to the Nationals in 2019 and this year’s Phillies were quite similar to those Nationals. The Phillies were a wildcard team who no one expected to get this far, and the Astros are a dominant machine. The Astros have played in the American League Championship Series every year for the past six and in doing so have become the first time in major league history to win a postseason series six years in a row. In short, the Astros are built to win the World Series. The Phillies had momentum, but the Astros were inevitable.
The Phillies have three former Nationals on their roster, with the most notable player being reigning National League MVP Bryce Harper. Harper was drafted first overall by the Nationals in 2010 and played for the team until 2018 when he signed with the Phillies as a free agent. He’s never won a World Series; he left the Nationals the season before they won and actually said he wanted to bring a championship back to D.C. in his first Phillies press conference. The subject of Bryce Harper is a bit of a sore spot for some D.C. fans, but he’s been so dominant for so long and deserves a championship. Harper and the Phillies fell short this year, but we’ll likely see them again soon.
Next is Kyle Schwarber who had a brief tenure with the Nationals, but certainly made an impact in the hearts of fans. Schwarber signed a one year contract with the Nationals in January 2021 and was traded to the Boston Red Sox at the trade deadline, but not before going on a tear in June and hitting 16 home runs in an 18 game span. Schwarber signed with the Phillies this March and is fun to root for, especially since he’s known to let a home run fly. He’s an entertaining person to watch for those just wanting to see something exciting happen. Save your tears for Schwarber as he has a ring from his time with the Chicago Cubs.
Finally, we have Brad Hand. Hand played for the Nationals for the same amount of time as Schwarber, having signed a contract as a free agent and then being dealt away before the trade deadline on July 29, 2021. Some would argue that Hand’s poor performances in games leading up to the trade deadline were the reason for the Nationals’ sale at the 2o21 trade deadline. He’s been better as a Phillie, but some Nationals fans may still harbor bad feelings towards him. Hand pitched well this postseason, though he is now a free agent so who knows where he’ll be next year.
So, the D.C.-themed cards are all laid out on the table. Though the Astros are greatly disliked among all other MLB fans, hopefully this helps you find bright spots within an unpopular outcome.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In honor of National Immigrants Day, the Kennedy Political Union and American University Residence Hall Association held a discussion with actress Diane Guerrero on Oct. 28.
Moderated by Kelly Ma, RHA vice president of diversity and inclusion, Guerrero spoke about her experience as a first-generation Latina actress and how her experiences shaped her career, passion for immigration reform and self-confidence. 
“I am who I am, and I can’t be anything else,” she said. “I think that who I am and my story really influences all of my work, but it’s changing.” 
Guerrero, known for her roles as Maritza Ramos in “Orange is the New Black” and Lina in “Jane the Virgin,” expressed how important it was to her in the beginning of her career to be vocal about her identity, but no longer feels that it is necessary for it to be the forefront of her work. 
“I think I’m just trying to live my life and not have that be the central focus, but just an influence,” she said. “I [want to] tell all kinds of stories, not just ones about family separation and immigration.”
Guerrero has spoken in support of immigration reform, having experienced the consequences of the system herself. When Guerrero was a child, she came home from school one day to find her house empty, her family having been deported to Colombia while she was gone. 
She shared her family’s story of deportation in her books “In the Country We Love” and the youth adaptation “My Family Divided,” which influenced her work in advocacy and sharing her experiences. However, Guerrero said the immigration system left her continuously disappointed despite her efforts. 
“All of this work is because I thought I could get closer to my family,” she said. “Time and time again, none of that worked.” 
Different ways of storytelling, she said, is what’s coming next, and Guerrero plans to be behind the camera, not in front of it — she is already planning on making a documentary about her family in Colombia. 
In particular, Guerrero spoke about how she wants to tell different stories going forward in her career, specifically about her family. Hollywood, too, has confined her to a certain type of story; Guerrero said she was typecasted often, playing characters whose main traits involved their status as an immigrant.
“I’ve had to break down a lot of those stereotypes for myself, to say, ‘I can do this role, and this role has nothing to do with my heritage or my ancestry or anything,’ she’s just a person,” she said. “I’ve had to break down a lot of that for myself because those walls are already there.”
Guerrero hopes that her work evolves from 2016 — when she published “In the Country We Love” — to be more honest and more unashamed. She is reaching a point of patience in her life when she no longer feels the need to compare herself to other people, resulting from a desire to be closer with her family in Colombia and years of therapy. 
“It’s a process; therapy’s important, wellness is important, self-care is important, you just have to find what works for you, but it certainly needs to be your number one priority, or else everything else just sort of falls apart,” Guerrero said.
In an interview with The Eagle, Guerrero said that the most important thing she’s learned in therapy is “patience.” 
“I think we get so caught up with having to catch up … catch up to whom? Everything needs to be at your own pace, at your own time, and know that the universe is working with you, not against you.” 
With therapy, Guerrero has also learned important aspects of self-care that have helped her learn more about herself as a person. Instead of being so focused on her career and getting jobs, she said she has learned to appreciate spending time with family — after her dad’s death this year, she found herself regretting not taking the time to visit more. 
During the conversation, Latine students in the audience expressed gratitude and support for Guerrero, thanking her for sharing her story on and off the screen.
“You remind me that what I’ve gone through is valid,” one student said. “We need people like you back home,” said another, whose family was also from Colombia. 
Throughout the conversation, Guerrero touched on topics of home. While she still plans to work in the U.S., she’s looking at buying property in Colombia, where she’ll spend more time with her family and possibly start one of her own.
She also spoke about the advice she’d give her younger self: “I would tell myself that I didn’t have to be like anybody else,” she said. “What is going to set you apart is not being like anybody else.” 
The advice she gave to people in similar situations as her: you belong everywhere, even when people tell you that you don’t.
“You are here to be your best self and to do your best, and that’s all that matters,” Guerrero said. 
smattalian@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Resilience is something the Washington Wizards Head Coach Wes Unseld Jr. is seeing from his team this year. 
On Oct. 20 at Capital One Arena, some hopeful words were shared from both players and coaches as practice was wrapping up.
“Basketball is about learning. We learn from a mistake and try our best not to repeat it,” said Unseld, who has now begun his second year as the head coach of the District's NBA team. 
It is always a good sign when the practice right after a win is focused on fixing mistakes, but it is an even better sign when the best player is on the same page.
“There is a lot we can do better and there is always room for improvement,” said Bradley Beal, who is now a 10-year veteran for the Wizards.
The team started regular season play at Indianapolis on Oct. 19 with a seven-point win over the Indiana Pacers (3-4). Every win comes from a recipe, and sometimes, the recipe can be quite simple.
“It’s all about how we start and finish quarters,” Unseld said. “We want to put our players in the areas of the floor in which they can excel and be resilient.” 
One of these players seems to be Daniel Gafford. 
“For me, it’s about being at the right place at the right time and just playing smart,'' said the 6-foot-10-inch forward center. 
When asked about his defensive approach, Gafford simply answered with: “Moving my feet, not reaching and not getting mentally fatigued.”
In the NBA world, the Wizards seem to always find themselves in the underdog position and are usually overlooked by other squads. But on Oct. 20, there was an energy in the air, the type that encourages players to be more focused, locked-in and bought in. 
Beal may have said it best:
“At the end of the day, we are pros like everyone else. We can’t worry about other peoples’ opinions. We are a young team and have the opportunity to grow, as long as we stay poised and don’t get rattled.”
The very next day, the Wizard's 4th quarter performance brought them a 102-100 victory over the Chicago Bulls (5-4) in their home opener. Maybe this year the Wizards’ key ingredients will just come down to resilience, moving their feet and poise. 
lgraytok@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The 2022 midterm elections are fast approaching this Tuesday, Nov. 8. On the federal level, all 435 House of Representatives and 35 of the 100 Senate seats will be contested. Additionally, races for state governors are being held for 36 of the 50 states. 
Currently, Democrats have a federal government trifecta, meaning they control the presidency and both chambers of Congress, the House and the Senate. The 117th United States Congress consists of 212 Republicans and 220 Democrats in the House of Representatives and a 50-50 split in the Senate, with Vice President Kamala Harris able to break ties. However, the Democrats' hold could change with the results of the election, which will determine the 118th US Congress. 
In D.C., multiple city offices are on the ballot. Voters will vote for the open Advisory Neighborhood Commissions seats, as well as for mayor, in which AU alumna and Democrat Muriel Bowser hopes to secure a third term. Additionally, voters throughout the district will choose in races for the At-Large Council, council members for some wards, attorney general, the delegate to Congress and school board members. 
Jenn Rafter, a Ward 6 resident who has lived in D.C. for 12 years, said that residents are more frustrated than in years past: “I think that people are a little more frustrated than they have been … people are really upset about the cost of housing and the crime increase so I wouldn’t be totally shocked if there were a couple of … surprising results.”
One major issue that residents of D.C. have been fighting for is gaining statehood and making the district the 51st U.S. state. Leah Mackie, a 2010 alumna of AU’s Washington College of Law, expressed doubts of the possibility of statehood in the near future. 
“Until we have a remarkable advantage on the Democratic side in the House and Senate, it’s going to continue to be a struggle,” she said.“That being said, I think a lot more people outside of D.C. realize that it’s an issue and realize that it’s unfair.”
For the D.C. election, there is also ballot question Initiative 82. If passed, it would incrementally increase the minimum wage for tipped employees each year until 2027, which is currently sitting at $5.35, to match that of non-tipped employees, which is at $16.10. Employers are required by law to make up for their workers’ pay if the tips don’t reach minimum wage. 
Both Rafter and Mackie said they understand both sides but don’t support the initiative. Mackie, who was a server and bartender for years, doesn’t think people understand how the pandemic has damaged the restaurant industry. Particularly, independent bar and restaurant owners suffer. 
“I waited tables and bartended for years and years and years. I never made less than double minimum wage … I probably averaged $50 an hour,” she said. “The tip structure was very incentivizing to really hustle and provide great customer service. When you start shifting the onus of the payroll to those folks [small and independent restaurants and bars] I really worry that it’s going to drive some more out of the industry.”
Rafter shared similar views. “There’s more that could be done to support tipped workers. But I don’t think that raising the minimum wage that high is going to really benefit them at the end of the day,” she said. “Most tipped workers make more than what the minimum wage is and I think that it will discourage people from tipping.”
Proponents of the initiative believe that tipped workers should receive a higher minimum wage on top of tips, and that the current system makes income too unpredictable. Additionally, they say that the two-tiered wage system is discriminatory towards people of color and that workers should not be primarily dependent on strangers’ choices of how much to tip. 
Voter outreach on campus
Jackson Reynolds, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the vice president and director of political affairs for AU College Democrats, said the organization has been doing a lot of voter outreach work for the upcoming election. Among canvassing and bringing candidates such as Bowser to campus, phone banking has been the club’s main focus recently and they have made over 8,100 voter contact attempts so far this semester, according to Reynolds. 
“By doing [voter outreach], it’s also making sure that our elections are running smoothly, and making sure that everybody has the chance to vote and making sure their vote is counted,” Reynolds said.
Voters expressed enthusiasm for certain issues on the state level, such as abortion and reproductive rights, criminal justice reform and environmental concerns. 
“I know we hear this every election, but it is the truth in that this election is a major election that will determine our future,” Reynolds said. “Most of the issues … happen at the local level. That’s most of what the focus is on.” 
Other organizations around campus have also been helping community members with the voting process. AU Votes is a nonpartisan group that was founded over the summer by staff that guides students with absentee ballots, as well as registering to vote in D.C. The initiative stresses the importance of student voting and has helped over 500 students go through the process of requesting a ballot, according to Jacob Wilson, co-founder and co-chair of AU Votes and a first year advisor and AUx instructor at AU. 
“We are going to have close elections across the country and young people are going to be the deciding votes,” Wilson said. “Young people choosing to use their voice and exercise their right to vote is going to be consequential.”
Emma Baumgarten, a freshman in the School of International Studies and AU Votes student volunteer, expressed her excitement and feeling of empowerment of being able to vote for the first time this year, and emphasized how important it is for people to vote. 
“While it’s not a presidential election, it’s still important and I think sometimes the importance of a midterm election is diminished because it’s not a presidential election … the votes still matter,” Baumgarten said. 
ahatting@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
