Community members protest in support of AU's unions outside of the School of International Service in March.
On Thursday, members of American University’s Staff Union announced they are planning a strike to protest what they alleged were unfair labor practices by the University.
In a press release, members of the staff union, which is part of Service Employees International Union Local 500, announced that they will strike from August 22-26, “in response to the administration’s decision to deny union members regular annual raises.” The union has also filed an Unfair Labor Practice Charge against the University with the National Labor Relations Board.
Sam Sadow, Visual Resources Curator at American University & SEIU Local 500 Member told The Eagle that the union and the University tentatively agreed on certain issues such as health and safety and job security concerns, but when it came to wages, fell short of the union’s demands. 
“We are at the end of the rope with the administration,” Sadow said. “We’ve made good progress on several important issues for AU staff … But now we are talking about the all important issues of economics with the administration, and we’ve been at the end of our rope.” 
According to the press release, the decision to strike was made when the University’s proposal for wage increases withheld raises from unionized staff members, as well as striking in recognition of the union’s work in securing a fair contract. Over 500 staff members from the Provost’s division and the Office of Enrollment are part of the union, and 91 percent voted in favor of the strike.
“SEIU Local 500 has proposed a 9% salary increase over a two-year contract with additional increases based on years of service. The proposals ensure that no full-time staff member earns less than $40,000 annually and establishes yearly raises for part-time staff,” the email said. 
Union members said that the proposal the University gave for merit increases was identical to previous years. 
In the press release, Aubrey Hill, a systems administrator in the AU Career Center, said that “American University’s claim that embedding this year’s merit increase as part of a larger compensation package makes it distinct, and thus justifies excluding unionized workers, defies logic.” 
Despite the merit increase process being the same as previous years, the University still denies wage raises; this, Hill said, is an illegal change in working conditions. 
“Once a union is formed, the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) requires that the university must bargain over the terms and conditions of employment, which include wages and compensation. Therefore, the university cannot unilaterally change union employees’ wages, including positive changes to the compensation framework, until an agreement is reached," Matthew Bennett, AU's vice president and chief communications officer said in an email to The Eagle, in response to the union’s claim that wage increases were being withheld. 
“The University has been uniformly unsupportive of our demands, and resistant to coming to the table, and negotiating with us to find solutions to the issues that led to the staff unionizing in the first place,” Sadow said. 
Bennett said that the University was negotiating in good faith with the union, including taking part in scheduled bargaining sessions. 
“We have resolved numerous issues for this initial contract and continue to offer proposals on the outstanding items. The university respects the right of employees to organize to form a union and to engage in related protected activity in accordance with applicable law,” he said.   “While the union has voted to authorize a strike, negotiations continue and a strike is not a certain outcome. We are committed to reaching a final agreement.” 
The staff of the Provost’s division and the Effice of Enrollment voted to unionize with SEIU Local 500 in November of 2020. 
The strike reflects a demand for fair pay that reflects the value of staff members’ work, and “keeps us and our families safe and healthy,” Mirashaye Basa, a Circulation Specialist in Bender Library, said in the press release. 
Pia Morrison, President of SEIU Local 500, said in the email that employment culture at AU needs to change, following a high staff turnover and an active Fair Labor Standards Investigation with the NLRB. Changing this culture “starts with paying workers equitably,” she said. 
In regards to his expectations for the strike, Sadow told The Eagle that he is optimistic that it will put pressure on the University to listen to what the union is asking for. 
“I am hopeful that their reaction will be to choose to come back to the bargaining table with real solutions that give AU staff the fair wages and affordable healthcare that they deserve.”
smattalian@theeagleonline.com, bjohansen@theeagleonline.com 
Nina Heller contributed to the reporting of this story.  
This is a developing story and will be updated with more information as it becomes available.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University will require masks in class for students during the fall semester, the University announced in an email to the AU community on Thursday with other COVID-19 protocols for the fall semester.  
Masks will be required in the classroom, but faculty may remove masks while lecturing as long as they remain a “sufficient distance” from students, which the University specified as six feet away. Students may remove masks to drink, but are still prohibited from eating during class. The University said that in the case of performing arts or language classes, students may need to remove masks in order to “meet specific instructional needs.” In spaces such as offices, libraries, athletic events and public spaces, masks will remain optional. 
“Our revised fall health and safety protocols adjust a number of previous procedures and requirements, support our community, advance the full array of activities on campus, and help to ensure that our operations can continue in all areas,” Provost Peter Starr, Vice President of Inclusive Excellence Fanta Aw and Vice President of External Affairs Seth Grossman wrote in the email. 
Other spaces where masks will be required include the Center for Well-Being Programs and Psychological Services (formerly the Counseling Center), the Academic Support and Access Center and the Student Health Center. The University will continue to distribute masks on main campus, the Spring Valley Building and its offices at 4401 Connecticut Ave. NW. 
“We will continue to evaluate the classroom masking protocol periodically based on public health conditions including case counts and hospitalizations. Our hope is to ultimately reach a point where masks can be optional in the classroom,” the email read. 
The University cited its high vaccination rates as the explanation for masks being optional across most of campus, but said that if a community member asks someone to wear a mask when in close contact with them, to “please treat such requests with respect and give them full consideration.”
Additionally, the University will continue to provide COVID-19 tests will still be available to community members free of charge in the fall, but they will be distributed through vending machines in the Mary Graydon Center, Washington College of Law and at 4401 Connecticut Ave. NW. The University said that most test results will be returned within 24 hours. Mandatory surveillance testing will no longer be in place, including for community members with approved vaccine exemptions. 
The University will no longer be providing isolation housing for students in AU housing who test positive for COVID-19, and students are expected to isolate in place. Previously, students living in University housing had been taken to a hotel for the duration of their isolation. 
“While COVID-19 continues to circulate, this is a different stage of the pandemic. We are updating our approach in light of evolving guidance, the ongoing public health challenge, and the increased importance of individual responsibilities.” 
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available.
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Ha (bottom) discusses how she expresses her passion for cooking with Addie Gayoso (top) and Debora Gaston (middle).
Graphic novelist Robin Ha makes cooking complex recipes look easy. What started as expressing her passion for cooking by posting one recipe comic a week on her Tumblr blog became a New York Times best selling graphic novel cookbook. 
Ha discussed her stories, novels and creative process during NMWA xChange, a free virtual talk that dives deep into artists’ creative processes and backgrounds.
In her first graphic novel, “Cook Korean! A Comic Book with Recipes,” the bright-colored ingredients seem to hop off the page and encourage readers to cook Ha’s family recipes highlighted in the novel. 
“I realized cooking can be kind of like another method of expressing my creativity and nourishing myself,” Ha said. The cookbook also includes stories, geography and history showing that a cookbook can be educational and interactive. 
Ha immigrated to the U.S. at 14 from Seoul, South Korea. Her second graphic novel is a memoir titled “Almost American Girl.” The novel mirrors Ha’s own story of immigrating to the U.S. as a teenager with her mom. Both of Ha’s graphic novels are featured in the NMWA’s libraries.  
Ha first discovered the world of comics in Seoul. Her mom was a hairdresser and would often send her to art school as a kid. She taught her how to read comics when she was a toddler. While her mom worked in the mall, Ha would go to comic rental stores and spend hours reading comics.
“I completely fell in love with it. So I couldn’t think of anything else to do with my life other than reading and drawing comics,” Ha said.
Although “Almost American Girl” is a memoir, one of the novel’s main tropes puts a spin on a superhero story. Ha draws herself as a superhero throughout the novel and even had a classic hero moment where she chose a new name. 
Ha never liked her birth name; in Korea, it was considered “old fashioned” and she would get made fun of in school for her name. After moving to the U.S, she used an old school yearbook to pick a new name. “I did eenie meenie meenie mo because I didn’t know which one to choose,” said Ha. 
As a teenager, she felt like the “main character of a comic book” because of the excitement of moving to a new place. Featuring a superhero protagonist may reflect the real bravery people show when moving to a new country not knowing the language or culture. 
“I wanted people to feel hopeful, in general, you know, like, I remember feeling really hopeless at that age. I think people who read, especially if they're teenagers going through a similar experience, I want them to know that things will get better,” Ha said. 
Ha’s upcoming graphic novel takes a new direction. With a working title, “The Fox Maidens,” it contains fantasy, action, thriller and romance. The main character is loosely based on the popular Korean folklore character Gumiho, but takes a new spin on a common character. 
Ha feels most novels with a woman lead end the same way and wanted to write and draw something more relatable.
“I wanted to show how this character goes through their environment and how they end up, not with everything that they hope to have, but still making some kind of sense with their identity and their life and still finding some kind of happiness in it. Because that's what I'm struggling with. I'm sure that's what everybody is struggling with. Right?” Ha said. 
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Each dot on the map represents a different air pollution monitor that can be measured online in real time; the level of air quality is represented by the different colors. 
D.C.’s Ward 5, a predominantly low-income and black community, contains 1,030 acres of industrial zoned land. For decades, these industrial facilities within this area have been known to cause air pollution and subsequent health issues, but residents of one neighborhood, Brentwood, have decided to challenge this.  
The District Department of Transportation plans to build a bus depot in the northeast D.C. neighborhood. Residents of Brentwood filed a lawsuit against the construction of the bus depot in 2021 because they believe the bus depot would contribute to increased air pollution in their community. 
Residents of Brentwood are working with College of Arts and Sciences Professor Valentina Aquila and second-year School of International Service graduate student Lynn Heller to receive a “quantifiable assessment of what is the air pollution in the neighborhood,” Aquila said. The residents plan to use Aquila’s data in an appeal of their court case in the fall of 2022, since their case filed in 2021 was dismissed due to lack of standing.
To collect the data, Aquila and Heller installed air pollution monitors throughout D.C. that measure the concentrations of particulate matter in the air, such as dust or carbon. These monitors are installed both inside and outside of homes. They are low-cost and can be checked by Brentwood residents hosting the monitors in real-time.
“We can explain to the residents how the sensors work, what we're measuring and share with them the map, so they can go online and see, this is the air quality at my house. There's a number here, there's a meaning here. Explaining to them communicating the science behind what we're doing. That's really exciting for me,” Heller said.
Heller not only collaborates with Brentwood residents, but also nonprofit organizations such as Empower DC: an organization working with the residents of Brentwood to help them take legal action. The mission, according to the website, is to “advance racial, economic and environmental justice.” Empower DC also coordinates with scientists from other organizations and universities that measure other components of air pollution in Brentwood such as greenhouse gasses.
Aquila and Heller also attend meetings with Justice for Brentwood, a group organized by the residents of Brentwood, to discuss the research’s progress and look for more volunteers to host monitors. 
Besides collecting data on air quality, another component of the project focuses on health assessment surveys, since air pollution is prone to cause health issues such as cardiovascular diseases or asthma. 
Aquila and Heller plan to use their particulate matter measurements and compare them with measurements taken by EPA monitors in other areas of D.C. EPA monitors are higher quality and more expensive instruments compared to the low-cost monitors they are using, according to Aquila. At the end of the summer, Aquila and Heller plan to complete a write-up of the particulate matter measurements and health assessment results that the residents can use in their court case. 
Heller hopes their report can provide the Brentwood community with essential information about the quality of their air. Whether or not the report will show there is a problem with the air quality is still unknown. The report also may impact industrial planning that could affect the community’s health and safety. 
“I have no idea what we're going to find. I'm very hopeful, you know, that maybe this project just brings the people of Brentwood some kind of peace of mind,” said Heller. 
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
