Have you ever walked past Cassell Hall and Leonard Hall? Or walked inside Anderson Hall then over to Letts Hall? Ever notice a difference? You’re not the only one. 
The disparity between residence housing at American University is a well-known part of campus life. Jokes about living in the Letts and Leonard residence halls have become common sentiments among students, but these jokes lend themselves to deeper truths. 
Many of the highly regarded residence halls were recently renovated or constructed. The East Campus residence halls were constructed most recently, with construction beginning in 2014 and ending in 2017 and being certified with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Gold in 2020. Cassell Hall, which opened in 2013, is LEED Silver certified. Most who apply for housing on campus jump for the chance to live in one of these buildings. 
East Campus residence halls are suite-styled and come with more accommodations, so it makes sense that these buildings cost more to live in, especially as both are newer to campus. However, these buildings are not the only ones that have gone through construction and renovation. Anderson and Centennial Hall, both of which are directly connected to Letts Hall, have gone through their own renovations. Centennial Hall, home to freshmen who request suite-style housing, went through renovations in summer 2021, gaining updated furniture, appliances and lounge areas. Anderson Hall, the layout of which resembles Letts Hall, was renovated in 2017. It is glaringly noticeable that Anderson Hall is no longer similar to Letts. Any student who has lived or been in either housing can tell you that the halls are vastly different in appliances, infrastructure and cleanliness. 
Letts Hall, a traditional dorm for freshmen, is home to rodents and Leonard Hall had confrontations with bats, with Barstool American posting videos of each instance on their Instagram. Safety is an issue in these halls. Letts Hall recently faced backlash because of elevator malfunctions, according to a Barstool American tweet. 
Mold is also a problem for some of the resident halls. Letts Hall was looked into because of potential mold in 2018 and this was not a one-and-done by the University. This past fall 2021 semester, McDowell Hall faced mold allegations and students experienced symptoms as a result. 
East Campus and Cassell Hall are the most expensive on-campus residence halls, excluding apartment style halls and cost $12,310 a year for double occupancy and $12,494 a year for double occupancy, respectively. McDowell Hall comes close to their prices at $12,012 for a double even though their standards are not the same. 
Anderson and Letts Hall both land at the same price point, $10,196 for a year for double occupancy, with Leonard Hall’s pricing being just about the same, despite these residence halls ranging vastly in quality. 
Not only do students living in Letts or Leonard Hall face rodents, insects and alleged mold, but students also pay the same as a student living in Anderson Hall, which has had no notable complaints since its renovation. The same goes for those who live in McDowell and Cassell Hall or East Campus.
Students love to joke about the experience of toughing it out in these halls and the horror stories of living in a dorm in these buildings never seem to end, but I question why this needs to continue. With all of the other recent renovations, why weren’t other residence halls renovated as well? The University knows of these complaints and has handled safety and health concerns in the past, so why should students continually have to add to the narrative of life in Letts? 
The University can no longer limp along and allow students to undergo the rite of passage of surviving in these residence halls. Students are paying a hefty price to live on campus and deserve to be healthy and safe in the halls they reside in for the semester. If the University can construct new residence halls, why can’t the old ones be updated? If Anderson can undergo renovations, why can’t Letts? It is unacceptable to let students who need the cheapest housing option continue to live in a residence hall that is light years behind its neighbors. The University must renovate the housing that needs it most for the health and safety of their students.
Anna Gephart is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle. 
agephart@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The gang discusses the upcoming Super Bowl, their predictions and why they think Justin Timberlake has been invited back to the halftime show three times. Special guest Evan Maynard, a sports staff writer for The Eagle, joins the group this week.
This episode was produced by Neev Agarwal.
largiropoulos@theeagleonline.com, igundersen@theeagleonline.com, apowers@theeagleonline.com and lclarke@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Liam Neeson has been a star of action movies for almost two decades. Maybe it’s time to put his “very particular set of skills” to rest once and for all.
“Blacklight” is Neeson’s latest entry into his seemingly endless catalog of action-thrillers. Since “Taken” was released in 2008, Neeson has starred in at least one of these movies per year.
“Blacklight” is the story of Travis Block (Neeson), a fixer who works for the FBI to keep deep undercover agents in check. While grappling with ideas of retirement, Block attempts to mend his relationship with his daughter Amanda (Claire van der Boom) and be a more steady figure in the life of his granddaughter Natalie (Gabriella Sengos). Trouble arises when one of the FBI’s undercover agents, Dusty (Taylor John Smith), decides to go to the press and tell them about a conspiracy hidden deep within the government. This premise leads to one of the most predictable, by-the-book action-thrillers you’ll ever see. 
The plot isn’t bad per se; it hits all the right notes. The movie doesn’t drag either, clocking in at a tight hour and 48 minutes. However, the script fails miserably. As an audience member, you can see every twist and turn the screenwriters throw at you from a mile away. It’s hard to be engaged and invested in a story if you know exactly what’s going to happen, and even though this is just another Neeson action-thriller, you would hope the movie wouldn’t be this cliché.
One of the golden rules of scriptwriting is “show, don’t tell.” A good screenplay explains the action using visuals rather than excessive exposition. “Blacklight” rejects the former entirely. There are many scenes with two people sitting down solely to explain plot points to each other. This is the most insulting way to write a script. Audiences are savvy enough to piece together information for themselves. They do not need the plot spoon-fed to them word by word.
To be fair, those who want to see this movie probably aren’t anticipating great writing and visual storytelling — they likely want to see some good old-fashioned Neeson action. Unfortunately, the action scenes in “Blacklight” are lifeless, lacking style and character. Fight scenes are filled with more cuts than you can keep track of. The most egregious instance comes in a scene where a cut occurs every time a punch is thrown. The chase scenes both by car and on foot, desperately lack energy. Exciting action paired with engaging cinematography can elevate a movie. “Blacklight” has neither.
As for the star of this film, Neeson delivers a serviceable performance by refusing to phone it in. Regardless, as an actor who will be turning 70 in four months, he may be getting too old to be seen as a convincing threat. These movies may be an easy paycheck for him, but perhaps it's time for Neeson to retire from action movies and go back to his dramatic roots. 
The rest of the cast is serviceable, but no actor stands out in a film full of unrecognizable names. Some of the dialogue delivered in the film sounds a little unnatural, but the blame falls more on the script than the actors’ performance. This is the first film screenwriters Nick May and Brandon Reavis have written — and it shows. 
In the end, “Blacklight” is yet another forgettable Neeson action-thriller in a long line of forgettable Neeson action-thrillers. Unless you are his biggest fan, don’t spend your hard-earned money to see this movie. 
“Blacklight” will be released in theaters on Feb. 11.
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In an Advisory Neighborhood Commission Meeting for ANC 3D on Feb. 2, Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton answered questions about her activity in Congress and advocacy for D.C. statehood.
The district’s non-voting delegate in the House of Representatives answered questions about the “Build Back Better” plan, pushing priorities forward while Democrats retain Congressional control, mitigating the effects of COVID-19 on the city and her efforts to achieve D.C. statehood.
Norton outlined her efficacy as a representative and detailed how she has helped the district in Congress recently. 
“I was rated the most effective House Democrat by the Center for Effective Lawmaking, and last Congress, I was rated the second most effective non-full committee chair among House Democrats,” Norton said. “This Congress, of the 80 bills I have introduced thus far 18 have moved, at least through committee and two have been signed into law.”
Attendees were asked to submit their questions for Norton before the meeting, most of which covered activities in Congress and their impacts on district residents. 
Unifying Democratic control under the threat of losing control of Congress is a priority for 2022, but is limited by the filibuster, Norton said. 
“The House has passed my D.C. statehood bill and my bill to give them air control over the D.C. National Guard, but they can't pass because of the filibuster,” Norton said. 
However, Norton’s provision to increase the annual D.C. tuition access grant awards from $10,000 to $15,000 in the D.C. Appropriations Bill is likely to succeed despite the filibuster. 
With regards to D.C. statehood, Norton said it feels “very close, yet very far away right now.” Fifty-four percent of the American people support D.C. statehood, and understanding this and mobilization are key to getting statehood passed, Norton said.
“The biggest hurdles to pass are the filibuster and getting Americans activated on this issue,” Norton said. “Republicans in the House and Senate have introduced more than 20 bills and amendments this Congress to overturn D.C. policies. Six members have tried to overturn D.C. vaccine policies of all things. I will defeat all these efforts just as I have defeated virtually every effort to overturn D.C. laws in more than a decade.”
Many of the questions from the public centered on the power Congressional legislation has over the district, and Norton made it clear that D.C. interests are her main priority. 
“As a matter of home rule, I don’t weigh in on council legislation,” Norton said. “My job is to defend in Congress whatever legislation Congress passes, so if I weighed in, that would be held against the district, whatever passes.”
Norton detailed the way the country’s COVID-19 policies have failed and expressed frustration with the misinformation and disinformation that have, “caused many needless deaths,” in response to a question about how these policies will continue to impact locals. 
“I’m very concerned that we are no better prepared to confront new challenges in this pandemic or future pandemics. Our healthcare workforce is exhausted and quitting in large numbers and we have an underfunded and fragmented public health system,” Norton said. “COVID will likely be around forever and we will need to be prepared to relax and scale up public health measures based on what the virus does.”
Norton closed by answering several more locally based questions from members of the ANC 3D neighborhood and providing questioners with relevant contacts in her office. 
apritchard@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University’s Dining Advisory Committee held its first meeting of the semester Feb. 3 in TDR to hear student feedback on ways to improve campus dining services. 
The committee, which included TDR administration and employees, answered questions from the audience regarding meal plans, dietary restrictions and changes to menu options. 
Some students voiced concerns about the lack of accommodations for people whose food choices are limited by diet, allergies or religious reasons. Katherine Greenstein, president of the AU Disabled Student Union and sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, expressed their interest in seeing dining options become more inclusive. 
“People who have dietary restrictions, allergies, auto-immune diseases should still have the right to make dietary choices for themselves,” Greenstein said after the meeting. “So finding a way to make that work for people is one of my biggest concerns in terms of general dining.” 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that about 17 percent of U.S. adults aged 20 and over had some kind of dietary restriction between 2015 and 2018. On the AU Dining website, students with special accommodations are encouraged to visit the Office of Student Disabilities to discuss special requests or services outside of the currently offered program. 
Greenstein added that work should be done to ensure that students with dietary restrictions should have access to food that they not only can eat but also enjoy. They also recommended that TDR work to make “allergen-free” options more available to students. 
“Making sure that people with dietary restrictions have an extra amount of choice is important,” they said. “It’s not just that we need an option — we need lots of options, the same as everyone else.” 
The committee also discussed its initiative to reduce food waste through several methods like trayless dining, which AU Kitchen says has saved 900 gallons of water per day, and utilizing FarmShelf, a “smart, automated vertical farm” with custom LED lights that uses 90 percent less water than traditional farming to make fresh produce for meals.
As “a leader in sustainability,” according to the AU Kitchen website, the dining hall also practices recycling, hydration stations and Save a Swipe, an initiative that allows students to donate five meals from their meal plan to help other students in need. 
In response to inquiries about expanding meal exchanges, committee members said that the food offered at on-campus dining facilities is determined by the supply-chain relationship with the vendor. They explained that issues with these supply chains are what normally cause changes to meal exchange policy, such as when Subway’s footlong sub was reduced to a six-inch in October. 
SPA freshman Melanie Klein said that “having clear communication” with students and offering healthier choices are goals that TDR could improve upon. 
“For example, showing the menu before you walk in so you can see what’s available or having a strong variation between prepared meals and things that you can customize are very important to students,” Klein said. “Also just integrating more produce and healthy options into students’ meals are great ideas.” 
To help facilitate the communication between administration and students, Klein suggested creating a feedback system where users can rate their experience and post comments about dining services.
“Letting them know what meals to include more often would be helpful,” she said. 
Students who want to give feedback about their experiences at any AU dining location can currently post their comments in the Help & Services section of the AU website.
mfishel@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students are facing challenges finding and retaining federal work-study jobs amid the pandemic, leaving them struggling to earn money granted by their financial aid packages. 
Ali Feder, a sophomore in the School of Communication, said she has not received responses from various jobs at American University. Feder and other students also said there is a lack of support and guidance from the University when it comes to getting answers and help about overcoming problems they encounter getting entry-level FWS jobs. 
“I would like to think I'm fully qualified to work a desk job,” Feder said. 
Feder said since December 2020, she has applied to over 20 entry-level jobs. As of last month, Feder had only heard back from four employers — and the responses were rejections. 
As of February, she now has two interviews to get a FWS job. 
Feder also said she was not able to attend the virtual FWS job fair in the fall semester. Typically, there is only one fair a year, and it is the most effective way to get a FWS job, according to Feder. 
Another fair is planned for this semester, according to Julie Jones, director of employer relations at the AU Career Center. Jones said offices on campus met last month to discuss assisting students get positions; she said the fair was the main solution.
The Finding Part-time Employment Fair for Students on Feb. 11 is a job fair for the spring semester planned by the staff of the Career Center, the Office of Human Resources, the Office of Financial Aid, the Office of Campus Life and a variety of other on-campus units to deal with the issues students are facing finding a job, according to Jones. 
“This is absolutely a foundational issue for students, and so there are a lot of people working on this right now,” Jones said. “It culminated in this event.” 
Jones said the fair has opportunities for students with FWS awards and those who are looking for student wage positions. 
“Anecdotally, we've been hearing some information about students having challenges with federal work-study, which is really why we mobilized early in the semester,'' Jones said. 
She added that the Career Center is always happy to help with any issues but is there to help students build skills and prepare for future jobs. Students looking for help with their financial aid awards should direct questions to their financial aid officer and the Office of Financial Aid, she said. 
The Eagle was unable to reach the Office of Financial Aid for comment. 
Lily Yudis, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Science, said she turned to the Office of Financial Aid but said she was not helped. 
Yudis was trying to reach an unresponsive boss to confirm the job she was promised for this semester a few weeks ago. She said she liked her boss and her job and had not had problems until this semester. However, when she did not hear back from a follow-up email she sent her boss, Yudis said she decided to email the Office of Financial Aid and was frustrated by the response she got. 
“The Office of Financial Aid emailed me back and said there is nothing we can do and you should just keep emailing your boss and in our records, it shows that you only have $200 left to earn anyway,” Yudis said. 
Yudis said that it does not matter to her the amount of money she has left to earn because that money was granted to her through her FWS package.
“It doesn't matter if it was $200 or $1,000 because it's still money that could go toward groceries, public transportation and personal finances,” Yudis said. 
FWS is a federally sponsored program that allows eligible students to earn income through part-time employment organizations such as the university, local nonprofit organizations and government agencies, according to the Federal Work Study Program website. The maximum amount of money a student can earn for an academic year is $2,000 and students earn $15.20 an hour. 
Although many students like Feder and Yudis encountered problems with their FWS, some students like Kyla Davidson, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, said they had an easier time getting a FWS job this semester. 
Davidson said she applied for a job this semester and got an interview for that job within a week, a much smoother process than Feder experienced. 
“I applied to multiple federal work-study jobs because those jobs are specifically for students with the federal work-study,” Feder said. “I think that it is ridiculous that I still have not gotten a job.” 
pdamsky@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
