Meet the AU Beekeeping Society, a club dedicated to cultivating a sustainable environment, spreading the knowledge of beekeeping and educating members of the AU community about the importance that bees have on the environment. 
According to the club’s president and current senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, D.J. Daniels, AU Beekeeping offers a way for students to play an active role in fighting for a brighter, greener future.
“We’re definitely a cornerstone of sustainability,” Daniels said. “[It’s] also just a good place for environmentally inclined [students], or just students who are involved in the environment in sustainability on campus.” 
AU Beekeeping is a way to engage students in why bees are so important to the environment and gives them hands-on experience when taking care of the hives, said College of Arts and Sciences senior and Vice President Kira Fontana.
“We’re an environmental club, but through our love of bees and beekeeping,” Fontana said. “Our purpose is outreach and education.”
The U.S. Department of Agriculture states that bees are a key part of agricultural production and healthy ecosystem function. Bees and the pollination they provide are directly tied to the nursery industry; seed plot’s performance and regrowing plant communities in rehabilitated areas are both influenced by the crucial pollination bees provide. And despite urbanization and intensification of farming, native bees are still able to provide bountiful crop visitation in various landscapes, contributing to not only financial gain, but also a diverse, healthy and balanced ecosystem. 
A 2019 study from the National Center for Biotechnology Information found that urbanization can lessen and decay the habitat of bees and other pollinators. Increasing urban development harms pollinators by a series of direct and indirect effects, many of which include urban warming, frequent and increased exposure to environmental contaminants and loss and modification of habitat.
AU Beekeeping offers an off-campus program where members can become certified beekeepers and an event called “Jeopard-BEE,” a trivia competition that puts participants’ bee knowledge to the test.
AU Beekeeping’s certified beekeeper program is offered through the DC Beekeepers Alliance, a non-profit association of beekeepers in Washington, D.C. Daniels said AU Beekeeping hopes to have a more active role in this program and continue collaboration in the future. 
Just like its members, AU Beekeeping recently took a more active role in helping to foster a culture of sustainability. The AU Beekeeping Society was involved in a fund where it helped renovate a beehive-reliant green roof in Mary Graydon Center. 
The coronavirus pandemic briefly hindered the group’s plans. Fontana said that the club didn’t host activities during the coronavirus because it was challenging to engage with people. 
“It was definitely difficult,” Daniels said. “We decided to take the 2020-2021 year off completely because it was too difficult to post things online and get things in order. Then coming back this year was definitely a struggle.”
However, Daniels admits this brief lapse of time came with its own benefits: 
“It gave us an opportunity to start fresh, gave us some time to reset,” she said, “And now we’ve got a brand new e-board coming in. It was great, and we’re able to hold more events than we have in the past as well.” 
For Fontana, AU Beekeeping is more than just a sustainability club: it offers space for like-minded students to work together on something they care about. 
“I definitely love the friendship and community aspect, it’s just really exciting to be with other students who also think bees are cool or want to help the planet in some way,” Fontana said. “It’s really fun to share that passion for these little creatures that are so important ecologically and do so much as pollinators. They’re so critical and it’s really important, especially as we urbanize more.”
mcederlund@theeagleonline.com
Editor's Note: A previous version of this article contained a spelling mistake.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Mother!” gives a horrifying take on humanity and the many ways in which people have irreversibly damaged our planet. The movie slowly builds up to a final scene that reminds the audience just how violent society has become in recent decades, both to the Earth and towards each other, in a way that is not only symbolic but alarming and disturbing. 
“Mother!” is a psychological horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky that follows a young woman (Jennifer Lawrence), referred to as “Mother,” and her husband (Javier Bardem), who is only referred to as “Him” throughout their marriage. The movie solely takes place in the couple's beautiful Victorian home that has been entirely renovated by Mother. 
Although it is never stated in the movie itself, this film is meant to be a metaphor for the way humans have treated the Earth. “Him” represents God, “Mother” is mother nature and the house is the Earth. The film includes many references to both the Old and New Testament, and attempts to display human history and its destruction from the viewpoint of mother nature herself. 
The first half of the film centers around a couple, “Man” (Ed Harris) and “Woman” (Michelle Pfeiffer), who are invited to stay in the house by Him, a decision that Mother does not approve of. Their presence in the house makes Mother both uncomfortable and physically in pain; when destruction occurs within the home, Mother feels it in her heart. These two characters are meant to represent Adam and Eve, showing the first time harm is bestowed upon the Earth by humans. As the movie continues, the couple’s two sons (Domhnall Gleeson and Brian Gleeson) show up at the house arguing over their dad’s will. This is where the violence truly begins, as the brothers begin to fight and one ends up accidentally murdering his sibling, something that deeply traumatizes Mother. This act of violence is a clear reflection of the selfishness and greed that humans have obtained since the beginning of time, traits that have often led to the destruction of our Earth.
The most impactful and intense scene of the movie begins soon after this. Due to Him’s newest piece of work being published, never stated in the film but meant to represent the Bible, fans begin to show up at the house wanting to meet Him. The chaos starts when more and more people burst into the house unannounced and begin to steal and destroy things. Mother panics and begs them to leave, but nobody listens, as the number of fans grows from dozens to hundreds. 
The house continues to fall into complete destruction and chaos as riots break out, people are locked into cages and others are getting lined up and murdered. Fires and explosions start and the house's floor becomes covered with dead bodies. By the end of these gruesome acts, Mother and Him are one of the few survivors, and Mother has been deeply injured and traumatized by the actions of these supposed “fans.” This is where the scene comes to a close. 
This scene is by far the most gripping point of the movie, as we see what begins as a peaceful night form into a monstrous and disturbing event full of complete chaos. The house that Mother built for her family has been completely destroyed, and so has she. Him let his worshippers get in the way of protecting something that could never be rebuilt, depicting how God has allowed humans to destroy the climate for their own gain, never taking into account the harm and consequences of doing so. 
“Mother!” is an extremely interesting take on both religion and humankind; seeing an allegory for mother nature and God in this relationship is a very compelling view on the formation of our world. Even if you are not religious, this film is extremely impactful at exploring the ways we have and continue to treat our planet. This specific scene displays that in a way that is both terrifying and saddening. Watching our earth become humanized into the character of Mother makes us feel guilty and reflect on the decisions of people, whether we’ve had control on it or not. Aronosfky does a successful job at displaying just how horrifying mankind has been to both each other and to the environment, throughout history and today. 
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This article is an opinion piece and does not necessarily reflect the views of The Eagle and its staff. 
I became a COVID-19 statistic on Nov. 23. I was one of the six coronavirus cases identified at American University within 48 hours of Thanksgiving break. 
As a precaution, I’d taken two COVID-19 tests in preparation for seeing my grandpa, who is 85 years old, unvaccinated and high-risk. My first test on Monday was negative. But, after arriving home in Pittsburgh late Tuesday night, my phone buzzed with a notification from the Safer Community app. Before leaving campus, I tested positive for COVID-19. 
I felt my heart drop into my stomach and my eyes burned with tears. I thought of all the friends I’d seen in the past couple of days who were already home with their families. The classmates who I’d sat with hours earlier. My professor who has a high-risk son at home. Could I have infected them? For the first time, I began to feel sick. 
I woke up to five voicemails from AU Contact Tracing and my isolation coordinator. AU reached out to my close contacts and notified dozens of students that a classmate had tested positive. I spent that entire day personally reaching out to people I’d seen in the past few days.
According to AU Contact Tracing, I’d been exposed to COVID-19 on the Thursday or Friday before – days when I’d stayed on campus, attending classes or studying. But some people implied that I must have acted irresponsibly or that I wasn’t vaccinated. They made me feel like I’d done something wrong.
Luckily, all of my close contacts tested negative. As far as I know, I didn’t pass COVID-19 on to anyone. But I still worried I could’ve been a vector of infection not just on the AU campus, but also in the Washington, D.C. community. I thought about the strangers I’d come in contact with the weekend before I knew. The waiter who thought my nails were so pretty that he just had to touch them. An older woman shopping next to me at the Downtown Holiday Market. A man who offered me a seat on the Metro.
When I tested positive, the breakthrough infection rate for vaccinated people, like me and most of the AU community, was about one percent. That percentage is obviously much higher now. Days before winter break, 202 cases were reported at AU. And breakthrough infections are happening all across the country.
As I write this, the U.S. just reported over a million new cases of COVID-19 in a single day – a new record – and the death toll in the U.S. has risen to 831,000. But surprisingly, we seem to be taking COVID-19 less seriously than we were when case numbers were much lower. On Tik Tok, #CovidChristmas, a comical meme for those who celebrated Christmas while infected, has 125.5 million views. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently shortened the COVID-19 isolation period from 10 days to five. Because vaccinated people are generally experiencing milder symptoms, we’re starting to treat the pandemic as a joke or an inconvenience.
When AU decided to move to virtual learning until Jan. 31, I wasn’t surprised — but I was disappointed by the reaction of some fellow students. Many classmates complained on social media about how their educational experiences, internships, or social lives would be affected. They claimed AU was overreacting or trying to cheat them of an in-person experience.
To be clear, I’m not excited to be on Zoom again. But we have to look at the facts.
On Dec. 29, the day the decision was announced, the district reported 1,412 cases and a record number of COVID-19 patients were hospitalized. 29.6 percent of the city’s tests are coming back positive, the highest positivity rate ever. One out of every 50 D.C. residents has tested positive. Washington currently has a higher rate of cases per capita than any U.S. state.
The administration’s goal is not to deprive us of in-person learning, but to protect the city from 14,000 new vectors of disease – and to ensure we can stay on campus once we arrive. If we love this city, we should want to protect it while it’s at its most vulnerable, by moving to a short-term virtual model.
Our generation needs to realize that COVID-19 isn’t going anywhere, and we have to continue to adapt as the world around us changes. That might mean 15 days of online classes. It’s a sacrifice I think we can make.
We’re lucky we got an entire semester in person, even if it included masks and hand sanitizer. Now we can choose whether to stay home or isolate in the dorms. And, if we feel that 15 days on Zoom is unacceptable, or if we’re concerned that classes will remain online, then we can choose to take a gap semester. 
I love the AU community, and I loved being on campus for four months. I met many wonderful people who want to make a positive impact on the world. That impact starts now by accepting that, despite our disappointment, we can’t safely be on campus right now. If we continue to mask up, get our COVID-19 boosters, and take other precautions, we can come together as a community and make an even bigger impact in the future.
Jane Caroline Fusco is a first-year student in the School of Communication.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
