With Valentine’s Day right around the corner, the time of year to binge cheesy rom-coms and sappy romantic dramas has come. Whether you have a movie date with a special someone or just want to get in the Valentine’s Day spirit, these films celebrate the highs and lows of love and romance. 
The Big Sick (2017)
“The Big Sick” stars Kumail Nanjiani as an up-and-coming Pakistani comedian. After a chance encounter, he ends up in an unlikely romantic relationship with a graduate student named Emily (Zoe Kazan). When Emily suddenly falls ill and must be put in a coma, Nanjiani reckons with his priorities and identity as he attempts to care for Emily and be there for her family. 
Based on Nanjiani’s own experience meeting his wife, the film teeters the line between comedy and drama, mixing laughs and heartfelt moments to keep audiences invested in the pair’s budding romance. 
“The Big Sick” is available to stream on Amazon Prime Video now. 
Palm Springs (2020)
“Palm Springs” is easily one of the most creative romantic comedies to date, incorporating the “Groundhog Day” time loop motif. Cynical bridesmaid Sarah (Cristin Milioti) gets stuck reliving her sister’s wedding day over and over again with another guest named Nyles (Andy Samberg). Initially disenchanted with love, the two begin to make light of their situation together, leading to a unique relationship that makes both characters reconsider their own choices and live life to the fullest.  
The incredible cast is the core of this movie. Milioti and Samberg share undeniable chemistry that manages to turn a goofy rom-com into a real and believable portrait of love as the two learn to overcome their emotional baggage and become vulnerable again. 
“Palm Springs” is available to stream on Hulu now. 
Call Me By Your Name (2017)
“Call Me By Your Name” is a wistful story of young love and intimacy. Set in rural Italy, the film follows Elio (Timothée Chalamet), an artsy 17-year-old who meets a young man named Oliver (Armie Hammer) after he comes to stay at Elio’s house for the summer, working under his father. The two grow increasingly close and begin a secret, passionate love affair. Masterfully shot and acted, the film depicts sensuality and longing with nuance and grace.
“Call Me By Your Name” is available to rent on Amazon Prime Video now. 
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004)
For those looking for a break from cheesy romantic comedies, “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” is both an ingenious deconstruction of relationships and a mind-bending science fiction film. The movie centers around the awkward but sweet Joel (Jim Carrey) who inadvertently learns that his ex-girlfriend, Clementine (Kate Winslet), used a scientific procedure to completely erase her memories of him. Out of hurt and anger he decides to do the same, but immediately regrets it. Joel then embarks on a quest to retain his memories of his former flame, leading to a beautiful and realistic exploration of human emotion, love and the pain that comes with it.
“Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” is available to stream on Amazon Prime Video now. 
Little Women (2019)
Greta Gerwig’s “Little Women” adapts the book of the same name, exploring the lives and relationships of the March sisters. Set in 1800s Massachusetts, the period piece follows the sisters’ struggles with sexism and family tragedy, held together by their undying support for one another. 
Perfect for Valentine’s or Galentine’s Day celebrations, the film, which has been recreated many times, is equal parts romance and drama, showing the romantic trials of the sisters and tributing love and camaraderie between the group. 
“Little Women” is available to buy on Amazon Prime Video now. 
Crazy Rich Asians (2018)
Meeting your significant other’s parents is always daunting, but “Crazy Rich Asians” takes the nerves to the next level. Rachel Chu (Constance Wu), an economics professor who was raised by a single mother, gets more than she bargained for after finding out that her boyfriend, Nick Young (Henry Golding), is actually a member of one of the richest families in Singapore. While attending a family wedding, their relationship is put to the test as Rachel tries to overcome the disapproval of Nick’s mother, Eleanor (Michelle Yeoh). 
Decadent and bright, this film’s vibrant, visual style is sure to impress. Every shot is filled with color and life. However, the real heart of “Crazy Rich Asians” is the complex family and relationship dynamics portrayed masterfully by the cast, particularly Wu and Yeoh. 
“Crazy Rich Asians” is available to stream on HBO Max Now. 
bhobbs@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
This Galentine’s Day, give the gift of sustainability to your gals and pals. Whether it be a recycled paper turned valentine or a night with food trucks, Galentine’s Day is a time to celebrate the loves in your life.
DIY bouquets
Stop by your local grocery store and pick up some bundles of flowers. By buying two to three different bundles, the combinations of bouquets are endless. 
First, remove the flowers from their original packaging. Next, lay out the packaging. If you’re looking for a more organic feel, grab an old brown paper bag and remove the bottom. This creates a sheet of brown paper for a crisp “fresh from the local florist” look. 
Assemble the flowers to your desired size; the bigger the bundle, the fewer bundles there will be. It’s up to you on how many friends you desire to spoil today. 
After the flowers are assembled, slip them into the plastic packaging. Or, if using paper, wrap the brown paper around so the stems show on the bottom. Then secure it with tape or an old ribbon of your choice. 
Candy jar
The forgotten pasta sauce or jam jar in your kitchen has a new purpose: sweet treats. 
Grab some classic chocolates or candies and fill them to the brim. The colors bring some fresh life to your recycled product. 
If there are leftover flowers from the bouquets, they can come in handy as a garnish on the jars. Bows or ribbons also add a sweet, personalized touch. 
Afternoon tea
Take your gals and pals out for an afternoon tea on the town. D.C. lends itself to many afternoon tea sites across the area. Usually, these establishments fill up with Valentine’s Day reservations, so it’s best to wait a few days after the holiday to celebrate. 
If you’re interested in staying in, stop by your local thrift and pick up an old jewelry box. You can transform this into a sugar, honey or condiment box by filling the compartments. It doubles as a subtle centerpiece and works for all social gatherings.
If you’re looking to invest more in building your own tea party, thrift shops and consignment stores are great places to find matching mugs and teapots. Another option is having your guests bring their own mug. 
Charcuterie fest
Head off to your local grocery store cheese aisle with your friends. Have the group pick out a cheese of their choice. Try a brie or a garlic and herb flavored cheese, or match goat cheese with honey, jam or preserves on top. The combination of tart cheese with crisp, sugary goodness makes a good addition to a cheese board. 
Add in-season fruits like oranges or grapefruits, that way you’re avoiding preservatives and praising quality tastes. By eating in-season products, you’re also supporting local farming. Walnuts and pistachios also pair well with these sweet fruits. Don’t forget a box of crackers or two.
Back in the comfort of your home or dorm, turn on an instructional video on Youtube. By playing such videos in the background, it allows inspiration to flow through your foodie valentines. 
Sustainable valentines
What’s a better way to celebrate your friends than by celebrating your friends? Get the band together and make your own valentines. Use scraps of paper around your place to create sustainable valentines. 
Those old edited papers, resumes and everything in between make great accent designs. 
Street food and a stroll around the National Mall
You can find a variety of food trucks on the streets while you take a stroll around the monuments. Instead of taking an individualized car service downtown, opt-in for public transportation to get to the sites. 
The streets that encircle the monuments, or the area around The Ellipse, also feature a wide range of mom-and-pop options like Astro Doughnuts or Papa Adam Hot Spot. 
For more information on where to find food trucks, try Street Food Finder. The website shows the locations, menus and hours for various food trucks in the area. 
It’s best to remember that while these celebratory festivities are fun, Galentine’s Day celebrates the gift of friendship — the best present of all.
pmcgee@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For Nisaa Chaudhry, making a difference in her community comes naturally. 
As the College of Arts and Sciences senior prepares to graduate this spring, she reflects on the time she has spent volunteering with Reading Partners to support students who are from historically under-resourced communities. 
Chaudhry became involved with Reading Partners during her freshman year of college and has been a dedicated tutor ever since. She had tutored with students before at an elementary school near her home in Alexandria, so when looking for a federal work-study job, a site within DC Reads seemed like the perfect fit.
Chaudhry received recognition recently for her unwavering dedication to service in the form of the American University Student Award in Outstanding Community Service. 
“It was really nice to be recognized for it because I think I’m hoping that if people read my bio they would also be inspired to try out some type of community service at AU during their time here,” Chaudhry said.
DC Reads is a collaboration of off-campus literacy programs that provide tutoring to children in elementary school. This program is a local response to the America Reads challenge that began in the fall of 1997 under the Clinton administration. Reading Partners is one of the many sites DC Reads partners with.
“I’m planning on going to medical school, but had it not been for a career in health sciences and medicine, I would have definitely done education,” Chaudhry said. “It’s kind of like something that I like to do alongside my health work.”
She shared how she has always had a passion for teaching others that has carried with her throughout her college career through her tutoring for public health classes at AU and interning with children at the Latin American Youth Center alongside volunteering for DC Reads.
Reading Partners, the organization she works with, founded its D.C. chapter in 2010. 
“Our mission overall is to help children to become lifelong readers by empowering communities to provide individualized instruction with measurable results,” said Jenese Jones Oden, Reading Partners DC's interim program director. 
Reading Partners’ main focus is to help support students to improve their literacy skills. Reading is foundational to all types of learning and is an important skill to be proficient at by the end of fourth grade to support success in future learning, Jones Oden said.
With the onslaught of the pandemic, operations have had to change to online and hybrid models of tutoring. 
The need for tutors has only grown with the introduction of online learning as some students are facing 18-month learning gaps from losing in-person instructional time, Jones Oden said. 
“Tutors are the lifeblood of our work,” Jones Oden said. “We can’t thrive without tutors.”
Chaudhry shared that she has remained diligent in tutoring despite the online model, but she missed connecting with the students in person.
“When I was in person, I would walk them from their class to the tutoring center and then walk them back to their class,” Chaudhry said. “It would be small things like that that I’m missing out on now because we just have the computers.”
Chaudhry has been able to continue tutoring along with being a full-time student, working two on-campus jobs and working at a hospital emergency room as a technician.
Brenna Olson, a senior in the School of Public Affairs, has been the team lead for Chaudhry the past two years, and she said Chaudhry had a knack for working with students.
“She’s really proactive especially when it comes to her students,” Olson said. “When I have check-ins with her, she is always really excited to tell me about her students.”
After working with Reading Partners for such a long time, Chaudhry said she has learned the importance of being patient and adapting to the student’s needs with quick and creative ways of teaching. 
After graduation, Chaudhry plans to continue tutoring with Reading Partners and hopes to implement some of her new ideas such as a reading day where tutors who cannot go in person normally due to their busy schedules would be able to come in for a single day event. 
Community service has been an important and defining part of Chaudhry’s life as a college student at AU.
“It’s a great way to step away from the stress of school and work and just do something that you really enjoy,” Chaudhry said. “Everyone has a passion for something and to do some service with that passion is going to make you feel a thousand times better.”
Correction: A previous version of this article referred to Jenese Jones Oden as "Oden" and not "Jones Oden" on second reference.
mkonjoyan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Capitals Left Wing, Alex Ovechkin, missed the NHL All-Star game after testing positive for COVID-19 on Feb. 2. 
With 759 career goals, some compare Ovechkin to hockey legends such as Gordie Howe and Wayne Gretzky. 
With 29 goals in his 46 games played this season, Ovechkin was selected to be the captain of the Metropolitan Division team for the All-Star Game. Ovechkin’s captain position was then awarded to Philadelphia Flyers Claude Giroux. 
According to the NHL’s COVID-19 protocols, “A significant portion of Players appear to be exiting isolation after five days, with a lab-based PCR test that has a CT value >30.”
Ovechkin’s absence left two Capitals at the All-Star game: Evgeny Kuznetsov and Tom Wilson. Kuznetsov originally replaced The New York Rangers’ defenseman, Adam Fox, but with 14 goals this season, he was undeniably worthy of an all-star position. 
Ovechkin is a seven-time All-Star and to say Capitals fans are disappointed Wilson replaced him would be an understatement. Some fans took to Twitter to express their disappointment. 
Remember that year when Dave Semenko replaced Wayne Gretzky at the All Star game??Yeah, me neither.
Wilson, who was selected to replace Ovechkin, is quite a controversial figure in the NHL. Wilson has notoriously injured other NHL players. From 2017 to 2018, Wilson had four suspensions out of his 105 games played.
“I've never seen a guy that does everything possible to get into a game and hates coming out of games and hates not being able to contribute and help his team win,” Capitals’ coach Peter Laviolette said, when asked about Ovechkin’s absence. “For that, first and foremost, he's probably upset. The All-Star Game, it's a nice nod, but he's certainly one of those big figures that goes to the All-Star Game. It was well-deserved this year, the nod and I'm sure that he's upset with that, too.''
While it is disappointing that the seven-time All-Star did not make an appearance at the All-Star Game, these precautions were put in place by the NHL to keep the other players healthy. 
Although fans missed Ovechkin, The Metropolitan Division’s win made up for the absence of the beloved Ovechkin. The Metropolitan Division won the 2022 All-Star Game 5-3, against the Central Division. 
hnewlontrujillo@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Tzipi Livni, the former Vice Premier, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Justice for Israel, spoke to American University students in a webinar co-sponsored by the School of Public Affairs and the Center for Israel Studies on Feb. 7.
Livni was the featured speaker at this year’s Amos Perlmutter Memorial Lecture, an annual event held to commemorate Perlmutter, a late scholar of Middle East political leadership and SPA professor.
According to the Center for Israel Studies, Livni is “known for her efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and was Israel’s chief negotiator for peace between Israel and the Palestinians during the last two rounds of negotiations.”
The question and answer portion of the webinar was moderated by Saul Newman, the associate dean for Undergraduate Education in the Department of Government at AU.
During the webinar, Livni said she decided to leave politics three years ago after feeling she did not have enough political power to promote continued peace talks between Israel and Palestine.
“This is the right policy for the future of both my sons, but also their generation,” Livni said. “I hope that the time will come and we will see this happening, because the other option, I believe, is not the Zionist option.”
Livni also discussed the “huge gap” between the state of Israel and its perception by the international community.
“For many years, the outside world is looking at Israel through the lenses of the [Palestinian and Israeli] conflict, [and the] sometimes distorted lenses of the conflict,” Livni said. “It also affects the situation in Israel. The nature of democracy, the policy of some Israeli governments affects the relations between Israel and the world. And I believe that we need to open a new dialogue.”
Prior to the event, AU Students for Justice in Palestine released a statement condemning the lecture and Livni’s involvement. As of Feb. 10, the statement has been co-signed by 12 AU student organizations, such as AU Pride, the South Asian Student Association and the Arab Student Association.
According to the AUSJP statement, when Livni was a “key” member of former Isreali Prime Minister Ehud Olmert’s cabinet, they led a 2008 assault on the Gaza Strip called Operation Cast Lead. The operation led to the deaths of 1400 Palestinians, including 300 children. 
“We call on the university to cancel this lecture and to reckon with its unapologetic support of this settler-colonial and apartheid state, including the disproportionate amount of resources it contributed to an Israeli-centric, and anti-Palestinian, education,” the statement said. “Students for Justice in Palestine will continue to stand in solidarity with the Palestinian people until such demands are met and the liberation for all Palestinians is realized.”
AUSJP did not respond to multiple requests for comment from The Eagle.
When asked where she draws the line between disagreement with Israeli policy and antisemitism, Livni said that while critizing the Israeli government is legitimate, not accepting the right of Israel to exist is “something completely different.”
“I think that the base is understanding that the Jewish people [have] the rights, historical tradition and international rights to establish and to live in the nation-state of the Jewish people,” Livni said. 
ewhite@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
