

The Student Involvement Fair hosted by the Center for Student Involvement on the quad during the first week of class saw the University’s more than 200 clubs table and recruit new students. This was the first time in two years that the Involvement Fair was hosted in-person, after being held online in 2020 and 2021 due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
From sports to politics to culture, students had a chance to learn more about the different clubs on campus and join ones that caught their interest. 
The turn-out for this year’s fair was better than expected according to Emily Minster, the director of political affairs for Leading Women of Tomorrow AU. This student-run club is dedicated to encouraging female-identifying students seeking jobs in public service and bridging gender gaps. Spread across the world, Leading Women of Tomorrow offers training and resource programs for students to build confidence in considering roles in government positions.  
“We’ve had a lot of engagement,” Minster said. “We’re getting a lot more people who seem really interested in getting involved which is exciting.”
AU’s club sports teams were also at the Involvement Fair, including the Women’s Club Lacrosse which had been inactive for a while and had become more and more active in the last two years. 
“We’ve definitely had some new players show up,” Celine Lawrence, co-president of the team said. “It’s pretty decent traffic, more than I think we expected.”
Ben Solomon, vice president of AU Gamers, a club dedicated to creating a sense of community through games, was glad that their community was able to reach a larger audience.
“I’m happy that freshmen are coming cause when I came here I was a transfer student and I saw this exact set up and was like, ‘Woah! They do this here?’” Solomon said. 
The large freshman class has also made an impact on the membership of clubs. Rude Mechanicals, a classical theater troupe at AU, has had a lot of freshmen and sophomores interested in joining the club this year according to Zoe Tompkins, Rude Mechanicals’ technical director.
“It’s nice to see everybody outside and getting involved,” Sania Parker, the social media liaison for Les Coeurs D’Afrique, AU’s African dance team, said. Parker said she thought the student turn out was good this year compared to last year’s Involvement Fair.
Students that attended were also surprised with the number of clubs that they found tabled this year.
Among those students was Scout Zischke, a freshman in the School of International Service.
“It’s been pretty good learning about the clubs I’m interested in,” Zischke said. “I had heard about the fair, so once my classes ended I decided to come and look around.”
Returning students equally showed their excitement for their first fair in-person. 
Maggie Loughran, a sophomore in SIS, said she was not familiar with many of the clubs that were there. 
“Most of the clubs that I’ve heard about were here so I feel like it’s a good event,” Carson Ley, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said. “Last year when the fair was online it was hard to be able to see everything.”
Both Ley and Loughran said they were excited the Student Involvement Fair was in person as they both did not attend last year’s virtual fair. 
All of the clubs that were present at the fair can be found and joined through Engage. 
“There were a lot of students outside so that was really good. I'm glad to see all, if not most, of the clubs out on the quad because it wasn’t like this last year,” Parker said.
mallen@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
The Eagle recently reported that American University has discontinued isolation housing for students infected with COVID-19 for the fall 2022 semester. In the previous academic year, the University provided hotel rooms for infected students living on campus to reside in for five days and needed to test negative in order to leave isolation. Now, as long as the student isn’t coughing uncontrollably, they are free to enter back into the classroom and access restrooms. 
The University’s inclusion of the Communicable Diseases Addendum to the 2022-2023 On-Campus Housing Agreement feels intended to evade responsibility for the unraveling of unfortunate events that may occur. With COVID-19 protocols shifting towards a “self-reporting” approach and the elimination of COVID-19 tracking, community members remain unaware of whether or not the individual in front of them in the TDR food line is infected. How confident can one be that a student will go out of their way to get tested, potentially placing their social life on pause for the betterment of their community?
Within the addendum, the University states that they will not provide amenities that go “beyond standard services provided by the Student Health Center for care” and services made generally to the AU community. For many students, however, they do not possess the class nor financial privilege to crutch themselves from potential threats to their health, especially immunocompromised students. Eliminating off-campus options for isolation leaves students with the choice of either taking initiative to dig into their finances to book a hotel room for a week, or sleep within a few feet of someone infected with COVID-19. 
The University had previously told The Eagle it would start tracking COVID-19 case numbers on the tracking dashboard, but the lack of updated data leads to misinformation on the status of community spread. With common misconceptions that spread to others is a low risk, students are less likely to practice precautionary measures, especially as many rip off their masks as soon as they leave their classrooms. This leaves professors in a whirlwind of issues that concern their own health status and how that may affect their families at home or determine how their classes will be conducted. For this reason, a number of professors still conduct classes and office hours virtually or mandate that one-on-one meetings with them require a mask. 
The Eagle urges AU administrators to have consistent maintenance over the COVID-19 case dashboard for AU community members to have an idea of our risk levels and to reconsider a cheaper alternative for off-campus isolation. With flu season and the common cold around the corner, many may become susceptible to contracting and spreading the virus. For the time being, to make up for the suspension of isolation housing, the University should provide remedy for the roommates of infected individuals to prevent them from health risk, such as extra masks and an air purifier. 
The health of students is worth the financial investment and not something to avoid through legal loopholes.
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
