It's been two years since an in-person acapalooza event due to the coronavirus pandemic, and Treble in Paradise came back more prepared than ever to host this year’s “Discopalooza” March 19. 
They even invited the University of Connecticut’s a cappella group The Rolling Tones to join them in the showcase. 
Acapalooza is an annual showcase hosted by Treble every year with a different theme. This year’s theme was “Disco.”
At Discopalooza, Treble sang “Pretty Please” by Dua Lipa, “breathin” and “Side To Side” by Ariana Grande and “Angels Like You” by Miley Cyrus. All of Treble’s songs are ordered and arranged by Saxon Kropp, a junior in the Kogod School of Business and the music director of the group. 
Alongside The Rolling Tones and Treble in Paradise, AU a cappella groups On a Sensual Note, Dime a Dozen and TenLi Tunes attended Discopalooza as well.
As a brief intermission from singing, Treble proposed a beat boxing competition between the performers at the event as well. One member from each of the attending groups was given a chance to show off their skills and the winner was chosen by whoever was cheered for the loudest. At the end of the competition, it was Hanish Immanuel from Dime a Dozen left standing. 
Cat Cantelmo, a junior at the University of Connecticut and the president of The Rolling Tones, explained that she was looking for venues to get The Rolling Tones back to performing after the pandemic, and by some turn of events came across Treble in Paradise. 
“It is amazing,” Cantelmo said about being at Discopalooza. “We had to do a year of online rehearsals but now we are back in person performing again.” 
Lauren Sasson, a senior in the School of Communication at American University and president of Treble in Paradise, said she had not attended an acapalooza event since her freshman year. 
“It is truly incredible, there is really nothing like it,” Sasson said. 
Treble prepared for quite a bit of time to get Discopalooza going, and considering how the pandemic interrupted the last a cappella palooza, their work certainly paid off. Wrapped around each microphone were silver, sparkly strings which tied in the backdrop of the stage. Luminescent strands of glitter streamers paired with a multicolored pastel panel that had silver and gold balloons spelling out “Discopalooza.” 
Discopalooza could not have been more of a success for all the groups in attendance. After two strained years of little to no in-person performance, Discopalooza is the beginning of a slow return to normal for a cappella.  
kthompson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Congressman and American University alumnus Jim McGovern (MA-2) discussed his career and the political issues facing the country at an event hosted by the Kennedy Political Union on Wednesday.
School of Public Affairs Dean Vicki Wilkins moderated the event and asked McGovern questions about his life, political work and perspective on current events. 
McGovern began by describing his experience as a student at AU, looking back on the people, places and opportunities that shaped his undergraduate years. 
“I loved every minute,” he said. “I had some great courses, I made some great friends who are lifelong friends to this day, I had incredible discussions and I had this incredible internship with George McGovern that’s still among my most cherished memories on Capitol Hill.” 
Upholding this culture of activism, McGovern mentioned how he led a protest against his graduation speaker, economist George Gilder, where he convinced several students and their parents to turn their backs to the stage during Gilder’s speech. 
“He had written some pretty controversial things, like there was no discrimination against Black women,” he said. “We all had black armbands on and we stood and turned our backs in protest when he spoke.” 
McGovern said that losing his first congressional campaign in 1994 taught him important lessons that helped him win on his second bid, despite little support from his personal and political circles. 
“When I announced [my run] both times, nobody thought it was a good idea,” he said. “I had never run for anything in my life other than class treasurer when I was a senior in high school, so there was not a lot of establishment support.” 
McGovern said his decision to run again in 1996 was fueled by a desire to run a better race the second time and a belief that he was more equipped for the job than the incumbent candidate. 
“The most important thing was that I wanted to do it,” he said. “It enabled me to get up every day in spite of the odds and campaign my heart out.” 
McGovern has won reelection in each subsequent term since his first successful bid in 1996. Some highlights of his career include starting the McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program, which provides school meals to nearly nine million of the world’s poorest children, and the Innovative Approaches to Literacy Program, an initiative that strives to improve literacy skills for children and students from birth through 12th grade. 
Another pivotal moment in his career took place on Jan. 6 of last year. McGovern was inside the Capitol Chamber overseeing the certification of the electoral college when the crowd of insurrectionists infiltrated the building. 
“It was really a terrorist attack, not just on the building, but on our democracy,” McGovern said. “I was in the chair, I took over for Speaker [Nancy] Pelosi, and I was hearing shouts in the corridor … I was getting texts from my daughter saying ‘Where are you? What are you doing?’” 
McGovern said the emotional effects of what he witnessed that day still linger. 
“When I walk to work and I see the Capitol building, I still get emotional when I think about what it symbolized, and to see people ripping it apart,” he said. 
Speaking of the rioters, McGovern said, “Looking at their faces, if you asked me to describe what hate looks like, I would tell you it is what I saw in the eyes of these people.” He added that the rioters were there “to nullify and overturn the will of the American people.”
McGovern expressed dismay at his Republican colleagues who continue to downplay the events of that day. 
“I serve with people who say that the people who attacked us were patriots,” he said. “I can barely look at them, I can’t get into an elevator with them … 140 Capitol police officers were injured, staffers were traumatized … so to glorify any part of that day to me is sick.” 
McGovern also warned against letting history repeat itself, saying another coup “will happen again” if those involved are not held accountable. 
Asked how Congress can move forward, McGovern said that the upcoming midterm elections are a “crossroads” for protecting democracy against a future of “authoritarianism” and “fascism.” 
“If Republicans win the House or the Senate in the midterms, that is a reward to Trump, it’s a reward to those who are the ones who were cheering on those who wanted to nullify the election,” he said. “I think that strengthens their ranks, and it means the Republican party moves more and more in that direction.” 
Despite the circumstances, McGovern said he still holds hope that democracy will prevail, but added that protecting democracy is contingent on people being politically active. 
“It's not enough for us to be able to think good thoughts or to be able to argue in a classroom over policy,” he said. “If you really care about this stuff, you’ll find a way to put your energy into something of service.” 
Born into a family of small business owners, McGovern developed an interest in politics after seeing the economic challenges that his parents faced running their liquor store in Worcester, Massachusetts. Once he became a student at AU, McGovern worked his way through the ranks, interning in the office of Senator George McGovern, to whom he isn’t related, before graduating with a B.A. in history and working in the office of Democratic Congressman Joe Moakley. 
McGovern was asked to share some tips with students looking to build a career in politics. His advice: “Just run.” 
“Lightning can strike,” he said. “If you wanna do it, do it, and give it your best.” 
mfishel@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Curtain call.
That appears to be the trend for some American University women’s basketball players in the past week. Four Eagles women’s basketball players have entered the transfer portal as of April 10 — leaving the team quite different from the one that won the 2021-22 Patriot League championship. 
Karla Vreš was the first player from the 2021-22 team to put their name in the transfer portal.
“Being part of this community for the past three years has been a once in a lifetime experience,” Vreš announced on Instagram March 28. “I am officially entering my name into the transfer portal.”
A post shared by Karla Vreš (@kes_15)
Senior forward Taylor Brown and senior guard Emily Fisher were the next players to enter their names into the transfer portal, according to American University Athletic Department representative Samantha Rinkus.
“Getting to play for American University has been a great experience the past four years,” Brown announced on Twitter April 2. “With the support of my family and friends, I have decided to enter my name in the transfer portal.”
Thank you AU! pic.twitter.com/peQf2cE1FI
Senior guard Jade Edwards was the final player to enter her name into the transfer portal, Rinkus confirmed.
“I want to thank my coaches for helping me make my dream of playing Division I basketball come true, but after much consideration, I will be entering the transfer portal,” Edwards said in a statement to The Eagle.
The roster turnover comes after AU appeared in the NCAA Tournament following a Patriot League championship that awarded head coach Megan Gebbia with her third title. 
Gebbia and Fisher declined to comment on the transfers.
Edwards started in all 32 games as a senior, as did Brown and Fisher. The Eagles will also lose their three highest-scoring performers. Edwards led the team in scoring, averaging 12.6 points per game while Brown and Fisher averaged 10.2 and 8.7, respectively.  
AU went 23-9 last year, losing to Michigan in the first round of the NCAA Tournament.
awalulik@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The School of Communication and the School of Public Affairs are partnering to offer an immersive field-experience course called Battleground Pennsylvania this fall.
In this class, students from across all majors will have the chance to go to Pennsylvania and cover both the governor’s race and the U.S. Senate race during the midterm elections in November. 
Taught by professors Lynne Perri, Betsy Fischer-Martin and Molly O’Rourke, Battleground Pennsylvania is modeled off a course from 2008 called Presidential Primaries. Now, the course has expanded to include other political races, providing students with opportunities to work in the field during elections. A similar course, Battleground Virginia, was offered during the fall of 2021 to cover Virginia’s gubernatorial election.
During the course, students will study the state of Pennsylvania and complete assignments about polling, political trends and trust in officials. Students will also practice covering campaigns on the ground. 
O’Rourke, the director of AU’s Political Communication master’s program, said students in the course can expect an “intense” experience, where they will attend events, interview voters and hear from experts in the fields of journalism and government. Additionally, she said this course can assist with career development, especially for students who are interested in political communication.
“Students really have a clear sense whether this is something that fits them well or is not,” O’Rourke said. “It’s been a springboard for a lot of students into their careers.”
In covering the election, students will get to witness firsthand the unfolding of political campaigns, as well as voter responses. According to Fischer-Martin, a professor in the SPA, the opportunity to speak with those in attendance is vital to understanding journalism during a campaign. 
“I think that’s really valuable to be able to have students be on the ground, and talk to strategists, talk to journalists, and most importantly: talk to voters,” Fischer-Martin said. 
She hopes that when students leave the course, they can further appreciate the work of political communicators. 
“I hope they walk away with an appreciation for the concept of really having to be on the ground to get a sense of what’s going on,” Fischer-Martin said. “You can learn much more from that than you can sitting and reading newspaper articles.”
Through this course, students are ultimately able to have an experience that they could not have in the classroom. Perri, a professor in the SOC, noted that it is not just students who are enthusiastic about this experience — so are the voters with whom they speak. 
“Regular voters and campaign strategists and candidates, they're very interested in our students, because they see engaged young people wanting to learn more about the process,” Perri said. “There’s a certain excitement that arises from that, like we’re all in this together in some respects.” 
Perri also said the field experience is not “political tourism”: students are encouraged to be as neutral and nonpartisan as possible during the process.
During the application period last month, Battleground Pennsylvania was open to students in any major. Though there were a limited number of spots available, students from all backgrounds applied. 
“I wish we could take 200 students, but we’ve decided the 24-25 range is a really good range to travel with,” Fischer-Martin said. 
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University will reinstate the mask mandate effective Tuesday, citing an increase in COVID-19 cases in the D.C. region.
The University announced Monday in an email from administrators that masks will be required in all campus buildings except when individuals are alone in private offices, inside residence hall rooms with only roommates or when actively eating or drinking.
Community members must wear “well-fitting, high-quality masks such as N95s or KN95s” while in all campus buildings. AU’s distribution sites will continue to provide free KN95 masks, said Fanta Aw, the vice president of undergraduate enrollment, campus life and inclusive excellence. 
Faculty can opt not to wear a mask when teaching if there is at least three feet of distance from students in the class and faculty and students may briefly remove their masks to drink during class. The University strongly recommends wearing masks when in large public groups or off-campus social gatherings, Aw wrote in the email.
Aw cited an expected increase in levels of transmission in the D.C. region in the coming weeks with the BA.2 variant now being the dominant strain of COVID-19. 
“Cases in the AU community similarly rose over the last several weeks, with our positivity rate steadily increasing,” Aw wrote. “However, we are not seeing severe cases in the AU community due to our extremely high levels of vaccination and boosters.”
Cases have been on the rise since the University made masks optional March 21. AU reported 74 new coronavirus cases in the University community between March 28 and April 3, bringing the total confirmed cases for the spring semester to 835. 
“Importantly, the best protection is to get your COVID vaccination and booster,” Aw said.
Aw said the University will continue the current COVID-19 testing protocol, with surveillance testing for students, and faculty and staff encouraged to test twice a month.
Aw added that the May commencement events will likely require masks for all attendees and further details will be provided before the ceremonies. The University will revisit the mask protocol by May 9 and provide further updates based on any changes to public health conditions or University protocols.
The updated mask policy follows Johns Hopkins and Georgetown Universities’ decisions to temporarily reinstate mask mandates due to an increase in COVID-19 cases among students. Johns Hopkins University will again require masks in dining hall facilities and residence hall common areas; masking is already required in classrooms. Georgetown University is reinstating an indoor mask mandate on the main and medical center campuses nearly two weeks after making masks optional.
“We are focused on helping the AU community stay healthy, limit isolation and maintain their academic and professional pursuits,” Aw said.
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Ben Shore is accustomed to fighting for his rights as a member of the disabled community. That is why a 2018 New Jersey civil rights law protecting service animal access to public spaces is named after his service dog, Charlie.
Shore, a senior in the Kogod School of Business, said he was a high school junior when he was first denied access on a school bus with his service dog. Now, four years later, Shore says he experienced a nearly identical situation at American University.
An AU shuttle bus driver allegedly denied him access in fall 2021 because there were “no pets allowed.” Shore said he faced discrimination three to four times during his time at AU: once when a facilities manager asked him to leave the School of International Service building. Another time he was asked to leave Kogod. Shore took a complaint to AU President Sylvia Burwell and showed up at her office on Nov. 5, 2021, where he said Burwell asked to see his service dog identification.
Although service dog handlers may carry identification cards, registration information or certificates to signal that their dog is a working animal, these items are not required for a service dog to gain access to public spaces under the Americans with Disabilities Act. The ADA also says that staff may not require an identification card or training documentation for the dog.
“American University is committed to supporting the accessibility needs of our community,” University spokesperson Elizabeth Deal told The Eagle in an email. “In this matter, a student arrived unannounced at the President’s office. President Burwell inquired about the student’s name and relevant information so the appropriate campus office could follow up with the student. While the student stated that he had been asked by others for his service dog certification card in other situations on campus, that was not part of the conversation with President Burwell.”
Shore said the University administration was unhelpful and told him he should have brought up his concerns earlier and insisted that the staff members did not violate the ADA.
“I didn’t appreciate being gaslighted and being told it was my fault that I was denied access [to the shuttle bus],” Shore said. “But they consistently told me it was my fault … and decided to ignore all my emails.”
Deal said the University does not discriminate against individuals based on disabilities and operates in compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws and regulations.
“Discrimination based on disability is covered by the Discrimination and Non-Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy,” Deal said, adding that students can report alleged discrimination based on disability to the Office of Equity and Title IX.
Jessica Chaikof, a graduate student in the College of Arts and Sciences, is a service dog handler who had a similar experience on the shuttle. Chaikof said she boarded the bus March 21 and got her service dog settled underneath a bus seat when the driver asked whether the dog was a service animal and asked her to see identification. Chaikof declined as she does not have identification, and the driver asked her to exit the bus.
Chaikof said she would like AU administrators to familiarize themselves with the ADA.
“I would like to see the administration educate themselves,” Chaikof said. “There is no required certification for service animals. That is something that every single person should know: you cannot ask for certification.”
Chaikof said if University staff are concerned about service animals, they may ask two questions: “Is the animal required because of a disability?” and “What work or task has the animal been trained to perform?” 
Shore filed a complaint with the D.C. Commission on Human Rights, an agency that adjudicates private sector complaints brought under the D.C. Human Rights Act. His complaint is currently pending.
Shore said he recommends other service dog handlers at AU file complaints with the D.C. CHR. 
“People complained to the [University] administration, but it’s kind of like you’re complaining to somebody who wants to cover themselves,” Shore said. “You actually need to complain to the people who regulate this stuff.”
Chaikof said she wants other students who have service animals to feel welcome at AU and heard by the administration.
“You have a right to be on this campus,” Chaikof said. “You do not need to carry [a] certification paper.”
Fiona Murphey, a senior in CAS and wheelchair user, said she has had challenges with the AU shuttle on multiple occasions dating back to her freshman year in fall 2017. Murphey said one of her main challenges regarding the AU shuttle is the fact that the drivers are not properly trained in strapping wheelchairs to the floor of the bus, which is a safety hazard. 
“Upwards of 75 percent of the time, the driver did not know how to strap my wheelchair to the bus,” Murphey said, adding that when she tried to explain the bus equipment to the drivers, they would get upset or angry with her. 
As a result, Murphey advocated for implementing training for AU bus drivers regarding the bus equipment.
“I went around and around with ASAC for years to try to get the training approved,” Murphey said. “They said there had been more training, that they were going to take more steps, and there was little, if any, change. When [the administration doesn’t] do anything about this and they’re unresponsive to students’ repeated requests to help change this problem, it falls to students to just not have access.”
Deal told The Eagle that ASAC provides disability awareness training to shuttle drivers upon request and that the shuttle is responsible for fully training drivers.
“The drivers are also trained on the wheelchair securing system with training materials, including videos provided by the manufacturer of the restraining system on all AU shuttle buses,” Deal said.
Like Shore and Chaikof, Murphey said she has been denied access to the bus due to her disability. When Murphey and her classmates were waiting to board an AU shuttle for a field trip in fall 2017, the driver allegedly told Murphey there was not enough space for her on the bus and did not allow her access, while allowing other students to board.
Faced with what she called “consistent issues,” Murphey has not ridden an AU shuttle since the fall of 2019, instead opting to wheel herself around. In addition to the physical toll, Murphey said her decision to stop riding the AU shuttle has caused her to be late to classes, rehearsals and field trips.
“It takes longer to get everywhere,” Murphey said. “It already takes me much longer than most people to get anywhere, so I have to budget even more time. The fact I have to do that much more to get around blatant discrimination by my University was kind of infuriating.”
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Editor's Note: This story has been edited to update a statement from Deal. Deal originally told The Eagle ASAC works closely with the shuttle system but clarified after publication that the shuttle is responsible for training and ASAC works with them upon request. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
