Integrity, excellence and human dignity are the core tenets of American University’s mission statement, but they are upheld by none of the upper-level administrators. Maybe it’s time we consider a change.
I’ve been a student survivor advocate on campus since 2019. At every point in my career here at AU, I have been disgusted by the University’s response — or lack thereof — to sexual violence on campus. Most recently, after I co-led a 500 person walkout and co-created demands signed by 1,400 community members, the administration has shown me their true colors: willful ignorance disguised by the veneer of ivory tower academia. 
The demands were sent to seven administrators: President Sylvia Burwell; Leslie Annexstein, assistant vice president of Title IX and Equity; Fanta Aw, vice president of undergraduate enrollment and campus life and inclusive excellence; Phil Morse, assistant vice president of University Police; Provost Peter Starr; Jeffrey Brown, dean of students; and Jeffrey Volkmann, executive director of the Counseling Center. The demands were sent via email, physical copies were delivered to each office and I was able to give Starr his copy in person outside his office. 
We received one response. From President Burwell: she said thanks for the “recommendations.” She reminded us the “appropriate place” to present these is in the Community Working Group on Preventing and Responding to Sexual Harassment and Violence, which was created in response to widespread unrest on campus due to administrative inaction. It’s been radio silence from the other administrators and Burwell since. I saw some of these administrators at the working group meeting that was held on Nov. 30, but none of them made any effort to connect with me.
Instead, I was told this “isn’t a fight” by one of Burwell’s staff, the administration wants to go further than the demands and they’re working with the students, not against us. I don’t want to fight. But I also refuse to stand idly by while administrators stonewall students from making actual impactful change, all because it will threaten the status quo. They’re choosing to make this into a fight and have been since the beginning.
Throughout my time at American University, it has become abundantly clear the student body thrives in opposition to our administrators, not in concert with them. The class of 2026 walked out of Burwell’s commencement speech in solidarity with the staff union, but all photos of the speech on her social media disguised that, while she took the credit for the union’s win. The University acted like it was doing us a favor by creating a working group. At the same time, I can tell you firsthand the meeting was one of the most mentally draining I have ever attended in my nearly 10-year history of fighting for survivors. Is it right that the students constantly feel at odds with our administration, the very people who are meant to take care of us? 
I have no faith in the current administration because they’ve done nothing to show students we should trust them, feel safe with them or believe they have our best interests at heart. We deserve better, and we deserve more. We’ll keep fighting for the change this university has turned into their slogan, even when they fight against it. We’ll keep picking up the pieces of the student body they’ve left behind, doing their jobs for them and taking care of each other because they refuse to. But we can never forget that they choose to ignore us, and they should be held accountable. 
So, to the administrators reading this, let me remind you that your students are watching. You are failing us. Maybe it’s time to reconsider your career path.
Lillian Frame is a senior in the School of Public Affairs.
opinion@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor’s Note: This story contains references to sexual assault.
I was excited about the protest against sexual assault on Nov. 10. I was so happy there was something planned to bring people together to support survivors. But after reading the promotional infographics and seeing the photos everyone posted, no one even mentioned masks. A protest in honor of survivors was unsafe for the most impacted group: disabled women.
The disabled womens’ community has the highest rate of sexual assault out of any other group at 83 percent, according to a study by Thomas Weiss in Disabled World. Disabled people also make up a significant portion of COVID-19 deaths, up to 95 percent in parts of the U.S., according to Axios. The most conservative estimate shows that disabled people are 1.5 times more likely to die from COVID-19, and that’s only with one preexisting condition, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. No matter the methodology, disabled people are at the highest risk for both COVID-19 and sexual assault. I thought that in a protest full of people claiming to support survivors, the most impacted community would be uplifted or, at the very least, safe. But in a sea of people wearing red in solidarity with survivors, only a handful wore masks. 
Optional masks are a segregationist policy, dictating what bodies are safely allowed in a space. In a protest setting, that means excluding the most impacted from fighting for their own rights.
According to the CDC, D.C. still has a substantial COVID transmission level. The Omicron variant makes up 99.8 percent of U.S. cases, according to GISAID. American University attests that the vaccine requirement makes unmasking safe, but the vaccine AU requires is only 50 percent effective against Omicron, according to the New England Journal of Medicine, and the efficacy wanes as more time passes. In other words, masking is how we can keep AU safe. 
The choice to not wear a mask communicates to me, as an immunocompromised individual, that I am not welcome at AU, let alone in a space for survivors nor in the space of support. My mask protects me briefly if I stand 10 feet from the protest, but that means I either have to look over my shoulder to make sure no one is coming too close or not attend at all. My unmasked peers have communicated that my safety is my responsibility, and they will do nothing to help others be safe. That sounds just like the sexual violence policy they’re advocating against. This is how I know that little real support or radical change can be found with most protest attendees.
It was clear to me as a disabled woman that most of the attendees’ support only goes so far as not to inconvenience themselves. They ask AU for bare-minimum precautions for survivors and safe, educational integration for women, but won’t provide either within the movement.
“Women on campus are in a state of fear,” said one of the protest’s speakers, according to a Twitter thread by AU student Isabelle Kravis. I agree. I am in a state of fear. I am well aware of the insufficiencies of AU’s Title IX Office. At least able-bodied women know that they can lean on their peers for support. My fear is of my peers, and I fear knowing that even the people doing the most work to uplift survivors and protect other students will not protect me. 
“I felt unsafe and excluded [at the protest],” Gretchen Venema, a disabled sexual assault survivor and senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, told me. “Seeing friends not wear masks is really harmful to me because I know that they do not value disabled people and disabled lives. It's isolating and hurtful.”
At AU’s protest, it seemed like the unmasked supporters were saying they weren’t okay with our sexual assault, but they were okay with our segregation or death. “Disability integration means an expectation of accommodations everywhere,” said Venema. “A movement that excludes disabled people is not as progressive as it thinks it is. [It shows] intersectionality is not important to them.” 
“We deeply wish we had made an announcement early into the walkout asking folks to wear masks,” said protest organizer and School of Public Affairs senior Lillian Frame, in an interview with me. “This was a failing of ours and something we’re working to better in the future.”
Frame and I are planning to work together to make future action accessible. Still, the fact that most protest attendees would have to be reminded speaks volumes about ableism within social movements.
Protesting without protecting the most impacted and vulnerable is performative at best and eugenist at worst. If any social change advocates want true justice, they must start by making their movements as survivable as possible. 
Greta Mauch is a senior in the School of Communication.
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU Pride's ASL night taught students about Deaf community and culture 
American University Pride’s Queer American Sign Language Night taught students about the intersection between LGBTQ+ identities and the Deaf community.
Julia Craig, a sophomore in the School of International Service and outreach coordinator for AU Pride, led the Nov. 29 educational seminar on LGBTQ+ American Sign Language.
“I identify as queer and both of my parents are deaf, so ASL is my first language,” Craig said. “I like to teach my friends ASL and I thought it was important to also teach people queer ASL.”
An estimated 15 percent of the U.S. population — 37.5 million people — are deaf or hard of hearing. However, ASL is not taught in most school systems nor used by a majority of hearing people.
“People mostly know the ASL alphabet or basic signs like ‘bathroom,’ but most people do not know how to sign their identity,” Craig said. “Any way I can teach people and spread awareness about [the] Deaf community and Deaf cultures and emphasize resources available for ASL is amazing.”
The event began with a brief overview of the ASL alphabet and the numbers one through 10. Craig listed some prominent Deaf members of the LGBTQ+ community, including Drago Renteria, Terry Calloway, Nyle DiMarco and Chella Man.
Throughout the event, Craig randomly quizzed the audience with interactive questions. The teach-in ended with a brief overview of the signs students learned during the session and a discussion on the importance of learning ASL, and more specifically, LGBTQ+ ASL. 
“A lot of people think of sign language as the same version of English, just signed, but that is completely not true,” Craig said. “Due to the lack of understanding of ASL grammar, deaf students do not get the help or resources they need to succeed in academic settings. I think that by learning ASL and understanding that it is its own language, I feel people will be more motivated to learn signed languages.” 
Craig provided educational resources for those who want to learn more about ASL, the most encouraged being nearby Gallaudet University, which offers interactive online courses and summer courses for students ranging from beginner to advanced levels. 
Craig said she wanted to emphasize the significance of acknowledging ASL as a language and recognizing LGBTQ+ ASL as a way to empower Deaf and LGBTQ+ communities together. 
“There tends to be low visibility of different identities in different communities,” Craig said. “In the queer community, there is low visibility of deaf queer people and in the Deaf community, there is low visibility for queer deaf people. It is important to understand how these identities differ and interact in society. Teaching queer ASL is crucial to teach ASL and teach about different identities.” 
kthompson@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
