In 1973, the Roe v. Wade decision protected reproductive rights under the right to privacy. The court split pregnancy into three trimesters, where the pregnant person could decide whether or not to continue the pregnancy during the first trimester. After that, states may regulate abortions in the second or third term as they see fit. However, as many know, this decision did not stick. Those against abortion claimed that the act was against religous beliefs, was murderous, or was morally wrong. These anti-abortion advocates continued to fight for what they believed was right, further dividing parties (and people) within the United States. 
Flash forward to 2022, 49 years after the original Roe v. Wade decision, the Supreme Court reversed the original ruling, claiming there to be “exceptionally weak” and “damaging” arguments and alleging the decision to be an “abuse of judicial authority.” This decision would give states the power to regulate or outlaw abortions at any time, leaving many states like Texas, Oklahoma and Alabama to implement outlaws and bans. This ruling left many people with uteruses, including myself, fearing what the future of our reproductive rights, including access to birth control and contraceptives, would look like. The world I grew up in began to move backward instead of progressing forward. I felt a whirlwind of rage and disappointment, and knew I was not alone. Millions of people protested across the country, and even abroad. 
With the reversal of Roe v. Wade, many students are looking to their universities for counseling, birth control and emergency contraceptives. In response to student demands, universities such as Northeastern University, Brandeis University, Stanford University and Yale University have installed vending machines that distribute contraceptives and emergency contraceptives. This gives students access to contraceptives quickly and at a lower price than the near $50 retail in drug stores for a morning-after pill. Petitions calling for likewise vending machines have even occurred on the American University campus, stating that “having a 24-hour vending machine available to students would increase accessibility.” The petition also called for allotting pregnancy tests within the vending machines, as well. 
On June 24, American University President Sylvia Burwell released a statement regarding the reversal of Roe v. Wade, saying that AU will be “reviewing the possible implications for our community members in areas such as health insurance benefits and changes in state laws.” The statement also stated that the Student Health Center would continue to “provide counseling and prescriptions for contraception methods and referrals for reproductive health services not available on campus.” However, there were no further statements to follow. 
Despite this, the SHC does offer a variety of Women Health Services, including but not limited to: counseling for contraceptive methods, prescriptions to contraceptive medication, STI screening, and the Plan B pill. However, in order to receive such counseling and health services, students must find an appropriate appointment date, and then meet with a provider. Allowing contraceptive vending machines and further services without the SHC would cut out unnecessary time and potential embarrassment. 
Many students are affected by this decision. As a woman, I know how important it is to keep access to birth control and contraceptives, including proper healthcare services. The AU administration must create a means of obtaining contraceptives that do not include going to the SHC. For students from states that have outlawed or banned abortions, these services are imperative to their health and quality of life. AU should adopt the same vending machine contraceptive services as universities throughout the United States, allowing students to have quick and affordable access to emergency contraceptives when necessary. These vending machines could be found in dorm halls, or a designated area on campus for off-campus students. If these were to be adopted, the administration could seek to effectively inform students by sending out various emails, creating posters, and calling for Resident Assistants to inform the students whom they are assisting. 
These services are crucial as the United States challenges reproductive rights. I refuse to allow a Supreme Court run by men to decide what I, a 20-year-old woman, should do with my body. American University must do more to support their students with uteruses. 
Allie Grande is a junior in the School of International Service and a columnist for The Eagle. 
agrande@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Coming off an underdog win against nationally ranked University of South Florida, the American University women’s soccer team knew much was at stake when they took the field against George Washington University on Aug. 31. 
With just four miles separating the two schools, GW and AU are fierce rivals, amplifying the pressure set by the Eagles’ first home game. Knowing the Eagles beat GW 2-0 in the 2021 matchup, the team walked onto the field confident but also ready to work as “one unit,'' said sophomore goalie Julia Kato. 
GW’s Rachel Sorkenn and Aoi Kataoka let off the first two shots on goal within the first five minutes of play. However, a combination of Kato’s saves and AU’s strategic defense allowed the Eagles to regain control of the ball and execute crucial transitions up the side. In the first half, AU’s offense struggled to put pressure on GW’s defense and wasn’t able to take many shots on goal. 
“In the first half we weren’t taking as much care of the ball,” said head coach Marsha Harper. “We’re a team that likes and values actively having the ball. After halftime, that was our focus.”
In the second half, the Eagles worked as one unit to find the gaps within the field and make clean passes toward the goal, just like they did in their previous win against USF. Senior Cailin Panacek made several strong crosses to the middle in an effort to assist a teammate's search for the back of the net. The Eagles’ persistent offensive push was without success as the clock neared the end of the game. 
The final moments of the game were filled with shots right above the bar for both sides, including a powerful kick from AU senior Alysa Vazquez that sailed over the crossbar. The NCAA April ruling does not allow for overtime play in out-of-conference games, meaning that this match would end in a draw if it was still tied by the end. Every player was frantically working to push their team to a win, bouncing between the penalty boxes on both sides, paired with distinct defensive moves to protect the AU net. 
“We had to push people up, we wanted a win. But we also didn’t want to push too hard and end up with a loss,” Harper said.
The team pushed up but failed to get a finishing touch on the ball and take the lead. 
“A tie gets us a point, but we need more than that to get us to the championships. So that was the message for the team — and just also learning something from each game,” Harper said.
“Every year it’s a hope to make it to the tournament,” Kato said. “This year we’re ready to put in the work to get there. And we wanna win.”
The Eagles also tied 0-0 against Holy Cross this past Sunday, Sept. 4th,  making their record 1-1-3 so far this season. 
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
Last Monday, a recent Eagle article reported that after 486 days at the bargaining table followed by a week-long strike organized by the American University Staff Union, an agreement between the union and the University. 
An email sent by Provost Peter Starr set the tone for the events that unraveled during the strike, emphasizing that the University negotiated in “good faith” and expressed several times in the email their disappointment in the union’s choice to strike. With the University having an email platform that’s able to reach thousands of families, it has an unfair advantage over the union, misconstruing their message into making the AU community think the strike is reactionary and unproductive. 
What started as a smooth sailing strike soon turned into an overwhelming situation for all parties involved, including student workers such as orientation leaders and RAs. Due to the amount of staff protesting, the University had placed responsibility on student workers to conduct crowd control of the strike and help move families into the dorms in the hot weather. Many joining in on the strike may have been unaware that part-time student workers are unable to unionize, leaving student workers vulnerable to harassment and calling these workers “scabs.” The University placing workers in difficult situations like these portrays them as if they’re against the goals of the union and as union-busters. 
For many families, seeing AU staff members stand outside the freshmen dorms, demanding that their employer pay them a wage that can fund their next meal, is their first impression of the University. Unaware of the entire situation between the union and the University and being kept up-to-date mainly through President Sylvia Burwell’s emails, parents directed their anger toward the union for “ruining” their child’s first-year experience. Many staff members who were part of the strike had mentioned that they didn’t wish to be on strike and did so as a last resort. Striking within a private sector has consequences for both the employer and the employee — the employer will economically suffer and the employee stops receiving paychecks, making striking less common among unions. 
In response, the AU Staff Union had addressed during the strike and on social media that they always emphasize “students first” and had fellow faculty members take each other’s shift at their jobs when one was out protesting. Staff never forced students to join the strike and allowed them to make their own judgments and rather hope to educate them on the issues they’re fighting for.
AU administration leading the staff union strike directly impacts the bonds formed between students and staff. Many staff consider working at AU as a dream job and once they experience the work environment and inequitable pay, they are forced to find positions elsewhere, often in the middle of the semester. The majority of The Eagle editorial board noted that each of them had multiple first-year advisors or academic advisors during their time at AU. A number of advisors and other staff members went above and beyond what's required of their job positions to ensure student success, some working for decades and had made one of the lowest salaries expected of their position and tenure. 
For other families and students, it brings an interesting observation to see that a large portion of union members are AU alumni and leads one to wonder how AU truly values student success throughout their careers. A few first-year students noted that they chose AU over other schools thinking it was the “most liberal” but found out that it was more of a reflection of the students and staff rather than the administrators themselves. 
Though the AU community’s willingness to organize together toward a common goal is extremely admirable, the low effort it takes for others to blindly follow a movement without first taking the time to educate themselves can be concerning. The freshmen class look to the opinions of the student body and follow the common belief, which led to their walk-out of convocation when Burwell was introduced. Despite being a monumental action, a number of students may have viewed actions like these as a way to challenge authority for the fun of it and wrongly group all administrators as ones who make the executive decisions at the bargaining table. 
As much as the contract agreement was long overdue and felt purposely orchestrated to be announced after the strike, the fact that administration had agreed to the demands despite its advertisement as a business entity positively reflects upon them. Nevertheless, The Eagle is in solidarity with the AU Staff Union and hopes that all promises made by administration are executed in a timely manner.
We urge the AU community to continue to stand up for the injustice that staff members still endure, as they’re the ones who make AU, AU. 
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
