“The problem with the contemporary Euro-American novel is that it relies for its structural integrity on suppressing the lived realities of most human beings on earth,” Sally Rooney writes in her latest novel, “Beautiful World, Where Are You.” Rooney broods over the shallowness of the modern novel, seemingly giving in to her work’s detractors. 
Ironically, she writes, “My work is, it goes without saying, the worst culprit in this regard. For this reason, I don’t think I’ll ever write a novel again.” 
It’s rare to find such a cynical view on contemporary fiction inside a novel of the same genre. There is a similarly skeptical question at the center of “Beautiful World, Where Are You” — are stories about relationships important amid the human strife that faces the world in the 21st century? Directly addressing her critics, Rooney argues they are, and that relationships are at the core of every looming plight facing the world today. Later on in the novel, she writes, “After all, when people are lying on their deathbeds, don’t they always start talking about their spouses and children?”
The book follows a group of friends through their romantic and professional lives. Alice, a recently successful author jaded by fame and the publishing industry, meets Felix, a factory worker, on a dating app. Eileen, who works at a literary magazine, is Alice’s closest friend from college who battles through a significant breakup and becomes involved with her childhood crush Simon. The story is told mostly through emails between Alice and Eileen, and readers must suspend their disbelief in imagining that these are really letters between two friends, as the two move with such ease from discussions on modern romance to the bronze age. 
The author’s latest work bears all the markings of a Sally Rooney novel — fractured and undefined relationships and witty characters, with pithy philosophical musings placed jarringly in between. As in her other books, Rooney places her deeply profound — but often irrelevant — political musings throughout. A common criticism of Rooney — true to an extent — is that the leftism in her books often feels like an accessory rather than true political advocacy. The commentary in “Conversations with Friends” felt more decorative than substantial, but the Marxist themes become more integral to the plot in “Beautiful World.” The book moves beyond the brief moments of commentary and explores the political dimensions of romantic relationships, improving upon the past lack of political substance in Rooney’s previous writing. 
Possibly the most impressive part of Rooney’s writing is the accuracy with which she writes about relationship dynamics and class. Alice and Felix’s relationship weaves well the political dimension of the novel into the plot. While Felix works in a factory and doesn’t make much money, Alice is well off. The effects of this difference on their relationship come to a head when they have an argument one night when Felix comes home drunk and Alice vulnerably tells him she loves him. Felix, presumably insecure about the class difference in his relationship, insults her viciously, telling her that despite her fame, he doubts anyone really cares about her as a person. Through the struggle for power in this exchange, Rooney analyzes class’ deep impacts on the power dynamics in a relationship. 
Besides the political commentary, the characters have much to offer the novel. Sally Rooney rarely writes a fast-paced plot, instead taking time to laboriously develop her characters. Despite this, the novel is never boring — it is character focused, but the characters are complex enough to maintain the reader’s attention. Rooney has an ability to get inside her characters’ heads, writing their thoughts with such precise detail as to make them feel like real people.
Despite the cynicism many of the “Beautiful World” characters fall into, Rooney’s ultimate message is hopeful. In response to her critics, her work maintains that connections, far from being trivial, redeem humanity. 
The greatest lesson of her novel can be chalked up to one quote. Rooney suggests that humanity has ignored the world’s problems, “because we loved each other too much and found each other too interesting. And I love that about humanity, and in fact it’s the very reason I root for us to survive — because we are so stupid about each other.” 
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As gluten-free diets have grown in popularity, the market for products has grown with it. Originally, there was a time when gluten-free bread tasted like cardboard, but today, wheat-free bread has evolved to taste almost identically to its gluten counterparts. 
The Red Bandana Bakery 
The Red Bandana Bakery supplies some of its products to the Terrace Dining Room, such as cookies and donuts, and their creations can be featured in the dedicated gluten-free fridge. 
Everything is gluten-free at the Red Bandana Bakery. From the bread to the cake pops, a gluten-free eater can have it all, without breaking the bank. 
Delicacies such as “Bonfire Brownies,” are only $2, and the award-winning creation features a fudgy chocolate base, topped with melted marshmallows and a dusting of graham cracker crumbs. This brownie’s melt-in-your-mouth texture bridges fudgy goodness with crunchy composition. 
The Red Bandana Bakery can be found on 8218 Wisconsin Ave #101, Bethesda, MD 20814 and can be accessed through the Red Line on the Metro. 
Red Velvet Cupcakery 
The Red Velvet Cupcakery offers a variety of pastries such as the Black Velvet cupcake.
At a price of only $3.50, the rich chocolate cupcake, drowned in frosting, has a crunchy exterior and buttercream frosting to top it off, and the treats at The Red Velvet Cupcakery have proved to be the perfect snack to make your day sweet.
Tatte Bakery and Cafe 
Upon looking at Tatte Bakery and Cafe’s collection of sweets and quick eats, several of their products are labeled “gluten-friendly.” Tatte Bakery and Cafe has a unique selection of items ranging from pavlovas and tarts to their very own teacakes. 
The pavlova is a cousin of the meringue. The crunchy exterior is exactly like that of a delicious egg meringue — the sweetness is just enough. Though unlike the meringue, the pavlova features a gooey lemon interior. 
The cashier-recommended teacake to hit the spot as well. Costing only $3, this treat is moist but still manages to fulfill the nutty desires with the almond topping, and even comes in flavors like strawberry.
Baked and Wired 
Baked and Wired did not disappoint. While their gluten-friendly selection is small, the flavorsome treats pack a powerful punch.
The Gluten-Free Chipper Cake Cup is a cupcake with a moist vanilla base and a surprising crunch of chocolate chips to pair. The buttercream frosting and chip topping are perfectly balanced, just enough to satisfy the sweet tooth. 
The Blueberry Poptart combines the tartness of a crumble with the sweetness of delicious sweet blueberries. While the foundation of the $4.20 tart is crumbly, the center holds a jam-like texture, covered in a buttercream white and blue frosting. 
If Georgetown is your place to be, this establishment is definitely worth the trip.
Sprinkles
Sprinkles is a bakery with much to offer and many delicious treats to enjoy. 
The original gluten-free base of the red velvet cupcake melts in your hands, while the buttercream frosting is sugary creaminess. Both are packed with goodness and are sure to satisfy your craving.
Some new additions to the menu include Lemon Blueberry cupcakes and gluten-free chocolate chip cookies. The base of the Lemon Blueberry cookie is comparable to a blueberry muffin and doesn’t feel quite as overwhelming as the red-velvet cupcake. 
DogTag Bakery
DogTag Bakery awakens the inner wintertime child. Memories of delicious homemade gluten-free brownies come through in the bakery’s chocolate macaroon. The exterior, coated in coconut shreddings holds a fudgy, intense chocolate center.
Just as delicious, the bakery also offers the chocolate macaroon’s counterpart, the coconut original macaroon. And DogTag Bakery has all the treats you need for a sweet snack.
Gluten-free bakeries and treats were few in number many years ago. Today, they seem to have taken over the town. Most restaurants, cafes and bakeries in town now offer gluten-free options and menus, and the growth of gluten-free options is something that has made eating out one step closer to being enjoyable to all. 
pmcgee@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Dav to the library front desk, American University offers jobs to students with and without federal work study. However, as student workers reflect on their difficulties finding jobs, many say campus jobs are not as accessible as it might seem.
Despite the variety of jobs offered, though, the biggest issue for many students is finding jobs. 
“Since the school year started, my friend and I … went on to the school portal, and we just started applying to all of them, basically. But we didn’t get any back, like, I didn’t get anything back,” said Faith Chung, a sophomore in the School of Communication. “So I was like, ‘okay, wow, the demand for a student job is very, very competitive, a lot more competitive than I thought it would be.’”
Chung now works as a fitness trainer and leader in the fitness center enforcing gym rules. To get her job, Chung had to have a friend recommend her, as her boss was hiring new people through recommendations from students that already worked at the fitness center. 
Without knowing someone who works in the fitness center, Chung said she wouldn’t have known about the job opening at all. 
Sophomore in the School of Public Affairs Jordyn Habib, who works the desk at the University language tutoring center, said that job postings are confusing to find because the job board is difficult to access and the events to help students find jobs are poorly advertised. She found the job fair helpful, but said it was not publicized well. 
The Career Center did not respond to The Eagle’s request for comment.
Sophomore Julianna Davis works the information desk at the Mary Graydon Center with federal work study, where she answers the main phone to the University.
“I’ve heard other classmates of mine talking about how they really want to get a job on campus and it’s just hard to find one … I got hired in the end or middle of August, and that was before the semester had even begun,” Davis said. “I think it’s not the most fair because if people come to campus, they expect that they’ll be able to find a job as they get here, but they spend so much time filling positions over the summer and it’s not … properly publicized.”
Students said those with connections to jobs had an advantage when it came to being considered for a job. 
“My roommate actually worked at the Dav this past summer so that’s kind of how I got my in at the Dav, because I did apply for many on campus jobs through federal work study,” said Ginger Matchett, a sophomore in the School of International Service. “And I just either, one, didn’t hear back from them or I didn’t get them and so with the accessibility of that I feel like it was very problematic because I would apply for a bunch of jobs and I just never heard back.”
The Dav only hires students with federal work study and is almost entirely student-run.
Matchett, Davis and Habib all qualify for federal work study.
“I think having more jobs that are available for people who aren’t just federal work study, or more jobs that are able to get more hours would be nice … I make like $200 for every two weeks, which is really not that much at all, especially for living in DC; I could not live off of that,” Habib said.
Davis also noted that while it did take her a long time to find a campus job, the thing she found most difficult was that many of the jobs available to her had unrealistic training requirements that would mean she had to arrive on campus weeks in advance. 
Despite their difficulties finding jobs, students said they tend to enjoy their work and manage to balance it with their classes and other commitments. 
“A lot of times they emphasize with work study to do your homework during work if you don’t have anything else to do … so I think they’re pretty good with the work,” Habib said. “And they really make sure to not schedule you that much, which I like.”
Matchett noted that she enjoys working at the Dav and said that it has a positive atmosphere. She also said her employers are accommodating to federal work study students.
“Having this job I feel like I’m secure in some of my finances and so that helps alleviate some of my worries and stress,” Matchett said. “It definitely is a challenge to hold a job in addition to classes but I take the approach of [treating] it like one of my classes so then it holds [me] accountable.”
apritchard@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
