From that first glimpse into Sophie Jones’ world, it’s impossible not to get swept up in “Sophie Jones” and the painfully authentic story of a teenage girl grappling with the death of her mother. The film’s depiction of grief, accompanied by its portrayal of the awkwardness and excitement of high school relationships, makes it clear that “Sophie Jones” is not your usual rose-colored coming-of-age film. Rather, Jessie Barr and her cousin Jessica Barr — both producers of the film — succeed in highlighting those slice-of-life moments that many movies about teens tend to gloss over. While the cast’s grit in portraying both tear-jerking and comical scenes is evident, there seems to be an unspoken character wavering in between and behind the scenes — music.
In an interview with The Eagle, director Jessie Barr explained how her background in the arts inspired her love for music in film.
“I always loved music in relation to story,” Jessie Barr said. “I love how immersive it is and how intimate it is.”
Although her professional background mainly centers around independent film and theater, Barr’s childhood was filled with all things fine arts, with everything from opera to Shakespeare. 
A self-proclaimed “Shakespeare nerd,” Jessie Barr said that her introduction to literature was what caused her to fall in love with storytelling of all forms. 
“I’m obsessed with Shakespeare,” Jessie Barr said. “There’s such a rhythm to poetry, to plays because you don’t have the image like you do in cinema. You have to create a world with rhythm and sound.”
Fascinated with the way sound can sculpt stories in prose, Jessie Barr explored her interest in music as a child through singing opera. As a filmmaker, having the right songs to accompany her storytelling was a priority in the making of “Sophie Jones.” After a rough cut of the film had been shot, Jessie Barr began her search for a composer. As a lover of  “The Diary of a Teenage Girl,” which features a soundtrack composed by Grammy-nominated composer Nate Heller, she decided to reach out to Heller himself.
“I just cold emailed him,” Jessie Barr said. “I reached out and said what I was looking for and how huge a fan I am of his. I sent him a rough cut of the film and sort of poured my heart out in the email. And then he watched it and really responded to it. From there, we started collaborating together.”
The combined musical influences of Jessie Barr and Heller are evident in the film’s vibrant soundtrack. With the first half consisting of needledrop, riot grrrl-inspired tracks and the second half featuring Heller’s original score, music plays a prominent role in depicting Jones' life, grief, sexuality, and inner thoughts throughout the film. The soundtrack’s fusion of genre-bending indie tracks and instrumental compositions were integral to the humanistic construction of Jones’ identity as an imperfect yet thoughtful and introspective teenage girl.
“I felt [the songs] needed to represent the sort of anger and rage and sort of desire to obliterate yourself that you feel at any age but most keenly when you're a teenager and also experiencing tremendous grief and groundlessness. And it was important to me that a lot of the voices be female voices,” Jessie Barr said in reference to the first half of the soundtrack, which features artists like Ezza Rose, Mutt and Beverly.
Jessie Barr explained that she wanted three different musical worlds to exist sonically within the film — the head-banging, female-fronted indie music at the beginning, the use of atmospheric, textured sounds like water and breath throughout the film, and Heller’s original compositions during the concluding half.
“My editor and I had found specific places where we felt the score could live and felt necessary,” Jessie Barr said. “So when I talked with Nate, a lot of our conversations were about what those moments are and what we need them to do narratively. A lot of that had to do with expressing the sort of inner world that Sophie is fighting against. A lot of that had to do with her more quiet, introspective self and also the part of her that is related to her mom and the presence of her mom.”
About halfway through the film, there is a clear transition in not only the soundtrack but also Sophie as a personification of the timeless narrative of being young and grieving. Heller’s pieces, named for specific scenes in the film, act almost as a character of their own, interacting with Jones’ emotions and also providing insight for the audience to interpret her emotional journey. With tracks titled “Expired Pills,” “Hickey”’ and “I Have Your Eyes,” fans of “Sophie Jones” will be quick to notice the way listening to the score draws them back to specific, memorable scenes within the films. Perhaps one of the most remarkable scenes is the one of Sophie, Lucy and their father standing at the shore as “Ashes Into the Sea” by Heller featuring King Isis plays at the end of the film. When she first heard the song, Jessie Barr said she “broke down weeping” in Nate’s home studio.
“When I talked to Nate, I was like, ‘Oh, we'll just have something instrumental here for this last piece.’ So when I heard King Isis’ voice break through, it was so unexpected because I wasn't prepared to hear a vocal. It was so moving and really unlike anything I thought could possibly be made for that piece. That song really did elevate and capture the moment in a way that I couldn't even have dreamed up honestly,” she said.
While indie film critics and enthusiasts typically find joy in analyzing primarily the videography and acting in movies, the “Sophie Jones: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack” is proof that music can morph into extension of the storytelling itself and should not be overlooked.
life@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“With the second pick of the 2004 WNBA draft, the Washington Mystics select Alana Beard,” announced commissioner Val Ackerman.
The pick was exciting news for the Mystics, who ended the 2003 season last in the Eastern Conference with a 9-25 record. The Mystics had just drafted a star player from Duke who they hoped would turn things around for the team. 
The pick was exciting for Alana Beard, too. 
“At the end of the day, I wanted to just play basketball,” Beard said in an interview with The Eagle. “What I loved is that I was capable of staying on the East Coast, and the fact that I was capable of continuing my career beyond college meant a lot.”
Beard said that during her time with the Mystics, the things she valued the most were the relationships that were built with her teammates.
“I had the privilege of playing with Murriel Page, Chamique Holdsclaw, Nakia Sanford, Chastity Melvin and Taj McWilliams-Franklin,” Beard said. “Those individuals were well into their careers, and very experienced in terms of being a professional. I had those five women to look up to, which I can say really helped me develop as a veteran when it was my time and how I mentored and supported younger individuals.”
Beard immediately dominated in her rookie season with the Mystics. She led the team in steals, assists, blocks and minutes played while starting all 34 games and averaging 13.1 points. Beard set a franchise record for most steals in a season with 69, and was a candidate for both Defensive Player of the Year and Rookie of the Year.
In her next five seasons with the Mystics, Beard led the team in scoring for all five years, was named a WNBA All-Star four times, three of which she was named as starter, earned WNBA All-Defensive Team honors three times and was named to the WNBA All-Defensive First Team once. Beard holds the record for All-Time steals leader in Washington Mystics history.
Beard’s time with the Mystics was only a sign of what was to come.
In 2012, Beard signed with the Los Angeles Sparks. In her time in Los Angeles, Beard was named WNBA All-Defensive First Team four times, named WNBA All-Defensive Second Team once and consecutively named WNBA Defensive Player of the Year in 2017 and 2018. She became a WNBA Champion in 2016 when the Sparks defeated the Minnesota Lynx.
In 2019 Beard played her last season, retiring with 419 games played, 4,740 points, 1,420 rebounds, 1061 assists and 710 steals, placing her 3rd for all-time steals in WNBA history.
Fifteen years and a WNBA legacy later, Beard chose to retire and return to the same city that she started her career in — Washington, D.C.
“I love everything about D.C. I think when you move away, you take for granted the history and the beauty that the city has to offer,” Beard said. “On top of that, it’s the people, it’s the food, it’s the diversity of the landscape that is something that is extremely beneficial, but fortunate to have.”
Although Beard had a great impact on the court, her legacy extends far beyond the sidelines.
Beard is also the face of a woman-led ownership bid for a WNBA expansion in Oakland. She has partnered with the African American Sports & Entertainment Group in Oakland in an effort to create a Black-owned WNBA franchise. The AASEG won a vote in July 2021 by the Oakland city council, giving them a lease for the Oakland Arena.
“We have had the most women apply for the WNBA draft ever, in the history of the league. And the fact that probably 12, if that, will land a spot on a team is heart breaking. Either the league needs to expand the roster or expand the landscape of the WNBA, because there are so many young women who are working their butts off to achieve their dream of playing in the WNBA and there are only 144 spots available,” Beard said.
Beard said the last few years have indicated that women’s sports are here to stay. She said investing in women’s sports even on the collegiate level is a positive thing for women across all levels of athletics.
“The fact that this year was the first year that the NCAA has received more money and marketing dollars than any other year is a great indication that if you put money behind women, and women in sports, you’re going to get a positive outcome,” Beard said.
Beard also co-founded Transition Play, a program that helps college, pro and recently retired athletes transition into life beyond the game. They help to build and strengthen skills that can be used in the professional world.
Beard said she felt a responsibility  to use the network she built during her playing career to help provide opportunities and access for female athletes that look exactly like her.
“As I went through my journey, you understand that it is a tough transition for anyone, let alone an athlete who’s been playing the game of basketball for a great portion of their life,” Beard said. “The fact that I felt overwhelmed, the fact that I didn’t have the confidence that I wanted to have in this space, considering the amount of preparation I did prior to that transition, was a great indication that a platform that is dedicated to female athletes helping them to transition to life after the game, was needed.”
Beard said because of what female athletes have been through and sacrificed throughout their careers, they are capable of bringing value to any organization.
“I would encourage female athletes to follow their passion, and explore different opportunities that could become new passions,” Beard said.
sports@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
