American University is known for its environmental consciousness, priding itself on being the first university to reach carbon neutrality. AU was recently selected as a 2022 U.S. Department of Education “Green Ribbon Schools'' Post-secondary Sustainability Awardee. Admittedly, AU has taken progressive steps in building sustainability plans to achieve groundbreaking goals and milestones. Yet, the impression of a green campus is a narrow, performative illusion that has overshadowed student efforts in maintaining this image. Students demand and deserve more communication, transparency and support from the administration to breed an environmentally sustainable culture involving all contributors, not just the students alone.
On April 14, the AU Community Garden announced that the garden will be demolished to build the new Center of Athletic Performance (CAP) in fall 2023 instead of the initial two to five-year plan to relocate the garden. The news shocked everyone as the garden has served the community by providing a safe and green space, carefully nurtured by its members and volunteers. On top of their regular duties and routines to take care of the garden and plan for next semester, the garden leaders have been working tirelessly to chase down responsible representatives that have not communicated clearly about the plan for the garden. During an April 11 meeting, Leonardo Casas, AU Senior Project Manager, told the gardeners that AU was destroying the garden in the summer without plans to restore it. This devastating update was debunked when the garden leaders met with Anthony Cortes, Director of Capital Management and everyone involved in the CAP project on April 18. A new timeline was introduced at the meeting and they guaranteed that the plan would include administrative support throughout the process of relocating and rebuilding the garden to build a bigger and better one. 
Thankfully, there is a more definite and optimistic plan for the garden now, but this would not have happened if it were not for the garden’s fearless leaders’ determination and resiliency in uncovering the ideas and decisions made behind closed doors without their input. 
The lack of communication and transparency is a consistent behavior of AU when it concerns environmental projects initiated by students. The administration’s inaccessibility for students to reach out to representatives and access resources hinders the garden’s progress and our goal of becoming more environmentally friendly. Even the Summary Narrative of AU’s application to Green Ribbon Schools heavily emphasized the role of the garden and the University’s financial support towards clubs dedicated to improving sustainable outcomes around campus. Yet, the so-called “sustainability fund” has never been consistent or enough for clubs like the AU Community Garden to utilize. The lack of funding restricts the garden to more conservative projects. Therefore, bigger and bolder proposals like building a greenhouse or a pond were pushed back or rejected. AU seems to only care about environmental sustainability for superficial purposes, such as the aesthetics of the Arboretum and the benefits of tourism and recruitment, greenwashing and fostering a culture of “look, but don’t touch.”
Unlike the “culture of sustainability” AU claims to have, there is a lack of unity within our community. Stemming from the lack of collaboration with administration, students feel as though no one is in the loop of knowing what is going on, including professors in the environmental science department and many other related departments. Garden members and other AU community members were distraught prior to the updated information the leaders unearthed by relentlessly hassling administrative people for answers. It was also disheartening to witness AU leaving sustainability behind again by leaving the garden out of the 2021 Campus Plan. Disjointed words about the garden were tossed around without consulting with the members who take care of the garden. Students are then forced to clarify the situation and make room for themselves when the administration should have guaranteed their space in the plan in the first place. 
Although progress is slow, students and faculty members remain persistent. For instance, Valentina Aquila, a professor within the Department of Environmental Science, created an email chain that links all environmental science and studies majors for better communication and exposure to opportunities circulating within the community. Despite the positives, many setbacks and unfinished projects were left behind due to the lack of commitment from AU. Students have presented projects that were approved by the Learning by Leading program. However, when it came down to funding and facilitation of implementing projects, students did not receive financial or actionable staff support. The program encouraged leadership in expanding student-run environmentally focused projects with scarce and unconstructive mentorship. Therefore, projects were rarely followed through due to financial concerns and a lack of resources. In the end, many promising projects are swept under the rug, neglected and left behind. 
The AU Community Garden and environmental advocates need more than verbal support. Although student activism is essential in building an inclusive green campus, the student effort has been one-sided and AU has been taking credit for their work without providing the support they need. Suppose AU will brand and brag about its commitment to building an environmentally sustainable space in the Bender tunnel and during campus tours. In that case, AU’s decision-making process should prioritize the garden and the needs of the students. A sustainability leader requires AU to approach with more top-down actions and united teamwork among administration, faculty members, clubs and organizations and the student body.
Emily Brignand is a rising junior in the School of International Service and a columnist for The Eagle.
ebrignand@theeagleonline.com  
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Whether it’s their first Pride month or their 53rd, AU's LGBTQ+ students and faculty all carry a different Pride story. Each experience is unique and filled with feelings of joy, grief, frustration and peace. 
"For the longest time I didn't think queerness was something to celebrate," said Fabby Rincon, a rising sophomore at AU studying Journalism and Political Science. This year is Rincon's first Pride month being out to her friends and family, and she says AU played a large part in helping her discover and celebrate her sexuality. "I've never been at a more openly queer place than this school. Being in a place where I was not only surrounded by allies but queer people is a whole other world." 
Living on campus last year exposed Rincon to a community where LGBTQ+ individuals not only existed, but openly celebrated their identity and advocated for themselves. 
"The ability to be in a space that accepted me so openly made me more comfortable in my identity," Rincon said. 
For Rincon, Pride month is also about freeing herself from the temptations of "compulsive heteronormativity" and letting go of her stigma against celebrating queerness. This year she is celebrating sexuality for the first time by attending the NYC Pride Parade. 
Marnie Twigg, a professor of Literature and Women’s and Gender studies, attended their first D.C. Capital Pride Parade at 18 years old with their girlfriend. They described it as a beautiful accumulation of people and their “first real exposure to gay pop culture." They added, "There's a sense of togetherness that isn't something you often get on the D.C. club and bar scene, especially in the early 2000s." 
In D.C., there are few LGBTQ+ bars and nightclubs, but the most iconic bar before 2016 was Phase One — the oldest lesbian bar in the United States. 
"Phase One was crazy during Pride; Jello wrestling, people dancing on the bars, and drag king shows," Twigg said. However, the queer community has lost many of those celebratory spaces. "There are a lot of places we lost during the pandemic, but the best part about AU is where we are, and you have to be willing to go digging to find your queer community," Twigg said. 
Now, as Twigg has taken a backseat to the D.C. club and party scene, celebrating Pride month to them means passing on their knowledge and experience, "As I got older, pride for me became something deeper and more internal. I want to pass on the stories of the little things, the crazy things, the fun things about D.C." 
Katie Greenstein, a rising junior from St. Louis, Missouri, described past Pride parades as a space of pure "queer joy". However, this year was different, due to the recent overturning of Roe v. Wade. 
"Justice Clarence Thomas wrote explicitly that he was coming for contraception and same-sex relationships. We have to take that threat seriously. It's not just a threat. It's a promise,” Greenstein said, speaking of the decision. 
The threat of losing the right to marriage equality is a scary reality for Greenstein and the LGBTQ+ community, especially those living in states like Missouri. The weight of this possibility dampened their sense of celebration during the annual Pride parade.
"I wish that I could say that I was celebrating, but for the folks in our community, I think we tried, we tried to feel happy and excited, but we know better, and we know what's coming for us." 
While at home, Greenstein said they felt a sense of loss. They know that at AU and in D.C., they have the privilege of feeling safe within their queer identity, "I'm so unashamedly queer at AU, and it doesn't matter." However, they are continuing to grieve for every home that doesn't have protection against LGBTQ+ hate, and they hope AU and the D.C. community will be "a queer haven for the country."
Kyle Johnson, the co-leader of AU’s LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff Affinity Group, is working to create the haven that Greenstein longs for. His professional and personal life follows in the footsteps of LGBTQ+ advocates that take Pride beyond the month of June. He is working to create liberating spaces for queer people year-round, such as his work leading the LGBTQ+ affinity group. 
Throughout the year, Johnson facilitates an affinity group sponsored virtual coffee chat; LGBTQ+ AU students, faculty and staff gather to create relationships and community. These conversations are used to strengthen queer individuals' ability to feel represented, seen, and heard.
"If people need someone to talk to, they can reach out and use the connections they made during these chats,” Johnson said. "A college is a place where students discover who they are, and a lot of times first-year students learn how to be their true authentic selves, and become comfortable enough to tell their friends and families back home, but unfortunately as we know that can backlash against them, especially financially." Johnson alongside the rest of the affinity staff have created a LGBTQ+ resource fund to help students experiencing financial difficulties. 
On June 17, the affinity group raised the progress pride flag, featuring colors that represent people of color, trans people, and those living with HIV/AIDs, on AU's quad, "It demonstrates our dedication to the movement and AU's LGBTQ+ community." Johnson happily added that this would become a yearly tradition. 
Pride month is more than accepting others and their identities; it is a celebration. Every student, staff, and faculty member has their own unique way of honoring their queerness. For many, they attend their local Pride parade to commemorate a community that was once forced to be hidden. Rincon’s parade experience was nothing short of liberating
​​“This is my first pride where I’m so confident in my identity, I’m confident that this is me, and it’s one of the most freeing experiences ever,” Rincon said
life@theeagleonline.com
Correction: The original version of this article contained an incorrect version of Katie Greenstein's name. It has been updated with the correct version.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
