La organización AU Latinos en Acción tuvo un evento el 8 de octubre para celebrar el Mes de la Herencia Hispana. El evento “Bachata Night” consistió en varias actividades incluyendo un baile realizado por el grupo Sabor Latino. 
Sabor Latino es un  grupo donde se encuentran estudiantes de Gaithersburg High School y se dedican a bailar diferentes estilos típicos de música Latina. Después del baile de Sabor Latino, AU LEA invitó a un instructor de Bachata para que los estudiantes pudieran aprender más sobre este tipo de baile. 
El instructor Angel Interiano enseñó una rutina de Bachata y luego, los estudiantes participaron en una competencia de baile para que pudieran ganar un premio. Este evento también ofreció comida Latina para los estudiantes. Las opciones disponibles incluían pupusas, quesadillas y taquitos. Al tener diferentes opciones, los estudiantes pudieron probar distintos sabores de América Latina. 
Este evento fue planeado por la junta ejecutiva de AU LEA con semanas de anticipación. Isabel Alvarado es co-presidenta de AU LEA y ella expresó por qué era importante tener una noche de bachata en AU. 
“Queremos traer la cultura a AU y compartir costumbres Latinas con el campus,” Latinos En Acción organiza un evento lleno de Bachata y comida Latina para la comunidad Latina en AU dice Alvarado. 
Ella explicó que es muy significativo tener este tipo de actividades en campus para que otras personas tengan la oportunidad de aprender sobre la cultura Latina. Otro punto que ella mencionó se centró en la importancia de tener un espacio para que los Latinos se puedan juntar y celebrar sus raíces.  
Chioma Ohadoma, una estudiante de segundo año en la Escuela de Asuntos Públicos expresó que es crucial mostrar la cultura Latina a otros estudiantes especialmente si desconocen las diferentes tradiciones y costumbres que conforman latinoamérica. 
Richard Young Jr., un estudiante de primer año en la Escuela de Asuntos Públicos de AU explicó que eventos como “Bachata Night” le permiten conocer más sobre su lado puertorriqueño, por esta razón él disfruta asistir a eventos que celebran la cultura Latina.
Los futuros planes de AU LEA consisten de un taller con la organización United We Dream, la red dirigida por jóvenes inmigrantes más grande del país. También están planeando tener un panel de profesionales Latinos. Al tener estos eventos, la comunidad Latina de AU puede unirse y participar en asuntos que afectan a la comunidad.
bamadorrivera@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sophomores Magnolia Mead and Summer Anwer sell flowers and clothes to AU students at the flea market. 
The Muslim Student Association, Sunrise Movement at AU, South Asian Student Association and Hindu Students Association hosted a flea market fundraiser for flood relief in Pakistan on Wednesday.
The event took place outside Butler Pavilion and had tables selling secondhand clothes, chai, books, flowers and henna. All sale proceeds went to Helping Hand for Relief and Development, an organization that provides assistance to countries in disaster situations around the world. Founded in 2005, Helping Hand helped over 176,000 people in the wake of the recent Pakistan floods. 
Summer Anwer, a sophomore in the School of International Service and MSA member, came up with the idea to hold a flea market. 
In Pakistan, the monsoon season lasts from June to September. This year, the floods were heavier, longer and more relentless than Pakistan has seen in decades, according to NASA’s Earth Observatory.  
“I wanted to do a very active fundraiser,” Anwer said. “It's very hands-on, very engaged with the community so we can educate them on the floods. The flea market just kind of happened because I was thinking, well, everyone always has something to donate.”
In the week leading up to the flea market, some of the participating clubs called on students to donate books, accessories and clothes to sell at the event. Each of the four clubs involved advertised the market on their Instagram accounts. 
Anwar said she thinks it’s imperative for students, especially those in SIS, to understand the magnitude of real-world problems.
“We don’t have much of a spotlight compared to more predominantly white organizations, so it’s definitely important that we are supported by AU so that we can be on the same level,” she said.
As a collaboration between four clubs in response to a recent issue, the event was organized with the goal of raising money, but also awareness of the humanitarian crisis the flooding has created for Pakistani residents. 
“Having a shared solidarity around these movements is really important, so we really like collaborating with other clubs,” said Qudsia Saeed, a junior in the School of Education and member of MSA.
“This is very high stakes; this is very relevant,” Saeed said. “It’s something that we really are passionate about, and that's where all these clubs come together.”
csapilewski@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The restrooms on the second floor of MGC that had previously been designated as all-gender were reverted back to single-gender restrooms as part of a plan to build more all-gender restrooms on campus and to comply with D.C. building code requirements.
American University changed some all-gender restrooms on campus to gendered restrooms to prepare for a renovation project, to the dismay of transgender and nonbinary students.
AU will construct nine new single-stall, all-gender, ADA-accessible restrooms on campus by July 2023, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Treasurer Bronté Burleigh-Jones wrote in an Aug. 15 email to the AU community.
The email said University leaders, the facilities team and key stakeholders met over the summer to discuss AU’s restroom inventory. The University currently has more than 130 all-gender bathrooms on campus, both single-stall and multi-stall, which University leaders concluded “do not currently provide a consistent level of privacy,” according to the email from Burleigh-Jones. The University will begin renovations this academic year.
“We know this change will have an impact on our LGBTQIA community, specifically our transgender and non-binary communities,” Burleigh-Jones wrote in the email. “We are working to put interim solutions in place during the project and will be convening a working group of campus stakeholders including the Center for Diversity and Inclusion and others to lessen the impact and minimize disruption.”
There are 125 single-stall, all-gender restrooms available on campus, Assistant Vice President for Community and Internal Communication Elizabeth Deal said in an email to The Eagle. There “There are 120 gender neutral bathrooms available on campus. Our measures include a list of all gender neutral restrooms and identifying signage," Deal wrote. 
Manny Siskind, a nonbinary sophomore in the School of Public Affairs, said the rollout of the new bathroom changes was not effective.
“They really just did not do a good job of informing people of which [bathrooms] have changed,” Siskind said. “I know there’s a directory of gender-neutral bathrooms on the AU website, and it’s not fully updated, which I feel like they should have done.”
The construction team will build new restrooms and modify existing restrooms in specific locations. The facilities team changed 14 all-gender restrooms to single-sex restrooms in Batelle-Tompkins, the Child Development Center, Hughes Hall, Leonard Hall, Letts Hall, Mary Graydon Center, McDowell Hall and the Osborn Building. These changes were made to meet D.C. building code requirements, which call for a minimum number of gender-specific bathroom facilities in each building, according to Deal.
Charlie Everett, a 2019 graduate and the former president of AU Pride, was involved in a committee that met regularly to make campus restrooms gender-inclusive. They said they have been following updates on the restroom policy on social media, namely the AU Pride Instagram.
“I felt it was a step back and was disrespectful to the work that so many students, faculty and staff [have] been doing to try to make the campus a more inclusive place,” Everett said of the removal of some gender-neutral bathrooms.
University leaders and the facilities team have begun identifying potential locations in each building for a single-stall bathroom. Their next step is to consult an architect for further design work before beginning the construction process.
The construction of nine new bathrooms will provide these locations with permanent single-stall, all-gender restrooms. 
In the meantime, transgender and nonbinary students have fewer public restrooms available to them compared to last semester, raising concerns among those who do not identify as cisgender.
Nicole Donelan, a junior in SPA, is a peer health educator with the Center for Well-Being Programs and Psychological Services. Donelan, who identifies as nonbinary, said they took matters into their own hands when the only gender-neutral bathroom near the Hughes Hall office was turned into a men’s room. 
“All of [the peer health educators] are either women or nonbinary, so we just said, ‘Who cares?’ and started using it,” Donelan said. “We’re supposed to be an LGBT-affirming space, but how can we be an LGBT-affirming space if we don’t even have gender-neutral bathrooms?”
Donelan said they put a “gender-neutral” sticker on the outside of the men’s bathroom in Hughes, which is now being used by students of all genders.
In addition to the frustration over the lack of designated all-gender bathrooms, Donelan said they want clarity on the administration’s decision.
“I just want to see more communication and an explanation because I don’t understand why we’re taking out so many existing gender-neutral bathrooms to create nine new ones because of the D.C. building code at all,” Donelan said.
Deal said that the University is meeting the district's building code requirements on the minimum number of gender-specific bathroom facilities that must be in each building.
Donelan said they wished the University would recognize transgender and nonbinary community members and the need for all-gender restrooms.
“We’re on campus,” Donelan said. “We’re students. We’re faculty or professors, and we need a f*****g place to pee.” 
Correction: The headline of this story has been updated to reflect that the nine bathrooms being constructed will be new bathrooms, the caption has been updated to reflect that more restrooms are being built to comply with D.C. building code and more context has been added surrounding the University's interim measures for gender-neutral bathrooms as well as what the district's building code requirements are when it comes to numbers of gender-specific bathrooms.
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
