Koz, Spenser and Tristan get together to discuss which characters remind them of themselves and each other. Tristan also brings birthday surprises for Spenser, and the episode quickly becomes a musical.
This episode was produced by Chloe Irwin.
tau@theeagleonline.com, okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com and shoover@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As American University’s Founders Week celebration came to a close, Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative journalist Nikole Hannah-Jones discussed her work on the 1619 Project and the current efforts to ban certain materials in the teaching of history. 
Founders’ “An Evening with Nikole Hannah-Jones,” co-hosted by the Kennedy Political Union, Women’s Initiative and the Sine Institute, was the first in-person KPU event since before the pandemic.
Hannah-Jones’s main focus of the event was her work founding the 1619 Project while at The New York Times. The project, which began in 2019 as a work of long-form journalism, marked the 400th anniversary of the arrival of enslaved peoples in the Virginia colony.
“Slavery and freedom were born at the same time here, but we only wanted to talk about one as being foundational to American identity,” she said.
Hannah-Jones argued that the ideals of the country were founded in 1619, rather than when the Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776. With this, the project works to highlight the effects of slavery and the contributions of Black Americans in the country’s history.
“You don't get 1776 without 1619,” Hannah-Jones said. 
The 1619 Project has come under criticism, as some think the project works to replace the events of 1776 when America declared independence. However, Hannah-Jones said it’s important  historians continue to find complex sources and interpretations of history to better understand American society as it is today. 
Along with these criticisms were attempts to defund the teaching of the 1619 Project in schools. In a bill introduced in June 2021, Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell and Tom Cotton said that the 1619 Project is a “distortion of American history.” 
When federal efforts to defund the teaching of the 1619 Project failed, Hannah-Jones said attention was moved to state legislatures. 
Hannah-Jones said she believed “anti-critical race theory” bills to be an attempt to deter the momentum of white support behind the Black Lives Matter movement. Hannah-Jones called these “anti-history” bills.
Critical race theory is a legal theory exploring the institutions of power from a race-based perspective. 
For Hannah-Jones, the teaching of Black American history in schools should not be labeled as critical race theory. The efforts have led to the banning of curriculum and certain books in K-12 schools. But rather than controlling what is being taught in schools, Hannah-Jones said it’s about controlling the narrative of history — critical race theory is not taught in K-12 schools, as it is an advanced legal theory. 
“History is how we think about ourselves as a society,” she said. “You have a group of people who are used to always being the heroes in the story, the victors, and now we're having to comprise a more honest and a much uglier truth, and they don’t want to.”
In addition to understanding 1619 as the foundational year of America, Hannah-Jones said America was not a true democracy until the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965. Before then, she says America was an ethnocracy, a democracy for just white Americans. 
“Now we have to grapple with a multiracial democracy that we actually never had before. And it has been contested every step of the way,” Hannah-Jones said. 
Hannah-Jones also discussed how her efforts to develop a more comprehensive view of U.S. history has affected her career as a journalist. In 2021, when she was appointed to the Knight Chair in Race and Investigative Journalism at the University of North Carolina, the board of trustees initially denied her tenure due to the controversy surrounding the 1619 Project. When the board reversed their decision, she turned down the position.
“It was one of the best moments of my life,” she said. Hannah-Jones said she didn’t want to stay at the institution which treated her, or other Black faculty, poorly.
Hannah-Jones warned students that America’s democracy is deteriorating. She encouraged students that, along with staying hopeful, they should take action and “refuse where the country is going.”
“We have the power to shape our society and we have the power to push back on these laws,” she said. “We have the power to ensure that our democracy will hold; they cannot take it from us without our permission.”
aturner@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
Founders Day Ball, Student Government’s most renowned event, was removed from the Founders Week programming this year. The Ball has been historically criticized by the student population due to its expensive nature and celebration of John Fletcher, AU’s founder who was a slave owner. Getting rid of Founders Ball is a positive step in reworking Founders Week. 
Jeremy Ward, American University’s first Black Founders director, told The Eagle that both the event’s meaning and COVID-19 policies are the reasoning behind the Ball’s absence. Ward hopes that the student body will reflect on the true meaning behind Founders, especially through the inclusion of affinity groups in the celebration. This Founders Day focused on the current AU community with open mic night, acapella, food events, a keynote speaker and more open attendance — the Ball typically has limited tickets — for the entire AU student body.
These events, which proved a commitment to better engage the AU community in Founders Week, deserved a bigger platform. In past years, the hype over Founders Ball was enough to garner student awareness. With the absence of the Ball, many students were unaware of Founders events leading up to the week. This may suggest a lack of communication between SG, the student body and the University. SG could have utilized physical flyers, decorations around the main center of campus or used social media more effectively. 
While the decision to remove the Ball is one The Eagle’s editorial board commends, SG has the opportunity to come up with another keynote event that draws in students toward the celebration that is less costly and engages more of the student body. Perhaps a casual outdoor gathering on the quad similar to Welcome Week events where students can celebrate together could be a model for future Founders weeks. 
Founders Week has come under fire in the past for climbing budgets. In 2019, SG spent a record high at approximately $140,000. This year, the budget for Founders Week was approximately $106,000. The budget for Founders Week have traditionally been explained by high costs for the Ball. Still, without a Ball, the student body deserves clarity on where and how this money is being spent. A breakdown of how this money was spent would help alleviate student concerns regarding this matter. So far, SG has not released how much money was actually spent on Founders Day. 
Ward’s commitment to recenter Founders traditions on clubs is promising. Many argue that the famed Founders Day Ball’s purpose was to form community, but that ignores the AU community that already exists on campus every day. This Founders provided student organizations with funds for events, meaning that clubs did not have to dip into their own budgets to participate. This should continue as a guide for SG to support the existing organizations on campus when looking to strengthen the community at AU past Founders Week. 
The absence of Founders Day Ball may have changed a decades long tradition of Founders Week, but it opened up the doors for better, more inclusive events at AU. Events like Embracing Change, which discussed the history of AU, are welcome modifications to Founders Week. Moving away from the “founder” part of Founders Week is a positive change that changes the spotlight to present-day AU, not the past. 
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
