The next step in D.C.’s redistricting process is underway as all eight wards have started evaluating the boundaries of Advisory Neighborhood Commissions and Single Member Districts. There are currently 10 SMDs — electoral districts represented by a single officeholder — in Ward 3.
Redistricting occurs once every 10 years to ensure balanced representation based on updated population counts reported in the census. The D.C. Council subcommittee charged with redistricting started the process in September 2021. 
The subcommittee had until December to make alterations to ward boundaries and the final map was approved by the City Council on Dec. 21. The most significant alterations were made to the boundaries of Wards 6, 7 and 8. 
Although no changes were made to the boundary of Ward 3, where American University is located, decisions have yet to be made about its ANCs.  
ANC 3D Commissioner and senior in the School of Public Affairs Christian Damiana said redistricting every decade ensures that SMDs have equal populations. 
“Even though the ANC Single Member District is supposed to have only 2,000 residents, after 10 years that can drastically shift,” Damiana said. “I represent 3D07 which is basically just most of American University’s campus and I represent 500 to 700 people more than I am supposed to.”
Ward councilmembers were responsible for assembling a task force to lead deliberations, so the office of Ward 3 Councilmember Mary Cheh organized a task force comprised of 11 residents who began meeting in January. 
Current ANC commissioners were not eligible for appointment to the task force and Cheh requested that anyone planning to run in ANC elections stay out of the redistricting process, which Damiana believes was the right decision. 
“It’s not right for future candidates to be influencing who the voters in their elections will be,” Damiana said. 
However, former commissioners could be considered for appointment. Ward 3 task force chair Jerry Malitz previously served two terms as a commissioner for ANC 3G05. Malitz said his background as a statistician at the Department of Education helped in assembling a task force that is geographically representative. 
“I actually did a geographic mapping of the addresses of all the people on the task force,” Malitz said. “You can’t accommodate all 30 neighborhoods that are lifted from Ward 3, but I think the 11 people do a very good job representing the geography of Ward 3.” 
The Ward 3 task force will hold meetings through March. The meetings are virtual, open to the public, and can be watched live at 7 p.m. EST on Tuesdays.
In addition to opening their meetings to the public and uploading recordings of proceedings to the task force website, Malitz said the staff of Cheh’s office and the task force members aim to publicize the weekly deliberations to engage with the community throughout the redistricting process. 
The Ward 3 task force has already received emails expressing residents’ concerns about disenfranchisement. 
“Whether they be students or anybody else, we will be taking that very seriously,” Malitz said. “We’re not looking to do anything that disenfranchises any groups that currently have a voice.” 
The task force will have until April 1 to submit their recommendations for ANC and SMD boundaries to the subcommittee. 
“I would anticipate some major changes to the ANC maps,” Damiana said. “I will be working very closely with the task force, and I have already, to get lines drawn that are favorable to AU students.” 
Damiana is currently the only commissioner representing AU students on ANC 3D, but he thinks this could change once redistricting concludes. 
“Next year, there could be two people representing AU which would be really valuable for student representation on the ANC and that will also give another student a really good opportunity to represent their constituents to the D.C. government,” Damiana said.
gharman@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Despite a good battle, American University wrestling lost to Drexel 26-16 on Jan. 30. 
The Eagles took an early blow against Drexel after forfeiting their 125-pound bout due to freshman Max Leete being off-weight on Sunday. An uphill battle followed with notable performances from freshman Jack Maida, junior Tim Fitzpatrick and sophomore Isaac Righter. 
The meet kicked off with an electrifying bout between Maida and Drexel sophomore Jaxon Maroney. The two struggled for dominance in all three periods, but Maida seized victory in the final period by shutting down all of Maroney’s reversal attempts. 
“A lot of young kids find ways to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory,” head coach Jason Borrelli said. “Jack has found a lot of ways to hold onto that victory. There’s a lot of guys who might’ve given up a reversal, or given up a takedown, but he’s real stingy and greedy.” 
Drexel’s Jared Donahue pinned AU sophomore Ethan Szerencsits, giving them a 12-3 lead. With their back on the ropes, AU’s Patrick Ryan faced off against Tyler Williams. Ryan willed an impressive comeback after an early takedown winning the bout by decision 4-2. 
The meet took an unfortunate turn for the Eagles when AU freshman Antonio Segura lost by decision to Parker Kropman, and freshman Breon Phifer suffered a 15-0 technical fall. With the score at 20-6, all eyes were on Fitzpatrick.  
Fitzpatrick and Drexel’s Michael Martinak started the bout on even footing, but the tables flipped when AU’s Wrestler Of The Match scored a takedown deep into the first period. The proceeding periods saw Fitzpatrick dominate the mat with takedown after takedown, winning by major decision. In an extra bout after the meet, Fitzpatrick snagged another win for his record. 
“He’s just a workhorse. Tim is the first one in the room, the last to leave, always stays after with coaches, and he takes lifting seriously,” Borrelli said. “He’s had a lot of struggle this year, but he hasn’t let that get him down, and he’s used all those struggles, all those little close moments, and those tough defeats to find a positive in it.”
Righter pinned Drexel’s Eli Anthony in the final bout of the match, leaving the final score at 26-16. The short but explosive one-period bout was a big win for the Eagles. Despite the team’s loss, Borrelli said he was happy with their performance. 
“The guys, they competed. Our effort, our attitude, and our grit were really more prevalent, and that’s one thing,” Borrelli said. “We went to Michigan a couple of weeks ago and we were really flat. I didn’t see that fight the way I wanted. Today I saw a lot more fight and competitiveness.”
wtimme@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Since I began at American University, I have only heard bad things about the AU Counseling Center, ranging from inconvenient scheduling times to refusing treatment. I have watched many close friends reach out for help with the Counseling Center and are left to deal with their issues on their own. 
The changing dynamic of college presents a time for growth and a time of struggle. For many students, it’s the first time moving to a new city and starting fresh. It can trigger feelings of anxiety, depression and loneliness that would never be experienced at home. Students adapting to living on campus, starting challenging classes and being forced into new social and cultural dynamics are some of the most vulnerable in our community. However, AU and the Counseling Center are not supporting these students.
Over the past week, I surveyed students on social media to see how long it takes students to get an appointment with the Counseling Center when facing a mental health crisis. One response noted that it took over a month to get an introductory appointment. One of my friends experienced a similar timeline of over three weeks, despite dealing with intense and unrelenting mental health issues, including panic attacks. Once she finally got in for an appointment, the Center denied her treatment because her issues were “too long term,” and they referred her elsewhere. After waiting three weeks, she received no treatment and little help. That is unacceptable.
There is clearly a pattern here.
Whether a student has a short or long-term issue, the failure of the University to get them in for an appointment quickly often causes further stress and mental damage. A three-week to month-long barrier dangerously threatens mental health treatment. In my personal experience, a quick turnaround to see a therapist is crucial and the longer the wait, the more issues begin to pile up. Whether it is anxiety attacks or depressive episodes, it is critical that every student has access to help, no matter the severity or timeliness of the issue. Students need a quick starting platform and the University's failure to give it to us is escalating the chances of further damage to our mental health.
The continuation of the Counseling Center's failure to timely attend to students' mental health issues is intolerable. Three weeks to a month to get in for an introductory appointment is too long. The University needs to devote more resources to the Center, especially as we approach another semester partially online. Specifically, it is time for the University Administration to step up and invest some of our valued tuition dollars in our mental health. As students, it is about time to stand up and notify the University that this lack of support is unacceptable and that we deserve more. I urge the student body to email our class senators and councils to have them advocate on our behalf to the University. The time for lack of action is behind us and we now need to remind AU that the mental health of its students should be among its highest priorities.
Sierra Rodriguez is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle.
srodriguez@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
