After a close game, AU beat GW and remains undefeated so far this season. 
The energy in Bender arena on Saturday night could be felt from a mile away. A sea of blue covered every inch of the bleachers, with nearly 2,000 fans in attendance to watch the American University volleyball team take on their cross-town rivals.
Coming off of a Saturday afternoon sweep against the George Mason Patriots, the Eagles were ready for round two. This time, AU was looking to maintain its undefeated record against George Washington University at the 14th annual Bender blue out.
Head coach Barry Goldberg did not want to let his team’s recent victories take away from the games ahead of them. “Every game you play is new. We have to find out who our opponents are and how to be successful against them every game.”
With a serve from GW, the match between the Eagles and Colonials had begun. George Washington started off strong, gaining an early lead of five points over the Eagles. 
However, GW’s lead did not last long. AU’s mascot, Clawed Z. Eagle, led the Blue Crew student section in cheers to keep the energy in favor for their team. “It’s the best feeling ever. That energy helps us win games” senior Inbal Peleg said. 
American fought back hard, and with a kill from graduate student Carlie Fikse and an ace from junior Maya Mrus, the Eagles took the lead.
AU kept the momentum going, going on a five point run, including two kills from senior Zeynep Uzen, to close out the Colonials and win the first set 25-21.
The second set started with energy and an early six point lead for the Eagles. However, the Colonials were not ready to let AU run away with the game. GW fought back from their deficit and tied the game up at 17-17, before pulling away to win the second set 25-21.
The third set began neck and neck, with AU and GW fighting for the lead. The Eagles regained their dominance and grew a 10 point lead, including spectacular contributions from Uzen, senior Onuchi Ndee, Fiske, Peleg and junior Katie Putney, American secured the third set with a score of 25-16.
“The mentality of ‘we are not giving up no matter what the scoreboard shows’ and ‘we are doing this for each other’ is what helped us come back,” Peleg said.
The close competition between the Eagles and Colonials carried into the fourth set, with 13 ties and six lead changes. American grew a small lead over George Washington, almost ending the set at 24-21. However, GW was not finished and went on a 4-0 run to bring the score to 25-24. Freshman Adelina Berisha took the game into her own hands, and with three consecutive kills, the Eagles successfully fought off the Colonials for their third consecutive win.
The win was also the 800th career win for legendary coach Barry Goldberg. In his 34th season, the head coach of the Eagles is an AU Athletics Hall of Famer, a 10-time Coach of the Year and ranks fourth among active NCAA head coaches in career wins.
‘Tonight was just remarkable. It felt great,” Goldberg said. 
The victory and milestone accomplishment for Goldberg was celebrated by confetti and balloons with his team, family and friends.
“We want to win for something that’s bigger than us. We want to win for all the people that are here,” Peleg said.
The Eagles will next face the UMBC Retrievers on Friday night. AU is currently 3-0, and will be looking to defend their undefeated record once more at Bender arena.
Sports@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University will not be offering isolation housing for students living on campus infected with COVID-19, the University announced in an email to students on June 30. 
During the 2021-2022 academic year, the University provided separate hotel rooms for isolation, reserved for on-campus students who tested positive for COVID-19. For the fall 2022 semester, AU will no longer be providing these services, instead recommending students who live on campus and test positive for COVID-19 to isolate in their own rooms. 
Students who live off campus were expected to isolate in place during the 2021-2022 academic year, a policy that will continue into the fall 2022 semester.
University spokespersons Elizabeth Deal and Jasmine Pelaez said the University is following the CDC’s updated guidelines and the practices of other universities. 
“Our updates reflect these same guidelines and students living on campus must self-isolate immediately in the same manner that anyone living off campus would in their personal residence,” Deal said in an email to The Eagle.  
Some universities such as Georgetown University and George Washington University have also stopped providing isolation housing in favor of isolating in place. Others in the area, like Howard University and George Mason University, will continue to provide separate isolation rooms for students living on campus in the case they test positive.
This year, a Communicable Diseases Addendum was added to the 2022-2023 On-Campus Housing Agreement that all students living on campus must sign, pictures of which were obtained by The Eagle. 
“By voluntarily agreeing to reside in on-campus housing, I agree that I may be subject to certain risks to my health resulting from Communicable Diseases, including that the University will not provide isolation housing or amenities for isolating in place beyond standard services provided by the Student Health Center for care and testing services made generally available to the University community,” the addendum said.
The addendum also has an assumption of risk clause which states that, “[by signing] I acknowledge that, by residing in on-campus housing, I may be exposed to risks that result in my illness, personal injury or death… I understand and agree that the University shall not be responsible for any expenses or damages associated with any illness, personal injury or death that may occur and waive any and all liability resulting therefrom.”
While the University does not require students to live in campus housing, most underclassmen and some upperclassmen elect to and are therefore legally bound by this agreement. AU currently has the capacity to house 67 percent of its full time undergraduate population on campus, according to the University’s 2021 Campus Plan.
If a student living on campus receives a positive COVID-19 test result, they are to immediately isolate themselves in their room and submit a self-report form. Throughout the isolation period, the student should be contacted by the AU COVID Student Support Team. 
On either day six or day 11 of their isolation period, they should receive an email from the Student Support Team to release them. If the student is up to date with all COVID-19 vaccinations and booster shots, then they will be released on day 6, as long as they do not have symptoms. They will not be required to take an antigen test, but they will have to wear a mask in public spaces for five days after being released. If a student is not vaccinated, they will be released on day 11.
Students who test positive are urged to inform their professors of their COVID-19-related absences. After submitting a positive test result, students will receive a letter from the Office of the Dean of Students to share with faculty and advisors. 
The University has certain recommendations for student living while isolating. For example, isolating students can receive meals by ordering delivery through GrubHub or by pre-ordering food from the AU Kitchen. Students can leave their rooms for short periods of time to complete necessary tasks such as picking up meals and packages, laundry, medical treatment, further testing, emergency evacuations and to use the restrooms and showers. 
A KN95 mask or equivalent model must be worn by the student at all times when outside of their room and inside of their room if it is a shared space.
In response to a questions about students using communal bathrooms and showers, the University directed The Eagle to the Covid Guide for Residential Students, which says that students with COVID-19 are permitted to leave their rooms to access restrooms. 
Roommates of students who have tested positive for COVID-19 will not be told to isolate but are encouraged to wear a mask and might be asked to get tested. Roommates will not be permitted a separate room during the isolation period.
AU did not answer The Eagle’s question as to whether immunocompromised or otherwise high risk students will be able to receive accommodations for a separate room assignment in order to reduce transmission risk if their roommate tests positive.
In regards to monkeypox, the University has not yet determined what isolation procedures will be.
“We are in the process of determining the isolation protocol for Monkeypox, which has different health parameters than COVID-19,” Pelaez said. “We are working with DC Health and other universities on this matter.”
The University will continue to implement mitigation measures against COVID-19, Pelaez said, including providing free PCR tests via vending machines around campus, requiring proof of vaccination and wearing masks in classrooms.
“It is our hope to reach a point where masks can also be optional in the classroom and we will evaluate this protocol regularly,” Pelaez said.
jyoung@theeagleonline.com, ibrown@theeagleonline.com
Correction: A previous version of this article said that AU did not answer The Eagle's questions about procedures for students living in dorms with communal bathrooms and showers. This article has been updated to include the University's response to The Eagle's question about communal bathrooms and showers. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
"My Beloveds" by Storme Webber
Brutal colonialist practices and white supremacy have suppressed the culture and relationship of Black and Indigenous communities for centuries, leaving many members from younger generations disconnected from their mother tongue, lineage and dual identity. 
To strengthen kinship and acknowledge Black and Indigenous identities, the National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) “Ancestors Know Who We Are” exhibit affirms how Western standards of isolating identities can’t diminish or silence the unified and outspoken connection of the Black-Indigenous community.  
Anya Montiel, curator of the exhibit, brought together the works of six Black-Indigenous women artists who reflect various aspects of intersectionality, the harms of patriarchal oppression and standards and the solidarity between Black and Indigenous communities as they fight for collective liberation. 
The exhibit features artwork from various mediums and includes essays from Black-Indigenous scholars and activists reflecting on topics such as art in relation to gender and identity and Black and Native Futurity — the need to reclaim stolen land and prevent alienation from one’s culture to secure a future for Black and Indigenous communities. 
“In the United States, we often discuss Black and Native peoples as separate groups and peripheral to white people,” said Fariza Nzinga, a teacher-scholar in residence at the Bell Hooks Institute at Berea College. “This narrow framing ignores shared histories, erases blended families, keeps relatives isolated and alienated from one another and falls into the trap of centering the white experience.” 
Moira Pernambuco, one of the artists featured, has illustrated Black and Native academic theory through her photography series "Black Boy Beautiful, Black Boy Vulnerable,” depicting the harmful effects of white patriarchal standards on Black-Indigenous men. 
"Troy" by Moira Pernambuco

In the photograph “Troy,” a man is depicted leisurely sleeping on a bed with his arms crossed over his eyes, displaying a peaceful vulnerability. As a result of targeted police violence and harsh standards for masculinity, putting one’s guard down can be dangerous and life-threatening for Black men. 
Kyle T. Mays, an Afro-Indigenous writer and scholar, reflects on this photograph and relates it to his personal experience: “Looking at the photograph of ‘Troy,’ I am reminded of being told as a young boy that ‘sleep is the cousin of death’... Seldom do we tell Black men to rest and relax, to proactively take care of our bodies and minds. ‘Troy’ reminds us that the act of self-care is, in truth, a masculine act and necessary to the path of resistance.” 
Pernambuco’s photos resist patriarchal standards created by white supremacy and seek to document the history of Black-Indigenous people, since their history has been destroyed by colonizers. Pernambuco said in an interview with the NMAI how she doesn’t know who her African ancestors are and therefore asserts the existence of Black-Indigenous people through her art. 
The artwork of Pernambuco and others displays the importance and necessity of unity across communities to fight for social justice and liberation from white supremacy. “Ancestors Know Who We Are” shows how although history has been erased and stolen from Black-Indigenous people, creators have used art to dismantle Western definitions and hierarchies of race while also celebrating their multiple identities. 
The digital exhibition can be viewed here. 
kbill@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
