“My Policeman” reckons with tough themes of love and infidelity while revealing the true history of police violence against LGBTQ+ community. But Harry Styles's acting distracts from these significant issues.
Set in late 1950s Britain, Tom (Styles), a police officer, sets his eyes on Marion (Emma Corrin), a schoolteacher. However, when Tom meets Patrick, a lonely museum curator (David Dawson), Tom falls in love with him. As a police officer, Tom’s supervisors encourage him to marry to help him move up in rank. Tom and Marion marry while he and Patrick continue their secret love affair. 
Throughout these experiences, Tom, Patrick and Marion develop a solid friendship amongst the three of them, and Patrick begins accompanying Tom and Marion on their dates. As Tom and Patrick’s secret romance ramps up, Patrick and Marion take a liking to each other because they are both interested in art.
Corrin and Dawson clearly outperform Styles. Styles severely limits the film’s potential with his lack of acting prowess. In one scene, Tom stumbles home to Patrick drunk in a moment meant to elicit a strong emotional response from the audience. But Styles’s drunken acting sucks all the air from the moment, creating a sequence that’s more likely to leave viewers confused rather than entranced.
Many moments in Tom and Patrick’s relationship mirror scenes between Jack (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Rose (Kate Winslet) in “Titanic.” In one scene, Patrick invites Tom to his home to sketch a portrait of him. This scene is a clear nod to a famous moment between Jack and Rose and is a great way to demonstrate the feeling of falling in love. 
Although “My Policeman” makes clear use of tried-and-true genre tropes, it also brings new and important elements to the table, particularly through its commentary on the history of police violence in the LGBTQ+ community. Set only 10 years before the Stonewall Riots in the U.S, the film plays with the irony of Tom’s career as a police officer and his affair with Patrick. Including scenes with police violence sufficiently shows the sad truth behind their story. Tom hides his relationship with Patrick and stands by as his fellow officers arrest and beat citizens on account of so-called public indecency, general terminology used to demonize the LGBTQ+ community.
At the same time, “My Policeman” grapples with the tension between desire and infidelity because viewers who root for the passionate love affair between Tom and Patrick make an unexpected antagonist out of Marion. She seems naive for pursuing Tom and their less than passionate relationship, and she makes a mistake that makes her unlikable to the viewer. The fact that viewers are meant to sympathize with Marion adds another layer of complexity to the already thorny relationship dynamics between her, Tom and Patrick. Tom struggles to show any form of affection for her, and when they meet, the spark that exists between Tom and Patrick is absent.
Marion’s career as a schoolteacher puts her in a special spot because she is also fighting societal standards. Tom hopes Marion will take the role of a stereotypical ‘50s housewife who cooks, cleans and contributes to the household. This contradiction adds more irony because he is also breaking societal norms with his affair. 
While Styles’ questionable and at times even laughable performance is hard to overlook, “My Policeman” ultimately raises a lot of timely questions by viewing them through the lens of the recent past. In spite of the film’s shortcomings, the relationship between Tom, Patrick and Marion force viewers to ponder the definition of a meaningful relationship.
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Local small businesses and district residents alike had an opportunity to come together to celebrate the start of autumn at the Georgetown Fall Harvest Festival on Oct. 15 and 16. 
Participants enjoyed sidewalk shopping, outdoor dining and fall-themed programming. In the spirit of the season, the market sold caramel apples and had pumpkin and face painting. Rachel Shank, the executive director at Georgetown Main Street, organized the festival in response to small local businesses asking for a fall-themed market to support their growth.
“Georgetown Main Street said, ‘We are here for you, we will host this event for you,’” Shank said. 
Shank organized the street market following the same structure as the popular annual Georgetown French Market, which Georgetown Main Street holds every spring in partnership with the Business Improvement District.
Several vendors that participated have storefronts in Georgetown and benefitted from the exposure the Fall Harvest Festival brought to their shop. Some of the participating small businesses included L’Enfant Gallery, Patisserie Poupon and Pretty Chic DC. Shank also brought in larger brands like SCOUT Bags, a national company whose headquarters is in Georgetown. 
Shank sold caramel apples from her own stand so she could interact with attendees and offer them a fall treat.
“We wanted something that was fall themed, but that no one else would be selling so we wouldn't be competitive,” she said.
Families and students alike attended the market. Children enjoyed the live music from local artists and baked goods from Patisserie Poupon. As autumn leaves decorated the sidewalk, adults enjoyed the alcoholic beverage options at Bacchus Wine Cellar. 
Micehla Badro and Elif Kamber, two students from Georgetown University, said they both enjoyed the festival. 
“Me and my friends wanted something fall-related, so we thought to look up events on Eventbrite and we saw this,” Badro said. 
“It just felt like it was a good opportunity and it's a beautiful day,” Kamber said. 
This was the inaugural Georgetown Fall Harvest Festival, but Shank plans to continue it as an annual October tradition. Pop-up markets in D.C. give local brick-and-mortar businesses the opportunity to stand out amongst larger businesses and corporations and are a great opportunity for community members, young and old, to come together to celebrate the changing of seasons, allowing residents to shop small and sustainably. 
rgillis@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The American University Eagles (9-7) lost to the Lehigh University Mountain Hawks (12-7) in the Patriot League semifinal on Nov. 3. 
The score of 2-1 was decided by two overtime periods and a nine-round shootout. This loss marks the end of American’s season. Emily Horace scored the lone regulation goal for the Eagles.
The game began with two close scoring chances for the Eagles that went just out of bounds near the goals. These were the best shots AU got the entire quarter, and possession was back and forth between the Eagles and Mountain Hawks. Lehigh midfielder Sarah Bonthuis received a green card, the first of five cards given out in this highly penalized game. 
The second quarter featured just one shot from Lehigh, and neither team scored. The large crowd of fans for both teams was not deterred by the lack of action and cheered for their teams throughout.
The third quarter kicked off with a goal for Lehigh by Bonthuis just two and a half minutes into the quarter. The Eagles then received the first penalty corner of the game but were unable to get past the Mountain Hawks strong defense. The cards continued into the second half for American, but Lehigh was unable to score while possessing the player advantage.
Entering the final quarter down 1-0, AU received its second penalty corner of the game two minutes in. Horace nailed in the tying goal off of an assist by senior defender Charllene Boshoff. The Eagles received one more penalty corner this quarter, but they were unsuccessful in taking the lead. The fourth quarter concluded with a 1-1 tie. Before this game, American had only been to overtime once this season, beating the Lafayette University Leopards 2-1 in overtime on Sept. 17. 
The first overtime period featured two penalty corners for Lehigh, but they were unable to score on junior goalkeeper Bryn Underwood and AU’s tough defense. Aside from an unsuccessful penalty corner by American, both teams’ strong defensive performances continued to stifle all offense and kept the game stuck at a 1-1 standstill. 
Thanks to the unrelenting tie, a shootout was implemented to decide a winner. Both teams shot on the same goal and had all eyes on them as the whole crowd moved down to watch closely. 
After the first set of five shots for each team, the game remained locked as only sophomore midfielder Tayla-Jade Weiss and Lehigh defender Guusje Hogendoorn scored. Underwood and Lehigh goalkeeper Maddie Kahn maintained their shutdown play they had been exhibiting all game. Following the tie in the best-of-five shootout, the shootout switched to a sudden victory format. 
Sudden death continued for three scoreless rounds. In the ninth round, freshman midfielder Agustina Roffo shot first and missed. Lehigh midfielder Julia Gatelein lined up to face Underwood and scored, putting an end to the game after more than 80 minutes of play. 
The Lehigh team swarmed Gatelein and Kahn, their heroes in this battle. On AU’s side of the field, friends and teammates hugged to mourn the end of their season and the end of the departing seniors’ college careers. 
pjennings@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A discrimination lawsuit filed against American University and the Metropolitan Police Department by alumna Gianna Wheeler has been dismissed. Wheeler filed the suit against the University in 2020 after being forcibly removed from her apartment in 2019 by AU Police Department and MPD officers. 
“American University is committed to the safety, security, and well-being of all students and the entire university community,” said Wheeler’s representatives, the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs, in a statement. 
The statement said that Wheeler and the University have “mutually resolved” the lawsuit against the University. It also said Wheeler reached a settlement with MPD regarding the same incident.
“To that end, the University will retain a third party consultant to assist with its regular periodic review of its policies and procedures regarding its responses to reports of situations involving students having social, emotional, behavior, or medical difficulties which may involve wellness checks and involuntary hospitalizations,” said the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs.
The University has not yet provided any further information about who they will hire as third party consultants for periodic reviews of its policies and procedures. 
“This matter has been resolved to the mutual satisfaction of all the parties involved,” University spokesperson Elizabeth Deal wrote in an email to The Eagle. “As noted in the statement, American University supports the safety, security, and well-being of community members.”
Wheeler was forcibly removed from her residence in the Frequency Apartments in 2019 after four AUPD and three MPD officers arrived at her residence to conduct a welfare check and determined she needed to be hospitalized for mental health reasons. In addition to being hospitalized for days, Wheeler was also suspended from the University and forced to defend her actions before a University panel.
Wheeler brought forth a discrimination suit in 2020 against the University, Dean of Students Jeffrey Brown and all of the officers involved in her seizure, alleging disability discrimination and violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Rehabilitation Act and the D.C. Human Rights Act. 
Wheeler and her lawyers also disputed the evidence that the defendants presented in support of Wheeler’s suspension and the “mental-health” seizure, which AUPD and MPD officers conducted without a warrant but argued was still lawful. 
Wheeler offered additional facts of her own, including statements from the officers themselves from their body cam footage that she argued undermined the rationale for her seizure. 
The U.S. District Court granted discovery in the lawsuit earlier this year, allowing both parties to gather more information in preparation for trial. 
Wheeler and the defendants had been in mediation since May of this year. Wheeler and the MPD defendants filed a Joint Stipulation of Dismissal on Sept. 14 to dismiss the claims brought forth against the MPD “with prejudice and with each party to bear their own costs and fees.”
Wheeler and the AU defendants then filed a Joint Stipulation of Dismissal on Oct. 13. The U.S. District Court officially dismissed claims brought forth against the University with prejudice on Oct. 14. 
ibrown@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
