Five men’s and women’s basketball games have been canceled or postponed during the 2021-22 basketball season as the Omicron variant of the coronavirus spreads across the country. 
The American University women’s basketball team (7-3) has been hit hardest by postponements due to COVID-19. The Eagles’ game against Lafayette (5-6) Jan. 2 and Lehigh (9-3) Dec. 30 were both postponed because of COVID-19 protocols within the other universities’ programs, and AU’s contest against Howard University (5-6) Dec. 21 was canceled after the HBCU paused all women’s basketball activities. 
The men’s basketball team has also had problems with COVID-19 impacting the team. AU postponed the men’s basketball game (4-9) game against Lafayette College (3-8) Jan. 4 due to COVID-19 protocols within AU, according to an AU press release. The Lafayette postponement is the second schedule change for the men’s basketball team this year. AU’s game against Siena College Dec. 28 was canceled due to multiple AU players testing positive for the coronavirus.
AU does not disclose how many athletes test positive for COVID-19, according to Associate Director of Athletics for External Relations David Bierwirth. Bierwirth said postponement or cancellation of games is determined by how many AU athletes test positive over a seven-day period, but did not say what the threshold for cancellation or postponement was.
AU and Lafayette are currently in talks to reschedule both men’s and women’s games, according to Associate Director of Athletics Communications Tommy Bennett, and a Lehigh press release said that AU and Lehigh were also discussing rescheduling. 
AU, Lafayette and Lehigh are all part of the Patriot League, and according to Article 14 of 2021-22 Patriot League Policy and Procedures Manual, Patriot League games must take precedence over non-conference competitions, and if schools cannot agree on a new date, the Patriot League will make the final decision.
Bennett said the Siena game was canceled because the schedules of both universities did not match up, and the game was not as important as Patriot League play. 
The men’s basketball team is still set to play Colgate Jan. 7 and the women’s basketball team is scheduled to face Colgate Jan. 5. Postponement of AU spring athletics is not under consideration, Bierwirth said.
bmorse@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
TV, Films and Food is a series dedicated to recreating the most iconic dishes of TV and film. Join The Eagle in cooking up these classic recipes.
Dogs and their obsession with food is a classic combination, but The Eagle’s recipe for the iconic spaghetti dish from “Lady and the Tramp” takes on a twist of its own with vegetarian meatballs. 
While “Lady and the Tramp” isn’t centered around food, unlike other films such as “Ratatouille,” the most cherished and romantic moment in the film is a carb load. The whimsical scene where Lady and Tramp share a heartfelt meal of meatballs and spaghetti is only a few minutes long but is one of the most memorable in the film. 
Spaghetti and meatballs are a standard of many Italian restaurants, however, many restaurants have begun to offer vegetarian and vegan alternatives as well. In an attempt to do more for the environment, I tried to incorporate more veggie-based goodness in my daily menu. Achieving the appropriate amount of veggies has been a struggle for me in college, yet this recipe makes it easier to get the right portions.
Homemade vegetarian “meatballs” are a challenge. The new creation was dubbed “veggie balls” and the main ingredients consist of cauliflower, quinoa and panko or gluten-free breadcrumbs.
Cooking the cauliflower florets is the hardest step, as making sure the vegetables are not overcooked is essential to the recipe’s success. I would recommend pre-steamed cauliflower or cauliflower rice instead. In the process of steaming, testing every few minutes is essential to make sure the cauliflower doesn’t become overcooked.
Once this step is complete, a food processor helps create a smoother texture of the meatballs, though the food processor isn’t necessary to complete the recipe. Since I did not have a food processor on the scene, I had to chop and mash the ingredients instead.
Next, I combined other ingredients such as the eggs, spices — in addition to cumin, a pinch of thyme is also great — and panko breadcrumbs.
Before placing the veggie balls in the oven, I made sure to top each ball with a dash of olive oil. Since many of the ingredients are considered dry foods, like quinoa and panko breadcrumbs, the olive oil holds together the dry texture of the veggie ball.
This recipe makes for 10 plus servings, which results in about 50 veggie balls altogether. 
As for pasta, most grocery stores have a large variety of noodles. For this selection, I used gluten-free Good & Gather Spaghetti. In addition, pre-made tomato and basil sauce was an easier selection. This step helped eliminate making a marinara, or red sauce from scratch, which was the same sauce used in the film.
In final preparations, I topped this dish with parmesan cheese, resulting in a delightful combination of spices and appetizing crunch crumbles of quinoa and panko. 
The crunchy veggie balls are sure to leave you full for several hours due to their delicious density and zesty spices. This dish combines harmonious tastes of tomato, basil, parmesan and quinoa resulting in glorious flavors reminiscent of the romantic “Lady and the Tramp” scene. Once bit into a veggie ball will whisk you away to Italy, or your favorite Italian restaurant down the street. 
pmcgee@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Near Union Market lies Neal Place NE, a row of unassuming gray-brick buildings — with one exception. The bright orange and pink exterior walls of the Disco DC exhibit reflects the vibrancy of the space inside, which currently features an exhibit curated by Justin “Yaddiya” Johnson, commonly known as Yaddi. Through his art, he works to preserve and revive Go-Go music: a key component of D.C.’s Black culture. 
Yaddi’s exhibit highlights how the expression of joy can act as a vehicle for social change, and this joy derived from art acts as the foundation for solidarity, creating an experience the D.C. community can bond over. 
A musical movement that started in the 70’s, the Go-Go genre was born in D.C. and linked to Chuck Brown, who is considered to be the founder of Go-Go music. Go-Go music relies on a call and response method, inviting the audience to respond to the singer and become a part of the art being created. 
In February 2020, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser signed legislation that made Go-Go the official music of D.C. Rodney Carmicheal, NPR’s hip-hop correspondent, commented on the legislation in an interview with NPR, “They're trying to uphold the culture. You know, cultural erasure is really, that last rail of gentrification.”
And Go-Go music has been used throughout its history to fight against gentrification and efforts to silence Black culture. In 2017, a controversial piece of legislation titled the Amplified Noise Bill aimed to ban street performances that exceeded a certain noise level, directly threatening Go-Go music. This sparked a series of protests as people sought to protect their culture and music. 
These protests were the catalyst for Yaddi becoming involved in preserving Go-Go music, he said in an interview with District Fray Magazine how his involvement in Go-Go music increased after he was asked to emcee a protest.
The Disco D.C. space’s disco balls that fill the ceiling reflect onto the vibrant yellow and purple walls, making for a great place to dance and create music. Drums, tambourines and other percussion instruments invite the audience to play along as Go-Go music plays in the background. 
The “Disco to the Go-Go” exhibit combines visual art, film and music, displaying the power of combining different mediums to create a joyful and immersive experience. The audience simultaneously consumes the art and is the art, displaying how the Go-Go music genre and movement is truly one led and created by the community. 
The Disco DC exhibit is available to the public with free admission Thursday through Sunday from 12 p.m.- 5 p.m. 
kbill@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
