Palestinian writer and spoken word poet Ghadeer Malek shared her work in an online event hosted by American University’s Arab World Studies and Georgetown University's Center for Contemporary Arab Studies on Nov. 1.  
During the discussion moderated by AU Director of Arab World Studies Irene Calis, Malek talked about tackling subjects like displacement, feminism and settler-colonialism as a Palestinian woman. The talk also included poets Shano Mohammed, a Georgetown student in the Master of Arts in Arab Studies program, and AU student Satreen Hendi.  
The event is the second installment of the online speaker series, “Palestine: Land, Life, Dignity,” a collaborative initiative aimed at centering anti-colonial struggles and protecting similar stories from erasure. Malek said portraying this reality and relating it to a larger picture is the basis of her work.  
“What drove me to poetry was the need to express ourselves as Palestinians in particular,” Malek said at the event. “I always joke around with my friends that Palestinians are gaslit from the moment they’re born in the sense that … we’re born into a reality in which [our experience of colonialism] is completely erased.”  
Malek added that poetry, specifically spoken word, has become a vehicle for expressing her anger and resilience at the damage colonialism has inflicted on Palestinian and other Indigenous communities.  
“A lot of my voice at the beginning came out as rants because I was angry as a young Palestinian; angry at the world, angry at colonization,” she said. “I wanted my voice to be heard … and that sort of anger was channeled into spoken word.”  
Born in Palestine, Malek immigrated to Canada in 2003 to study at the University of Toronto, where she became active in student movements supporting Palestinian causes. Her body of work includes the poems “I Exist,” “Revolution to My Earth” and the anthology book “Min Fami: Arab Feminist Reflections of Identity, Space & Resistance,” a collection of writing from multiple authors. Malek said having multiple voices was an integral part of the book.  
“The more voices that come to the table the better they are,” she said, adding that gathering writers from various religious and cultural backgrounds helped her form a community. “That’s why I’m very proud of ‘Min Fami’ … I don’t feel like I’m a single voice talking on my own.”  
In an example of gathering different voices, Mohammed and Hendi both shared poems about overcoming cultural and institutional barriers. Mohammed, who was born in Iraqi Kurdistan, recited her poem about the limitations placed on women in the Middle, East and Sateen delivered a poem centered around the death of Shireen Abu Akleh, a Palestinian journalist killed by Israeli police in May.  
“This is one of my process pieces where I start with an idea or a phrase or something and see where it takes me,” Hendi said. “I talk about the frustration of what it feels like to have to deal with the trauma and the pain of experiencing that situation in real time while also trying to convince people to care about it.”  
While spreading awareness about difficult topics is a central part of her work, Malek said she still grapples with self-doubt about her identity and qualifications as a writer.  
“It’s always a lot of questions and a lot of hesitations in the sense that there’s always a voice underneath our voice … there’s always another voice there questioning,” she said. “I like to call that voice the doubtful voice, the colonizer’s voice, the oppressor’s voice telling us that we’re not good enough.”  
Malek said she combats these feelings by reminding herself, and other Palestinian activists, that her lived experience is more powerful than her doubts. 
“Follow that voice of what you know, because when you write about what you know, the hesitations will still be there … but you can override that voice because you know something that voice doesn’t know, which is that you’re Palestinian,” she said. “Always acknowledge that that voice will come, but you have an inherent knowledge that you can tap into.”  
mfishel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Adams Morgan Partnership Business Improvement District hosted their third Pedestrian Zone of 2022 on Oct. 23. Local businesses, performers and artists gathered on 18th Street Northwest between Kalorama Road NW and Columbia Road NW, which were blocked off for the event by the Metropolitan Police Department.
The Pedestrian Zone was an extension of Mayor Muriel Bowser’s 2020 street closure program, which intended to boost economic recovery from the losses suffered during the coronavirus pandemic. The event was made possible by Streets for People, a program that aims to expand public spaces and open the streets to pedestrians and cyclists.
“I think the public loves it, but what we need the public to do is to come and spend money,” Kristen Barden, the executive director of AMPBID, said in an interview with The Eagle.
Barden said each Pedestrian Zone faced unique challenges; two suffered from bad weather and one had to compete with Labor Day weekend. She said that AMPBID added more programming to the third event to boost foot traffic.
The event took place from 12 p.m. to 10 p.m. and included a balloon artist, a live-drawn chalk mural and a swing dance class. AMPBID also hosted exclusive events, including a fashion show run by local vendors and a pet costume contest. The third special event was a partnership with D.C. Arts Center, who hosted The Big Draw, a worldwide event aimed at encouraging art.
“We have a storefront here on 18th Street but we’re on the second floor so unless someone’s entering into the space it’s hard,” said DCAC Executive Director Sean Elias. “But being out on the street with everyone and meeting the community face to face is so exciting.”
Roofers Union is an 18th Street bar and restaurant along the Pedestrian Zone. Brian Kavanagh, the bar’s manager, said that there was an uptick in business on the street.
“We opened the patio at Roofers Union on purpose on these Sundays, and we normally would not do that, but we think it’s important to be part of the community and be engaged in these events.”
Kavanagh is also the vice president of the Adams Morgan Day committee and the Adams Morgan Community Alliance, and he regularly attends AMPBID meetings. He said that some businesses have concerns about street closure events. Businesses that are delivery-only or rely partially on delivery services struggle with road closures. Additionally, some expressed a sense of unease about the high MPD presence. 
“We have a Metropolitan Police presence that has been called by restaurants and businesses very obtrusive,” Kavanagh said. “And the way that they have flashing lights and are trying to take over the patio and not letting people in, for them that’s protocol but for us it makes it look kind of like a crime scene.”
Barden felt this year’s Pedestrian Zone was successful. 
“Some businesses did very well and did better than a typical Sunday. Most businesses saw an uptick in foot traffic and sales but there are still some inconsistencies,” she said.
When asked for comment, the D.C. Office of Planning told The Eagle via email, “Streets for People events throughout the city have attracted tens of thousands of visitors and supported dozens of businesses in the District’s downtown.” 
The Office of Planning is currently working with grantees to collect information on event attendance and the impact on businesses.
The Pedestrian Zone was originally intended to last longer. Barden said that AMPBID had proposed hosting a Pedestrian Zone once per month from Friday night to Sunday afternoon. However, AMPBID works with the D.C. Office of Planning and MPD to shut down the street for these events. MPD staffing shortages limited them to certain weekends when there were no overlapping events.
AMPBID was awarded a $525,000 grant from the American Rescue Plan. They said that 75 percent of the money was designated for infrastructure improvements. They plan to install infrastructure with a retractable, crash-rated cable to prevent traffic during street closure events without having to rely entirely on the MPD.
Barden also said that AMPBID is in the process of negotiating the installation with the D.C. Department of Transportation. If they can get the permits by Dec. 31, their funds will roll over and they can install the infrastructure in the spring of 2023. The Office of Planning also said that they will be offering a new round of grants for Streets for People programs.
Barden is optimistic that AMPBID will receive the permits to build the cables on time and host more Pedestrian Zone events in the spring of 2023.
“We are working to make sure it works well for most of the businesses,” she said. “This was a pilot program so we can tweak it and make it better for the Spring 2023.”
Despite concerns, Kavanagh is also strongly in favor of more street closure events. He said that if the Pedestrian Zone can become a regularized, well-advertised event, then it will be easier for businesses to plan for and profit from it. 
“I think it’s an unalloyed good that we do this and we do reclaim the streets,” Kavanaugh said. “I think that the businesses also have to be reactive to it in terms of product, in terms of staffing, in terms of engagement with the community. Neighbors are always going to complain about something, but they also like walking to a restaurant or a wine bar or a pharmacy that’s right next to them. And that’s what a neighborhood looks like, especially one of the most vibrant neighborhoods in D.C.”
news@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
D.C.’s major power players won big in the midterm elections Tuesday, as Mayor Muriel Bowser, Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton and D.C. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson were all reelected with overwhelming support.
Ward 3 D.C. Council
In Ward 3, which includes American University, Democrat Matthew Frumin cruised to victory in the D.C. Council race, defeating Republican David Krucoff by a margin of over 52 percentage points, according to preliminary results from the D.C. Board of Elections.
Frumin will replace retiring Councilmember Mary Cheh, who has held the seat since 2007. 
In a statement posted on social media, Frumin called his election “a dream come true.” He praised the candidates he defeated — nearly a dozen people ran in the Democratic primary — and pledged to help make the city “as safe, welcoming and green as it can be.”
Krucoff, who won the endorsement of The Washington Post but gained little traction among residents, congratulated Frumin on Twitter Wednesday. A self-described moderate Republican, Krucoff had tried convincing voters they should send a “passionately pragmatic” conservative voice to the entirely Democratic Council. 
Advisory Neighborhood Commissions
It will take several days to know who won the two ANC seats on AU’s campus. Neither district had any candidate on the ballot, but there appeared to be at least one write-in candidate for each seat: freshman Micah Rogers in 3E07 and sophomore Rohin Ghosh in 3E08.
Board of Elections data showed just three votes cast in 3E07 and 12 votes cast in 3E08. Because the elections board does not distinguish write-in votes by name in its preliminary results, it was not immediately clear whether Rogers or Ghosh were elected.
Initiative 82
One of the most hotly contested ballot measures was Initiative 82, which passed with 74 percent of the vote, according to preliminary data. This measure will alter the way tipped workers are paid in the district. The minimum wage will be incrementally increased for tipped employees each year until 2027 — it is currently at $5.35 — to match that of non-tipped employees, which is at $16.10. Prior to the initiative, employers were required by law to make up for their workers’ pay if the tips didn't reach minimum wage. 
Opponents raised concerns the initiative would hurt small and independent restaurants and bars especially after the pandemic. Additionally, many restaurants may implement service charges, leaving customers less likely to tip. Proponents argued the two-tiered wage system makes income too unpredictable and is inherently problematic, forcing workers to rely on strangers' biases as they decide how much to tip. 
Board of Education
Eric Goulet appeared on track to secure the Board of Education seat for Ward 3 against Michael Sriqui with nearly 54 percent of the vote as of Thursday morning, according to the D.C. Board of Elections. Current BOE seatholder Ruth Wattenberg did not run for reelection. 
After losing in the primary for Ward 3 Council earlier this year, Goulet launched his campaign for BOE and was endorsed by The Washington Post. Sriqui is a current ANC commissioner from the Palisades in District 3D04. His campaign was heavily focused on the fact that he was the only candidate with children enrolled in D.C. public schools; Goulet’s children attend private school. 
At-large
In the competitive race for an at-large D.C. Council seat, Ward 5 Councilmember Kenyan McDuffie ousted the incumbent progressive Councilmember Elissa Silverman by a three point margin.
The race was one of the most closely watched in the district. McDuffie, who represents Ward 5 as a Democrat, left the party to compete for the at-large seat as an independent after a judge found him unqualified to run for attorney general. Silverman conceded Wednesday night when a newly counted batch of mail-in ballots made McDuffie’s lead too large to close.
Democrat Brian Schwalb won the attorney general’s race unopposed, and at-large Democratic Councilmember Anita Bonds was also reelected. The at-large race allowed voters to choose two candidates among the eight on the ballot.
gcastroroot@theeagleonline.com 
ahatting@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As we find ourselves at the mid-semester mark, many freshmen, including myself, are moving past the “honeymoon phase” of the first weeks of college. With this comes the realization that American University, the alleged most liberal university in the U.S., is still a money-hungry, capitalist institution. 
It’s no secret that we are paying an arm and a leg in tuition and room and board, not to mention books and various other fees. Just a few weeks ago, Housing and Residence Life announced a new egregious policy, stating that “students will now be allotted two lockout requests per semester and, on the third request, will be charged an administrative fee of $25 per lockout.” This news further amplifies the commonly asked first-year question: where is our money going? 
After a five percent tuition increase this year, the thousands of dollars we already pay evidently do not guarantee freshmen a pleasant living environment. As a resident of the infamous Letts Hall, I can attest to the many things that wrongly slip through the cracks. 
In the first two months on campus, residents of Letts have experienced mold in the already empty soap dispensers;fleas in the south side of the building; faulty showers that lead to students standing in two inches of water because they don’t drain; out-of-order laundry rooms for days on end; 80 degree rooms; and stoves that only work occasionally, just to name a few. Instead of using the money that we pay to live here to fix those things, AU decided to implement yet another unnecessary cost for students who simply make a mistake and forget their One Card. 
From the get-go, the idea behind this policy is flawed. No students, especially first-years who are still getting used to carrying their ID everywhere, are intentionally getting locked out of their rooms. A potential $25 fee is not going to cross every student's mind each time they exit their room, magically deterring them from mistakenly leaving their One Card behind. Not to mention there are extenuating circumstances that may arise that require students to leave their room in a rush and possibly forget their One Card, such as the multitude of fire alarms that go off every week. 
This is not just an issue of an unjustifiably explained fee; it also does not take into account the financial implications that this may have on students. Many students who attend AU are making extreme financial sacrifices to receive their education from this school. In fact, Ohio State University’s National Student Financial Wellness study found that 70 percent of college students are financially stressed. With  An extra $25 could be the difference between making tuition payments on time or not, or a trip to the grocery store to avoid consuming rock hard mystery meat from TDR. No student should have to undergo even more financial stress than is already present when attending a school with increased tuition costs simply for slipping up three times.  
There is an extreme lack of transparency between HRL and the AU administration with the students. Where are the thousands of dollars we spend on housing going if not to ensure we have basic necessities available to us? Where would this $25 fee end up after the students pay it? This is a flagrant cash grab on behalf of AU. No student should ever be expected to pay in order to be allowed back into the room that we already pay for. Instead of creating flawed policies that have no measurable benefit, the University should focus on using the money we already pay to fix the things that actually negatively impact students. 
Alice Still is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and an opinion columnist for The Eagle. 
astill@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
