Students expressed concerns about American University’s coronavirus response at a virtual question and answer session hosted by Student Government President Chyna Brodie Monday.
At Monday’s event, Brodie answered student questions about the University’s planned operations for the three upcoming weeks of remote learning.
“Going off of conversations that I had with D.C. Health, we’re going to be experiencing a surge [of Omicron cases] within the next two and a half, three weeks,” Brodie said. 
In the last days of 2021, D.C.’s COVID-19 case count increased dramatically, with approximately 2,000 new infections being confirmed daily. Brodie said that her conversations with the D.C. Department of Health indicated that students can expect in-person operations to resume once this projected spike in cases dwindles. 
Brodie said that students can expect to receive an email from administrators around Jan. 20 with updates about class modality for the rest of the semester, but said that she expects “a very low likelihood” of fully remote classes continuing past Jan. 30. 
Concerns about testing procedures
Many students in attendance at the event raised questions about the administration’s response to a petition started by AU’s Disabled Student Union, which is asking the University to implement mandatory testing for all students at least twice a month.
Brodie said that, because the University facilitates its testing through the external party ShieldT3, biweekly testing of every student on campus could “overwhelm the system.”
“We will have some form of routine testing when everyone gets back this January, but I do not want to promise that in a school of over 8,000 kids, everyone will be getting tested every two weeks,” Brodie said. 
DSU’s petition referenced a number of other universities that currently do require their students to undergo more frequent testing, including George Washington University. Brodie said that these universities have a higher testing capacity because most received federal or state funding to develop their own testing centers and labs.
“Each and every one of these universities leads back to extensive in-house testing or an extensive in-house lab,” Brodie said.
Nearby Gallaudet University also administers its testing through a partnership with ShieldT3 and mandates weekly testing for its roughly 1,000-person student body.
Some students at the event pushed back on Brodie’s response to the petition, questioning the University’s commitment to addressing the disabled community’s concerns, as well as Brodie’s commitment to advocating for what students are asking for to the administration.
“Disabled students deserve better,” DSU President Katherine Greenstein wrote in the chatbox.
According to a comment in the chatbox from junior Stacia Tomlinson, one of Brodie’s cabinet members who helped to facilitate the event, SG is “working with the Faculty Senate and administration to provide as many accommodations for students that do not feel comfortable on campus.”
Some students also raised concerns about the availability of the testing center, such as having longer hours and keeping the center open on weekends. 
Brodie recommended that any student with concerns about the University’s testing policy contact Fanta Aw, the vice president of campus life and inclusive excellence. 
Students question cost and benefit
Brodie said that, based on conversations she has had with University administrators, students should not count on having any portion of their tuition refunded for the spring semester.
“Last time we received a discount was when we went online for a full year, and that discount was only 10 percent,” Brodie said, referring to the University’s tuition reduction for the fully remote fall 2020 semester.
In-person living and learning in January
While students who need to access laboratory spaces for capstone projects or research work will be able to, Brodie said the majority of learning until Jan. 30 will be conducted virtually to mitigate infection rates.
“Exposure in in-person lectures definitely played a significant role in contact tracing as you all saw throughout the [fall] semester,” Brodie said.
Brodie said that she is working with administrators to assist students who are not located in the Eastern Standard Time zone, including international students.
Residence halls will reopen on Jan. 6, as scheduled before the announcement of remote classes. Students are still allowed to return to their dorms on this date. However, in its Dec. 28 announcement, the University encouraged students to stay home because “it may be more convenient for isolating … or for participating in online classes.”
Some attendees raised concerns about whether students will follow social distancing guidelines and other public health recommendations once back in their residence halls.
“We can’t control the decisions of individuals who choose to ignore public health guidelines,” Brodie said. “Dorms are opening because … students have the right to access their dorms.”
For any students who left essential belongings in their dorms before leaving for winter break but do not plan to return to campus before Jan. 30, Brodie said they can contact their residence hall staff to inquire about having items shipped to their homes.
For dining, Brodie said that “a majority” of campus facilities will be accessible for grab-and-go service. Dining locations will offer to-go boxes for students to take their food home.
For students who do not plan on returning to campus before Jan. 30, Brodie said that she is discussing the possibility of introducing another meal swipe donation program with administrators.
Brodie told students to expect an email providing more specific details about dining modifications from the administration within the coming days.
Brodie said that University buildings will open before Jan. 30. The library will operate on modified hours, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily. The University’s shuttle buses will also continue to run during this period. 
Both the Cassell and Jacobs Fitness Centers will also be open to students. Brodie said that this measure was taken because, for some students, a lack of access to exercise facilities “represents a deterioration of their mental health.”
Brodie encouraged members of club sports to contact AU RecFit for information about whether their teams will be permitted to practice before Jan. 30. 
Brodie advised Federal Work-Study recipients to contact their supervisors for information about remote job modalities. She confirmed that desk receptionists will still be required to work in person.
Brodie said that the University will be offering free KN95 masks to students before in-person classes resume.
As the University prepares for another semester amid the pandemic, Brodie encouraged students to contact her via email at president@ausg.org with any concerns that they have.
“I don’t want anyone in our community to feel anxious, unheard or unseen,” Brodie said. 
kcorliss@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Deeply rooted in the American mythos, Wim Wenders’ 1984 film “Paris, Texas” is a gripping drama about a man seemingly pulled out of thin air. The only thing he can remember from the past four years is a mysterious plot of land and a name: Paris, Texas.
Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) is picked out of the desert in a fugue state by his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell), who takes him back to Los Angeles where Walt and his wife Anne (Aurore Clément) have taken custody of Travis’ son, Hunter (Hunter Carson). In order to reignite Travis’ memory, the family watches an old home video of a day at the beach. Here, the mystery of Travis starts to unravel. He was happily married to a woman named Jane (Nastassja Kinski), but after watching this video, we can’t help but wonder what happened. They were clearly in love; they had a child together and even bought a property together in Paris, Texas. What could have caused Travis to walk out on that?
From the very first shot of the Southwestern landscape, Wenders demonstrates the supernatural nature of the West, a landscape that is a vast and open space, full of wonder and opportunity. The camera lingers on the mundane and ordinary, giving even the plainest objects the reverence they deserve. Now obsolete phone booths, a staple of 1980’s America, become a lifeline of communication in the unknown. Roadside motels and diners are deified by the camera, providing the basis needed for a continuing journey. This creates a strong sense of nostalgia for a rapidly disappearing time in American history, a time before cell phones and constant connectivity.
Together Hunter and Travis embark on a beautifully shot odyssey through the Southwest to reunite with Jane, who is later found working at a gentlemen's club. The club is hallmarked by private booths with a one-way mirror separating the client from the performer. These rooms are reminiscent of confessional booths common in old churches. The one-way mirror only allows one person to view the other, but when Travis enters the booth, he turns his chair to face away from Jane, so neither of the two can see each other. The two communicate through telephone handsets, reminding us of the wall that divides the booth in two.
In this pseudo-confessional booth, Travis tells a story to Jane, a story of a man madly in love with a young woman, a love that slowly devolved into jealousy, distrust and manipulation. The rose-tinted glasses we had previously viewed their relationship with are yanked off as Travis monologs why he walked out on her. The camera barely moves from its position, and the infrequent cuts center the attention on Travis and Jane. Reflections from the mirror blend two faces into one, visually overcoming the separation between them. While the scene might seem dully shot compared to the rest of the film, the simplicity is actually its biggest strength.
The first two-thirds of the film fully embrace the mythical status of the West. Each shot reinforces the notion of the West as a land of opportunity; a place where time stands still and life is a dream. The entire premise of the story rests on a man magically reappearing in the middle of nowhere and embarking on a mythological odyssey to reunite with his wife. Even the title “Paris, Texas” evokes ideas of a spectacular city on the same level as the French capital sitting in the middle of Texas.
But reality isn’t that magical — the man who reappeared in the desert has to reckon with his past failures and reconnect with the life he once lived. The West provides a land full of opportunity that can be squandered in one fell swoop. Paris, Texas isn’t some grand city, it’s a relatively small town complete with its very own scaled-down replica of the Eiffel Tower. The simplistic and almost boring climactic scene grounds the film firmly in reality against the idealistic nature of its beginning. It forces us to focus not on the surroundings, but on the characters and their flaws.
When watching “Paris, Texas,” it’s easy to feel nostalgic — not only for childhood, when life was easy and everything was an adventure, but for a simpler time without the stresses of modern life, a time the majority of us will never get to live in. 
The days of getting in a car and just driving out into the unknown, with no clear destination in mind, are harder to come by. Completely disregarding work, school or life in general to go on an adventure can be appealing, and yet out of reach for many of us. But in those few moments where the advent of walking away looks appealing, think back to Travis and Jane, and remember that what we leave behind is never really gone.
“Paris, Texas” is available to stream on HBO Max now. 
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The final scene of Denis Villeneuve’s masterful “Arrival” is a perfect example of the type of movie magic that can only occur when a director and actor are in absolute sync. 
“Arrival” tells the story of one of America’s leading linguists, Louise Banks (Amy Adams), as she navigates the complexities of language both of this world and beyond. 
In the opening sequence of the film, Louise is seen in a flashback — sort of — raising her young daughter, Hannah. As the sequence progresses, Hannah ages into a teenager and then is diagnosed with an incurable disease which will render Louise grieving and childless.
The film then shifts in time. Louise is seen teaching linguistics at a coastal university when 12 extraterrestrial spacecrafts suddenly arrive around the globe. The U.S. Military shows up at Louise’s door asking her to complete a nearly impossible task: they need her to communicate with the aliens and find out what it is they want on Earth.
Louise is then whisked away to Montana, one of the alien arrival sites, with a physicist named Ian Donnelly (Jeremy Renner). Louise and Ian have a purely professional relationship, give or take some mild flirting and admiration for each other’s specialties. But they are the only two people who seem to be making any progress in understanding the aliens.
After several encounters with the aliens — scientifically referred to as heptapods because of their seven limbs — Louise begins to see visions, or memories, or both. Her daughter returns to her in fragments and snippets, and these visions only become more intense as Louise grows closer to understanding the heptapod language. 
In these visions, Hannah and Louise are often seen alone, discussing why Hannah’s father left them. Louise explains to Hannah that her father left because Louise had told him something that he wasn’t ready to hear. It turns out communication only becomes more difficult when it involves matters of the heart.
As the film approaches its climax, Louise is gifted the complete alien language by one of the heptapods, but it turns out the language is actually a portal into time. In that moment, Louise suddenly understands that the visions she has seen are of the near future. 
As humanity is about to wage war on its extraterrestrial visitors, Louise must use her gift to stop the human race’s impending mistake. She succeeds, but only nearly. The extraterrestrial spacecrafts disappear into the sky. 
In the film’s breathtaking conclusive scene, everything becomes clear. In a stunning over the shoulder shot, Louise looks up at Ian as the mist rises over the Montana mountaintops. She realizes that Ian is the man she will marry, conceive Hannah with and who will eventually leave her once she reveals to him that she has always known how and when their daughter will die. 
Adams delivers this gut-punch of a glance to devastating effects. The emotional arch of the film and Villeneuve’s entire vision hinge on this very moment. 
Villeneuve then seamlessly toggles between the present and the future. Slices of Louise and Ian’s future life with Hannah intercut with moments from the present, as Louise and Ian take their initial steps toward romance in the wake of the alien departure.
Every frame in this final scene is colored in hues of gray, blue and sepia. The color scheme is a visual reminder of the deep sadness at the root of Louise and Ian’s coming together. Max Richter’s heartbreaking string arrangement of ‘On the Nature of Daylight’ swells beneath the action, furthering the emotional power of the moment.
Staring out into the void where the spacecraft once hovered, Lousie asks Ian, “If you could see your whole life from start to finish, would you change things?”
Even with her back turned to the camera, Adams exudes the gravity of Louise’s predicament. She knows everything — her whole life. She even knows what is about to happen next.
Ian turns to Louise and says, “You know, I’ve had my head tilted up to the stars since I can remember. You know what surprised me the most? It wasn’t meeting them. It was meeting you.” 
Louise embraces Ian. She nestles her chin into his shoulder. Villieneuve then pulls the camera close to her face, so that the look of pain and acceptance radiates from Adams’ eyes. 
With one silent look Adams confirms why she is one of the greatest living American actors. Villeneuve trusts her completely to untangle all of the film’s complexities in this final scene and she does so effortlessly. Paired with Villeneuve’s thoughtful and meticulous direction, the two artists prove themselves to be an unstoppable force. 
In a voiceover from the future, Ian asks Louise if they’d like to have a baby.
Despite knowing how it ends, despite knowing the pain and loneliness that is yet to come, Louise responds resoundingly, “Yes.” 
“Arrival” is available to stream on Hulu. 
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
