Editor’s note: As a student media organization, The Eagle receives its funding allocation from the Center for Student Involvement. Nina Heller, The Eagle’s editor-in-chief, is part of the student media working group and was not a part of the writing, editing or reporting of this story. Sarah Mattalian, The Eagle’s managing editor for news, is the former co-chair of the Student Media Board and was not a part of the writing, editing or reporting of this story. 
Student media organizations did not receive undergraduate activity fee funding from the Center for Student Involvement for the 2022-23 academic year, a decision that comes as a result of a CSI review of student organization structures. 
In an email to The Eagle, CSI Director Ayana Wilson wrote that all campus organizations that have previously received funding from the undergraduate activity fee will continue to this academic year. However, this is with the exception of the Student Media Board, due to “a significant amount of rollover in reserve that needs to be spent down” by student media organizations.
“The purpose of the student activity fee money is to be used for and by students during the year allocated, not for large sums to be saved in a reserve account,” Wilson wrote. “All boards have used their reserves at one point or another to supplement programs and budgets.”
According to Wilson, this change is a result of a review of student organization structures that CSI began conducting over the summer and will continue throughout the academic year.
“3 separate workgroups have been created, one of which is for student media. The student working groups started meeting over the summer to review structures and consisted of students from the respective cohort and a CSI advisor,” Wilson wrote. “The working groups will make recommendations for updated structures that support better student engagement and use of activity fee money.”
Julia Rusnak, a senior in the School of Public Affairs and the outgoing general manager of WVAU, has served on the Student Media Board for the past two years. 
She said that, in previous years, two representatives from each student media organization would sit on the board, and each person would receive a stipend of between $400 to $800 per semester from CSI. The year before she joined the board, she said this funding was reduced, with only one representative from each student media organization receiving a stipend. 
An allocation of funds from the undergraduate activity fee, which costs $88.50 in undergraduate tuition for full-time students during the 2022-23 academic year, was divided evenly among Student Media Board organizations at the beginning of every semester. Rusnak said this “new money” is how stipends for representatives were supplied.
“We would each set our budgets and then whatever was left over from that new money, we would divide evenly for the stipend and then have however much left over for the student media release party, basically,” Rusnak said.
In addition to money from the undergraduate activity fee, student media organizations could also get support from a reserve fund, which included money from the student activity fee that was not used within the previous two semesters. Each organization could also spend from its specific rollover fund, which included any money its members did not spend the previous semester. No student organizations were allowed to handle their financial resources directly; CSI had to approve each individual expenditure.
According to Wilson, there will not be funding specifically allocated for Student Media Board representative stipends this academic year. She said this is because “the purpose of stipends is to support student leaders in various governance involvement positions that are tied to governance and additional responsibilities outside of their leadership position.”
“This year is about review and assessment,” Wilson wrote. “The work group will make recommendations, which could include stipend positions for consideration.” 
Rusnak said that, when Student Media Board representatives were receiving stipends, CSI stressed that this support was to compensate for their work on the Student Media Board and not their roles within their individual organizations. She said that this led to CSI leadership “[coming] up with things for us to do just for Student Media Board in order to justify us receiving a stipend for that job” — a policy she personally disagreed with.
“Especially coming out of COVID, I was of the opinion that we should be focusing on our own organizations rebuilding and adding to the campus community and not necessarily on busywork that people were just coming up [with] for us to do for Student Media Board,” Rusnak said.
Wilson wrote that decisions about stipends are made based on the idea that “each of the student cohorts serve different needs and have different responsibilities.”
Rusnak said this decision was frustrating because it made her feel that student media’s contributions to the University were being undervalued. 
“I just thought it was so disrespectful to insinuate that we should be doing that work just for free,” Rusnak said. “And all of us agreed we would do it for free because we love it, but being paid a stipend, not only is it a practical means of support but it’s also a signifier that the institution appreciates what we’re doing and that it appreciates the work we’re putting in.” 
Rusnak said she also worries that low-income students will face more barriers for participation in Student Media Board if stipends are not reintroduced, which she believes would fly “in the face of everything that AU says that they stand for.”
“I think it’s a huge, huge mistake on their part to not place that value on supporting us financially because you’re just gonna end up with an extremely homogenous group of privileged students,” Rusnak said.
In her email, Wilson wrote that there are “a multitude of students from diverse backgrounds serving in leadership roles both paid and unpaid.”
Although the Student Media Board is the only Club Council organization that will not receive undergraduate activity fee funding this semester, Student Government has undergone structural changes, including the separation of the Kennedy Political Union, the Student Union Board, Women’s Initiative and the Founders Week Committee from the SG organization. 
Ryan Hale, a senior in SPA and former undergraduate senator, said he and his fellow SG members felt CSI could have been more transparent about why such changes have been made.
“We have been told that we do not function properly as currently structured and so they’re changing every fault,” Hale said. “And to give them a little bit of credit, they did put out an application on our side of things for a working group and students could apply and they accepted students and those students are part of the process.”
However, Hale, who previously served as chair of the Undergraduate Senate's finance committee, said he would appreciate “an explanation as to why this was the method they chose” to address issues in Student Government. Prior to this year, SG’s Finance Committee would collaborate with its programming boards and executive officials to determine a budget. This budget would be presented in a public information session, go before the undergraduate senate and then the SG president would sign it into effect. 
According to Hale, this year was different, with CSI making “almost entirely” all of the budgetary decisions for SG. He said he would like to see CSI officials provide more detailed reasoning as to why significant financial changes have been made for both SG and the Student Media Board because he does not currently feel that the restructuring has made SG operations more efficient.
“All it has done in terms of a financial perspective alone, it has made it more difficult and less transparent,” Hale said.
Rusnak said she hopes that members of student organizations will join together to advocate for more financial transparency from CSI, and that it would be “a huge mistake for students in these positions to pit ourselves against each other or to see this as a fight for funding.”
“We’re not enemies, we’re not competing for funding. There is the money, like, we know that it exists and we know that, for the most part, we are trustworthy stewards of student funds because we care about this institution,” Rusnak said. “I don’t want anyone in Student Government or on any of the programming boards to think that we’re up against each other.”
Wilson wrote that CSI will review the recommendations made by the student workgroups and take those perspectives into consideration when making decisions about how to allocate undergraduate activity fee resources in the future.
“The purpose of student activity fee is to encourage strong and viable student-sponsored programs that contribute significantly to the intellectual and social development of the student body,” Wilson wrote.
kcorliss@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Students take a tour of AU's beehives on Sept. 19 as part of AU Hillel's Rosh Hashana activities
Students came together to celebrate Rosh Hashana, one of the holiest days in Judaism, with events and services hosted by Hillel between Sept. 19 and 27. 
The event program consisted of a range of activities and traditions designed to help ring in the Jewish new year, from discussions about the importance of Rosh Hashana to prayer services in the Kay Spiritual Life Center. Participating students reflected on the last 12 months and considered how they want to change going forward. 
“It’s a moment to reflect on who you’ve been in the past year and who you could be in the next, and make sure that you are taking the steps or understand the path to get to that,” said Lane Schnell, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences and member of Hillel. 
Rosh Hashana is the beginning of the Jewish High Holy Days that starts on the first day of Tishrei, the seventh month of the Jewish calendar. The holiday’s history can be traced back to the sixth century B.C. and typically features a two-day festival marking the beginning of humanity. 
Preparations for AU Hillel’s celebration of the High Holidays begin months in advance, according to Jason Benkendorf, AU Hillel’s executive director. He said discussions for this year’s festivities started in March and involved working with students to create the most meaningful ways to celebrate. 
These discussions are responsible for activities including the beehive tour and honey tasting event, which have been held in partnership with the AU Beekeeping Society the last two years. 
“Apples and honey are traditional for Rosh Hashana,” said Benkendorf. “We eat apples and honey to connect us to the natural world ... and as a symbol for the sweetness that we hope will characterize the new year.” 
Benkendorf also talked about the Sept. 28 “Tashlich on the Quad.” Tashlich, which translates to “casting off,” is a ritual in which participants can metaphorically cast aside their burdens from the year by throwing breadcrumbs into flowing water. For their version of the ceremony, Hillel used a small inflatable pool and dissolvable paper. 
“While it wasn’t the most traditional way of conducting Tashlich . . . I think there was a real power in watching the paper dissolve and even watching the ink separate from the paper,” he said. 
Rhys Dillingham, a freshman in …, said he felt more present and “in the moment” after completing the Tashlich. 
“It gave me kind of a comfort letting go of things and bringing new things into my life, and now I’m able just to be here and now,” Dillingham said. 
Sam Scafidi, a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and intern with First Year Students of Hillel, said he was hoping to become closer to the Hillel community this Rosh Hashana, something he felt during the prayer services. 
“I really appreciated how communal the services were,” Scaffidi said. “People were encouraged to sing along and to all participate together. It was so great to see everyone that I have gotten to know at Hillel ... and just be able to have a nice time.” 
Benkendorf said bringing people together across multiple cultural and religious backgrounds is one of Hillel’s main goals during holidays like Rosh Hashana. 
“At Hillel, we see supporting the Jewish community in the context of a broader multicultural community as a real opportunity and a real blessing,” he said. “We have this wonderful opportunity to expose non-Jewish students to Jewish culture, often for the first time.” 
Benkendorf said sharing these traditions and cultures can create a better student experience for everyone on campus. 
“We believe that Jewish tradition, while particular, has a lot to offer the broader world,” he said. “We want Jewish and non-Jewish students alike to engage in that process that’s only going to enrich all of our lives and enrich our community here at AU.” 
mfishel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A 17-shot battle ended in a draw as American University men’s soccer (3-3-3) and Loyola University Maryland (3-3-3) each scored one goal. 
In the 31st minute of the game, AU committed a foul in the box which allowed for a penalty kick from Loyola’s senior forward Daniel Tshiani. Tshiani found the back of the net, giving the Greyhounds a 1-0 lead. 
In the final minute of the first half, senior midfielder Jack Green dribbled up the left wing looking for an open teammate. With 16 seconds remaining, Green launched a pass to freshman midfielder Troy Elgersma, who headed in his first career goal to even the score 1-1. 
“I was getting in on the back post hoping Jack was going to hit it,” Elgersma said postgame. “Fortunately he did and I was able to just get over the left back and head it in.”  
In the final seconds of the game, graduate student forward Jerry Zouantcha passed the ball to sophomore forward Zemi Rodriguez at the top of the penalty arc. Rodriguez had the chance to score the winning goal, but his shot hit the top of the crossbar as time expired. Rodriguez and his teammates walked off the field in agonizing disappointment, as an opportunity to defeat the defending champions slipped through their fingers. 
Even though the Eagles couldn’t secure the win, head coach Zach Samol expressed his optimism about the rest of the season. 
“We’re disappointed that we left points on the table, but there’s also good things going on with this team,” Samol said. “We’ve been able to come back from bad starts and really show these teams what we’re about in tough situations.” 
In the Eagles’ three wins of the season, only one of their five goals was scored in the first half. Of the four goals scored in second halves, AU scored three in the final 20 minutes of its respective games. 
The Eagles aim to secure a win on the road against Colgate on Oct. 8 at 2:00 p.m. EST. 
jmorgan@theagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
