From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Aunque la comunidad Latina en los Estados Unidos enfrenta varios desafíos económicos en la actualidad, es vital destacar su progreso en los últimos 20 años. El discurso político no puede solo centrarse en las limi taciones económicas sin reconocer el crecimiento de la comunidad para proporcionar perspectiva.
Según un informe realizado por Hispanic Star, los Latinos en los Estados Unidos lideran los grupos minoritarios en GDP y poder adquisitivo con $2.7 y $1.9 billones, respectivamente. Actualmente, si los Latino-americanos fueran una nación independiente, su GDP sería el séptimo más grande del mundo. Los Latinos se están convirtiendo en los empleados y consumidores del futuro: en los últimos diez años, esta comunidad ha visto un crecimiento sustancial en el ingreso (77 por ciento), y la participación en la fuerza laboral civil (17 por ciento). Además, el 40 por ciento del crecimiento de la fuerza laboral de EE.UU. es Hispana.
Continuando con las tendencias positivas, los Latinos también están abriendo camino en la educación. Una investigación de Eastern Washington University muestra que los estudiantes están logrando índices récord de graduación de la escuela secundaria e inscripción universitaria. Además, ha habido un aumento sustancial en la representación en las carreras de Administración, Negocios y Ciencias. Sin embargo, persisten dos problemas, primero son las discrepancias en los salarios de trabajadores Latinos en comparación con estadounidenses blancos. Un análisis comparativo muestra que a nivel nacional, los Latinos ganan el 73 por ciento de lo que ganan sus homólogos blancos. Esto está relacionado con la mayor participación de Latinos en industrias de trabajo manual que no generan un salario alto.
Un segundo problema tiene que ver con las bajas tasas de graduación que persisten en la comunidad. El Informe de Logros Educativos cita a los Latinos como el grupo con la tasa de finalización más baja para obtener un bachillerato, lo que sugiere que muchos de ellos carecen del título para acceder a salarios más altos.
Provenir de entornos con menores condiciones socioeconómicas, hace que los Latinos comienzan su carrera universitaria con bajos recursos. Esto crea una situación en la que los Latinos están menos preparados y genera altas tasas de deserción educativa. El informe de EWU establece: es más probable que los Latinos co- mienzan en un colegio comunitario, con una mezcla de asistencia de tiempo completo o medio, y que continúen en la universidad después de seis años. Cada año adicional invertido para la obtención de un título ejerce más presión económica sobre los estudiantes Latinos
Los programas existentes como el apoyo para el primer año, son pasos en dirección para reducir las tasas de deserción escolar. Estas soluciones sirven para facilitar la transición a una carga de trabajo universitaria con recursos sustantivos para preparar más a los estudiantes. Sin embargo, estos programas solo existen para el primer año, dejando a los estudiantes Latinos solos en los últimos semestres. Mantener programas más allá del primer año podría animar a Latinos a completar sus títulos. Las universidades con programas de apoyo in- corporados, como EWU, muestran un aumento significativo en las tasas de graduación, específicamente aquellas que provienen de hogares de bajos ingresos, lo que provoca un efecto dominó que se traduce en mayores participaciones en la fuerza laboral. 
Al mirar la realidad de los Latinos en el mercado laboral nos lleva a un tercer y último punto. Las soluciones institucionales son difíciles de escalar si los problemas económicos que afectan a la comunidad Latina no están en el discurso público. Los Latinos necesitan una voz en los medios que priorice la deliberación sobre la realidad de su situación. Sin embargo, como sugiere Axios, la representación Latina en los medios se ha estancado. 
Es importante destacar el poder de la representación en los medios, hay Latinos aptos para puestos claves de comunicación, y es necesario incentivar a la industria para que cultive la diversidad e inclusión en los medios. Podrían argumentar que el concepto se ha convertido en un remedio rápido a las demandas de justicia social que solo sirve como distracción a problemas más importantes. Pero, la diversidad e inclusión en los medios de comunicación puede tener un efecto profundo para movilizar la comunidad a nivel local y nacional, para mejorar la participación de los Latinos en la fuerza laboral.

nblanco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Secluded from American University’s main campus in the basement of the Kreeger Building is the production room where singer-songwriters and producers part of AU’s student-run record label, Second District Records (SDR), spend their Friday afternoons.
Livvy Billington, a sophomore in the School of Communication, signed with SDR as a singer-songwriter in the fall 2021 semester. Billington is in the process of recording her new single, “front porch,” where she sings of times where she’s laughed, cried and spilled secrets on her front stoop. Since joining the record label, Billington has found not only her music supported, but also a sense of community. “It's fun to be surrounded by people who love music, and especially at this school,” Billington said. “So the fact that I was able to find people who are genuinely just so passionate about music is like, all I've wanted.”
Aside from the artists, SDR divides their members into teams based on interests and strengths. Members are sorted into either the PR/creative team, PR/marketing team, audio-tech team or artists and repertoire team.
Grace Becker, a senior in the Kogod School of Business, is the PR/marketing leader of SDR. Additionally, Becker helps Billington with writing in the studio. As a freshman, Becker tried to join SDR as an artist and was rejected, so she thought she would never be involved with the label. In the fall 2021 semester, Becker rejoined SDR and became the co-president with Rudolph Travers, the current audio-tech team lead.
“Rudolph and I were basically the only members of SDR come fall 2021,” Becker said. “So we worked our best with really trying to get campus awareness of it, letting people know that there’s a student run record label, tapping into audio tech and tapping into business entertainment people who would be interested.”
The club, which now holds 104 members, has grown by finding performances and venues for their artists throughout the local D.C. community and at AU. For their revival concert last spring, the artists performed at Union Stage. Becker also encouraged Liv Wood, a sophomore in SOC, to audition to be an artist after she’d worked on the public relations team. Now, Wood is working on her own high-energy pop EP that recalls her and her friends’ messy breakups, planning to release it at the end of the semester. Wood is experimenting with a new U.K. synth genre called garage, while sticking to her singer-songwriter roots.
“She was so supportive and she was the one that really helped me actually, like formulate ideas,” Wood said of Becker. 
Drew Dale, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences and SDR’s co-president, focuses on planning events. Musically, he loves experimenting with different genres, like Wood. He has mostly worked on producing electronic music, but he also aids artists in other genres of music. “I think one of my main goals is to give my members as much access to all the resources that AU provides,” Dale said. “So whether that's with us, or whether that's with another club, I want them to be able to have access to whatever interests them creatively, whatever interests them professionally.”
Dale collaborated with SDR artist Kang Ewimbi, a junior at the University of Maryland College Park also taking classes at AU, to record an amapiano style song. Amapiano is a South African deep-house genre with longer, more drawn out music that is exclusively created from synths.
“I released an Afro type song, coming off the heels of the R&B song I released in August or July,” Ewimbi said. “And then the next thing I believe is gonna be: who knows?”
Jordan Model, who performs under the name Wrenmo, a sophomore in SOC, is planning to release an album with SDR this semester. Although Model records and produces his electronic style music on his own, SDR helps him mix and master his songs and release his music on streaming platforms.
“Seeing just a few people express interest in my music and show support around campus, it's very warming,” Model said. 
For his upcoming album, Model is planning to collaborate with artist Ari Guzman, who performs under the name Ari The Indigo, a senior in the School of International Service. Guzman wrote and rapped verse for Model’s song in five minutes after she listened to the funky electronic track titled “Baby Now.”
“Ari is the first person I met here that I'm doing a collaboration with,” Model said. “I think her style is really unique from the other artists that I've worked with.”
Singing and rapping heartfelt hip-hop tracks in both Spanish and English, Guzman draws inspiration from her Mexican culture and family. After signing with SDR last year, she plans to release her first song in only Spanish.
“I don't want to be boxed in,” Guzman said. “I don't want to just be a female rapper or a female, Latino. I just want to be an artist, I want to be known for whatever I put out whether it's singing, rapping.” 
To make SDR artist's music available on all streaming platforms, the club purchased a subscription to a platform for every artist that distributes music called DistroKid. The artists own all the rights to their music. PR/creative team leader, Isabella Horowitz, a junior in Kogod, is planning new content this semester. She is currently planning TikToks, music videos for artists and Spotify canvas videos.
“We kind of give them a glimpse at how a real record label would work in terms of PR,” Horowitz said. Although every member has their own niche, the club also wanted to create a learning environment. Any member can come into the studio during a session and learn how to use a soundboard.
“We’re trying to help them create a story and how people can relate to it,” Becker said.
Outside of their weekly meeting as a club, artists can reach out to their producer anytime they are ready to get in the studio and record. SDR also plans to host social events for their members at least once a month, such as karaoke nights.
“The fact that I was able to find people who are genuinely just so passionate about music is all I've wanted,” Billington said.
Billington’s new single, along with the rest of AU SDR artists’ new releases, are planned to be released at the end of this semester.
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
On college campuses across the United States, the words “game day” strike like a bolt of lightning. As Vince Young, Pete Maravich, Reggie Bush, Cam Newton, JJ Redick and more demonstrated, some of the most electrifying athletes to ever grace the airwaves did so only as long as they were passing their classes and steering clear of fraternity parties.
So where are the tailgates, the ESPN College GameDay broadcasts and the whiteouts at AU?
AU sponsors 14 NCAA Division I sports, all of which compete in the Patriot League. The Patriot League is not a “power five” conference, a designation given only to the ACC, SEC, Big Ten, Big 12 and PAC-12 conferences. These five are by far the biggest earners in all of college sports, predominantly due to their sponsorship of football.
Some of these “power five” schools face scrutiny for essentially operating as football programs masquerading as academic institutions. AU, a member of the financially-dwarfed Patriot League, does not even field a football team. 
Big Ten’s Ohio State University spent $220.6 million on athletics in 2019 to sponsor 36 varsity sports, according to Yahoo Sports. This means each sport on average receives about $6.1 million in funding, although sports like men’s football and basketball in practice receive a far larger share of the funding. Compare this to AU’s reported $15 million total sports budget and the discrepancy becomes clear — each of Ohio State’s 36 sports receives over a third of AU’s total sports budget in funding.
School of Communication sophomore Lucas Torregrossa enjoys attending AU basketball, volleyball and lacrosse games, but said the student body’s attitude towards AU sports is “not good.”
“I don’t even know if it’s about our school’s performance in sports, more so just general disinterest in sports from the student body,” said Torregrossa. “Students here have interests other than sports, and I think that causes them to miss out on what AU provides.”
School of Education sophomore Laura Gyan thinks AU and its student body are at a stalemate regarding sports interest.
“I feel like they try,” Gyan said. “[AU] probably think[s] that people aren’t interested in it, so they don’t push it as much as they probably should.”
These beliefs about sports raise a chicken-or-the-egg dilemma between the school and its students. Are students less passionate about sports because sports are not a huge part of AU’s culture? Or are sports not a big part of AU’s culture because students are less passionate?
Freshman Lane Thimmesch, a casual sports-goer, occasionally attends games but prefers when AU incentivizes attendance.
“I’m not really that engaged with the sports here unless there’s an event with something happening,” Thimmesch said.
“I went to a men’s soccer game once because they had a Surfside truck.”
Thimmesch believes the lack of a football team greatly dampens student interest in sports.
“Compared to my other friends ... who go to state schools in Virginia ... their days kind of center around [football]
a lot,” she said. “I feel like the tailgating and the social aspect ... around football is kind of missing here. I don’t personally need it, but I know other people would probably enjoy that.”
Torregrossa agreed.
“I think a football team could be a good start just in getting people into sports in general here,” he said. “Football teams have the whole social reputation that at least my friends and I try to get with the basketball team.”
Torregrossa and Gyan both feel that basketball picks up some of the slack left by the lack of a football team.
“Basketball I feel is more of a social thing,” Torregrossa said. “I’m able to go with my friends more and enjoy that just for the entertainment component.”
Men’s basketball home games attract just 758 fans to the 4,500-seat Bender Arena on average, according to AU’s athletic department. However, this low student turnout does not necessarily indicate a lack of die-hard fans. One of the most public AU basketball fans is sportswriter and alum David Aldridge, who broadcasts “AU Eagles fan” in his Twitter bio to his nearly 700,000 followers.
Even with a football team off of the table, AU can still bolster student interest in sports. The women’s basketball team’s recent appearance in the NCAA tournament is certainly a start, because as students like Torregrossa and Gyan pointed out, basketball is the most social of AU’s sports. However, the women’s team aver- aged just 400 fans in attendance per home game despite hugely outperforming the men’s team in their respective conferences. The men’s team making the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2014 would certainly grow interest, especially considering how the men’s tournament is nationally televised. 
For the foreseeable future, AU will not sponsor a football team, so whether the basketball team can pick up that slack similar to other football-less schools remains to be seen.
But maybe cultivating a sports culture just isn’t on the agenda at AU. “Some people don’t care about [a sports culture],” Gyan said. “I don’t care as much, so that’s why I came here."
mgacina@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
At 2:30 a.m., my fingers suddenly began intensely burning. I felt like I had placed my hand under a boiling stream of water that I couldn’t move away from. I washed my hands over and over and tried smothering my fingers in aloe gel, hydrocortisone, Benadryl cream, olive oil and ice. I took a Tylenol and an Advil, but nothing worked. I fell asleep in tears, scared that the pain would never cease.
My alarm blared at 8:30 a.m. My fingers tingled, but the burning had finally stopped. I continued my day as usual. After class, I passed by the Mary Graydon Center coronavirus testing machine and took a test. While I wasn’t experiencing any coronavirus symptoms, I had planned on getting tested weekly at American University this semester. Late that night I received my positive COVID-19 result. The day after that, I learned that burning fingers are a lesser-known COVID-19 symptom.
Before my positive result, I was not aware of the massive changes AU made to its COVID-19 policies this semester. Now that I’ve experienced it firsthand, and have received the resources sent to students with COVID-19, I have several grievances to air. 
First, and most glaringly to me while I was sick, the University eliminated isolation housing. Last year, if a student received a positive coronavirus result, they were immediately whisked away to a hotel off campus. There, they were provided with room service and, most importantly, isolation from others. Now, when infected with an extremely contagious virus, students are told to isolate themselves in their regular housing arrangement. For many students, particularly underclassmen, that means their shared dorm with another student. This policy puts their roommates at risk of also getting COVID-19 and does not offer any recourse for these students. 
Students in traditional-style dorm rooms will need to leave their shared rooms to shower and brush their teeth, practices that will expose other students to the virus. On a smaller note, AU does not supply meals for students with COVID-19. While I can order pick-up from TDR, it costs a meal swipe and requires me to leave my isolation and go to a populated area of campus. Eliminating this important safety measure unnecessarily exposes many more students to COVID-19. Next, the COVID-19 health dashboard is gone. Students, faculty and the community surrounding AU have no way of knowing how many cases of COVID-19 are on campus. This lack of information is extremely worrisome coupled with the elimination of isolation housing as we have no idea how fast the virus is spreading.
All of my professors have expressed concerns about the number of students absent from class due to COVID-19. It is alarming that the University is deliberately hiding these statistics from all of us, claiming that it is “no longer a critical tool in our day-to-day management of COVID-19.”
More recently, no one is wearing a mask anymore. It’s been a long couple of years of quarantine, masks, isolation and panic. All I’m asking is that students and faculty wear our masks in public, crowded spaces like in classes. With AU eliminating the mask mandate, COVID-19 is only going to become more transmittable in our community. We, unfortunately, must take it upon ourselves to prevent the spread.
Lastly, testing is not as accessible on campus. Last year, students were able to take as many PCR tests as they wanted. This semester, students are only allowed to take a single PCR test per week. I was testing myself twice a week to ensure the safety of myself and others. The day after I received my positive PCR result, I took an at-home rapid antigen test, just to see what would happen. It came back negative. I tried again two days later. Same result. There are four options based on these results: I have a COVID-19 strain that doesn’t appear in rapid antigen tests; I performed the test incorrectly; I have had COVID-19 for so long that it doesn’t appear on rapid tests; my PCR was a rare false positive. Without being able to take multiple PCR tests during this time, I have no way of testing these options. This is my first time having COVID-19 after being extremely cautious; it wasn’t until the first week that AU loosened guidelines that I finally got sick. We must bind together as a community to protect one another, especially those on campus who are immunocompromised. While we as students may not be able to do much other than wear masks and get tested, the AU administration has the power to protect us. They are choosing not to.
Alexis Bernstein is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the Assistant Opinion Editor for The Eagle.
abernstein@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
"Marabar" under construction in early November
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
In 1981, artist Elyn Zimmerman was commissioned by the National Geographic Society to design a sculpture for the plaza of its D.C. headquarters. More than three decades later, Zimmerman returned to what she thought would be the permanent site to re-imagine her million-pound piece before i is moved nearly four miles to American University’s campus.
Zimmerman coordinated her installation with architect David Childs, who led the earlier renovation of the Society’s headquarters. Zimmerman said it was especially unusual for a relatively young, female artist to be chosen for such a large-scale project.
“I didn’t realize that the piece would become as popular as it was and that it would lead, for me, to a lot of other commissions,” Zimmerman said. 
The extent of the sculpture's popularity became evident after its continued existence was threatened. In 2019, National Geographic filed for approval to renovate the plaza of its headquarters. The plans included a new main entry pavilion and a rentable rooftop garden, but no “Marabar.”
Dismantling the purportedly permanent artwork generated significant backlash from the broader artistic community. Museum leaders, architects and art critics sent dozens of complaint letters express- ing their desire that “Marabar” be preserved.
“It made me feel valued and that the work was valued by people who had experience in the art world or architecture,” Zimmerman said.
Public outrage culminated in an organized cam- paign to save the piece, launched by the Cultural Landscape Foundation.
“I was very grateful to the Cultural Landscape Foundation,” Zimmerman said. “They reached out to me and they said ‘Can we help you,’ and I didn’t know how to approach getting this situation remedied.”
National Geographic eventually agreed not todismantle “Marabar'' — committing rather to fund its removal, transportation and installation some- where else. The Society considered Canal Park, lo- cated approximately a block away from the Navy Yard metro station. However, Zimmerman did not think the expansive park landscape was conducive to her piece. 
“It was just a big open space, and it didn’t have any context,” Zimmerman said. 
After visiting various potential properties, Zimmerman chose a spot across the street from the Katzen Arts Center, where the structure will be visible from Ward Circle. Zimmerman said Canal Park was so open that it felt vulnerable, whereas the smaller and tree-lined site on AU’s campus offered some protection.
In its original iteration, “Marabar” consisted of fractured granite boulders surrounding the perimeter of a 60-foot rectangular reflecting pool. Three of the boulders had polished faces mirroring each other, giving the impression that they were once a single monolithic form. Zimmerman compared her design to geodes — rock structures lined with minerals that are often cut open and polished.
The name “Marabar” originates from fictional caves in E.M. Forster’s “A Passage to India.” Zimmerman said Forster’s description of the caves stuck with her and reminded her of real-world caves she saw during her own visit to India. It was seeing these intricate chambers carved out of solid rock that first inspired Zimmerman to sculpt.
“You discover something, and it sort of sets you off,” Zimmerman said. “I feel like I went to India, I was a painter — I came out of there and all I wanted to do was make stone sculpture.”
“Marabar’s” boulders have already been removed from the plaza at the National Geographic Society. There were safety concerns, both for the relatively fragile polished stones and for whoever was tasked with moving the piece, but Zimmerman said the removal went off brilliantly and referred to the people who performed it as heroes.
Returning to the project after nearly four decades is bittersweet, Zimmerman said. Given its site-specific nature, certain elements of the sculpture’s design will be reconfigured to fit the new location. “Marabar” will be renamed to reflect the changes.
The adapted structure will be titled “Sudama,” after one of the elaborate Indian caves that inspired Forster’s fictionalization. “Sudama” not only pays homage to the original name, but relates to Zim- merman’s own artistic journey.
"The reason I started working with rock and with granite in particular was that I had gone to India in 1976, spent four months there and I visited a number of these sites,” Zimmerman said.
Construction is underway across from Katzen Arts Center to prepare the site for the “Sudama” installation. The installation and landscaping is anticipated to be completed no later than spring 2023, according to University spokesperson Jasmine Pelaez.
“I was very nervous about something possibly going wrong ... things being damaged,” Zimmer- man said. “But I see that the people that are engaged, working on it are very capable and everybody wants the same positive experience at the end.”
gharman@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
