On Nov. 10, student organizers staged a walkout to protest the mishandling of sexual assault and misconduct on campus. Since then, the efforts of American University’s administration to meet student demands regarding sexual violence on campus have been lackluster. Furthermore, the response following the break-in and subsequent sexual assault in Leonard Hall has been painfully inadequate. 
Students were fearfully confused as to what was happening regarding the attack after five days of radio silence from the administration, while speculation quickly and unproductively circulated campus. This left students, especially female-identifying students, scared to be alone on campus, including in our dorms. After days of no communication with the student body, besides the initial announcement of the incident in Leonard Hall, students received three emails from the Office of Campus Life and other members of the AU administration. These emails were nothing more than surface level and failed to disclose meaningful information to students about the current status of the perpetrator, like if the individual was still on campus, which only perpetuated the fear ringing throughout the campus these last few weeks. 
Not only has the administration’s dwindling communication efforts with students and faculty been harmful, but the response to the survivors and other residents of Leonard Hall has been even more concerning. Rather than offering immediate resources to those directly and indirectly affected, the residents of Leonard received pizza parties, raffles for care packages and tables set up with candy and rape whistles provided by AUPD. This is both invalidating for those experiencing genuine trauma from these events, as well as simply unproductive. 
One resident of Leonard’s eighth floor spoke at the student-led walkout and recounted her horrifyingly frustrating experience with AUPD, whose sole purpose is to keep our community safe. After the officer continuously got her description wrong, the email that was sent out to all AU students and parents included the incorrect description of the perpetrator. The resident went on to tell those who attended the walkout that when she attempted to correct the description, AUPD told her it had no record of her report. This gross mishandling of extremely important and sensitive information further solidifies the distrust among students and AUPD. This incident brought multiple other stories of sexual assault and harassment on campus. In all of these cases, the victims were ignored, downplayed and had to beg the Office of Equity and Title IX and residence hall staff members to help them. 
In response to the AU administration’s inaction to make necessary changes to ensure student safety, students began organizing. Lillian Frame and Emily Minster, survivor advocates, organized the walkout to convey to the administration that the student body stands with survivors and demands action be taken. Hundreds of other students, including myself, proudly missed class and other obligations to demonstrate to the administration that we do not take this lightly. Their efforts at upkeeping their reputation of being a progressive school cannot be done with hollow promises of a “Community Working Group on Preventing and Responding to Sexual Harassment and Violence.” 
The walkout was paired with a letter students signed outlining five demands that the University can implement to protect students from sexual violence. This working group completely ignores the plethora of organizers already doing this work on campus. It is a performative approach to fixing a systemic problem, one that students have already been clear in how the University can further alleviate sexual harassment and violence. Since this letter was delivered to the administration, organizations like It’s On Us, which has nearly 50,000 Instagram followers, have expressed their support for AU’s student organizers combatting sexual violence on campus, further putting pressure on the AU administration to implement students’ demands. 
It is disheartening, to say the least, to watch AU, a school that says it is committed to “creating an accessible and inclusive environment that supports and serves our community members,” categorically failing survivors. This includes those impacted by the Leonard incident and all survivors of sexual violence both on and off campus at AU. These five demands are not far-fetched or unrealistic expectations, and they are the bare minimum. As someone part of the 81 percent of women who have experienced some form of sexual harassment and/or assault in their lifetime, I know firsthand how difficult and triggering these last few weeks have been for so many. Our school should have been steadfast in ensuring that the community has a voice in moving forward. 
Alice Still is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and is an opinion columnist for The Eagle
astill@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Columbia University linguistics professor discussed his dissent towards anti-racism as practiced today in a conversation for the American University Political Theory Institute’s final installment of its fall 2022 lecture series on Dec. 5. 
Columbia University associate professor John McWhorter writes a weekly newsletter for The New York Times and hosts the linguistics podcast “Lexicon Valley.” He has published articles in The Atlantic and has written over 20 books covering linguistics and anti-racism in the United States. 
Throughout the conversation, McWhorter said he believed past systems of racism have led to several of the disadvantages Black Americans face today, but that he disagreed with the conversation around how to address and talk about these issues. 
He described three waves of anti-racism: the fight to end legal segregation, the national reckoning with implicit biases and the present focus on understanding white privilege as a prerequisite for progress. He said he is significantly concerned about the present movement of anti-racism. 
“And this is the problem: the presumption is that we have to have that conversation and white people must have this realization before there can be any real change in terms of what race means in this society,” McWhorter said. “That's a very different thing from what Martin Luther King [Jr.] meant.”
McWhorter said he views modern anti-racism as a religion.  
“In many religions, there is a point at which you're expected to let logic go and just believe,” he said. “You're supposed to subscribe to an alternate realm. And I think that that's also true with modern anti-racism, in that there are questions that you're not supposed to ask and that you're expected to allow things to not make strict sense.”
McWhorter also said such an approach to anti-racism causes harm and prevents true progress in helping Black Americans. He used gun violence as an example, saying that simply calling the disproportionate amount of violence in Black neighborhoods “racism” is not productive. 
There are three steps he believes will help rectify the injustices facing Black America today. He explained the importance of ending the war on drugs, teaching children to read using phonics to sound out words — as opposed to teaching them to recognize full words — and providing more opportunities for vocational education outside of a college or university. 
“So those three things are things that I would do if I could wave a magic wand because I'm concerned with Black America having fewer problems,” McWhorter said. “But what I would not do is insist that white Americans must engage in this ‘kumbaya circle’ and think about the work that they have to do to understand their inner racist. I simply don't see how that's a necessary prelude to the three things that I talked about.” 
He also spoke on the importance of Black individualism and the ability for Black people to pursue interests beyond those which involve racial issues. When white America began to listen to the Black American experience in the 1960s, many Black people defaulted to considering their race-related struggles their most important quality or experience, McWhorter said. 
“So if you have this situation where whites want to hear you out — and there's a very weak sense of what we would now call Black pride in many people — then naturally one way that you feel whole is to adopt the kind of victim complex,” he said.
McWhorter said he encourages Black Americans to explore interests beyond those related to race, saying the societal expectation for Black people to speak about race hinders them from further exploring their own unique interests.
“I wish there were more Black writers of nonfiction, who would write things that had nothing to do with race,” he said. “We can write about race, I do it. But what about something else? … There needs to be more; we can do more. It's our humanity to do more.”
As the conversation drew to a close, McWhorter answered questions from audience members. When asked about how universities should address racism, he said he believes they should include a wide range of views on the topic in their courses. 
“There should be a rich curriculum on race that represents what a wide range of people think, especially because the sorts of things that I’m expressing, for example, are very easy to find among many groups of Black people living in the real world,” he said.  
McWhorter said students should think critically and speak out about the national conversation on race, adding that they should think about their initial reactions to discussions of race and share these reactions, even if they believe they may face some backlash.  
“If your response to something that you heard is fear — inside, you have an answer, but you think you’re not supposed to say anything or you’re not supposed to think anything because you’re afraid — listen to that and think what you’re thinking and consider saying it.”
ksquyres@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
To uplift Indigenous artists and highlight stories about Indigenity from their perspective, the National Museum of the American Indian hosted its annual Native Cinema Showcase from Nov. 18 to Nov. 25. 
Future Focused Shorts
This compilation of short films highlighted animated and kid-friendly stories focused on the future generations of Indigenous communities. 
“Evan’s Drum,” directed by Ossie Michelin, is a heartwarming story that follows Amy Winters as she tries to teach her son Evan the lost Inuit practice of drumming. Winters leads a drumming troupe in Labrador City, near the Quebec border, which has shrunk in membership from 18 to five in the preceding years. The film depicts endearing scenes of Winters and her son making a drum and illustrates how family bonds are strengthened through the sharing of traditions. The short concludes with a powerful shot of Winters and her son playing their new drums on a serene beach, showing their gratitude for nature by offering the gift of music in return. 
While some films highlighted how generational knowledge is being revived, others depicted the reality of Indigenous people trying to teach the meaning behind their art to others outside of their culture. “Mis Manos Tejedoras,” directed by Río Castañeda, focuses on a Mayan artist weaving huipils, or woven shirts, to sell in a touristy town square. The film’s sparing use of dialogue allows its colorful animation and intimate portrayal of the artistic process to speak for itself. Idyllic images of the artist creating a beautiful piece are starkly contrasted with reality when a tourist doesn’t purchase the huipil when the artist won’t bargain for a lower price. 
Twisted Tales
This series of shorts depicts reimagined traditional Indigenous stories and satire, documenting rituals and cultural commentary through a unique lens. “Nalujuk Night,” directed by Jennie Williams, portrays a Labrador Inuit New Year’s tradition in which men dress up as Nalujuit, representations of heathen spirits, and knock on people’s doors to determine who has been good that year. If children have misbehaved, they are chased through the snow by the menacing figures dressed in animal bone and fur. The film exaggerates the chase scenes, editing them with intense traditional throat singing and thriller-like editing to poke fun at the children’s reactions to the Nalujuit. 
These twisted tales also make comedic jabs at modern issues such as white guilt and cultural appropriation. In the short “My First Native American Boyfriend,” directed by Joey Clift, Emily, a white woman, confesses to her first Native boyfriend Johnny every microaggression she’s ever made, including dressing up as Pocahontas when she was five and calling Rihanna her spirit animal when she was in junior high. Emily also asks Johnny if he's a werewolf like the ones in “Twilight.” Johnny begins to get annoyed, but Emily later reveals that she asked that question because she is a werewolf and morphs into one, resulting in Johnny breaking up with her. The blatant microaggressions and impertinence from Emily satirically displays the consequences of white people thinking that Native people are obligated to alleviate their guilt. 
“Portraits From A Fire”
This enticing and emotional film directed by Trevor Mack follows a 16-year-old boy named Tyler who loves to make movies and put on shows for his community. Upset by his distant father who won’t support his art, Tyler confides in a teenager named Aaron who convinces Tyler to make a movie about his deceased mother. The movie shifts between reality and Tyler’s visions of his mother, interrupted by alarming glitches in the screen in which his mother physically appears for seconds at a time. Ending in a heart-wrenching reconciliation with his father, “Portraits from a Fire” powerfully depicts love and loneliness from a teenager’s perspective. 
Imagining the Indian  
“Imagining the Indian,” directed by Aviva Kempner and Ben West, is a documentary-style feature tracing the fight to abolish Indigenous mascots and unpacking the effects of non-Indigenous people’s perceptions of Native Americans. 
The documentary unpacks the symbolism of Indigenous mascots in sports, from how football is a territorial game to the origin of the word mascot from the Spanish word “mascota,” which translates to “pet.” The occupational range of Indigenous people interviewed includes poets, curators, musicians, athletes, professors, actors and activists, and is a testament to how the fight against Native mascots is interdisciplinary and has negative implications for fields besides sports. 
In one poignant scene, Suzan Shown Harjo, an author, activist and scholar of Cheyenne/Hodulgee Muscogee descent, says of ending mascotting, “You’re trying not just to end the disdainful imagery, but eliminate what has taken the place of you in other people's eyes and the reason they can’t see you as a human being”. 
From informational documentaries to comedic shorts to moving features, the 2022 Native Cinema Showcase showed the importance of consuming art created by Indigenous people and the power of art to dismantle stereotypes and monoliths. 
kbill@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
In reflection of our coverage in the past semester, there was common theme among the stories: dissatisfaction of institutional action and values. From the questioning of American University administration’s ability to solidify a bright future for students, to adjusting their financial investment in the public safety of the campus, there has been consistent discussion on whether we have the best advocates of our well-being. The Eagle typically focuses on one particular article for its editorials, but for our last editorial of the semester, we decided to look at AU’s semester in review as a whole.
Members of the editorial board, who are also members of the AU community and are directly affected by administrative actions, have routinely voiced in these past few months that AU’s commitment to its students is driven by finances and appeasement of stakeholders keeping the University afloat. In the budget report of fiscal years 2023 and 2024, 2.6 percent of the University’s budget is allocated towards the Office of Campus Life and the Housing and Dining Programs, a 0.9 percent decrease from fiscal years 2020 and 2021. While funding for existing student experience support costs are expected to decrease from $38,687 to $19,204, simultaneously, the funding towards the “Change Can’t Wait” campaign continues to rise, which is symbolic of the University’s craving of good publicity. 
Another theme present in this ongoing phenomenon is the rehashed statements and sentiments expressed in email communications to the community from the Office of the President. Last year, in response to antisemetic vandalism in a men’s bathroom stall in Anderson Hall, President Sylvia Burwell characterized the incident as “possible” antisemitism and noted the investigation may be “inconclusive.” The promise of commitment to safety and “sense of belonging” was repeated in the response to the second incidence of the hateful vandalism, yet no further action aside from acknowledgement was made in making that promise a reality. No camera surveillance in the residence halls to prevent of repeated incidents, as later petitioned for in the walkout against the mishandling of Title IX cases. No genuine, consistent effort to keep up with the individual needs of community members that falls too far out of their performative “Change Can’t Wait” platform goals.
In the formulation of our articles, it is at times difficult to pick apart the incidents that occur on campus due to their similar outcomes: email acknowledgements and behind-the-scenes “work” being done to remedy them. The reality that many AU students connect more through shared negative experiences at the University, rather than sports or club events, is a disappointing one.
Once we start the next semester in mid-January, we shouldn’t have to keep outlining the basic needs that students and faculty alike have been protesting, emailing and battling over: formulating a direct connection with the community. Remaining behind computer screens and Zoom cameras only stabilizes the lost connection between AU leadership and AU community members. We hope that the administration will roll out a guaranteed plan to establish a personal direct line of communication between them and the student body and improved ways to respond to on-campus conflict and violence. 
As a newspaper, we plan to incorporate a broader range of student voices outside of our staff into our reporting that best reflect the viewpoints of the communities within our larger community. Being one of the largest student media organizations on campus, we have a responsibility to not only highlight the concerns that affect individuals, but also to celebrate the strides being made by our community members to strengthen our sense of solidarity. We know our Editorial Board is not fully representative of the AU community — despite making strides in recent years to have a more diverse staff, we know we still have a lot of work to do.
Regardless of the event or topic we cover in our editorials, one thing remains constant: efforts, coalitions and movements cannot have an expiration date and “change” can no longer be digitized.
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Dean Naujoks, the Lower Potomac riverkeeper, is responsible for patrolling the Potomac from where the Shenandoah River flows into it, in Harper’s Ferry, W.Va., to where it feeds into the Chesapeake Bay.
Photo by Gabe Castro-Root
On a warm Wednesday in late October, Dean Naujoks guided the smaller of his two boats out of the Washington Sailing Marina and onto the river he has devoted the past eight years of his life to protecting.
As the Lower Potomac riverkeeper, Naujoks is responsible for patrolling the Potomac from where the Shenandoah River flows into it, in Harper’s Ferry, West Virginia, to where it feeds into the Chesapeake Bay, 175 miles to the southeast. 
The Potomac Riverkeeper Network, or PRKN, is a D.C.-based nonprofit that works to prevent pollution on the Potomac and Shenandoah rivers. The organization has three riverkeepers: Mark Frondorf, the Shenandoah riverkeeper; Brent Walls, the Upper Potomac riverkeeper; and Naujoks.
The job of a riverkeeper, Naujoks said in an interview on his boat that day in October, is rather straightforward: “finding sources of pollution and eliminating sources of pollution.” 
Naujoks is at home on the water. He prefers talking about his work while he’s on the boat, he said, because “whenever I’m talking about myself, I’m really talking about the river.” 
Before coming to D.C., Naujoks spent 14 years defending waterways in North Carolina. He served as the first riverkeeper on two rivers there and earned the River Network’s National River Heroes Award in 2009, in part for his efforts to engage the public in monitoring water quality laws at construction sites. 
Naujoks moved north to join PRKN as the Lower Potomac riverkeeper in 2015. Being in D.C., he said, gives him an extra sense of responsibility.
“It’s the nation’s river, and I don’t take it lightly,” Naujoks said.
The backbone of PRKN’s work is the Clean Water Act, the United States’ flagship federal law governing water pollution. The organization uses the Clean Water Act to file lawsuits — or threaten to file lawsuits — against polluters on the Potomac and Shenandoah rivers. 
PRKN has anywhere from 12 to 25 legal cases on its docket each year, Naujoks said.
“We conduct all our investigations as if we’re going to trial,” he said. But often just a notice of intent to sue is enough to get the problem fixed. “We have the science and the law on our side.”
The riverkeepers’ relationship with the Clean Water Act is a reciprocal one. Riverkeepers use its provisions to take action against polluters, and as a result they are on the front lines of enforcing one of the nation’s premier environmental laws. 
But the law is under threat. A case currently in front of the Supreme Court seeks to scale back the definition of “waters of the United States,” the legal term used to determine which wetlands and streams are protected under the Clean Water Act. If the challenge is successful, PRKN could lose one of its key tools for eliminating pollution in the watersheds feeding the Potomac and Shenandoah rivers.
“I’m definitely concerned about what the Supreme Court might do to strip protections for all Americans to access clean water,” Naujoks said.
And if the court’s ruling restricts PRKN’s ability to sue polluters, it’s unlikely any other branch of government will pick up the slack, Naujoks said. 
“Agencies allow us to do their job for them,” he said. Still, he’s familiar with finding workarounds when the government is unable — or unwilling — to help. 
“During the Trump era, we didn’t have an Environmental Protection Agency,” Naujoks said, referencing the host of clean water regulations the EPA rolled back under the Trump administration. “We had to do it all on our own, and we did it.”
Each day looks different on the river. Identifying sources of pollution requires a variety of techniques and tools, from canoes to drones to a laboratory on a 42-foot boat called the Sea Dog docked at National Harbor. 
Since 2019, the lab has been testing water samples to help PRKN better understand where river pollution comes from and how it can be stopped.
“When you place a boat like the Sea Dog on the Potomac and you equip it as a lab, it really makes a statement,” said Lisa Wu, the lab manager. “It says we’re investing in this community, we're providing for its defense. This is a struggle that really goes to the soul of our country — that everyone deserves access to clean water to drink, to recreate in, to reflect, to recharge.”
Wu, like all of the lab workers, is a volunteer. Building community through science, she said, is central to what they do. “I've met so many people who really see a connection between the people around them, their colleagues, and finding solutions to environmental problems,” she said. 
The riverkeepers also watch the water from the sky. Walls, the Upper Potomac riverkeeper, has led an initiative to boost the use of drones in conservation. While a small plane used to be necessary to check out a potentially polluted site from above, all three of PRKN’s riverkeepers now have a drone. The drones save PRKN huge sums of money that would have otherwise gone to paying for pilots and fuel.
“With the drone, I can quickly and easily fly it up, investigate with the eyes in the sky, and try and figure out what kind of problem I’m dealing with,” Walls said.
In addition to his work on the Potomac, Walls teaches a class at Hood College in Frederick, Maryland, on how to fly a drone for environmental purposes and pass the Federal Aviation Administration commercial license test.
Over the last several years, efforts to reduce pollution on the Potomac have made “slow and steady progress,” Naujoks said. 
An extensive project to revamp parts of D.C.’s sewer system by 2030 with a variety of infrastructure improvements is expected to greatly reduce the risk of sewage spills into the river. 
And already, upgrades to wastewater treatment plants are “taking a huge amount of pollution out of the river,” Walls said.
Some boaters who have been on the river for decades recall when their motors used to get stuck in aquatic grass beds, he said. As the river became polluted and the grasses died off, boating became easier. But now, with river health rebounding in some places, those grasses are making a comeback. With them are complaints about motors getting caught in the grass. “And I’m like, ‘Well, that’s a good thing,’” Walls said.
Being a riverkeeper is at times a thankless job, but Naujoks found himself unexpectedly in the spotlight earlier this year. His moment of fame came at the end of summer, when the singer Lorde told the crowd at her D.C. concert that she went for a swim in the Potomac. After her comment was initially met with ridicule on social media, some people started asking: just how dirty is the Potomac, really?
lorde admitting to swimming in the potomac at the dc concert pic.twitter.com/Cf8g2QK4Pj

In addition to being an investigator and defender of the river, Naujoks is a fierce advocate for swimming in it — under certain conditions. He told DCist in the aftermath of Lorde’s admission that “it was a great weekend for swimming,” and that, in fact, he took a dip in the river that weekend, too.
Swimming in the D.C. section of the river is technically illegal, but “just cause it’s illegal to swim, doesn’t mean people aren’t going in the water,” Naujoks said.
He recommended using the free app Swim Guide to check water quality before diving in. The app shows recent bacteria levels in different places along the river, based on samples collected by PRKN volunteers and tested on the Sea Dog. 
The last three years of that data were compiled into the Swimmable Potomac Report 2022, which details several aspects of the river’s health, including E. coli, pH level and water temperature at 20 different sites.
Between 2019 and 2021, the sites passed public health inspections an average of 76 percent of the time, the report says.
“We want to dispel the myth that this river is polluted and dirty,” Naujoks said. “I swim in the river, and I want everyone to be able to swim in it. Just check the app first.”
gcastroroot@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
