American University administrators are encouraging faculty to hold remote instruction for classes on the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving, the University announced in an email to the AU community on Thursday. 
Provost Peter Starr said online classes will provide students more time to travel home while ensuring classes can continue to meet.
“Every year, questions arise as to how best to ensure that our classes remain on track while simultaneously addressing student needs during Thanksgiving week, including meeting family commitments, having a change to recharge before the end of the semester, and benefiting from lower travel costs,” Starr said. 
Starr said while the administration understands some classes such as art courses and science labs cannot be done through virtual instruction, students can expect a majority of classes to be held online.
“Our experience with online education during the pandemic points to a solution to this challenge, for this academic year and in years to come,” he said.
The recommendation is for undergraduate and graduate students, but excludes classes in the Washington College of Law and programs with specific calendars.
Starr encouraged faculty to tell students about the plan for the Monday, Nov. 21 and Tuesday, Nov. 22 classes as soon as possible. 
While Monday classes are to meet at normal times, classes that normally meet on Fridays will meet on Nov. 22, in accordance with the academic calendar. 
As the University has questioned in years past about how to balance Thanksgiving break with student’s needs, online classes can provide a solution for “years and years to come.”
“This change will allow us to meet our critical learning outcomes while providing our students and families with greater flexibility,” Starr said.
aturner@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Part of the AU Rude Mechanicals cast takes a bow after their variety show performance 
Editor's note: Olivia Kozlevcar, The Eagle's life managing editor, is the PR director of Rude Mechanicals and was not involved in the writing, editing or reporting of this story.
As Family Weekend at AU got underway on Oct. 8, AU’s student-led, classical theater troupe Rude Mechanicals performed their annual variety show, titled "Variety Show 2022: A Shakespeare’d Silver Screen" for family and friends, where iconic scenes from pop culture are put through a Shakespeare translator and performed live. 
This year, actors interpreted a wide range of monologues from “Little Women” (Maddie Cooper as Jo and Morgan Kullen as Laurie), “Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” (Satvik Shukla as Will), “Princess Diaries” (Eva Helfter as Mia), “Shrek” (Christian Englehardt as Shrek and Rin Carroll as Donkey), “The Matrix” (Lauren Seppala as Morpheus), “Clueless” (Gabby Landis as Cher) and much more. 
The variety show had humor in mind, with jokes landing with ease and receiving positive reactions from audience members. Famous lines were spoken in Old English or Shakespearean language, bringing a whole new twist and brilliant creativity to the show, surprising audiences left and right. The costumes were simple, all-black ensembles with one exception — a white ruffle collar, giving a nod to 16th-century fashion. Siena Maxwell, Mikaila Mack, Abigail Chase and Emily Ahern directed the show, with Maxwell being the one who put the script together.  
Mack, a senior in the School of Public Affairs and the executive director of Rude Mechanicals, said she is grateful to return to in-person operations after the coronavirus pandemic sidelined in-person performances and recruiting students became difficult when the club's operations were virtual during the 2020-2021 school year.
“I think tonight was the first time in a long time that we were able to really get back to a place of normalcy where parents can come and support their children, come support us,” Mack said. “I couldn't be more proud of how this whole show went up and how everything came together. I think it went really well, and I am excited to see what this troupe is able to do in the future.”
A major allure of acting is being able to receive immediate feedback from the audience and feed off of the energy in the room, which can not be offered in the same way over Zoom. Morgan Kullen, a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences, appreciated performing with a live and supportive crowd for their first show at AU.
“My absolute favorite thing is before going on for either of my scenes I was in, was being able to listen to the other things going on,” Kullen said. “I love to hear what people are doing and I love hearing the audience's reaction; like yeah, you should be cheering and laughing for my friends.”
Going forward, Rude Mechanicals wants to build off of the fun momentum gained during the variety show.
“Honestly my goal is to get our name out there as much as possible. I think as it currently stands we are one of two semi-active student-led theater troupes on campus,” Mack said. 
“I believe it is us and the AU Players trying to make their way back. I know personally how hard it is to keep this kind of theater and experience alive, and so my goal is to give people as many opportunities as possible and take this troupe as far as it can go.”
hlangenfeld@theeagleonline.com 
This article has been updated to include the name of the AU Players variety show, "Variety Show 2022: A Shakespeare’d Silver Screen," as well as the names of the directors. 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Actress Maria-Canals Barrera speaks at an event with AU Students for Change on Oct. 6
Maria Canals-Barrera, known for her acting roles on Disney Channel’s “Wizards of Waverly Place” and “Camp Rock,” joined the AU community for a conversation on navigating Hollywood as a Latina actress on Oct. 6. 
The event was hosted by AU Students for Change and co-sponsored by Latinos En Acción, the League of United Latin American Citizens and the Kennedy Political Union. It was moderated by Carly Olmo, the treasurer of LULAC and a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences and the School of Public Affairs. 
Born and raised in Miami and of Cuban heritage, Canals-Barrera said she always had a passion for acting and that she participated in theater in high school. She received a theatrical scholarship at the University of Miami and graduated with a degree in theater arts.
Canals-Barrera described the TV and film industry as “tortuous and wonderful.” She said she is grateful for all of the experiences she’s had, especially on “Wizards of Waverly Place.” 
“Part of it is getting to be part of some shows that are so lasting and that make such a difference,” Canals-Barrera said. “And that you guys still remember and love and you brought me here and that’s just awesome.” 
“Wizards of Waverly Place,” starring Selena Gomez, ran on Disney Channel from 2007 to 2012 and followed a wizard family with three teenagers in New York City. The series finale racked in almost 10 million viewers, making it the most viewed Disney Channel finale of all time.
Canals-Barrera said she considers her character Theresa Russo from “Wizards of Waverly Place” to be her most impactful role. 
“(It was) very rare that there was a woman who was the mom on a show who happened to be of Mexican heritage, where it was part of her but not like, let’s do everything about that,” Canals-Barrera said.
She discussed issues in the industry, where many roles are solely focused on the character’s minority identity and not on other aspects of their person. 
“But (TV and film) hasn’t been like… here’s an American story about an American hospital or American law company… where a lot of the cast happens to be people that are of a minority background without it being a focus,” Canals-Barrera said.
While Latinx Heritage Month is celebrated annually from Sept. 15 to Oct. 15, Canals-Barrera said, “I celebrate (Latinx heritage) every day of my life.”
As a Latina actress, Canals-Barrera discussed the challenges faced by many people of minority backgrounds trying to succeed in the business. 
“If (casting directors) didn’t think of this character being somebody who happens to be of Latin heritage, then they won’t even think of bringing you on… It’s unfortunate because a lot of great actors didn’t get seen for a lot of stuff,” she said. “It's an industry that puts people in boxes to begin with.” 
However, Canals-Barrera said this aspect of the industry is in the process of changing and becoming more inclusive as representation improves. She hopes for casting based on 90 percent talent and 10 percent what someone looks like. 
“I would love if the door was wide open for all kinds of people to do their thing and if they convince you, they should get the part,” she said.
Canals-Barrera ended the evening with advice on how to advocate for oneself in spaces where others may not be listening to your voice as much. 
“The way, in my opinion, that true change happens and understanding between people is to operate with integrity and honesty and excellence . . . Who you are in your behavior and in your values and how you treat people,” she said. “That’s what’s going to make somebody respect you for real.” 
ahatting@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After a 18 month hiatus, the rock band Death Cab for Cutie made its official return to the stage with the release of their new album “Asphalt Meadows.” With tour dates scheduled until March 2023, the band’s strong comeback shows that it can mature with their audience while maintaining their early nostalgic sound. 
Thao and the Get Down Stay Down opened the show, with Thao Nguyen leading the band. Nguyen dawned a fluorescent orange sparkly jumpsuit, which matched the energy of her performance and vivid stage presence.
Nguyen, who grew up in Northern Virginia, gave a shout out to her hometown and family members in the audience supporting her: “I have two nephews here tonight. I have a few more years until I’m no longer cool so this is the moment to help them think I’m cool.”
During their song “Fool Forever,” Thao invited the audience to join in, initiating a call-and-response on top of Thao’s compelling vocals and guitar solo. 
The new age folk rock sound of Thao was contrasted by the wistful, mellow magic of Death Cab for Cutie. The crowd was packed with fans from older generations who clearly have grown up with their music. 
Before lead singer Ben Gibbard even entered the stage, the audience roared with screams and cheers. Death Cab For Cutie continued that energy in their first song “I Don’t Know How I Survive,” the first track off of “Asphalt Meadows.” The enthusiasm continued with their most popular song from the album, “Here to Forever,” with the audience screaming the lyrics and dancing along to this uplifting tune. 
The lights and technical features added beautiful visuals that complemented the music. In their song “Northern Lights,” the stage exploded into rainbow bursts of light, a technicolor spectacle that elevated the energy of the crowd. 
However, despite the lively energy from both the band and audience, the most memorable moment of the concert was when Gibbard entered the stage alone halfway through the set to play one of Death Cab For Cutie’s classics: “I Will Follow You Into the Dark”. 
Sitting on a stool with an acoustic guitar, Gibbard made fans fall in love with Death Cab For Cutie all over again, and they echoed his singing with every word of the song. At the end of the song, Gibbard added a reprise and stepped back from the mic, letting the audience sing the last chorus on their own. 
Being a well seasoned band, Death Cab for Cutie has performed in the district many times. Gibbard joked with the crowd that he likes to visit at least one tourist attraction every time his band comes to D.C, and recounted his visit to the International Spy Museum. 
“I enjoyed it immensely, but now I’m a little bit paranoid that everything is a camera or a weapon so I don’t think I’m going to sleep very well tonight,” He said.  
The combination of nostalgic melodies and the enthusiastic energy from the crowd made for an unforgettable performance. Singing along to every word, the audience’s enthusiasm for each song is a testament to how Death Cab for Cutie and their fans have truly grown together. 

kbill@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU community members learn about enrichment opportunities that are part of the Change Can’t Wait campaign at campaign impact stations
American University students and their families gathered on the quad on Oct. 8 for the Change Can’t Wait festival, an event  held to engage the community and inform them about AU’s $500 million fundraising initiative .
Alongside music and food, the festival showcased the goals of the Change Can’t Wait campaign with activities, campaign impact stations and research presentations. Leah Brady, the executive director of campaign engagement, said she hoped the event would help connect community members to the campaign’s mission.
“What we’re really hoping today, because we had to launch the campaign virtually, is to provide an opportunity to help our campus community and families understand what the campaign is all about, what we’re trying to do, and the impact that it’s already making for students on campus and beyond,” Brady said. 
Community members in attendance were able to learn about the different types of research and enrichment opportunities being funded by the campaign, play corn hole on the grass or grab food from a buffet or various food trucks. According to Internal Communications Manager with the Office of Communications and Marketing, Jasmine Pelaez,  the festival was paid for using funds from the university operating budget and meant to celebrate the AU community. 
Isabella Cvrk, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Sciences, said she thought the festival was both an entertaining and interesting way to kick off Family Weekend. 
“I like that there’s posters and I feel like parents can engage and the food’s good and the music is good,” Cvrk said. “My mom’s really interested in the posters and stuff on the informational walk.”
Students’ family members, like Christy Dentinger, also liked getting to know what kinds of opportunities there were available on campus for their students. “It’s really neat seeing all the different research and really giving us an idea of stuff she’s experiencing on the day to day,” she said. 
The festival is one of the many activities that AU organized as a part of Family Weekend. Bryn Hunter, who was visiting her daughter Lauren Hunter, a first-year in the College of Arts and Sciences, said she was happy to see all the families at the festival together, “It’s very lovely and impressive, and so nice to see all the parents,” Bryn said. “It was heartwarming to see some of the students reunite with their parents for the first time.” 
Brady said she hopes attendees walked away with a better understanding of AU’s mission and a feeling of connection to the school community.
“I hope that families feel like this is a place that is moving, and a wonderful match for their student — and I hope students feel the same,” Brady said. “And our faculty and staff who are also a large proportion of the donors and supporters, I hope they also feel good — that this is a community that’s important to be a part of and is really making change in the world.”
wwhalen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I was on the phone with my mom when I learned that a swastika had been graffitied in Anderson Hall. When I alerted my mom to the news, she responded with one word: “Again?”
“Again” is the sentiment the Jewish community on campus is feeling at the moment. 
Last September, when a swastika was found, social media was in a frenzy. Tapping through Instagram, I saw countless posts expressing disappointment and sadness towards the newfound antisemitism on campus. This time around, I saw maybe three or four posts. Last time, several news sources beyond the Eagle reported on the vandalism. This time, silence. 
Antisemitism at American University should not be commonplace. Finding swastikas should not be so recurring that it is no longer news to us or the greater community. This can not be the new normal. 
In my opinion piece on antisemitism on campus last year, I listed acts of antisemitism that took place between the graffiti on campus and the writing of my article. Since the last graffiti was found in September 2021 to the newest finding in September 2022, the Anti-Defamation League reported 512 incidents of antisemitism in the U.S. Looking through this list, it seems that a large portion of these incidents are graffitied hate symbols, like the swastika on campus. 
The reason these kinds of incidents are so prevalent is cowardice. Graffiti allows for anonymity, and anonymity allows for hate to grow without consequences. Anonymity allows an antisemite to remain comforted by their beliefs with no one to challenge them. It is the coward's way of being hateful as there are no repercussions. 
I’m running out of things to say because I already said it all last year. If I sound repetitive, it’s because the situation is repetitive. The only difference between last year and this year is the amount of social media attention the graffiti received. I ended my column last year with the assumption that more discriminatory acts would occur on campus in the future. At least the University properly condemned the swastika, instead of referring to it as a “possible” act of antisemitism this time around. 
Aren’t people tired of hearing from me about this? Isn’t the identical nature of these situations exhausting? I remember feeling so relieved after finishing my article last year — refreshed that my thoughts had been expressed productively. Now, I’m losing hope that I will ever stop writing this article. I’m losing hope that I won’t have to keep adding 500 words to my original thoughts over and over again. 
It is no coincidence that both of these antisemitic acts occurred during the Jewish High Holidays. These acts were deliberate and sought to cause harm in a time of holiness. The antisemite on campus attempted to get a rise out of the student body, by drawing the swastika during a time of Jewish comradery. 
Unfortunately for them and for us, no one seemed to care. 
Alexis Bernstein is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the assistant opinion editor for The Eagle. 
abernstein@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
