Jessica Waters, the dean of undergraduate education and vice provost for academic student services at American University, will step down from her role as of June 30, 2023, according to an email from Peter Starr to the AU community.
Waters will remain at the University, serving as a full-time faculty member in the School of Public Affairs, according to Starr.
“She will undoubtedly continue to make a positive impact on the AU community as she rejoins the full-time faculty in the School of Public Affairs,” Starr wrote in the email. “I know that she has deeply missed, and is eager to return to, the classroom.”
Waters earned her bachelor’s degree in CLEG and women’s and gender studies as well as a J.D. from AU’s Washington College of Law. She joined the SPA faculty in 2008 and served as associate dean of SPA from 2014 to 2016 and an adjunct faculty member at WCL from 2007 to 2015, according to AU’s website. 
In July 2016, Waters was named vice provost for undergraduate studies, under the office of the provost. The position was later expanded to dean of undergraduate education and vice provost for academic student services, which encompassed academic support, disability support and the start of first-year advising.
“Throughout her tenure, Dean Waters has played a pivotal role in enhancing the AU undergraduate experience and has introduced a variety of significant programmatic and curricular innovations,” Starr wrote in the email. 
Waters oversees the Academic Support and Access Center, first-year academic advising, the AU Core curriculum, the University’s living-learning communities and the Honors and Scholars programs. 
Before joining the AU faculty, Waters worked as a litigator at WilmerHale, an international law firm, where she specialized in criminal defense litigation, internal investigations and reproductive rights litigation and advocacy.

Starr said the University administration will begin a search for the next dean of undergraduate education in the near future.
“Despite the many demands on her time, Dean Waters has remained active in research, advocacy and teaching in the area of reproductive rights,” Starr wrote in the email. “She is often called upon to provide expert commentary on related issues and plans to continue her public engagement moving forward.”
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
If being welcomed back to campus by faculty members demanding livable wages wasn’t enough, another concern shocks the American University community: whether their Paper Lantern orange chicken will send them to the Student Health Center waiting room. 
An article recently published by The Eagle included a Sept. 21 health inspection report on the Mary Graydon Center dining facilities, revealing that they fall into risk category three. Hundreds of students, predominantly freshmen and sophomores, take advantage of the meal plan that the University provides, yet they have to discover the risky food conditions through a student newspaper. As a school that is heavily involved in sending out communications pertaining to on-campus events and fundraising efforts, we expect the same effort to be given to student wellness. 
Earlier this year, the AU Dining Advisory Committee held a community forum to solicit student feedback on ways to improve the dining experience, and we’re left to wonder, what is being done to ensure that students don’t exit dining facilities with upset stomachs? Was there a follow-up inspection, and what were the results? Does the University plan to say anything to students about the initial inspection or any follow-up that might have occurred? Food safety is a precaution that has direct health risks, and many have dietary needs. Stories of students having allergic reactions after eating at TDR due to alleged cross-contamination are commonplace and make it imperative for administrators to directly acknowledge the risks of having poor health and safety procedures. 
The limitations of where students decide to dine for lunch on- and off-campus within the meal plan has immense repercussions on the community. Thirty percent of college students across the United States have experienced food insecurity during a period of time within their college years, with significant racial and ethnic disparities among Black and Indigenous people. The Market, which is supposed to be open 24/7, now has restrictions on the times students can visit the food pantry, and there has been trouble with card access to the room in the evenings. As for food options off-campus, it’s all reliant on the individual. EagleBucks are no longer accepted at non-AU locations, including Whole Foods in Tenleytown. Not all students who rely on meal plans can afford to spend additional money just to prevent potential health risks that may come with eating on campus.  
To remedy the lack of food choices that AU offers to the community, the University should offer compensation to students through the EagleBucks program to empower students to diversify their options. In addition, routine health inspection checks should be conducted on all on-campus businesses that prepare food and the results of these reports should be publicized through AU campus-wide communications. 
With this current reality and inadequate transparency on the health inspection grade of our dining, students have to roll the dice in deciding which on-campus food item they’re willing to stomach. 
editor@theeagleonline.com
Correction: This story has been updated to clarify that students are not limited in how many times they could visit the pantry
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Environmental groups on campus gathered on Sept. 3 to celebrate the AU community garden and its members. 
AU’s environmental clubs came together to kick off the fall season with a celebration for the community garden and the people that care about it. The garden is located beside Reeves Field, where the event took place on Friday, Sept. 30.
“A lot of people came out and came out in the rain, so that just makes me really happy and hopeful about the future of the garden,” said Kat Raiano, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the Communications Director for the community garden.
The community garden provides companionship and education, as it meets every Saturday from 12-2 p.m. for workdays and requires no previous experience. 
“I think that the garden is for everybody… I couldn't tell you half of the people here, I don’t know what their names are, but I do know that every Saturday I'll be there, we’ll have a good time, and that’s community,” said Samantha Margot, a junior in the School of Communication. 
The Garden Party was a way to catch up with those who have attended workdays and to meet fresh faces who are eager to join the community. The Garden Party showcased the value of cherishing the environment through a scavenger hunt, which encouraged people to find ingredients in the garden to put towards a pasta recipe. There was also a tie-dye station with dye made from plants from the garden. 
“[We] also have garden reflections … we started a big garden drawing last week where everyone took a minute and kind of drew something that is being lost or something that they really appreciate about the space,” Raiano said. 
Last semester, community garden members learned that AU’s Center for Athletic Performance building is in the works to be constructed in place of the garden, forcing a relocation, which many members are unhappy about.
“I obviously am very sad that the space that we’ve really cultivated, that we love and have really centered our community around, is being bulldozed in the name of monetary interest and short term monetary gain, as opposed to long term stability, sustainability of our community and a community on campus related to environmental issues,” Raiano said.
The music that played out of a stereo, combined with the rainy weather, cast the party in a sentimental light. Students were at each and every station, hugging and reminiscing over their shared memories and fears for the future of the garden. The members who put together the party ensured it would still go on despite the weather, which created a sense of determination and passion. 
“I hope that with this garden move, and this new attention that’s being placed on the garden, will actually maybe tell the administration that we are important and that there’s a large swath of campus that’s actually dedicated to the garden that wants the garden in their lives.,” Margot said. 
samanthamyers@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
NBS performs an original song at Community Couture.
Community Couture, a fashion event hosted by AU’s clubs EGO Magazine, Revolution, the League of United Latin American Citizens, the AU Community Garden, Her Campus, American University Student Government and the Student Union Board, took place Oct. 6 at the amphitheater and Community Garden. The night featured a flea market of student vendors, club booths, student musical talents and a fashion show. 
The event's flea market booths not only showcased clubs from campus, but also student artists selling jewelry, clothes and art pieces. The booths provided students opportunities to shop while they took in the wonderful atmosphere of the evening. Among them were Jewelry by Gia, JMR Art and Thatch and Clover, whose creative talents are shoppable on Instagram, Etsy and Depop. 
Alongside the artistic booths featured at the event, student musical talents, including NBS, Mass Ave, Sara Wiser, Wrenmo and Liv Wood, kicked off the evening, each playing short sets from 6-8 p.m. The artists showcased original work, shared song covers and kept the energy high as students shopped, ate and enjoyed the show. Songs like NBS’s “Autumn” and Wrenmo’s “Dance Party in Hyperspace” showed off the original talent in the AU community that usually goes unnoticed without events such as these. 
Following the musical stylings of bands and soloists, a student fashion show demonstrated some of the unique styles and collections of AU students. Featuring creators such as Isabelle’s Crochet and Alejandro Vasquez, student models showcased designs of several vendors also featured at the event. 
Anne Waldron, a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the president of EGO Magazine, said she drew inspiration from the magazine’s fall edition. “The event is based on the theme of the latest issue, which was community,” Waldron said. This idea brought together an unlikely medley of student clubs and organizations, and by bringing together people from every corner of the campus, Waldron and EGO Magazine transformed the amphitheater for an evening.
Community Couture was a must-see event and is sure to be continued for many semesters to come. The atmosphere, community and creativity on display showed off some of AU’s finest talents. Opportunities like this one let students branch out and share their passions and talents with audiences they never would have reached before. Waldron and the rest of EGO Magazine accomplished their goal of “[bringing] a lot of student faces out of their dorms” and showcasing the beautiful communities that exist on campus.
jbird@theeagleonline.com 
Correction: This story has been updated to include the correct spelling of Anne Waldron's name
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
“Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile” is a new musical adaptation of Bernard Waber’s beloved book series of the same name. Featuring Shawn Mendes, who stars as Lyle, this lighthearted tale of a crocodile finding his home in New York City requires suspension of disbelief but expects the audience to stretch their imaginations too far. 
The film opens with Lyle getting his supposed “big break,” when washed-up performer Hector P. Valenti (Javier Bardem) adopts him in hopes of making him a star. However, Lyle’s terrible stage fright causes him to freeze whenever he sings in front of an audience. Thus, Valenti abandons Lyle in Valenti’s old brownstone. 
Still, Lyle gets a new lease on life when a young family named the Primms move into Valenti’s abandoned home after Mr. Primm (Scoot McNairy) scores a new job in the city. The Primms reluctantly accept Lyle into their family, and Mrs. Primm (Constance Wu) develops a particularly strong bond with Lyle as he teaches her the importance of occasionally relinquishing control. 
Lyle’s dynamic relationship with the Primm’s only child, Josh (Winslow Fegley), is arguably the film’s biggest success. Lyle teaches Josh how to navigate New York City, while Josh teaches Lyle that he isn’t alone in his troubles. The pair’s parallel stories of trying to become more confident converge as they find comfort in each other. Their ability to make each other grow heartwarmingly displays the importance of surrounding oneself with people who are uplifting and supportive.
The film also features many tried-and-true elements that have proved successful in recent movies geared toward young audiences. The plot of an unusual animal becoming a loved member of a family will be welcomed by fans of films like “Paddington.” Additionally, the film’s songwriters Justin Paul and Benj Pasek’s previous work on the “The Greatest Showman” shines through in Valenti’s grand musical numbers. 
But, the intersection of these two concepts leaves certain plot developments feeling incomplete. While the film attempts to balance the lighthearted musical numbers with more sentimental dialogue and character development, certain characters become either underdeveloped or predictable in the chaos of the storyline. 
For a movie marketed as a musical, the choreography feels repetitive and doesn’t match the energy of the music itself. Additionally, Valenti never sincerely apologizes for abandoning Lyle or learns from his mistakes. Even after reuniting with Lyle 18 months later, he becomes the agent of a talented beat-boxing snake when Lyle parts ways with him. This final, underwhelming interaction between Valenti and Lyle leaves a major relationship in the film unresolved. 
However unrealistic the film’s premise may be, the impressive CGI of Lyle himself goes a long way in lending the film some much needed plausibility. Although Lyle can only communicate through song, he is still able to bring humor to the film during dialogue with his clumsy nature and undeniable charm. 
Although some character arcs get forgotten in the whimsical chaos of the film, “Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile” still offers a comedic, heartwarming experience that is worth the watch. A plot revolving around a singing crocodile may seem ridiculous at first glance, but beneath the humorous moments and flashy musical numbers is an endearing story of a family and a crocodile who help each other find a home. 
“Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile” was released in theaters on Oct. 7. 
kbill@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A weekly medical clinic provides routine care to unhoused people across the DMV.
If you don’t know to look for it, Friendship Place is easy to miss. From the outside it could be mistaken for any other house, dwarfed by the commercial buildings beside it on Wisconsin Avenue in Tenleytown. But for those who seek it out, Friendship Place, a nonprofit that provides services to people experiencing homelessness, can be life-saving.
Friendship Place first opened in Tenleytown 30 years ago as a community-led effort to support homeless people in the wealthiest part of Washington. 
Decades later, its original location is still providing critical services to people in need. There’s a medical clinic on Monday afternoons and a psychiatric clinic on Thursdays. Bottles of soap and shampoo are piled into large bins for distribution. There’s a washing machine and a dryer, as well as a computer station. A mailroom allows those without an address to receive documents they need in order to secure housing or employment. All of these resources are free for those who use them.
“Our goal is to help people build self-esteem,” said Sean Read, Friendship Place’s chief program officer for community solutions.
But Friendship Place’s services go beyond a load of laundry and a mailbox — across the DMV, the organization’s housing programs have helped move countless people off the streets. 
Tenleytown is Friendship Place’s original location, but the organization now has a short-term family housing site on Idaho Avenue in Cathedral Heights; a 40-unit apartment complex for men in Columbia Heights; temporary apartment-style housing in Anacostia; veteran and career services and permanent supportive housing on U Street; and veteran services in Greenbelt, Maryland, and Alexandria, Virginia.
The organization employs nearly 170 people, according to Read. Some of those employees once experienced homelessness themselves. 
Volunteer opportunities and partnerships with other organizations broaden Friendship Place’s reach even further.
Across all its services, Friendship Place serves over 3,400 people per year, according to its website.
Dignity in Work
One of the organization’s flagship programs is a workforce development initiative called AimHire. By focusing on strengths and experiences people already have, AimHire helps people experiencing homelessness find work and an income.
The program was born over a decade ago in response to the Great Recession of 2008, when nearly 110,000 district residents lived below the poverty line, according to the DC Fiscal Policy Institute. 
People would come to Friendship Place saying all they needed was a job to get back on their feet. “This is D.C. — people ask ‘Where are you from?’ What do you do?’” Read said. 
“Everyone has something that they can use to be leveraged into an employment opportunity,” he added. “When we can get people working, they're getting that income which helps them with other basic needs, which helps support housing. It’s breaking a cycle of joblessness and homelessness.”
AimHire helped 126 people find work in 2021, according to Friendship Place. 
For Read, who has been at Friendship Place for 11 years, the most meaningful part of his work is seeing families find long-term housing stability. 
He recalled one family in particular, a household with a child, two parents and a grandparent living together. The grandparent received support from Friendship Place, which allowed both parents to find “meaningful and supportive work,” Read said. That routine helped keep the child in school. Now, eight years later, the family remains in stable housing. 
“Ultimately, that is exactly our goal,” Read said.
Transitioning to Housing
Read is also responsible for overseeing the distribution of a $2.5 million grant from the Bezos Day One Fund, a foundation created by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. 
Two other D.C. anti-homelessness groups, House of Ruth and Housing Up, also received donations from Bezos’ fund, as did dozens of other organizations across the country.
The goal of the grant is to cover costs for families transitioning from homelessness to housing. By paying for things like application fees, security deposits and storage units, Read said Friendship Place has been able to ease the financial burden on families moving into a home.  
The result, he said, is that people are not only more likely to stay housed for longer, but they can focus on making their home feel meaningful.
“Having a bed when you move in and a couple other pieces of basic furniture increases the likelihood of success,” Read said.
For children in particular, Read said, “the ability to have things to engage with is key. For a kid going from an unstable situation into a stable situation, making a meaningful connection can help with the mental wellness of everyone in the house.”
Because homelessness is often a lagging indicator of changes in employment and housing costs, Read said Friendship Place typically starts to see the impacts of a major event — like a recession or the pandemic — six to 18 months later. That makes it difficult to predict where the organization’s services will be needed next. 
But one area where there will always be a need is the search for housing. As housing costs have grown faster than wages over the last several decades, finding affordable homes is a perpetual challenge. 
“We’re facing a real lack of affordable housing,” Read said. “You can’t end homelessness without housing.”
gcastroroot@theeagleonline.com
This article is part of The Eagle's 2022 contribution to the Homeless Crisis Reporting Project, in collaboration with Street Sense Media and other local newsrooms. The collective works will be published throughout the week at HomelessCrisis.press.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
