Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Spenser, Koz and Tristan play a guessing game of deciphering a movie's plot based on its title alone. Tristan can't stop talking about "The Nut Job," Koz shames Spenser for his lack of "Mamma Mia" knowledge, and Spenser thinks that "Big Mommas: Like Father, Like Son" is definitely a problem. All movies discussed are considered cinematic masterpieces. 

This episode was produced by Chloe Irwin.
tau@theeagleonline.com, okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com and shoover@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor’s Note: Panelist Emily Brignand is a columnist for The Eagle and was not involved in the writing, reporting or editing of this story.
The Asian American Student Union and American University’s chapter of Project Pengyou hosted a joint panel Thursday, featuring speakers who discussed how Asian American history is preserved, taught and used to empower communities. 
The three panelists were Executive Director of the 1882 Foundation Ted Gong; AU Asia, Pacific, and Diaspora Studies professor Elaine Cho; and sophomore Emily Brignand, who is the director of education and culture at AU Project Pengyou. Public history graduate student Mia Owens moderated the event. 
The 1882 Foundation is a non-profit organization that seeks to raise awareness of the history and ongoing impact of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882. Project Pengyou is a flagship initiative aimed at fostering U.S.-China youth leadership, launching over 80 campus chapters across the country. 
A focal point of the panel was the lack of Asian American history taught in schools, which Cho elaborated on through an anecdote of her own high school experience. 
“[Growing up] I barely had any knowledge of Asian American studies or anything about Asian American history,” said Cho, who was raised in Texas. She said that her first exposure to the subject was in an AP U.S. history class, where a teacher “glossed over” the Japanese internment camps. 
“Any student, no matter what race, what background you are … if someone says ‘that’s it,’ you’re like, ‘I’m going to go and get more information,’” Cho said. “Because of that, I inquired more about it, but the more I inquired about it, I couldn’t find much information in my local library … It fueled me to get more interested in learning about our Asian and Asian American history because that’s part of my identity.” 
Brignand said that for her, learning about Asian American history as a biracial individual has been a journey of self-discovery. 
“As someone who is trying to self discover, I’ve been having trouble really knowing who I am,” said Brignand, who added that her struggle with identity began when she returned to Nevada after living in China for six years. “When I came back, I had a lot of internalized racism because going to middle school and being one of the only Asian people … it felt out of place.”
Now, Brignand feels that more emphasis should be placed on teaching a fuller picture of Asian American history in schools. 
“I think it’s really important for us to use this opportunity and learn more about the world and ourselves, as well,” Brignand said.
The panel comes as advocates across the country are pushing for lawmakers to pass legislation that would require schools to teach about Asian American history. Several states, including Ohio, Florida, California and New York, have begun working towards the inclusive curriculum, according to NBC News. Illinois became the first state to mandate the teaching of Asian American history in public schools last July. 
It is changes like these that Gong said are necessary to protect the stories of Asian Americans from erasure. 
“There is a subset that needs to be looked at, and that is the Asian American component,” he said. “In order to develop those resources and those topics that are not going to be mentioned … that’s where the Asian American studies component comes in.” 
Gong recommended that teachers of students in the K-12 range should “embed Asian American topics within core curriculum.” 
The panel also touched upon cultural appropriation in the media and among celebrities, such as the “fox eye” trend — using makeup to emulate “almond-shaped” eyes that critics say appropriates the Asian facial feature. 
“A lot of times white TikTokers would take trends from different cultures and then use them to their name,” Brignand said. “It’s somehow okay for other people to do it, but when Asian Americans embrace the way they look, it’s somehow judged differently.” 
Cho mentioned that Asian-American appropriation can be traced back to the early Hollywood era.
“It is appropriation because they don’t know the history of it,” Cho said. “Those kinds of stereotypes are long-standing … At the same time people wonder why Asian and Asian Americans are offended because they don’t listen to our stories or experiences.” 
Gong said knowing one’s history and identity are interconnected. 
“The idea is you need to understand yourself, and that requires you to understand all the things that make you up,” he said. “That includes all this history, all this culture, the difference in what that means and that includes the idea of ‘how are you an Asian navigating America?’” 
Looking to the future, the panel stressed the importance of being politically active to pave the road for change. 
“Something that matters a lot to me and a lot of people I know, especially at AU, is the fact that we need to have our voices in important matters that go on in this country,” Brignand said. She also encouraged Asian American audiences to “occupy spaces,” or build a larger presence for themselves in areas where they have been historically underrepresented. 
Cho said that she hopes Asian American students keep advocating for themselves. 
“Tell this University what you want,” she said. “Don’t let it fade… We’re here, we’re here to stay. So continue to speak up.” 
mfishel@student.american.edu 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The Claudia Jones Club, established at American University in January, works to provide educational tools and grow student activism on campus while creating a space for students to belong. 
Claudia Jones, the journalist and activist the club is named after, was a member of the Communist Party in the mid-1900s. Jones advocated for the rights of those who, like herself, experienced what she called the “triple oppression theory,” facing oppression on three fronts for being a Black woman and a member of the working class.
Many of the organization’s goals stem from the issues she was fighting for and the larger movement of the Claudia Jones School for Political Education, based in Washington, D.C. It has become a nationally recognized club with chapters around the country.
Jack Wiant, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences and president of the club, said the club’s main goals at AU are to educate and respond to problems that arise within the community.
“We established [a chapter] here essentially with the same goal to provide political education for a Marxist-Leninist perspective and sort of get students involved in activism not just on campus, but also in the rest of D.C.,” Wiant said.
Wiant said that although some other organizations and students on campus may not have the same beliefs as the Claudia Jones Club, he hopes to find points of unity so greater progress can be made by working together.
“It's not productive to sort of stand apart from society or apart from the student body and just say we have the correct ideas or we alone are charging forward,” Wiant said. “It's like you have to meet people where they are and that's what we're doing.”
In the spirit of unification, the club has been working on a project in Mount Pleasant to create a park for that community. 
Germán Polaco, a freshman in CAS and the treasurer of the club, explained the need for a community space in that area and the 10-year battle it has taken to make the Amigos Park a reality. 
On the weekend of March 19, members of AU’s club chapter met with D.C. organizers and community members to share the plan for the park. 
Claudia Jones Club members are doing what Polaco believes is an essential, albeit often neglected, opportunity: branching out into D.C. neighborhoods.
“A lot of clubs do actions within their campuses, but they don’t connect that to the broader D.C. community,” Polaco said.
Community building on campus and within the D.C. area is an important tenet of the Claudia Jones Club and something they wish to impart upon the AU student body. Additionally, the club has become involved in unionizing efforts, issues of student debt relief and events to protest the University’s recent removal of the mask mandate.
Wiant and Polaco also pointed to the history of the institution of AU, warning students not to enter into the D.C. community’s space in a destructive manner.
“We have to recognize our campus is like a gentrifying force in this area, in which D.C. is historically working class; a Black city essentially,” Wiant said. 
The Claudia Jones School of Political Education hosted a program last semester on the issue of gentrification which AU Claudia Jones club members attended. Poets and musicians were invited to come and speak on the topic at a local restaurant.
Within this semester and beyond, Wiant and Polaco talked about their hopes of educating AU students with events such as “Who is Claudia Jones?” on March 31. 
The club hopes to make sure the life of Claudia Jones is remembered and that her efforts are carried on by the current generation. 
“I think what we're trying to do is essentially become a leading force in the activist community here, especially a leading working class force,” Wiant said.
mkonjoyan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
At American University, professors schedule midterm exams whenever they please. Beholden to neither policy nor reason, some professors choose to test in February, while others wait until the end of March. 
Though the perpetuity of midterms season poses challenges to all students, one student in particular endured an unusually challenging schedule. The Seagle caught up with John Fisher, a sophomore in the School of International Service, to discuss his notable midterm experience. 
Fisher began his story in mid-March. 
On March 11, he woke up on the wrong side of the bed. With the changing clocks and the delirium of midterms, Fisher overslept by nearly one full hour. He frantically combed through his hair and brushed his teeth, knowing that in just a few minutes, he would be taking his final midterm of the semester. Worth 88 percent of his grade, the International Economics midterm would be the toughest one yet. 
Fisher expressed extreme frustration at the sheer number of midterms he was forced to take this spring. 
“It’s my millionth midterm of the semester,” Fisher said. “It feels like there’s a new one every day. When will it end?” 
Despite initial disheartenment, Fisher reported that the midterm went well. He arrived on time, completed the test with ten minutes to spare and earned the highest mark in his class. 
“John seems to know the material like the back of his hand,” economics professor Marc Tejada said. 
While he experienced material success, Fisher longed for the midterms season to end. 
“I tried absolutely everything I could,” Fisher said. “I feigned rheumatoid arthritis, threw my computer down the garbage chute to reduce its capabilities and hacked into the professor-side of Canvas and altered the list of assignments. Nothing worked. The midterms just kept coming.”
On March 14, he reported waking up to the sound of manicured chirping coming from the bedside table, a soft alarm on a Monday morning. The gentle awakening paled in comparison to the mounting anxieties preceding his midterm. 
“To be honest, the idea of another midterm frustrates me,” he said. “I can’t believe I have yet another sit-down test after taking so many already. Haven’t I already paid my dues?” 
Fisher once again tried to buy some leisure time but to no avail. 
“I dropped my instant pot on my foot to break it, but unfortunately, it only created a hairline fracture that didn’t appear incredibly severe,” Fisher said. “When I came back home, I filled the instant pot with frozen pork chops and cans of chickpeas. That worked. I really wanted an exemption, but sadly, all I got was an extension.” 
Despite valiant efforts to secure one singular, midterm-free moment, it appeared as though Fisher had failed once again.
On March 15, Fisher woke up from a horrible night of sleep. With Canvas notifications crowding his inbox and the fear of impending assignments occupying most of his headspace, Fisher shuffled to get ready in time for his midterm. Though it was quite possibly the most heavily weighted assignment of his academic career, Fisher felt uncharacteristically at ease. 
“I feel good about this one,” he said. “I can recite the material in my sleep.”
This behavior surprised Fisher’s roommate, Jarrod Raisner. He began to grow suspicious of Fisher and suspected that something serious might be of concern. 
“Something is wrong with John,” Raisner said. “All he ever does is take midterms. He’s taken at least 17 midterms over the past three months and he’s only enrolled in four classes.” 
While Fisher seemed calm and collected, Raisner remained concerned. 
“I fear he is caught in the Never-Ending Cycle of Midterms,” Raisner said.
While John's strange experiences are unfamiliar to most of America, they are quite commonplace on AU’s campus. Thirty students reported similar experiences to The Seagle, each enduring a perpetual onslaught of midterms exams and reporting that their midterms season persisted for months. Most terrifyingly, no one is sure of how to escape this trap — no one except for Fisher. 
On March 16, Fisher finally experienced a change in perspective. 
“I pass every exam with sky-high marks. I get infinite chances to get it right,” Fisher said. “To be honest, I could do this in my sleep.” 
Fisher reported to The Seagle that he plans to attend law school and medical school, hoping to earn a perfect 4.0 GPA, 180 LSAT and 528 MCAT no matter how many tries it takes. He also assumed that if a criminal trial or a heart surgery didn’t go his way, he could wake up the next day and begin again. 
“An unyielding midterm season doesn’t seem to phase anyone, so why should it phase me?” Fisher asked. 
During the interview, he received a Canvas notification. It involved another midterm, now broken up into three sections and dispersed between March 25 and May 6. But Fisher was unafraid.
“What’s two more?” he said, grabbing a blue book, a pencil and a can of Redbull before diving into the next exam. 
Nora Sullivan is a junior in the School of International Service and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
nsullivan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University is switching health insurance providers for students in order to reduce price increases for students, the University announced in a March 18 email. 
AU students will be insured by Aetna instead of CareFirst as of Aug. 1. The switch comes after CareFirst raised its prices by as much as 40 percent and is intended to minimize increases to the cost of health insurance, said Traci Callandrillo, assistant vice president of campus life. 
Jonnel Clothier, the senior director of AU Central, said the 2021–2022 coverage period for CareFirst cost $1,981 for students. If prices rose as much as 40 percent, CareFirst’s coverage could have cost as much as $2,774. Aetna’s coverage period for 2022–2023 will cost $2,178. 
CareFirst did not respond to The Eagle’s request for comment.
All AU students — undergraduate, graduate and law — taking six or more credits are automatically enrolled in the student health insurance plan. Students can still waive the plan if their alternative coverage plan meets AU’s coverage standards.
Callandrillo said 4,700 students, a little more than one-third of the total student body, use the school’s healthcare.
CareFirst’s prices went up because of the pandemic, Callandrillo said, and every year, insurance companies bid for AU’s business. The school then negotiates the best price with the insurance companies. 
“We got to work with, from our angle, what we can get,” Callandrillo said. “And so that’s what we advocate for. It’s like, what can we get for the money?” Callandrillo said. 
Josie Bloom, a freshman in School of International Service, was insured by CareFirst and said she doesn’t have any concerns about the switch as long as Aetna provides the same healthcare services as CareFirst, like access to an OB-GYN and birth control.
The portal for students to activate their plan with Aetna or waive the University insurance opens May 16 and closes Sept. 12. 
Callandrillo said AU approached this year’s bidding process differently.
“One thing that did change is we negotiated some different possibilities for students who want to use out of network providers, particularly out of network mental health providers,” she said.
Part of Callandrillo’s job is getting as much coverage for students as possible. She said she’s looking for more flexibility across the board when students use out of network providers, pointing to mental health services as an example.
“Something to just know, from the just perspective of the landscape of health insurance, it’s going up for everyone,” Callandrillo said. “Whether it’s the plan that we have brokered, your parents' health insurance plan, everybody’s plan increased quite a bit. That’s one of the impacts of the pandemic.”
mcederlund@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Food for Thought is a series highlighting immigrant-owned restaurants in the DMV area. Play the TikTok below to see this article's accompanying video.

Mike Habtemariam, co-owner of Roaming Rooster, is creating a sense of traditional family style Ethiopian cuisine with the comfort of hot fried chicken. Habtemariam co-owns the six restaurants in the local chain with his brother Biniam Habtemariam and his sister-in-law Hargewine Mesfine. 
Fried chicken is not a traditional Ethiopian dish. The Habtemariams were inspired to start a fried chicken restaurant through their travels, discovering the variety of flavors and different types of hot chicken throughout the U.S. They took ideas from other styles of chicken such as Nashville-style hot chicken, by which their chicken is highly inspired.
Inspired by many flavors, Roaming Rooster has their own style. The name Roaming Roaster comes from using free-range chicken. They started with plain fried chicken, but concocted their own flavor inspired by their Ethiopian and Canadian backgrounds. 
“On the spice itself there’s a little bit of Ethiopian flavor, but not strictly Ethiopian flavor,” Habtemariam said. “We did not actually fusion Ethiopian and American food.”
Habtrmariam discussed the Ethiopian tradition of five or six family members sharing one plate and the importance of sharing a story about your day. 
“When we’re eating, we talk about what’s going on in your daily life. Everybody tells their stories,” Habtemariam said. 
Habtemariam brings this idea of family to his business model. He makes sure his employees get together and are treated like a family. 
“It’s not an owner-based business,” Habtemariam said. “We’re all like a family.”
Habtemariam grew up in Canada with his single father, older brother and three younger sisters. 
“Growing up, we always used to cook in the house,” Habtemariam said. “Mostly my brother — I used to [wash] a lot of the dishes.” 
The brothers also worked in small restaurants in Canada and eventually started their own restaurant. They sold the restaurant and moved to the U.S. after Biniam married Hargewine. 
The Habtemariams first entered the D.C. food scene with a falafel food truck called D.C. Ballers, and soon pivoted their concept to what is now Roaming Rooster, inspired by their use of free range chicken. The idea for fried chicken came when they noticed a fried chicken truck was missing from the food scene. 
That inspired the Habtemariams to try to perfect their own fried chicken recipe.
“We experimented for over a year, coming up with a great recipe,” Habtemariam said. “We trust each other. We know we all have the same goal: we want to grow this business for our kids.”
They perfected their fried chicken recipe, and the first day the truck hit the streets, they sold out before lunch. Habtemariam said he was overwhelmed by this response.
“Every time our truck goes out, we sell out. We knew there was something good about our chicken,” Habtemariam said. “It’s made with love. That’s the recipe.” 
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University hosted the D.C. presentation of its fundraising tour for the ‘Change Can’t Wait’ campaign with an event at the Kennedy Center on Thursday while the University’s union workers protested outside. 
Represented at the protest by the Service Employees International Union, the union workers are currently in contract negotiations and are pushing to have the University meet their demands by May 1. 
“I’ve attended some of the negotiations, and to say that they don't pay attention to our demands is an understatement,” said Laurent Risler, an adjunct professorial lecturer in the College of Arts and Sciences and a spokesperson for SEIU. “We won't accept this situation anymore, and we are ready to fight.”
The event hosted roughly 250 alumni, parents, donors and leaders of the University and alumni association, according to Leah Brady, the executive director of the campaign. Speakers included President Sylvia Burwell, Alumni Association President Jonathan Mathis and a panel consisting of leaders in education and communication. 
Approximately 200 people, including undergraduate students, union workers and outside members of SEIU protested outside the event, according to Sam Sadow, a union organizer and full-time employee in the CAS. Protesters chanted “no contract, no peace” and “what’s disgusting? Union busting,” as event attendees entered the Kennedy Center. 
great work @AUGradUnion pic.twitter.com/pCfMXFgMXp
“We, as adjunct faculty, have been treated unfairly. We have been paid much less than other faculty at AU and in the D.C. metropolitan area, and we hope to address that inequality,” Risler said. “AU stands for a lot of values that are very noble causes: social justice, equality, or inclusiveness, and it’s also important to apply that to the school.”
AU freshman John Paul Mejia said that the people protesting are the people who provide the education the campaign uses as a “fundraising tactic.” 
“I think it’s egregious that a president whose salary is ballooning well above a million dollars can be hosting a fundraising event without paying face or paying homage or paying a living wage to the people that make this institution great,” Mejia said.
The Eagle reported that in fiscal year 2019 Burwell earned a base pay of $800,117 and $186,700 in bonuses, bringing her total earnings, which also include nontaxable benefits, over a million dollars. 
Protesters wanted the event to be “loud and raucous, but also fun,” according to Sadow. 
Sadow and a number of other protesters came into the event inside and distributed informational flyers about their cause to attendees. The flyers point out contradictions between the ‘Change Can’t Wait’ philosophy and the treatment of union workers. 
Low wages for staff lead to high turnover rates and a need for some to take on outside jobs, which negatively impacts students, according to SEIU members. Some University employees commute hours every day because they can’t afford to live in the city, said academic coach Amanda Kleinman.
“I just want my colleagues to stay in their positions. For the community, the student experience, you know, when you have really high staff turnover because they can't live in the area where they were,” Kleinman said. “I believe it does impact students, and I want us to all stay together.”
Kleinman currently lives in a house share in Mount Pleasant, but says that if something happened to her landlord, who keeps her rent low, she would have to move out of the city to find housing she could afford. 
President Burwell listed AU’s recent accomplishments in her speech, including athletic and academic achievements and the campaign passing the $300,000 mark, and addressed the protesters.
“I do want to take a moment to say, as you may have seen, there are members of our community here tonight, and they want to share their voices on issues that are urgent and important to them, and we respect that,” Burwell said. “We also appreciate their respect for our program tonight, and for our event and the rules of the Kennedy Center. So I do want to recognize that, their voice, and our appreciation for their respect and our respect for them.”
In a statement to The Eagle, Brady wrote that the diversity of voices and free expression at AU are part of what makes it “special.”
The ‘Change Can’t Wait’ event focused on education and the D.C. community. The event theme was “Partnering with Purpose: Advancing a Vibrant DC Region.” Patty Stonesifer, president and CEO of Martha’s Table and honorary degree recipient from CAS, moderated a panel discussion featuring Cheryl Holcomb-McCoy, dean of the School of Education, and Erika Pulley-Hayes, general manager at WAMU.
Panelists answered questions about how the University can ensure a vibrant D.C. region, how the pandemic has advanced education, how the AU community can support teachers and the biggest roadblocks to giving opportunities to D.C.’s Black community.
Burwell also emphasized AU’s commitment to working with the larger D.C. community at the event, quoting her own inauguration speech. 
“[We want to] make sure AU is a part of, not apart from Washington, D.C.,” Burwell said.
The event began with an appearance from AU’s women’s basketball team and coach and ended with a performance from AU’s gospel choir and chamber singers, showcasing AU students’ talent. 
Chanting and singing was also present outside, where protesters continued their demonstration even after the event inside got underway. 
“At the end of the day, us on the outside and the donors on the inside, we're both there to make AU a better place,” Sadow said. “I think that's the sort of key underlying message for both events, we are there, we want AU to be the best institution that can be … we believe that in order to do that, you must prioritize investing in its teaching faculty in its grad workers and and and staff.” 
apritchard@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
