A closed grill on the patio
As the summer season continues, there’s no better time to get on the grill and barbecue. Whether you’re cooking a full meal or making an appetizer for your Friday night, there’s plenty of foods to choose from that will ensure a filling and refreshing meal for you and your friends or family.
Hot Dogs and Hamburgers
To start off easy, you can’t go wrong with classics like hot dogs and hamburgers. Only taking ten to 15 minutes to cook, both hot dogs and hamburgers ensure a relatively quick and filling meal that can be customized for each person eating. Whether you add pickles and tomato to your burger or debate between ketchup and mustard for your condiment of choice, hot dogs and hamburgers are guaranteed crowd pleasers for those summer nights where you’re cooking for a large group. 
Pineapple
On the flip side, grilled pineapple can be a great side dish or even dessert for the summer. Though you might not think to put fruit on the grill, doing so caramelizes the sugar in it, and makes the flavor and sweetness of your dish even richer. Simple to make and a refreshing addition to any meal throughout the day, grilled pineapple might be just what your barbecue is missing. 
Kabobs
Kabobs are the perfect thing to throw on the grill and customize with your own ingredients this summer. While some kabobs combine meats like steak and chicken with vegetables such as peppers, onions and mushrooms (as shown in this recipe), other recipes utilize shellfish such as shrimp to mix with lemon and garlic to make for a zestier meal. Regardless of how you make your kabobs, each combination guarantees a fun and tasty creation for your summer. 
Fish
Speaking of shrimp, fish is another great food group to barbecue. Though shellfish is a primary form of fish that people grill often, that doesn’t discount other kinds of seafood such as salmon or sea bass that can be barbecued just as easily. Whether it’s grilled tilapia with some lemon-pepper seasoning or a simple serving barbecued salmon, there’s millions of ways you can incorporate fish into your grilling this summer and make for some new recipes to enjoy.
Vegetables
For more versatile barbecue material, you can’t go wrong throwing vegetables on the grill. Whether you’re using them as a side dish (such as grilled asparagus or potatoes) or cooking them as toppings for other parts of your meal (ie. tomatoes, onions, etc.), vegetables are easy and quick to make and serve as the perfect topping or side for your barbecue experience. 
Ribs
Last but not least, ribs are one of the staples of barbecue that you can grill this summer. Though ribs take a considerably longer time to cook than the previous foods listed (up to two hours depending on your recipe), they’re definitely worth every minute as the end product is a delicious meal for you and your guests. Alongside the ribs themself, you can also personalize the seasonings and spread you use in your recipe, making this meal all your own. 
When it comes to the grill this summer, there’s no end to the different foods you can try out. Whether you’re cooking a meal for ten or a snack for two, this is the perfect time to get outside and enjoy some new barbecue recipes.
swinick@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s the middle of summer and there’s never been a better time to update your wardrobe. The D.C. humidity is at its peak and light, breathable and stylish outfits are exactly what’s needed as the heat rises. Luckily, the Eagle has a fashionable lookbook perfect for the occasion.
Athleisure 
Athleisure is all the rage these days, and it’s the perfect antidote to the summer’s blistering heat. The best pairs of athletic shorts can be found at Nike, Lululemon (they may be expensive, but the quality is worth the price), Adidas and on Amazon, but for a more sustainable alternative, try shopping secondhand with apps like Depop and Poshmark. 
Athletic shirts are also built to be breathable and sweat-resistant, and men’s workout shirts are a great investment. 
The blue Lululemon shorts pictured below can be found here, and the pink Nike running shirt can be found here.
Fun Shirts
When you want to liven things up for a night out on the town, the go-to top is an oldie but goodie; the Hawaiian shirt. Some of the best shirts can be found on vintage sites like eBay, Depop and Grailed, but the Georgetown Flea Market can also be a great spot to find them and a way to support local small businesses. These shirts are perfect for their fun designs, bright colors and light material. Plus, they’re just like the iconic bright blue print worn by Leonardo Dicaprio in the 1996 production of Romeo + Juliet, and if he could make it look good, then so can you.  
The shirt pictured above and purchased at Abercrombie can be found on Poshmark. Similar short sleeve mens shirts can be found at Abercrombie. 
Accessories
Alongside clothing, accessories elevate any outfit, and the Urban Outfitters sale section is one of the best places to find cute necklaces and bracelets at unbeatable prices. Once again, the Georgetown Flea Market is another great source for inexpensive vintage rings, chains and earrings as well as a great way to support local jewelry makers. I believe the right accessories can perfectly complement any outfit. I usually try to match my necklaces by color to the shirt or shorts I’m wearing, but don’t be afraid to mix and match depending on the vibe you’re going for.  
Both necklaces featured above were purchased on sale at Urban Outfitters, the sale section for accessories is available here. The pink necklace pictured above can be found here and a similar blue necklace can be purchased here.
2000s Fashion
In terms of fashion trends, the 2000s are having a resurgence right now — from low-cut jeans to Von Dutch hats and camo pants (as pictured above, and found here and here). The over-the-top maximalist stylings popularized by the likes of Lindsay Lohan, Raven Symone and Ashley Tisdale are having their moment in the sun, and this summer is the perfect time to put your own spin on outfits worn by your childhood icons. 
Resale apps like Depop, Poshmark, Grailed and eBay, are a treasure trove of 2000s fashion. And this is the perfect season to answer the question: why just listen to Hannah Montana when you can dress like her too? 
I love expressing myself through my outfits and I hope this article inspires you to make some bold choices when you decide to update your wardrobe this summer.
rgillis@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
