Maren Morris at Merriweather Post Pavillion
Eight years ago Maren Morris stepped on the Merriweather Post Pavilion stage for the first time when she played at the “Weekend in Country” festival. Three albums later, Morris is headlining her very own “Humble Quest” Tour and returned to the same stage on Aug. 4.   
Morris’ new album, “Humble Quest,” has a softer mood as it was written during the pandemic. Rather than the heavy tracks and pop beats of her previous albums, this project’s acoustic and piano sounds feel deeply personal.
The night of the concert was stormy and damp; crowd members in the field were drenched with pouring rain. Yet, the audience, filled with cowboy boots and hats, withstood the storm and stayed to hear their favorite country hits. 
To emulate her album’s vulnerability and roots, Morris embellished her stage with tall whisky grass and forest trees. 
Morris decided to start the show slower with “The Furthest Thing.” Although Morris’s first three performances were vocally and musically stunning, her songs landed flat with the audience and few fans stood up and sang along. 
The show took an exciting shift when the lights dimmed and flashed red as Morris began belting her country hit “80s Mercedes.” The audience jumped to their feet, swaying back and forth, shouting along to her sassy lyrics. 
This is the first headlining tour Morris has embarked on since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic and much has changed; her becoming a mother was her biggest highlight. In dedication to her tour baby, she sang a beautiful lullaby called “Hummingbird”: “This is the song that I wrote the day I found out I was pregnant with my son.” It was a quiet and touching moment for her and the audience. 
Morris’s band radiated joy throughout the show; they were extraordinarily talented and swayed around the stage while interacting with fans. Their ecstatic energy helped bring the audience to their feet, dance and clap along to Morris’s most popular hits like “Closer” and “Rich.” 
After finishing her song, “The Bones,” Morris shouted, “Y’all in the back, I’m coming to see you!” She sprinted off the stage and ushered through the crowd. Fans stood on their seats just to catch a glimpse of Morris walking by. 
In lieu of an encore, Morris made a surprising yet fun decision to sing one of her biggest hits, “My Church,” on a small stage in the middle of the crowd. When she finally made it to the stage, the audience excitedly lit up and proudly sang, “Can I get a hallelujah? Can I get an amen?” 
Morris’s new album didn’t connect with the audience as well as her older, more popular hits.
But one couldn’t help but marvel at her vocal range and agility — if there’s one thing Morris can do, it’s sing her face off. 
life@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU beat Delaware 3-1 last Saturday, continuing the team's success this season.
The American University volleyball team is on fire, defeating four straight teams to maintain a undefeated 6-0 record. After winning their first Patriot League game against UMBC, the Eagles next challenger was the Delaware Blue Hens Saturday evening at Bender Arena. 
Senior Maya Mrus contributed some of the Eagle’s success this year to their closeness as a team. “We trust one another. We’re great friends off the court and it really translates to on the court.”
Freshman Adelina Berisha had her first start of the season, opening strong for AU with their first two kills. The Eagles took an early five point lead over Delaware 10-5, however the Blue Hens went on a five point run to catch the Eagles at 10-10. 
The set tied 11 times before the Eagles created another lead, and with the contributions of four kills in the last six points from senior Zeynep Uzen, American took the first set.
The second set started off in a deadlock between the Eagles and the Blue Hens. With neither team able to create a significant lead, the score was tied 12 times until it reached 15-15. 
Delaware then went on a straight six point run. AU was able to prevent two set points from the Blue Hens with kills from graduate student Carlie Fikse and Uzen, until Delaware shut down the Eagles 25-22.
American started strong in the third set, creating an 11-3 lead from the jump. The Blue Hens clawed their way back into only a two point deficit. A kill from Uzen sparked a 4-0 run that included back to back kills from Fikse and an ace for Mrus. 
The fourth set started with three kills from Fikse to get the Eagles ahead. AU held strong against the Blue Hens, holding the lead for most of the game. AU got to set point at 24-18 after an impressive five kills from Fikse. 
However, Delaware was not ready to give up, scoring four straight points against AU to make the set 24-22. An error from the Blue Hens cost them the game, and the Eagles won the last set 25-22 to secure a match victory. 
“Being resilient and always coming back has been something we’ve been good at this year” Mrus said.
Uzen contributed a match-high 17 kills and nine digs. Fikse hit .440 with 12 kills and led the Eagles with five blocks. Sophomore Esma Siphai added 16 assists, seven digs and six kills. Senior Rachael Bennett led AU with 12 digs, and Mrus had six kills alongside a match-best three service aces.
“It’s nice to start off so well. We might change the lineup every time, but we’re so supportive of one another, and I’m excited for what this season has to hold.” Mrus said.
The Eagles next take on Morgan State, facing the Bears on Friday, Sept. 12th.
sports@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
