From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Potter Clark, a former American University music grant recipient and College of Arts and Sciences 2022 graduate, spent his summer celebrating the release of his first beat tape and second album “Tremors” for his 22nd birthday.
“It’s a long road from where I started to making electronic music and doing production,” Clark said. Clark began playing the fiddle and mandolin, learning bluegrass and folk music and studying classical violin throughout middle and high school. It was this path that inspired his first album “If a Tree Falls & No One is Around,” a collec- tion of contemporary classical pieces featuring a number of AU musicians.
Even while studying classical and folk music in school, Clark quickly developed an interest in hip-hop and rap.
“It was in high school that I really got into rap,” Clark said. “One, because of the beat production and the excellent lyricism, of course, but also the physical timbre of the rapper’s voices and the way that they manipulate it both to fit a rhythm and to fit a flow. I was fascinated by that.”
Clark cites the U.K. grime and drill scenes as his main influences for the beats across “Tremors.”
“U.K. grime and drill are a lot more intense and rooted in that EDM sound; intense bass, intense drums, and I really, really dig that.”
That dark and moody production is present across the entire album, from the gritty beat of “untrustworthy” to the thundering bass of “kickback.” He started making beats like many other young producers: with a laptop and a passion, using easily accessible audio software and the wealth of knowledge in the AU community and online to hone his craft.
“I was making the most terrible sounding trap drums,” Clark said. “But as I got into the AU music program and especially as I was working with people, I learned how to manipulate sound and get nice layering. I just kept listening and started messing around with my own sound and seeing where that would take me.”
In his free time, Clark took the project into his own hands, learning through “a lot of trial and error, a decent amount of YouTube videos.”
With the accessibility of computers and audio technology, audio production has quickly become its own cottage industry, with producers like Clark creating and mixing beats all from their bedrooms.
“It was a really different project for me because I'm used to working with live instruments,” Clark said. “I had a lot less control over my classical pieces because I just gave the music to a performer, so the biggest unknown was whether the music would actually sound how I wanted to. With this, I had no excuse for it to sound anything other than exactly how I wanted because it's all on the screen in front of me. I'm doing all the routing, all of the tracks are controlled by me, and if it doesn't sound how I want, it's something I did.” 
After years of practice and months of composing and mixing beats, “Tremors” was a labor of love for Clark. Audio production is an industry filled with detail-oriented, time-consuming work, including hours of adjusting instruments and frequencies by fractions of a decibel and programming digital instruments to match a specific sound.
“For ‘haze,’ I designed this flute just through a synth and I programmed in all the tiny little ornaments and everything,” Clark said. “I was trying to go for something that would sound sort of like a folk flute from Ireland. That was a good three hours of programming, just making the one melody for four bars.”
Although beats are often treated as set dressing for a rapper or vocalist, Clark took on the unique chal- lenge of making each track able to stand on its own.
Songs across the album feature subtle textural changes and masterful layering along with full mixes that do not suffer from a lack of vocals.
“For each song, I was less concerned about fitting other people into it and more worried about what I could fit into this one production,” Clark said. “From beginning to end, I wanted to make it exciting and be climactic.”
Clark is currently working as a full-time musician, teaching string instruments to students, performing classical and folk music and continuing to produce and write his own music.
“I'm still trying to feel the industry out and figure out who my audience is, not just for listening, but for artists who might want to use my work for their own,”
Clark said of his future projects. “But I'm really looking forward to just continuing making beats, continuing to put them out there and seeing who I can meet up with.”
bhobbs@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The new burger restaurant, True Burger in MGC
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
As American University has made multiple changes to the school’s dining options, students are frustrated with a lack of food options for students with dietary restrictions.
In the past year, AU Dining has replaced Wonk Burger and Absurd Bird with True Burger, Pom & Honey with Paper Lantern and moved Hissho Sushi to Kerwin Hall, putting Baba’s Pizza and Halal Shack in its old location. These changes, combined with TDR’s recent health code violations, have left some members of the AU community feeling underwhelmed with their eating options.
Limited campus dining has forced students with food restrictions and insecurities to rely elsewhere for their meal options. For some, this has led to increased expenses on top of the 100-block meal plan required for students that live on campus.
Issues such as Create closing and District Pickle only being open for a few hours five days a week limit students' friendly dining options, and others feel confined to TDR, an environment that has made some students feel unsafe.
“[Students] don’t have enough variety. They eat the same thing, they feel really torn and stuck in their options,” said School of Public Affairs sophomore Elise Buellesbach.
Vegan and vegetarian students, such as Mina Dunn, a freshman in the College of Arts and Sciences, have had a hard time finding on-campus options that meet their dietary needs. Dunn said that often, due to restrictive dining hours and few options at those stations, she can only find two or three places to eat on campus — and those options don’t always have what she’s looking for.
“I can’t imagine being gluten free or vegan here because everything I do eat as a vegetarian has dairy or bread in it so I don’t really know how they’re balancing that,” Dunn said.
Students like Buellesbach have expressed concerns about campus dining options via social media and dining advisory meetings, but have often been met with silence and stagnance. At an AU Dining Advisory Council meeting on Oct. 19, several members of the Disabled Student Union voiced their concerns regarding food options on the meal plan and a lack of flexibility in accommodations.
“The reality is that the meal plan can’t accommodate us, and that TDR doesn’t do a good job of accommodating those of us with dietary restrictions,” Buellesbach said.
Many students with allergies find it difficult to eat at TDR’s “allergy friendly” section, G8, as well. According to TDR, this section caters to the eight most common allergens: milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat and soybeans.
“It seems like they kind of forget that students have allergies that are not G8,” said Gabrielle Bertrand, a junior in SPA.
Students whose allergies are not catered to within this section have found themselves stuck between risking cross contamination and eating the same meals every day to get enough food. The Eagle emailed AU Dining for a comment on the students' concerns but did not receive a response.
At the Dining Advisory Meeting, Bertrand pointed out that ingredient changes and other allergens are not always updated on the dining app or ingredient cards.
“They say they have paper recipes that we can ask for, but how were students supposed to know they didn’t update the app?” Bertrand said.
Students across campus have found a lack of variety and consistency with meal options this semester, and many don’t feel heard when it comes to making necessary dining changes at on-campus locations.
“The problems that the students with dietary restriction have are not singular to our group, but it's a universal trend.” Buellesbach said. “How do we make food more exciting and more interesting? How do we make this a more accessible and more equitable experience?”
jbird@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
Scandal has plagued American University after the School of Public Affairs accidentally unsubscribed students from the digest, a regular email blast which informs students of events and breaking news within the school.
Despite a plethora of emails to those in charge, SPA refuses to resubscribe students to the digest. One student, Eddie Fallden, a freshman in SPA, has decided to share his story with The Seagle in regards to his struggles in trying to stay informed about his school.
On Sept. 6, Fallden decided to finally email the higher-ups due to a concern that he was not receiving regular updates from the SPA digest, while his colleagues have. 
He expressed agitation with the SPA administration for keeping him in the dark. 
“It’s extremely frustrating to see all of my friends informed about literally everything when I'm, like, actively being kept out of the loop,” he said. “I’m used to clear and constant communication from AU, so this period of time has been a kick in the shin if you ask me.”
Eventually, Fallden heard back from SPA in an email stating that he “should be
receiving regular updates,” and that “no unsubscription had occurred,” which surprised him immensely.
A few weeks later, SPA released an email confirming that many students in SPA had been accidentally unsubscribed from the digest and that they should contact Johnny Boys, the senior administrative assistant, to be resubscribed.
When Fallden’s attempts to reach Boys failed, he decided to take matters into his own hands. 
By greasing the hands of a few professors, he was able to get information on a meeting between SPA’s dean and other administrative heads. He patiently waited along with some of his peers who had experienced the same excommunication from the school.
As the meeting let out, Fallden screamed, “This ends now!” He and his posse proceeded to challenge the heads of SPA to a dance battle in order to force their way back into the digest. The dean’s security team attempted to usher the administrators out of the building to no avail.
“They are attempting to silence us! We have to beg, bribe and battle just to stay informed!” Fallden screamed from his pedestal to the rest of the crowd. The posse then began to break dance with a series of successful serves to administration.
After narrowly escaping the breakdance beatdown, Boys sent out a statement the following day. “I know it is troubling to see students go to such extremes to be informed. But this was not enough. If an SPA student wishes to stay informed directly through our school, they must go to the greatest lengths to prove to us they truly desire information. Hopefully this inspires better attempts at groveling in the student body. Thank you.”
The Seagle reached out to Fallden for a response to Boys’ statement.
“Next time I'll produce a one-man, four-act musical and maybe that’ll show ‘em how much I want back in!” Fallden said.
The Seagle expects a sit-down between SPA staff and students in the coming weeks and will provide full coverage.
Jared Bowes is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and is a satire columnist for The Eagle.
jbowes@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Soccer is the epitome of team sports. Throughout the history of the game, the best teams have consisted of players who accept their role on the team, regardless of how much it affects their personal accomplishments. While buying into your role at the expense of the spotlight can be difficult, men’s soccer midfielder and senior Jack Green has done this with humility and positivity.
As a freshman, Green’s chances at finding his role on the team were improbable to say the least. AU’s coaching staff had completely changed since the time he was recruited and before he played his first minute of college soccer.
“All they had were some highlight tapes of me from my sophomore year of high school,” Green said. “The new coaches really just didn’t know me.”
In addition to being unfamiliar with Green, the new coaches were also cutting several freshmen to downsize the roster. While Green was confident in his abilities, he was nervous about the possibility of being cut during his first season as a collegiate soccer player. However, throughout the course of the 2019 season, head coach Zach Samol saw that Green would be a key contributor on his roster.
“During that first season, I knew that Jack had the soccer skills to be a good player,” Samol said. “But he also had this work ethic that allows him to improve every year.”
Since his freshman season, Green’s role on the team has become clearly defined. As an experienced senior, he knows that he needs to stabilize the offense when he comes off the bench.
“My coaches play me off the bench because the beginning of the games are hectic and back-and-forth,” Green said. “When I come into the game, that’s when the game is settled.”
Although being on the bench may prompt anger, bitterness or resentment from seniors, Green seized the opportunity to be a role model for his teammates. According to Samol, Green’s selfless mentality has been critical to establishing the team’s culture.
“Younger players look up to him because he’s an older leader who doesn’t lead with his voice,” Samol said. “He’s a team-first guy; he’s always been that way.”
Since Green settled into his role on the team, he has been a potent offensive catalyst. Over his junior and senior seasons, Green has racked up four goals and five assists so far while being a starter in only two games. Additionally, he became the first midfielder in Patriot League history to be named Midfielder of the Week in two consecutive weeks during the 2021 season.
For Green, his stats and accolades are not a testament to his personal talents and hard work alone. Instead, they are indicative of his team’s ability to give everybody an opportunity to contribute in the best way they can.
“I know the impact that I bring coming off the bench, but it’s really a team effort,” Green said. “As much as there’s things that I do individually, it’s really about the mentality of the guys and them knowing the job that needs to be done and letting people execute that in the way that they can contribute.”
While Green’s play on the field is critical to the team’s success, his positive attitude has been equally as impor- tant. According to Samol, Green’s positivity has been the focal point of his leadership.
“He’s not a vocal born leader, but he leads us as a positive guy,” Samol said. “He’s somebody that you can always count on to show up, play and have a great attitude.”
jmorgan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's November 2022 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
For Sauleh Siddiqui, wearing many hats has helped him find his passions. Siddiqui, an environmental science professor at American University, is currently on a two-year leave from AU to take on the role as chief energy modeler for the Energy Information Administration, as well as continuing his research on the Multiscale RECIPES project and running as a commissioner for Advisory Neighborhood Commission 3C.
Siddiqui said he found his focus, despite being involved in many things, by learning something new and bringing people together to resolve pressing issues of the day through researching for the RECIPES project and working as an ANC commissioner for over two years.
“They're busy, but they're also very exciting and you know, I can extract joy from them, which is I guess what counts,” Siddiqui said.
Siddiqui said he had never been able to find an academic home because he was always interested in multiple areas of study.
“Many students come to me to be like, ‘what major should I pick?’” Siddiqui said. “I’m probably the bad per- son to ask that because my opinion is that you don’t have to put yourself inside this.”
His work with the Multiscale RECIPES project has been especially important in bringing together people from different backgrounds and across multiple institutions.
“Now what we’re seeing is that more and more of the problems that we are tackling in society don’t have to do with one discipline,” Siddiqui said.
The team working on the RECIPES project continues to strive toward expanding knowledge on food waste in order to, as Siddiqui said, find a whole new way of looking at the food system.
“This is not just a supply problem or demand problem. It is a systemic problem,” Siddiqui said. “And so instead of addressing the symptoms, what this project does is it says let's reimagine the food system and let’s rethink how we look at the food system.”
Siddiqui said the RECIPES project was also focused on maximizing “sustainability, equity and resilience” while making sure that the information on their website was accessible for disabled individuals.
Rachel Weiss, program manager at the Center for Environment, Community, and Equity — AU’s new center for environmental studies — who also oversees the grant #2115405 from the National Science Foundation on food waste, found working with Siddiqui challenged her breadth of knowledge and introduced her to a more interdisciplinary work environment.
“He’s very open to working and helping and supporting everybody,” Weiss said.
Weiss said it was refreshing to work with Siddiqui because he was always trying to bring diverse perspectives into work conversations. She added that he is committed to his students and has given up multiple weekends to conduct all-day workshops with them.
Siddiqui said he remains dedicated to his students despite being on leave and encourages them to learn about relevant issues.
“You're going to college because you want to make society better and you want to learn new things, right,” Siddiqui said. “The best way to learn new things and figure out how to make society better is to tackle the most important problems of our time.”
Ethan Ziegler, a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences and a student researcher for the RECIPES project, agreed with Siddiqui on the importance of working on knowledge production tackling some globally fundamental issues, especially food waste.
“We are the future. This is going to be our problem to deal with so may as well start now,” Ziegler said.
As a student in Siddiqui’s Biodiversity and Ecosystems class in fall 2021, Ziegler said he felt comfortable and respected because of the inclusive environment fostered in the classroom.
Outside of the classroom, Siddiqui was dedicated to committing positive change through bettering the community in Cleveland Park in which he resides as the commissioner for ANC 3C05. 
Siddiqui said he saw a need in his neighborhood for leadership as housing prices were rising and businesses were being closed down. He joined a volunteer committee and then community association before running for elected office over two years ago. 
“There was a huge desire to be able to improve where I live and make where I live better,” Siddiqui said.
Cleveland Park has historically been segregated with 74 percent of the neighborhood white. Siddiqui said he realized a lack of participation by him and others in the community meant those in power could keep the neighborhood the way it was.
“I am very surprised that even though we live in D.C. and we live in the richest ward in the city and one of the richest neighborhoods, at a local level politics can get very regressive,” Siddiqui said.
Editor’s note: The views expressed by Siddiqui do not represent the Department of Energy.
mkonjoyan@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
