Tristan, Koz and Spenser unpack "Honey Boy," the deeply personal project written from actor Shia LaBeouf's own experiences. The crew rate Alma Har'el's directorial debut as powerful to various extents; they agree that the performances are solid, yet the narrative leaves a little to be desired. With everyone's favorite holiday around the corner, the crew then recommends their picks for a romantic, or at least entertaining, Valentine's Day. 
Films Referenced: Honey Boy, Punch-Drunk Love, Uncut Gems, About Time, Chungking Express, West Side Story (2021), Emma, Pride & Prejudice, Titanic, Black Mirror (2011-2019)
This episode was produced by Chloe Irwin. 
tau@theeagleonline.com, okozlevcar@theeagleonline.com and shoover@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The co-founders of Lift Our Voices Gretchen Carlson and Julie Roginsky spoke at a virtual event held by the American University Women & Politics Institute on Feb. 2, discussing changing the system of workplace nondisclosure agreements and forced arbitration clauses. 
The event, which is a part of the “Women on Wednesdays” series, was moderated by Betsy Fischer Martin, the executive director of the Women in Politics Institute.
According to Carlson, forced arbitration clauses force workers to enter a “secret chamber of arbitration” in order to deal with workplace disputes.
“There's no legal precedent being set,” Carlson said during the event. “There's no legal record, there are no appeals, and the company picks the arbitrator for you, which tend to be older white guys who are retired judges and lawyers, not a jury of your peers. And the silence protects the predator. You're no longer going to work at this company. They're going to be able to say whatever the hell they want about you, and … no one will ever know your story.”
In 1991, only two percent of all companies used forced arbitration clauses. By 2024, Carlson said the number will rise to 84 percent.
Lift Our Voices, which was founded in 2019, is committed to getting rid of silencing mechanisms in the workplace, according to Roginsky.
“We want to make sure that [if] you're sexually harassed at work or racially discriminated against, or something toxic happens to you in the workplace, that you are able to talk freely about those experiences,” Roginsky said. “That's the only way that we can hold predators accountable and protect survivors in the workplace and ultimately improve productivity within workplaces.” 
During the event, Carlson discussed how Lift Our Voices is attempting to change the stigma around coming forward in the workplace.
“All the women that I've spoken to over time … they wanted two things: an apology, and they wanted to keep working, that’s it,” she said. “And instead we're pushing all these women out because we immediately react to them being the troublemaker. So what we need are enlightened leaders and companies, which most of them are men. We need them to be enlightened on this, to respect and celebrate people who have the courage to come forward.”
Carlson also discussed HR 4445, or the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021, a bipartisan bill reintroduced to Congress in July.
“The bill essentially would eradicate forced arbitration for harassment and assault and give people a choice about whether or not they want to go to the secret chamber or they want to be able to go to a jury of their peers,” she said. “And I believe that the time is now that we should give people that choice, because talking about this openly is the only way we're going to solve this issue.”
HR 4445 passed in the House of Representatives on Tuesday, and will now be voted on in the Senate.
According to Carlson, many have realized that this movement is not a “passing fad.”
“I’ll always say that [passing HR 4445] will be my greatest life achievement, when this happens, because it will affect millions of workers,” Carlson said. “And this will be the biggest labor law change arguably in the last 100 years.”
ewhite@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As students return to campus, going out to eat might not be first on their agenda. Indoor dining is no longer a safe option for students worried about contracting COVID-19, especially as the Omicron variant continues to surge. In addition, ice and freezing temperatures might discourage students from seeking safer outdoor dining experiences. 
Despite these challenges, many D.C. restaurants have taken creative measures to combat community fears and provide unique and pleasurable dining experiences. Here are some restaurants with comfortable options for students wanting to eat out despite COVID-19 and the cold. 
Raku
Located on Wisconsin Avenue adjacent to Giant, Raku offers an assortment of sushi and sashimi options, along with bento boxes and a variety of East Asian dishes. Inside the restaurant, modern decor and a hanging umbrella fixture creates a warm, relaxed atmosphere. The restaurant also has a heated outdoor patio and a happy hour from 4:30 p.m.- 6 p.m. EST Monday through Friday. 
El Techo
Fans of Latin-inspired cuisine can head to El Techo’s heated, enclosed rooftop, decorated with hanging plants and flowers. The atmosphere will transport diners from wintery D.C. to a warm, “tropical oasis.” Nestled in the bustling Shaw neighborhood, the restaurant is also steps away from a variety of bars, music venues and movie theaters. El Techo has happy hour every Monday, Wednesday and Thursday from 5 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. EST, and is located just blocks away from the Shaw-Howard University Metro Station. 
Farmers Fishers Bakers
Love weekend brunch? Farmers Fishers Bakers, located in Georgetown, has a brunch buffet special every Saturday and Sunday from 9 a.m.- 2 p.m. EST For $29.99 a person, diners can indulge in a selection of tasty “all-you-can-eat” dishes, including jambalaya, French toast and slow-roasted brisket. The location has a heated outdoor patio overlooking the Potomac River and is a 15-minute bus ride from Tenleytown. 
Oyamel Cocina Mexicana
Known for its tacos and Mexican street food, this colorful, lively spot in downtown D.C. is the perfect place to stop before heading to a museum or indoor event. Customers can dine in one of eight heated tents outside or in the restaurant’s brightly lit indoor dining room. Oyamel has happy hour, or “hora feliz,” on weekdays from 4 p.m.- 6 p.m. EST Tuesday through Friday. The restaurant is located steps away from the National Gallery of Art and the Woolly Mammoth Theatre Company. 
Duke’s Grocery
This British restaurant known for its assortment of hamburgers is about a 10-minute walk from the Dupont Circle Metro Station. The two-level location situated inside a historic row house also has heated patio seating overlooking the 17th street neighborhood. Duke’s is a “can’t miss” for anyone venturing through the Dupont Circle area. 
Union Market
Located blocks away from the NoMa-Gallaudet University Metro Station, which is easily accessible on the red line, this massive food hall hosts an assortment of vendors. From pasta, to donuts, to Korean tacos, vendors at Union Market offer a little bit of everything. On top of the building there is a sizable rooftop terrace lined with string lights, offering 365 degree views of the city. On this terrace, there is also a grassy turf area with socially distant circles for diners looking for an extra COVID-cautious experience. It is best to pick a warmer day to visit Union Market, as the rooftop area is not heated. 
All in all, despite the unfavorable weather conditions and lingering spread of COVID-19, D.C. still has a variety of incredible dining experiences to offer. Keep in mind that all D.C. restaurants are required to ask for proof of vaccination upon entry for all customers as of Jan. 15, so don’t forget your vaccine card. 
lburgard@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
It’s Black History Month and, ironically, I feel my Black history has been erased by American University, a predominantly white institution.
The University has facilitated efforts to remedy racial issues, such as in the creation of the Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service hosted by the Center for Community Engagement and development of initiatives to diversify Counseling Center staff. Students had even come together to memorialize a victim of police brutality. However, they’ve left one item off of their “diversity points” checklist: Stop tarnishing the spaces created for Black students to take refuge in. 
If you’re a current student or a recent AU graduate, you have likely heard of The Bridge Cafe. It is a hotspot for many students for coffee, studying and events, all while the background music is playing to create a cozy atmosphere. What many students are unaware of, however, is the original goal behind The Bridge’s creation. The Bridge opened on April 3, 2017 and before the pandemic hit in 2020, it held open mics, slam poetry, jazz concerts and more. Its formation was inspired by Busboys & Poets, a space in D.C. that serves as a restaurant and cultural hub for artists, activists, writers and thinkers who are people of color. The Bridge was officially deemed a sanctuary space for people of color by student demonstrators in response to the hate crimes that targeted Taylor Dumpson, Student Government’s first Black female president, which included bananas hanging on nooses around campus. They held monthly events, like Fresh Friday, that had performers who were Black and people of color, like Black Boy Fly Collective, perform hip-hop/rap and performances around race, self-discovery and queer identity. 
The Bridge was once a spot for culture and soul. Now? Most of that spark is lost, as the space, music and the events held are white-centered, with the occasional SZA or Willow Smith song if they feel like being diverse. Absurdly, the space is run and operated by students in Greek life, which historically fosters an environment of racism and sexual assault. 
A second space that the AU community failed to maintain was The Hub for Organizing, Multiculturalism and Equity, also known as HOME. The multicultural student space was open to every student to socialize and strategize on how to restore community at American University. The space was located on the third floor of MGC in room 331A, where students had to apply through an online form to gain AU ID access to the room. Dumpson pushed this initiative in light of the hate crimes on campus that targeted her and fellow Black women. Knowing that the University has a history of not continuing to sustain transformative projects that students create after their graduation, it isn’t surprising that students who attended AU after 2018 aren’t aware of this resource that fails to be preserved. 
The only physical space Black students have to support each other is Roper Hall. Though residents within Roper had led many robust community activities and events, it’s coincidentally isolated from the rest of the residential halls behind campus, lacks accessibility and receives little to no promotion about its existence. One can point to AU’s Inclusive Excellence plan as a rebuttal, which addressed the need to highlight the difference in campus experiences between people of color and their white counterparts. To that, most bluntly, I don’t care. 
I don’t care because every action by the University that concerns our campus is money-driven and to maintain its image. I don’t care because it intentionally ignores student concerns and petitions and addresses them once it’s too late to change their policy. I don’t care because I still receive anonymous death threats due to a previous article I’ve written for The Eagle, where the Title IX office had primarily granted me the option of contacting AUPD. 
If the AU administration and community had an interest in cultural preservation, I could’ve taken advantage of spaces like The Bridge and HOME to aid the trauma inflicted upon me. Who am I to expect allyship when my white peers can’t respect the TDR workers who feed them?
Spaces cultivated by Black communities have recently been under attack through Title VI allegations fueled by white fragility and bomb threats directed at 14 historically Black universities. When the world has been seeing us as a population to exterminate, the AU community does nothing but contribute to that felt pain. No amount of diversity numbers, nor “BLM” Instagram bios, can ever remedy the breached trust between the Black community and the AU community.
It is up to my white counterparts to fuel current multiculturalism efforts and keep themselves educated on the safe spaces that we’ve lost and strategize on how to reinstate them. It is up to them to form connections with affinity groups that aren't based on self-interest or tokenization, but rather to advance common goals. Don’t just celebrate my history, put in the effort to restore it.
Kayla Kelly is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and the opinion managing editor for The Eagle.
kkelly@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority bus stops to pick up passengers.
Metrobus returned to full service on Monday for the first time in nearly a month, after pandemic-related staffing shortages forced the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority to scale back or cancel its bus service on dozens of routes.
Buses had been running at about 75 percent of normal operations since Jan. 10, with most routes operating on a Saturday schedule throughout the week. But as coronavirus cases among Metrobus staff declined along with regional and national cases, enough drivers are now available to serve the transit authority’s full 187-route network. 
The virus has “impacted about 10 percent of our workforce since the holidays,” WMATA CEO Paul J. Wiedefeld said in the Jan. 27 press release announcing the return to service. 
WMATA also announced last week an incentives program to hire at least 70 new bus drivers to meet current demand, including a $1,000 signing bonus and an additional $1,500 bonus upon completion of training. 
This return to full service comes as ridership on Metrobus and Metrorail is on the rise following a sharp decline during the Omicron surge, according to data from WMATA.
The return to service will shorten commute times for American University students who take the bus to campus or elsewhere in the city. 
“The buses are usually easier than taking the Metrorail,” said School of International Service freshman Mei Scarlett. “As I’m trying to figure out the most efficient way to get around, I’ll probably look for bus routes rather than the train.”
Last month’s cuts came at an already fraught moment for WMATA.
Metrorail is operating on a reduced schedule as an investigation into an Oct. 12 derailment drags on and keeps the subway system’s newer 7000-series trains, about 60 percent of its total fleet, out of service indefinitely. Additionally, a widespread U-Pass outage at the start of the semester caused confusion about how AU students could access public transportation.
Still, potential bright spots are on the horizon for WMATA, with the pandemic surge easing and more people once again commuting to school and work. 
Though regular service has resumed, some routes may still see periodic delays “based on employee availability each day,” the press release said. But officials hope the hiring surge will mitigate disruptions for commuters.
gcastroroot@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With Valentine's Day right around the corner, many places around D.C. are holding events to help you celebrate with your loved ones. From comedy shows to dance lessons, here are five events that will let you share the love with your partner, friends or just by yourself. 
Almost Ladies Night comedy show
City Winery is hosting a comedy show featuring top comedians and a surprise celebrity guest on Feb. 11. Daphnique Springs of HBO’s All Def Comedy, Kevin Lee of NBC’s Last Comic Standing and HBO’s Def Comedy Jam are set to headline the event. Ticket prices range from $20 to $30 and all ages are welcome to attend. The show begins at 8 p.m., but doors open at 6 p.m. for pre-show entertainment. The Almost Ladies Night show is sure to be a great event for all to share with their loved ones. 
Virtual Galentine’s day tea
Dumbarton House is hosting a virtual Galentine's day tea to celebrate friendship on Feb. 13. The event includes a lesson on friendship in the federal period, a cookie decoration activity and a craft. There will also be boxes filled with tea bags, pastries and fruit available for pickup along with the craft the morning of the event. The virtual event will take place from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m., and tickets are available to purchase for $20 to $32 until Wednesday at 12 p.m. For those looking for something personal, this Galentine’s tea is the perfect afternoon to spend with friends. 
DC Improv Valentine’s Day Showcase
On the holiday, DC Improv Comedy Club is hosting a Valentine’s Day Showcase with five of the city’s most popular comedians. Tim Miller, Kandace Saunders, Ross Benoit, Sean Savoy and Reg Thomas are set to perform. There are two shows on Valentine’s Day, one at 7:30 p.m. and one at 9:45 p.m. Tickets are $25 for general admission, but reserved seating is available for $30 or $35. For someone looking to embrace the comedy of romance, this is a great option. 
Couples Bachata lessons 
Enjoy a romantic Bachata dance lesson at DC Studio on Georgia Avenue with your partner this Valentine’s Day. Lessons are an hour long and no prior dance experience is needed, so all couples are encouraged to join. Lessons run Friday through Monday from 7 p.m. to 9:40 p.m. at $70 a ticket per couple. It is sure to be a relaxing night filled with fun, romantic dancing.
Sculpture garden reopening
As a Valentine’s Day treat, the National Gallery of Art is reopening its Sculpture Garden to the public. The garden, which closed last November due to rising COVID-19 cases in the area, is finally set to reopen on Feb. 14. All entrances to the garden on the National Mall will be open. The Pavilion Cafe will also reopen and offer a full carry-out menu. This activity is perfect for college students as it is free of charge, and you can enjoy the sculptures and art with yourself or any loved one. 
Whether you are spending Valentine’s Day with yourself, your friends or your significant other, there are plenty of events around D.C. to help you celebrate and feel the love. 
sflakus@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
