After three years, three procedures, two coronavirus infections, two hospitalizations, five emergency room visits and over 20 doctor appointments, Madelaine Reis said nobody in the American University administration ever cared to ask if she was okay. 
Reis is only one of a group of AU students who have raised concerns with AU’s Academic Support and Access Center. The center has allegedly denied many student accommodations even after what students and advocates believe is an unnecessary, lengthy and invasive application process. 
According to groups like College Consensus, AU ranks 8th in the U.S. for students with learning disabilities. Reis, like many others, came to AU because she was told she would be well-accommodated. She feels misled.
At AU, Reis said she feels traumatized and scared every day. 
“I just want to finish my degree,” Reis said. “I want to finish my degree in a way that is not going to destroy both my mental and physical health.”
Reis began her graduate studies at AU in 2018, two months after having major surgery. ASAC asked Reis to provide what she believes was an invasive amount of medical information through a complicated application process. Because her graduate program consisted of few classes, the professors were understanding of the accommodations she needed.
In 2019, Reis was invited to lead a Disability 101 workshop for the University’s “Disability, Access, and Teaching Day Symposium.” Her lecture offered a framework for higher education institutions to train their teachers for better interactions and relationships with disabled students. Her efforts helped bring automatic doors to the Hall of Science building.
Reis’ health began to worsen during the pandemic. She had to be on heavy medications, which negatively affected her heart. She contracted COVID-19 twice during this time, making her recovery longer and more painful. 
With no available treatment, Reis remembers being scared every day. She was under the impression that classes marked “Incomplete” on her transcript would remain until she could finish the classwork. 
But in June 2021, Reis received an email notifying her she was being placed on academic probation. The University Registrar can place students on Academic Probation when their cumulative GPA falls below 3.00 after attempting and receiving credit in at least 9 credit hours of coursework or when students fail to receive credit in at least two-thirds of the courses they attempt, according to the University’s Graduate Academic Regulations.
In October of that year, Reis hired Gabriela Diller as her collegiate disability advocate to help her navigate the process. Diller is the founder of Lotus Advocacy, which provides special education consulting for schools and advocacy for students and families. She had been working in similar roles for 15 years.
“Given that Maddy had serious medical procedures and COVID, she could not complete her work during that time,” Diller said. “I reached out to the ASAC to understand the steps Maddy needed to take. They denied speaking with me.” 
In response to the allegations, University spokesperson Elizabeth Deal told The Eagle in an email that ASAC had seen an increase in the number of students it supported in the 2020-2021 year. 
“ASAC supported more than 1,300 undergraduate, graduate, and law students with disabilities. This represents more than a 25% increase in the number of students supported since the 2017-2018 academic year,” Deal wrote. “The ASAC team actively engages with students who experience any challenges with accommodations and work with them and partners across the university to find solutions. Students always receive responses to inquiries in a timely manner.”
Since October, Diller has been trying to get approval from ASAC to be Reis’ advocate.
“We have not been able to actually solve the problems, because they will not let me get any information to help her,” Diller said. 
Diller has worked with over 30 college campuses, including the University of Massachusetts Amherst and Boston, and has never been denied the ability to be a student’s advocate, she said.
“Arduous,” “invasive” and “onerous”
ASAC provides a range of accommodations, such as supplemental instruction and tutoring for students with learning disabilities and assistive learning technology for students with visual or hearing impairments. As stated on its website, the center is meant to “support the academic development and educational goals of all American University students and is committed to promoting access for individuals with disabilities within the university’s diverse community.”
To receive accommodations, ASAC requires students to provide “comprehensive and relevant documentation that explains the impact of their disability and makes a recommendation for accommodation.” 
But Diller described ASAC’s accommodation application as “extremely arduous.” 
“You end up filling out over 25 pages of the form. I am a neurotypical person, and I don't have a learning disability. So imagine being a student with a learning disability coming to this website,” Diller said. “It is incredibly confusing to navigate and requires an inordinate amount of paperwork that no other college campus asks for.”
Reis’ primary care doctor, Dr. Edward S. Goldberg, pointed out how invasive the ASAC forms are in comparison to most other documentation he has filled out on the subject. 
“I’ve been practicing primary care medicine since 1993. I have completed innumerable forms for a variety of circumstances pertaining to disability issues ranging from lifetime benefits to various types of accommodations for educational purposes,” Goldberg said. “In comparison to what I usually encounter, the paperwork I was asked to complete in this circumstance was unnecessarily onerous and not largely relevant to the specific situation.” 
ASAC’s policy also excludes students who have an undiagnosed or invisible disability, students said. 
An AU student who wishes to remain anonymous recalled their experience of attempting to receive the accommodations they needed. 
“ASAC requires documentation from a specialist or the doctor that diagnosed you. I was diagnosed several years ago in a different state where my family does not even live anymore, and there are no specialists for my condition,” they said. “I was not able to get any accommodations.”
However, ASAC states on their website that “students may enter the university without identifying their disability.” 
Without the accommodations, this student, like many others, said they must rely on their individual professors’ willingness to abide by their accommodations request. In some cases, professors are supportive, but in others, they show no understanding. 
The Disabled Student Union is compiling a list of professors based on their treatment of accommodations and disabilities, said Katherine Greenstein, president of DSU. Students can request access to the list from DSU. 
Applying and receiving accommodations at Reis’ undergraduate institution, the University of Central Florida, was much more straightforward, she said. 
“I had my patient portal where I could just click a button, and they would send my professors all the accommodations I needed,” Reis said. “But now, I have to bring a letter and sit down with my professors individually to discuss them. And that is if they accept all my accommodations – sometimes, teachers interpret them differently and to their own will.”
Second-year graduate student Jessica Chaikof lives with Usher Syndrome, a rare genetic disorder affecting vision and hearing loss, and said most of her accommodations are for her sight and hearing. After a series of technical glitches with her remote Communication Access Realtime Translation, Chaikof requested an in-person CART reporter to help her communicate more effectively in her in-person classes. 
After over two months, she has not heard from ASAC and decided to take matters into her own hands and provide an alternative solution. 
“I conducted my own research and found a special microphone that could enhance my existing remote CART and be cheaper for ASAC. But what really frustrated me with ASAC was despite all the research and evidence I provided, the response I got was, ‘we need to do our own research,’” Chaikof said. “To me, it felt like I was being dismissed. Nobody knows my disability more than me, and nobody knows the accommodations I need more than I do.” 
A reporter from The Washington Post included Chaikof in a November 2021 story about disabled students and the challenges of returning to college campuses. Chaikof said she got a lawyer later that month from the non-profit University Legal Services for D.C. because the University was “making no change or any progress” on providing her accommodations.
Chaikof said her lawyer reached out to ASAC staff members by email in November requesting accommodations under Title III of the ADA. Lindsay Northup-Moore, director of disability support for ASAC, responded to Chaikof alleging that the provided remote captioning services were sufficient and that Chaikof had received all reasonable accommodations that she had been approved for, according to the email.
“While we understand your preference for an in-person [CART] reporter and we have been working diligently all semester to try to find a way to fill that preference, ASAC has provided you with reasonable accommodations for your documented disability,” an ASAC representative said to Chaikof in an email obtained by The Eagle.
Chaikof said the University’s response was lacking, which is why she decided against filing a complaint with the Equity and Title IX office about the more recent discrimination regarding her service dog.
“I became very scared because of the way the school responded; they weren’t empathetic,” Chaikof said. “They weren’t understanding [of] my situation and continue to call my accommodations a ‘preference’ which was really offensive.”
When asked to comment on Chaikof’s request, Deal told The Eagle in an email that increased demand for CART reporting services across higher education and other industries has led to a shortage of in-person reporters. 
“When using remote CART, American University typically provides enhanced microphones for students and faculty to use in [the] classroom to ensure sound is captured properly,” Deal wrote. “We also continue to explore additional CART services for in-person reporting and regularly check in with the reporters and the students to ensure access is available.” 
Many disabled students said they faced even greater difficulty transitioning to in-person learning after months online. 
When requesting a meeting to discuss in-person accommodations, post-baccalaureate pre-medical student Madeline Caballero did not receive a decision from the University about the in-person accommodations she had requested until over a month into the semester, and the University did not grant her the accommodations she had requested. In February 2022, she received an email saying that her request to have a notetaker was approved, but that ASAC did not have anyone to take the notes for her. Her professor had already found someone to take notes for her at the beginning of the semester, but when the notetaker had contacted ASAC, ASAC said that Caballero did not have that accommodation. It wasn't until March 2022 that she received the notes for that semester, despite having received notes in Fall 2020 and Spring 2021.
“The irony is that ASAC is so inaccessible, that when I emailed my disability advisor they asked me to call the office to schedule an official meeting,” said Caballero. “Because of all the back and forth, I did not receive my accommodations, notes for the class, until a month into the semester. Within that time I had to withdraw from my biochemistry class because I was unable to get notes in time for the exam.”
Student backlash in the face of recent University announcements
As the University removed the mask mandate after returning to in-person classes, disabled and immunocompromised students say they feel the most vulnerable and at risk. 
Greenstein contacted ASAC for online modality options for their in-person classes this semester.
In an email obtained by The Eagle, an ASAC faculty member told Greenstein that they had to go through the accommodations request process, which includes submitting a supplemental student accommodations questionnaire and supporting documentation. 
“If the classes you are enrolled in are all in-person, there would not be an already [embedded] way to remotely access them,” the email said. 
Greenstein said ASAC followed up with the request form, but Greenstein didn’t end up filling it out because there is still no name for their condition. 
“I knew they weren’t going to hear me out and that no one would listen on the front of any of my conditions qualifying me as high risk … so I knew that because I was undiagnosed for whatever is this problem that we don’t have a name for, I was being shut down and told no,” they said. 
After AU announced increased tuition in the coming years, Diller criticized the University’s actions. 
“Shockingly, they are trying to squeeze the student body for every last dime while pushing out students with disabilities who just need access to resources,” Diller said.
Greenstein said that AU’s ranking on sites like College Consensus could be deceitful to prospective students. 
“When looking at these lists, and determining how these schools are ranked, the only people these sites have spoken to is ASAC,” Greenstein said “It does not include any student or alumni testimonies. They are simply evaluating ASAC based off of what the ASAC’s spokesperson says which is obviously very biased.”
Ashley Jacobson, a disability rights lawyer, was disappointed to hear the way ASAC was treating Reis and underscored the systemic nature of the issue. 
“The vast majority of accommodations are affordable and easy to provide, yet institutions like American University would rather force Ms. Reis and other disabled students to fit into a mold hardened by unnecessary, discriminatory barriers,” Jacobson said.
After more than two years of being ignored by ASAC, pushed away by the dean of students, and dismissed by the Equity and Title IX Office, Reis and Diller said they filed a Discrimination Complaint with the Office for Civil Rights against AU. 
“We have been very professional and cordial throughout this entire process,” Diller said. “We are not trying to be combative. We are looking for support. We are looking for solutions. We are looking to ensure Maddy gets access to her legally entitled accommodations. We all just want her to graduate.”
Zoe Bell contributed to the reporting of this story. Correction: Chaikof filed a complaint with the Equity and Title IX office, not the D.C. Commission on Human Rights. This story has been updated to include that Caballero was granted accommodations in February 2022, but did not receive them until March. 
news@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
It’s springtime at American University, meaning that the overwhelmingly generous week-long spring break has come and gone. Here is a list of the top five ways AU students spent their time off:
1. Exploring the Asbury building
Students organized a week of investigations into the fabled Asbury building on campus, not knowing what secrets might lie buried within the dark corridors of the structure.
“It looks like one of the remnant apartment buildings from the Chernobyl meltdown,” freshman Katina Lye said. “Sometimes, if you look at it from a certain angle, I swear it disappears like a mirage.”
2. Traversing through D.C.
School of International Service majors planned on exploring D.C.’s cultural and political life over their break, citing a particular interest in the downtown nightlife. They even braved the Metro’s weekend schedule.
“It’s going to be great waiting for the Metro in Tenleytown station for a full week!” sophomore Katrina Hurrie said. “I hear the smell of piss and sewer water isn’t as bad at night.”
3. Boosting immune systems
Many students traveled to Florida for the break to participate in designated spring break party activities, like tanning, dancing on cars, going to a concert or two and contracting newfound variants of the coronavirus.
“I couldn’t wait to get back to campus and not have to worry about mandatory testing,” freshman Irina Jamb said. “Thank goodness we all wear KN95s now, I won’t feel as self-conscious coughing up phlegm in class.”
4. Experiencing peak existentialism
A large number of upperclassmen shared that their plans for the break included sobbing profusely at the prospect of existing post-graduation. 
“Every day feels like I’m in the homestretch of life,” senior Anna Syetree said. “I have an internship somewhere, that’s what you’re supposed to do, right? Right?”
5. Advocating for higher tuition
Some students, dissatisfied with the reported increase in annual tuition for undergraduate students at AU, decided to organize peaceful protests over the break to enact some semblance of change.
“We want it higher! We need more public buses in D.C. with President Burwell’s face on them! We need more abhorrent quotes plastered to the pavement on the quad!” chanted junior Eva Kaddow.
Ian Thornbrugh is a sophomore in the School of International Service and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
ithornbrugh@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
As American University's coronavirus protocols slimmed this semester, so did the guidelines for clubs. On-campus organizations have taken advantage of the less restrictive guidelines, which lifted food restrictions, made the events timeline request process more flexible and allowed for external guests.
School of Public Affairs and College of Arts and Sciences senior Daniel Cohen is the finance director of AU Club Council and keeps records of the allocation of money to different clubs. Cohen said that the guidelines last semester looked a little different due to the fall 2021 health and safety guidelines released by the University, but as the University’s guidelines changed so did AUCC’s. 
“With the food guidelines, there's no longer a restriction on the food type or serving style,” Cohen said. “Last semester due to COVID we required that clubs had pre-packaged food just because they had to abide by those guidelines put in place by the university.”
CAS senior Shahad Mohieldin is the chair for AUCC and oversees the club consultants and makes sure there is communication between them and their respective clubs. Mohieldin said that last semester, there was a guideline where if an event required food, then it would be considered a “complex event” which meant that clubs would have to put in a budget request five weeks before their event for it to be approved by AUCC. Now due to the updated food guidelines, clubs can put in a request for food three weeks before the event. 
“One of the reasons why we changed this is because of updated guidelines, but we also wanted it to be easier on clubs for them to plan out their events effectively and make sure their food was available, and we realized last semester working with clubs that having a five-week deadline for food complicated things,” Mohieldin said.
The third guideline included inviting external camps for events. Clubs could bring in guests starting from Feb. 15 once they have completed the AU COVID-19 attestation form which confirms proof of vaccination. 
Recently, the Black Student Union took advantage of the new food guideline to plan an immersive cultural catered experience. 
On Feb. 22, BSU hosted an event called “Taste of the Tropics” during Founders Week, which was co-sponsored by AU Caribbean Circle and Student Government.
Zari Scott, a School of Communication junior and the personal relations deputy director for BSU, said that the event was a more enriching experience because they were able to serve food. Students were able to explore the entire diaspora that is the Caribbean trying foods from different countries. 
“My family is from the Caribbean,” Scott said. “Both my parents were born and raised there, so it's just always nice to get to teach people about your culture in a way that doesn't necessarily feel like you're teaching.”
Scott said she thinks that the guidelines issued this semester will really help get freshmen more engaged and bring back that sense of community that upperclassmen experienced before the pandemic. 
Nanaama Idun, a sophomore in CAS, attended the Love of the Diaspora cultural event March 27 as a part of a joint effort from BSU and the AU NAACP. Food was provided at this event for those who attended. 
“The Love of Diaspora event was meant to recognize and celebrate the diaspora that makes up the Black community,” Idun said. “And food — like many cultures in the world — is a huge part of the culture, since the diaspora is so expansive.”
Idun said that the event was a success and helped bring the AU Black community closer together thanks to the less strict guidelines surrounding food from AUCC.
“Food brings communities together, no matter where you're from or what you like to eat. Food is a pillar of what you think about unity,” Idun said. “That’s why the Love of Diaspora event helped bring us all together and celebrate the food that has ties to who we all are.”
Looking ahead, the AU Bhangra Crew is hosting an event on April 15 called the AU Bhangra Bash. A DJ, catered food and performances will be provided free for AU students to attend with valid AU ID and a vaccination card. 
Ajuni Takkar, a CAS junior and choreographer for AU Bhangra CREW, helped plan this event as a part of the e-board. 
“When it comes to cultural events, it is especially important to have food to share a piece of your heritage with others,” Takkar said. “We look forward to bringing catered food from Cafe of India in Tenleytown, so the updated AUCC guidelines this semester have allowed us to also support a local Indian-owned business.”
Takkar said that the club experienced an increase in involvement, which is why it was important for e-board to host an event to boost inclusivity and interest for the fast-growing club. 
“The new guidelines are an improvement, so it’s nice to be able to look at Cafe of India’s menu and not worry about food being individually wrapped,” Takkar said. “We were less focused on food restrictions when preparing for this event and so we avoided spending time on a potential added layer of restriction.” 
Takkar said they put in a lot of effort to organize the event, so hopefully providing food will increase attendance at the upcoming bash. 
“Overall, we are really trying to increase our presence on campus because other nearby schools have a huge Bhangra club,” Takkar said. “We’ve tried to grow and diversify our organization, so having a local cafe cater our event will help with engagement and spread more awareness about the existence of the AU Bhangra Crew.” 
Scott also mentioned how the new regulations will help encourage community building and engagement with clubs as things were before the virtual switch due to the pandemic. 
“I think these new sanctions … bring back that pre-COVID atmosphere that I know a lot of the upperclassmen had,” Scott said. “That's been my whole goal, to give the younger students the opportunities that I know I had and enjoyed and were the reasons why I chose to stay at AU. 
rrafi@theeagleonline.edu
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Whether you are a college basketball player, coach or fan, there is nothing more exciting than the NCAA Division I men’s March Madness tournament.
Every March for three weeks, the competing athletes play their hearts out for the chance to hoist a national championship trophy and have their names written in the history books of college basketball. 
Year after year, this spectacle on the hardwood brings the joy of victory, the heartbreak of loss and the tearing up of paper brackets. The 2022 tournament was no different. There were plenty of bracket-busting upsets, heart-warming Cinderella stories and, of course, blue blood dominance.
Kansas Jayhawks crowned champions for the fourth time
On April 4, the University of Kansas Jayhawks (34-6) defeated the University of North Carolina Tar Heels (29-10) 72-69 to claim their fourth title in school history and second title under head coach Bill Self.
The Jayhawks’ win was no small feat. From the start of the game, Kansas had the momentum. A quick three-pointer from second-team All-American Ochai Agbaji on the first possession of the game, and their ability to capitalize on a couple of UNC missed baskets put the Jayhawks in the driver’s seat early.
But Self’s squad lost momentum after quickly getting into foul trouble, and UNC’s defense stepped up on some key possessions. The Tar Heels took advantage of this and stampeded back to take the lead, burying Kansas in a 16-point deficit midway through the half. After trading baskets for the rest of the period, the Jayhawks were trailing by 15 points at halftime.
The hero that emerged off the bench for Kansas in the second half put on a show that no one expected. On the back of graduate transfer Remy Martin’s 14-point performance to remember that included four three-pointers, the Jayhawks fought their way back and came out victorious in a game that came down to the last shot.
North Carolina spoils Coach K’s farewell tour
When the greatest college basketball coach of all time announced at the beginning of this season that this would be his last year coaching, he took a big risk.
Duke University head coach Mike Krzyzewski came into his final season with a top-five recruiting class and the fourth-ranked high school player in the country, Paolo Banchero. 
Little did Coach K know that Duke’s rival school, North Carolina, would stand in his path to one, final national championship. After beating California State Fullerton, Michigan State, Texas Tech and Arkansas in the first four rounds of the tournament, the Blue Devils found themselves matched up with the Tar Heels in the Final Four for the first time in history.
The result was not the one that Krzyzewski wanted. In a back and forth game that came down to finals seconds, Caleb Love and North Carolina defeated Duke, putting an end to Coach K’s career.
After the game, Krzyzewski refused to let the spotlight fall on him. “It's not about me, especially right now,” he said following the loss. “I'm not thinking about my career right now.”
Saint Peter’s makes historic Cinderella run
The success of the Saint Peter’s University Peacocks was the biggest surprise to come out of this tournament. Most years, one team goes on an unlikely run that captures the hearts of fans nationwide. This was the case for No. 10 Davidson in 2008, No. 11 VCU in 2011, and No. 11 Loyola Chicago in 2018. This year that team was Saint Peter’s.
The Cinderella story began when Saint Peter’s head coach Shaheen Holloway’s No. 15 seeded Peacocks took down the No. 2 seeded Kentucky Wildcats in the round of 64. Behind star players Doug Edert, Daryl Banks III and Matthew Lee, Saint Peter’s would go on to upset Murray State and Purdue, before losing to North Carolina in the Elite Eight round.
Saint Peter’s University became the first No. 15 seed to make it to the Elite Eight in college basketball history, despite having a program budget one-fifth of the salary of Kentucky coach John Calipari.
In the time since their run ended, Coach Holloway has accepted a job to be the next head coach of the Seton Hall basketball team, his alma mater, and Edert, Banks and Lee have all entered their names into the transfer portal. This leaves America’s favorite team without their head coach and likely without their three star players next season.
Despite high hopes, Gonzaga comes up short yet again
In the last three March Madness tournaments, the Gonzaga University Bulldogs have been a No. 1 seed in their bracket region, and in the last two years, they have been the No. 1 ranked team in the country going into the tournament.
Somehow, with the great opportunities that the Gonzaga teams of the past three years have had, the school has zero national championships to show for it.
The Bulldogs came into this year’s tournament as the odds-on favorite to win it all. The No. 1 overall team in the country, led by junior forward and leading scorer Drew Timme, was matched up with Georgia State in the Round of 64, and after a close first half, found their rhythm, and put the Panthers away.
Gonzaga rode the high of their first tournament win into a second victory over a talented University of Memphis team, led by NBA prospect Jalen Duren, but their season came to an end in the Sweet 16 when the Bulldogs ran into the Arkansas Razorbacks.
Gonzaga’s 2019 loss to Texas Tech in the Elite Eight, 2021 loss to Baylor in the national championship, and 2022 loss to Arkansas in the Sweet 16 are part of a series of disappointing seasons that beg the question of whether or not Gonzaga has what it takes to reach the promised land. 
In 2020, Bulldogs head coach Mark Few successfully recruited Jalen Suggs, the sixth-ranked high school player in the country, and in 2021, he brought in Chet Holmgren, the number one high school player in the country, but again, has nothing to show for it.
The future is not bright for Gonzaga either. Holmgren will likely declare for the draft this off-season following Timme, who has already announced his intentions to go pro. This leaves Gonzaga without their leading scorer and without their star, and an incoming recruiting class that is only set to bring in one 3-star recruit. 
igundersen@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
For the first time since the spring of 2019, this April means one thing and one thing only for NBA fans: playoff basketball.
The previous two NBA seasons featured abridged schedules with late playoffs, but the league is finally back to its traditional 82-game schedule with playoffs beginning in April, and this season has been the most competitive in a decade.
Out West, the Phoenix Suns and Memphis Grizzlies have a stranglehold on the standings, with the Golden State Warriors, Denver Nuggets, Dallas Mavericks and Utah Jazz all settling in the middle. 
Just below those teams, the Minnesota Timberwolves and Los Angeles Clippers have secured their play-in spots, while the New Orleans Pelicans and San Antonio Spurs have successfully sunk the former title-favorite Los Angeles Lakers.
All season long there has been a daily shuffling in the Eastern Conference standings, but the Miami Heat clinched the first seed behind veteran swingman Jimmy Butler and Sixth Man of the Year frontrunner Tyler Herro.
That being said, the pool of talent in the East runs to the 10th seed, with just 10 games separating the first-seeded Heat and the 10th-seeded Charlotte Hornets. For reference, out West, the first-seeded Phoenix Suns lead the third-seeded Golden State Warriors by 11 games. 
With the playoffs beginning tonight, here is where each team still in the hunt currently stands.
The Favorites
Phoenix Suns (64-18, West 1st seed)
Milwaukee Bucks (51-31, East 3rd seed)
It is hard to look at the Western Conference standings and project anyone other than Phoenix pushing to The Finals. Hitting 60 wins and clinching the best record in the NBA as early as Mar 24, the Suns have been steamrolling through the regular season.
With two All-NBA caliber players in Devin Booker and Chris Paul, a two-way monster looking for a payday in center Deandre Ayton, a Defensive Player of the Year candidate in Mikal Bridges and a supporting cast of the league’s best role players, Phoenix retooled and re-energized after last year’s blundered Finals and looks to make quick work of the Western Conference.
The Suns may have two players with their names in the MVP and DPOY conversations, but the Milwaukee Bucks have one player firmly in both. Giannis Antetokounmpo is the epitome of basketball brilliance, and the two-time MVP and reigning Finals MVP finds new ways to impress every time he touches the ball.
With All-Star scorer Khris Middleton, a defensive-minded floor general Jrue Holiday and a roster filled with players such as Brook Lopez, Serge Ibaka and Bobby Portis, Milwaukee may not finish with the best record in the East, but it would be foolish to discount a group of guys who did it once and then got back in the gym and improved.
The Contenders
Golden State Warriors (53-29, West 3rd seed)
Memphis Grizzlies (56-26, West 2nd seed)
Miami Heat (53-29, East 1st seed)
Philadelphia 76ers (51-31, East 4th seed)
Not all teams can be championship favorites, but the next four teams look like they could have a legitimate chance at bringing one home this season if Phoenix or Milwaukee fails to live up to expectations.
The Golden State Warriors started the season hotter than the Suns, and Stephen Curry was on pace to run away with his third MVP as he broke Ray Allen’s all-time three-point record. On top of Curry’s dominance, Draymond Green had his second DPOY in the bag and Jordan Poole looked like a legitimate Most Improved Player candidate. 
The Warriors were also expecting fellow Splash Brother Klay Thompson ready to return after missing over two full seasons with multiple leg injuries. By the end of the season, the only one of those things that came true was Thompson’s return, as Curry went on the worst shooting slump of his entire career and Green went out with an injury for much of the season, while Ja Morant skyrocketed up the Vegas odds for the MIP award.
The 2019 second overall pick Ja Morant has led a Memphis Grizzlies squad composed of solid contributors from top to bottom, including breakout star Desmond Bane, defensive anchor Jaren Jackson Jr. and veteran big man Steven Adams. The Grizzlies routinely blow opponents out, and when they lose it’s a close one – the average result of a Grizzlies game this season is a 6-point victory. Though there is reason to doubt these young guys based on their inexperience, their massacres of teams like the Warriors and their 20-5 record without Morant prove that they are a formidable force no matter what challenges stand in their way.
Though the Eastern Conference standings have shuffled nonstop all year, once the season hit the midway point, the Miami Heat settled into first and have spent little time since then anywhere below. After a rough 2020-21 campaign, Tyler Herro looks like a legitimate star in the making and leads the 6MOY award race. Though veteran leader Jimmy Butler has struggled statistically since the All-Star break, guys like Kyle Lowry, Bam Adebayo and PJ Tucker have made sure to keep the team afloat. 
The Philadelphia 76ers got everything they wanted and more out of the Ben Simmons trade by acquiring James Harden, but Harden’s recent streakiness and the lost bench depth should keep Sixers fans on their toes come playoff time. Tyrese Maxey’s massive jump to become the Sixers’ third star in his second year could spell the difference if Philadelphia finds themselves in The Finals for the first time since 2001. 
Bench depth could be the factor that sinks Joel Embiid’s MVP-caliber season in the playoffs, though, as the Sixers bench scores the third-fewest points per game in the entire NBA on the season, and since the All-Star break Philadelphia’s bench has been the worst-scoring bench in the league, putting up just 24.5 points per game – a lower per-game average than 15 individual players across the league.
The Dark Horses
Dallas Mavericks (52-30, West 4th seed)
Boston Celtics (51-31, East 2nd seed)
Cleveland Cavaliers (44-38, East 8th seed)
Brooklyn Nets (44-38, East 7th seed)
Though these teams are still a piece or two away from truly being a contender, a surprise push to the conference finals is not off the table for any of these next squads.
The slow-starting Dallas Mavericks under new head coach Jason Kidd looked rocky to start the season, but Luka Dončić has since resumed his MVP-caliber play to rocket the Mavs up the standings to 4th, Dallas’ highest finish since their 2011 championship run. A midseason trade for Spencer Dinwiddie turned out to be an excellent move by the Mavericks’ front office, as Dinwiddie has helped to take the scoring burden off of Dončić, an overreliance that has plagued Dallas in each of their last two playoff series losses. Dinwiddie managed to revive the poor statistical season he was having in Washington and could be an excellent third option for a contending Dallas team if the Mavericks make a big move to acquire a star this offseason.
If the Mavericks started the season off slow, the Boston Celtics started at a snail's pace. On Jan 22, the Celtics had a 23-24 record and sat in 10th place in the Eastern Conference. Since then, Boston has risen as high as first place during the East’s constant reshuffling, due in no small part to their masterful defensive turnaround. 
Spearheaded by DPOY candidates Marcus Smart and Robert Williams III, Boston has transformed into the best defense in the league, overtaking the lockdown Golden State Warriors and clamping down opponents with a 106.1 defensive rating. The Celtics will have to prove come playoff time that their midseason turnaround was no fluke, but a deep postseason run is a real possibility.
The Cleveland Cavaliers have been on a skid as of late due to injuries from All-Star center Jarrett Allen and Rookie of the Year frontrunner Evan Mobley. If those two return in time for the playoffs, some poor higher-seeded team is in for a rough first-round series against Cleveland. 
The Cavs are trapped in the play-in at the moment but will more than likely stay in seventh place, and with excellent seasons from All-Star Darius Garland, a revitalized Kevin Love and the two aforementioned injured players, the Cavs could be anywhere from a first-round sweep to a surprise conference finals team.
With Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving on the roster, the Brooklyn Nets should be a lock in the “contender” category, but the Nets have been severely limited all season long by Durant’s injuries and Irving’s unwillingness to get vaccinated. If Brooklyn makes it out of the play-in and the first round, there is a real chance they will face the Toronto Raptors. Due to Canada’s policy surrounding unvaccinated players, Irving could miss up to four games in that series, since he would not be allowed to play with the team in Toronto.
The Other Guys
Charlotte Hornets (43-39, East 10th seed)
LA Clippers (42-40, West 8th seed)
Toronto Raptors (48-34, East 5th seed)
Minnesota Timberwolves (46-36, West 7th seed)
Chicago Bulls (46-36, East 6th seed)
Utah Jazz (49-33, West 5th seed)
Denver Nuggets (48-34, West 6th seed)
Atlanta Hawks (43-39, East 9th seed)
New Orleans Pelicans (36-46, West 9th seed)
San Antonio Spurs (34-48, West 10th seed)
Some of the remaining teams that qualified for this year’s postseason have been surprisingly good, some even in the face of brutal injuries to star players. The Los Angeles Clippers have missed three of their best players the majority of the season yet remain in eighth place with an above-.500 record, continuing a winning-season streak dating back to the 2011-12 season. The Toronto Raptors have assembled a lethal starting lineup composed of borderline All-Star-level players behind first-time All-Star Fred VanVleet and the brilliant rookie Scottie Barnes. The San Antonio Spurs and New Orleans Pelicans pushed hard late in the season to eliminate the once-title-favorite Los Angeles Lakers from the play-in entirely.
On the other hand, some of these teams have been rather disappointing. The Atlanta Hawks regressed from an Eastern Conference Finals team to a play-in team, while the Utah Jazz fell from the best team in the NBA last season to the 5th seed in a less-competitive conference with minimal changes to the roster.
The NBA play-in tournament opens tonight with Brooklyn versus Cleveland at 7 p.m. EST followed by Minnesota versus the Los Angeles Clippers at 9:30 p.m. EST. The winners of those two games automatically qualify for the playoffs, while the remainder of the play-in tournament takes place on Wednesday and Friday. 
The playoffs begin Saturday, Apr 16, with the first games of Utah versus Dallas, Philadelphia versus Toronto and either Minnesota or the Los Angeles Clippers versus Memphis.
mgacina@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
