

I decided to take a women’s, gender, and sexuality studies class this semester. Truthfully, I needed a general elective credit and could have taken a wide variety of subjects, but I chose this one, Women’s Voices Through Time, WGSS-150, because I was interested in learning more about women and their actions in mainstream history. As a woman, I was excited to learn more about history that relates to my identity. 
On the first day of class, I walked in and watched my other classmates file inside. As I counted down the time on the clock before class started, I messaged my friends with a poll, asking if they thought there would be any men in our class. We guessed none. Class started, and as I looked around I saw that the students in the class were only female-identifying people. We had guessed correctly.
At that time, I felt two conflicting emotions. First, I was comforted in the sense that this demographic made the class a safe space for myself and others to be heard. Second, because the audience that needs to learn most wasn’t there, I felt doubtful about the potential for a larger impact. I could not get a question off of my mind: if only women are taking these classes, how do we make women’s history a part of mainstream learning?
Women’s history struggles to make it into the K-12 curriculum and is continually left out of history requirements. A 2017 study by the Smithsonian found that out of the 737 specific historical figures noted in K-12 educational standards in social studies across the nation, 559 are men and only 178 are women, about one woman for every three men. The study also notes that of those 178 women, 98 of them will only appear once in the social studies standards. 
The lack of women in K-12 curriculum is already concerning because students are not taught the full scope of history and because women are not as valued in the required history in American schools. Knowing this, I hoped a class dedicated to understanding history, and how women were a part of it, would be a supplement for students who lacked this knowledge from their early schooling. Unfortunately, these classes are lacking the students who need to learn women’s history most. 
History including women is relegated to a specific title, ‘Women’s history.’ Much like the NBA and the WNBA, there is history, and there is women’s history. These courses are not requirements but instead are seen as extra additives for people with special interests and not important enough to be included in mainstream history. Not only does this separate women’s contributions to a specific section of history that is rarely required to be taught, but it also turns men away from taking the courses. There is a noticeable lack of men who enroll in these courses to learn more about history not centered around their gender. This needs to change. 
It is important to include that oftentimes women’s studies classes are safe places for women and female-identifying students to express their thoughts and have open discussions without a male voice interrupting them or disavowing the truth in their perspectives. I am advocating for men to take these introductory women’s studies courses with good intentions and an open mind. I am sickened by those that would enroll only to meet women or attack the subject matter with a closed mind. I want to instead see this history valued by those who are not women because they understand that learning this history is essential to learning about all history. 
Women’s history is not only for women. There is a whole area of knowledge going unseen because it has the word woman in front of it. I urge those who are not women to take an introductory course in women’s studies and women’s history because without it, you will be missing something in every facet of history. Showing interest in women’s history is how we get women into common ‘history.’
Anna Gephart is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle. 
This article was edited by Jelinda Montes, Alexis Bernstein and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Sarah Clayton, Natasha LaChac, Luna Jinks, Leta Lattin.
agephart@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Grady playing live. 
The D.C. music scene — small, yet extremely powerful — fully welcomes power pop trio Grady. 
Composed of singer and guitarist Emily Yaremchuk, drummer Samantha Collings and bassist Will Salzmann, the D.C. based band is on the rise as they play at venues around the district. Grady was influenced by a number of bands like British rock band Placebo or American punk band Lunachicks. However, Grady also draws a lot of inspiration from bands like Hole and pulls from past Riot Grrrl legends to create an innovative, new sound.
Grady was originally established in 2018, when Collings was recommended to listen to Yaremchuck’s music on SoundCloud.
“Immediately I fell in love with Emily’s songwriting,” Collings said in an interview with The Eagle. “I approached her at a friendsgiving a couple weeks later and very brashly decided to tell her that I’d written parts to all of her songs and that we needed to play together.” 
Four years later, Salzmann joined the group as a permanent member after a recording session at American University. 
“We didn’t let him in immediately,” Collings said, laughing. The band noted an abridged trial period before formally asking Salzmann to join Grady.
As Grady was formed and began playing throughout D.C., a sense of community was seen in interaction with different bands. Compared to large cities like New York, or cities with heavily established music scenes like Seattle, D.C. has a relatively small music scene and is mostly composed of local artists. 
“It feels a little more communal. People really look out for each other,” Yaremchuk said. “Everyone’s out there doing their thing and trying to be the best they can be, but there’s no cutthroat, competitive air in D.C.”
With this small community of musicians, Grady finds themselves playing gigs with several different bands from different genres. 
Due to the smaller music scene in D.C., there’s a lot of overlap between genres, but bands like Grady find the mix refreshing. 
“It just gives you the confidence to keep writing the kind of songs you want to write because you have no inputs to write to anyone. You’re completely free to sound how you want to sound,” Yaremchuk said. 
Grady writes all their own music. Usually the songwriting process starts with Yaremchuk, Collings and Salzmann giving edits once Yaremchuk is finished. Yaremchuk cites Riot Grrrl music as one of her biggest inspirations when she writes. 
“So, just a heavy focus on melody and lyrics that can tell a story, but also be a little abstract at the same time,” Yaremchuk said. Collings noted that along with Riot Grrrl music being among Grady’s biggest influences, the Beatles also inspire both herself and Yaremchuk.
“Our biggest common ground is our love for the Beatles,” Collings said. “I think a lot of the harmony aspects to the songs come from how much we listen to that and [the Beatles] are kind of influenced by having really beautiful three-part harmonies over more industrial-garage-sounding rock music.”
Grady’s two recorded songs, “Big Red” and “Sunnies,” draw clear influences from Riot Grrrl artists and the Beatles. With vibrant chord progressions and fun basslines, Grady is able to combine interesting music with provocative lyrics. 
In February 2023, Grady began recording what will be their first EP. Slated to include seven songs, Grady is looking forward to releasing the tracks in the spring or early summer. 
“It’s a lot of songs that we play live, a lot of songs we’ve been working on for a long time, and we’re super stoked for everyone to hear them,” Collings said. 
Edited by Sara Winick, Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Stella Guzik and Sophia Rocha.
shsu@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor's note: Jelinda Montes, The Eagle's assistant opinion editor, is a member of AU's equestrian team. She was not involved in the writing, editing or reporting of this story. 
When Elizabeth Margeotes came to American University, she didn’t know that AU had an equestrian team. After overhearing a conversation in Starbucks her freshman year about the team, it piqued her interest, and she decided to join. As a senior, Margeotes is now president of the team. 
Founded in 2003 by alumni Jessie Loutoo and Lana Ciaramella, the equestrian team offers an encouraging environment for those with a passion for equestrianism.
Equestrianism is rooted in ancient Greece when dressage would equip horses for war. Equestrianism lost popularity until its revival during the Renaissance period. Modern dressage can be traced back to the Spanish Riding School in the 18th century. 
Modern-day equestrianism can be found at American University. 
The equestrian team is a welcoming community to anybody with an interest in equestrianism.
“As long as you are comfortable around horses, we would love to have you,” Margeotes said. 
The equestrian team rides out of Burtonsville, Maryland, at Springhill Stables, which is approximately 45 minutes outside of D.C. Riding outside of the city gives riders time to find peace with the horses and their team. 
The equestrian team makes riding sessions quite flexible in order to accommodate riders’ hectic college schedules. Riders take lessons once a week at the barn, allowing them to have a weekly escape from the stress of school life. Everyone practices on different horses at every practice to ensure that they do not become too accustomed to a particular horse.
“You get what you put into it,” Margeotes said. 
The team’s head coach, Astrid “Star” Dalley, has been “coaching local riders to win for many years,” according to the team’s website. 
The equestrian team is a part of the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association in zone four, competing against schools such as Georgetown University, George Washington University, the University of Maryland College Park and Towson University. 
While a majority of the equestrian team’s competitions are in the fall, two American University riders qualified for regionals this year. Margeotes qualified for limit flat and limit jumping, sophomore Alexa McCormick qualified for the limit flat and senior Katie Holzapfel qualified for the limit flat. All three qualifiers are in the same lesson group.
This year, American University is hosting the regionals competition. This gives American’s equestrians a home advantage, as they will most likely ride the same horses they ride during their lessons.  
“It is a really exciting thing. We have a low-pressure team, so when anyone qualifies it is a really big deal,” McCormick said. 
As a team of 17, the riders are a tight-knit community brought together through a mutual love of horses and competing. 
“Instead of teammates, we are friends,” Margeotes said. 
The American University equestrian team can be found on Instagram @aueqteam.
This article was edited by Liah Argiropoulous, Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Natasha LaChac and Sophia Rocha.
hnewlontrujillo@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
AU alum and Delaware state senator Sarah McBride at a Students for Change Event on March 31.
The first time Delaware state Sen. Sarah McBride asked someone to refer to her using she/her pronouns, she was a student at American University. It was in the McKinley Building where she first messaged a friend and asked them to use the name Sarah for her. 
McBride, who graduated from the School of Public Affairs in 2013, came out as transgender in 2012. Before McBride was a senator or a graduate, she was president of AU Student Government, making the journey of coming out more uncertain. 
In an event held by Students for Change, the Kennedy Political Union and AU Pride on March 31, McBride spoke about her coming out journey at AU, specifically in a position of leadership.
“I didn't have many other trans people to see, to talk with, just to be in spaces with, to see how the campus interacted with them and to know that I could have that space,” McBride said at the event. “And as Student Government president, I didn't know how the campus would respond to an out trans student, let alone an out transgender student body president.” 
The discussion, held in honor of Transgender Day of Visibility and moderated by Sebastian Mahal, a sophomore in SPA and the College of Arts and Sciences, allowed McBride to talk not only about her personal experience, but how AU helped foster an environment where she felt comfortable being true to her identity.
“This campus saved my life, and my friends on this campus saved my life with the way they responded,” she said. “Rejection creates an excuse, while acceptance creates a standard.” 
McBride expressed this sentiment throughout her discussion, talking about recent legislation passed to attack the rights of transgender people and attempts to ban drag shows across the U.S. 
These laws, McBride said, are an attempt to “other” transgender people by using “fear mongering and scare tactics.” She compared this to a slingshot: you have to move back before you move forward at a fast pace.
Storytelling, she said, is imperative to making the slingshot move.
“I do fundamentally believe that it is much more difficult to hate someone whose story you know, and one of the reasons why the politics of fear is able to materialize is because there is still … a knowledge gap that the general public has around who transgender people are,” she said. 
In the absence of storytelling of LGBTQ+ lives in the media and in the public, these fear mongering political tactics are able to take hold, McBride said. 
In addition to storytelling, McBride expressed the need for federal protections and national LGBTQ+ nondiscrimination laws. 
“People will lose their lives because of these bills,” she said. 
Within the LGBTQ+ community, McBride said that support should not be considered a privilege. She said everyone deserves to have structures to provide them with emotional and physical support, ranging from accepting friend groups to accessible, gender-affirming healthcare. 
At AU, she was able to find this support. Without it, she said, the outcome of her journey could have been totally different. 
“I think it was that experience, receiving that support myself, that pushed me into a professional advocacy career,” she said. “I ultimately felt it shouldn't be a privilege to be able to be embraced by your campus, or embraced by your family, or be able to get a job, or stay in school.”
This article was edited by Zoe Bell, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin and Stella Guzik.
smattalian@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
