The Eagle has released a staff diversity report for the past two years in our efforts to increase diversity and maintain accountability for members of the American University community. The results indicate a large decrease in the number of staffers who identify as male and an increase in gender-nonconforming, lesbian, bisexual, pansexual and disabled representation. 
The Eagle’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Group continues to meet throughout the semester and is committed to improving the diversity of both its staff and coverage. We know that the more we look like the AU community, the better job we can do covering it. 
Staff diversity report
The data for the staff diversity report were collected through The Eagle’s spring 2023 staff acceptance form, which all staff members filled out upon acceptance to The Eagle. The form asks optional demographic questions about race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disability and financial aid status.
109 staff members filled out the form this semester. 
The percentage of staffers who identify as multiracial decreased from fall 2022, from 15 to 10 percent of staff identifying as multiracial. 
This semester, the number of staff members who identify as white increased, with about 68 percent this semester compared to 66 percent in fall 2022. Both of these figures are higher than the amount of AU undergraduates who identify as white, which was about 56 percent in 2022.
Data from the acceptance form show a slight increase in Latino and Hispanic representation and a rise in South and Southeast Asian representation among staff since the fall 2022 semester. Meanwhile, the number of staff members who identify as Black decreased by 0.6 percent.


The majority of staff who chose to disclose their sexual orientation identify as heterosexual, and 44 percent of staffers identify as LGBTQ+, slightly down from 46 percent last semester. Among those who self-identified as LGBTQ+, there was an increase in lesbian, bisexual and pansexual representation.


The majority of staffers identify as female, continuing the trend from the past few semesters. This semester has seen an increase in gender-neutral/nonconforming staff members, from 4.8 to 6.4 percent, and a significant decrease in the number of staffers who identify as male, from about 24 to 16.5 percent.


The vast majority of staffers identify as nondisabled, continuing the trend from past semesters. Ten percent of staffers this semester said they identify as disabled, up from four percent in the fall. 

The staff demographics show a slight decrease in students who receive financial aid since the fall. The percentage of staffers who are recipients of the Pell Grant has decreased from nearly 13 percent to nine percent. Half of the staffers who responded to the question do not receive financial aid, mirroring the statistic from last semester.


Most staffers major in the School of Communication, a slight decrease from last semester, with 74 staffers in SOC, 29 in the College of Arts and Sciences, 26 staffers in the School of Public Affairs, 14 in the School of International Service and four in the Kogod School of Business. This data accounts for students who have majors and/or minors in more than one school, which explains why the total sum is greater than the total number of spring staffers.


DEI spring efforts
Last week, the DEI group discussed stories we have published so far this semester. We also talked about ethical guidelines for photography, specifically ensuring that our photographers do not get too close to participants at vigils or memorials. At The Eagle, we believe that it is our duty to document important on-campus events through news reporting and photography as long as the event takes place in a public area. Our photographers will continue to take photos at events while being mindful of others’ physical space.
The group is also continuing to build connections with student organizations and affinity groups on campus to ensure that our coverage is diverse and representative of the AU community. 
This article was edited by Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks and Sarah Clayton.
zbell@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Hip-hop has been the most popular genre in the United States since 2017. It’s no secret the genre has taken over the country, but what exactly is hip-hop, and how did it start? 
Before there was the modern rap scene with acts like J. Cole, Kendrick Lamar and Drake, there was a long line of people who built the foundation for the greats we have today. 
How was hip-hop created? 
Hip-hop originated in New York City during the 1970s. It started out as strictly live music, reserved for loud nightclubs and street corners. 
Block parties started up in the ‘70s as well, and DJs found that if they played just the percussion and no melody, it could create a genre in and of itself. The term hip-hop, however, was not used until this music first started being recorded. 
DJ Kool Herc, known as the godfather of hip-hop, hosted live parties during this time with traditional hip-hop drums, building the foundation for the beats we know today. 
Artists of this time drew crowds at different parties in the Bronx and eventually moved to Manhattan once the genre got more traction within the city. 1520 Sedgwick Ave. is credited as the birthplace of hip-hop, where Kool Herc threw a historic birthday party for his sister, and where the idea of hip-hop would first come into existence.  
The main reason hip-hop gained traction and popularity was due to the oppression of Black and brown communities in New York. 
Rappers told the unfiltered truth about their environment — how it was severely overpoliced, and how their resources were taken away by external forces such as the government. 
Landmark songs
Hip-hop as recorded music originated in rap groups because resources were limited in the Bronx, and it required multiple people to pool funds in order to have adequate resources for recording time and equipment.
“Rapper’s Delight” by The Sugarhill Gang was the first rap song officially recorded and published. “Rapper’s Delight” was also the first hip-hop single to reach the Top 40, and the name “hip-hop” actually originates from the song’s lyrics. Although the genre prides itself on original songwriting, the reality is that the first hip-hop record wasn’t written by the recording artist, with the lyrics on “Rapper’s Delight” accredited to Grandmaster Caz.
Another classic is “Walk This Way” by Run-D.M.C., which was the first hip-hop song to reach the Top 5 on the charts, and helped hip-hop evolve into a fusion of rock and rap instead of just the traditional brake drums. 
Influential artists in the genre
DJ Kool Herc promoted brake drums in hip-hop to a large audience and inspired listeners of the genre to become rappers. 
Groups such as the Cold Crush Brothers and Grandmaster Flash & The Furious Five were influential in starting the hip-hop genre and hosted live rap battles where emcees would take turns rapping over drum breaks. These two groups had a legendary rap battle between each other, and it got passed around in the streets, spreading the hype of hip-hop all over New York. This one battle inspired hundreds of emcees to take the craft more seriously. 
As for more recent acts, Tupac Shakur, known professionally as 2Pac, influenced the poetic side of hip-hop. Although the storytelling aspect of hip-hop was present, 2Pac was able to convey emotions from his environment better than any other MC at the time. 2Pac set the groundwork for lyrical and conscious hip-hop. 
In the modern day, many cite Drake for bringing hip-hop to intersect with pop listeners, creating a mix of traditional hip-hop combined with melodies to create something more accessible for a mainstream palate. While some may critique Drake for “watering down” the original form of hip-hop, Drake is heavily responsible for hip-hop’s rise to mainstream fame. 
Hip-hop on an international level
Hip-hop has come a long way since that fateful DJ Kool Herc birthday party, and the genre has been used in countless ways outside of music since.
For example, many rappers from Iran have criticized their corrupt government through hip-hop, and due to censorship laws in the country, many of said artists have had to go abroad to release their music. The censorship and detainment many face for criticizing the government prove the exact point that artists are trying to make about the government’s corrupt nature.
Another example of international rappers making a difference is Vietnamese rapper Suboi, with her song N-Sao?, taking aim at corrupt police in Ho Chi Minh City.
Hip-hop has affected many lives, allowing people who were given a voice a chance to tell their story, and it has and continues to be a massive vehicle for political change.
So the next time you turn on the newest Drake pop-rap record, don’t forget about how the genre came to be, and the people who laid the groundwork for it to rise.
This article was edited by Sara Winick, Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Sophia Rocha and Stella Guzik.
yminmiller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
I was 18 years old, walking through the streets of Harlem with my mother. We had just finished touring Columbia University — a microcosm of different identities, cultures and languages housed in the urban campus. I walked past a bunch of people, many of them speaking different languages, even employing a form of fluidity as they switched between English and a second language. 
I am not unaccustomed to multilingualism: I was raised in a Haitian immigrant household where English, French and Creole were frequently traded in sentences. As a child, I was told to “chita” (sit) in church, then taught the French alphabet at home and instructed in English at school. 
At 19, I’m a freshman in college taking both an advanced French class and the freshman college writing intensive class. My multicultural background is impressive to most, but in the last year, I’ve felt as if there was a part of my identity that makes me different from the rest:
I’m a Latina who doesn’t speak Spanish. 
In the Latino community, those who don’t speak Spanish are the target of both ridicule and jokes. They are referred to as “no sabo kids,” a phrase those who frequent “LatinoTok” on TikTok or other social media have become accustomed to. In some ways, it’s a funny joke, but at the same time, it boils back to a deeper issue of colonial sentiments of who is and isn’t a Latina. 
In late January, I was invited to be a distinguished plenary speaker at the National Collegiate Research Conference at Harvard University. I presented my original research entitled, “The Conquest of the Latinidad: Historical and Contemporary Colorism in Hispaniola.” I sought to analyze how European colonial systems impacted Haiti and the Dominican Republic in modernity, and the results were astounding: Haitians historically have not been considered Latino, despite being Caribbeans from a romance-language-speaking country. 
People often mistake the terms “Hispanic” and “Latino.” Hispanic refers to individuals from a Spanish-speaking country, such as Spain or Colombia, while Latino refers to individuals from a romance-language-speaking country in the Americas, such as Haiti and Brazil. Both Brazilians and Haitians typically do not speak Spanish, and both of these nations are primarily of African descent. In Brazil alone, 56 percent of the population, or about 120 million people, are Afro-Brazilian. In many ways, the ties between an Afro-Latino identity and the denial of Latino identity are a result of colonialism.
The Spanish imposed a caste system known as Las Castas in Latin America. When Christopher Columbus arrived in Hispaniola in 1492, the island was solely inhabited by the Indigenous Taíno people. Within the next few centuries, Hispaniola would become a microcosm of Latin America — one occupied by Black, European, Indigenous and mixed-race identities. Las Castas sought to subjugate those who were not European through a socio-racial hierarchy. Contemporarily, there is a concept of Ladinization, or the mixed race Latino identity, but this typically refers to the Indigenous and mestizo aspect of Latino culture — not the Black one, erasing the African influence and history on Latin America. 
So what about the “no sabo” kids, the ones unable to speak Spanish? Although one may argue that to know Spanish is to be Latina, this phrase is inherently problematic. Spanish, Portuguese and French were the languages of the colonizers, forcibly imposed on Latin America. What about those speaking Indigenous dialects or creoles or pidgin languages? There is a depth to being Latina. As a Haitian woman, I have grown up seeing the strength of the Latina women around me. My maternal grandmother and her sisters immigrated from Haiti to the United States for a better life for future generations. My life, and I, would not exist if not for the contributions of Latina women.
To be Latina extends beyond the language: it is culture, a history, a way of life. There is no monolith to being Latina — there is merely one’s own relationship with their identity. For me, being Latina means educating fellow Latinos on how to strengthen our community rather than divide it. For others, being Latina can be a political and cultural movement, like the Chicana women reclaiming their identity as a form of empowerment. 
I will never apologize for my Latina identity, despite my inability to speak Spanish. 
Being Latina in the 21st century is complicated and messy, but it is also beautiful and an identity full of strength.
When I think of being a Latina woman, I am reminded of the strength in beauty. When I was a child, I would watch my mother apply makeup in awe. I am 19 now, speaking at national research conferences with nails and hair deemed “ghetto” a mere decade ago. To be Latina means reclaiming your identity and refusing to let anyone take it from you.
Sophia Joseph is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University's Board of Trustees' winter meetings 3discussed ongoing work to improve AU and engage with the AU community, according to a March 2 email to the AU community. 
On Feb. 23, the board explored 10 examples of AU scholarship, which included faculty-student research collaborations. Diana Burley, the vice provost for research, provided an update on the 48 percent increase in external research funding. 
On Feb. 24, the Board gathered with 50 students, hearing their stories of experiential learning at AU, in D.C. and around the world. According to the email, the Board heard stories of students studying gravitational waves in black holes, creating startup businesses to help improve access to food and providing legal services through the Washington College of Law’s clinical law programs. 
President Sylvia Burwell reported on the University’s progress in pursuit of its current mission, its ongoing work in supporting students, faculty and staff, and potential challenges that could arise in the near future. 
Progress discussed in the meeting includes the University’s recent Kogod Gamechangers in Sustainability speaker series and the Changemakers for a Changing World Year 4 report, which details the University’s advances in scholarship, learning and community. 
Focusing on safety
Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Bronté Burleigh-Jones and Vice President of People and External Affairs Seth Grossman updated trustees on campus safety following a mass shooting at Michigan State University. Grossman also detailed the ongoing 120 Initiative of the Consortium of Universities of the Washington Metropolitan Area to reduce gun violence.
“AU considers the safety and security of our entire AU community – including students, staff, faculty, and visitors – to be our highest priority and regularly reviews safety protocols to ensure community preparedness,” Elizabeth Deal, the assistant vice president for community & internal communication wrote in a statement to The Eagle. “In an emergency, the AU Alerts system sends information via text, email, social media, and Four Winds. These messages provide updates on a situation, instructions, and links for additional information.”
The University also details “Run, Hide, Fight” training in its Emergency Procedures Guide, as well as a preparedness video from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
Risk management and University priorities 
Burleigh-Jones led a discussion regarding the University’s enterprise risk management process. The Board identified risk areas in four primary categories — student retention, resource management, human capital and technology. 
The Board also reviewed ongoing retention, graduation and student thriving efforts by Provost Peter Starr and former Vice President for Undergraduate Enrollment Fanta Aw. Ashlie Prioleau, the new assistant vice president for student success & retention shared data that identifies factors influencing students’ decision to leave the University prior to graduating.
“American University is committed to ensuring that students persist, thrive and graduate to pursue their ambitions as changemakers,” Deal wrote. “We are actively analyzing factors that make students more likely to persist and actions we can take as a university to help students thrive at AU.”
Changes to the Board
The Board unanimously elected Gina Adams, current senior vice president of government and regulatory affairs for FedEx, as the next Board chair and Charles Lydecker, current chairman and CEO of foundation risk partners, as the next Board vice chair. The AU alumni will begin their two-year terms at the May 2023 meeting. 
The trustees elected Sally Amoruso to the board, and trustees Hani Farsi, Fernando Lewis Navarro, Lydecker and David Trone were reelected for three-year terms. Thomas Merrill, an associate professor in the School of Public Affairs was elected as the 2023-2025 faculty trustee. Jehane Djedjro, a junior in the School of International Service, was confirmed to complete her 2022-2023 student trustee term and re-elected as the 2023-2024 student trustee. 
The Board also approved changes to the bylaws, establishing a new Investment Committee which is now responsible for overseeing the endowment and investment of University funds. 
The Board meets again May 18 and 19 of this year. 
This article was edited by Abigail Pritchard, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks and Sarah Clayton.
tdavis@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University is planning massive renovations and facility changes over the next few years. 
The University stressed transparency and community involvement in three budget meetings hosted over the last month, which detailed its plans for the next three years.
Student Thriving Complex
The University is preparing for a facilities shuffle to accommodate the Student Thriving Complex, which is the largest upcoming project and the largest student-focused project in University history. The Complex will cost an estimated $89 million, which will go toward constructing new spaces and renovating old ones.
Construction for the Complex in the tunnel is already underway as the University renovates the space formerly occupied by a Capital One bank location. The Eagle’s Nest will move to the former Capital One space, which is currently not in use, and will be replaced by the campus bookstore. The Academic Support and Access Center will be relocated from Mary Graydon Center and will replace the bookstore. Construction in the tunnel began in October 2022 and is set to be completed in July 2023.
The second floor of MGC, using newly freed-up space, will house the Student Engagement Commons, which will include the Center for Community Engagement and Service, the Center for Diversity and Inclusion, the Office of New Student and Family Programs and the Center for Student Involvement.
Bronté Burleigh-Jones, AU’s chief financial officer and treasurer, ran two of the budget meetings.
“When the students come back for the January 2024 semester, all of our student support services will be in a centralized location,” Burleigh-Jones said. 
Construction in MGC will continue through February 2026 to complete the Student Well-Being Commons, which will be housed in the Student Thriving Complex.
The University is building a sound wall next to Jacobs Field to reduce the noise on neighboring properties. The wall, which was approved by the D.C. Zoning Commission in February 2023, is a project the University is required to complete before it may begin construction on other campus plan projects. The Jacobs sound wall is expected to be completed by the fall 2023 semester.
Construction on the new Meltzer Center for Athletic Performance and the new Sports Center Annex is likely to begin in 2024 and finish in 2026. The Meltzer Center will be behind Bender Arena and the current Sports Center Annex, next to Reeves Field. The first floor of the renovated Sports Center Annex will become part of the Complex and house the Center for Well-Being and Psychological Services, the Student Health Center and the Jacobs Fitness Center, according to Burleigh-Jones. It will be connected to the Meltzer Center through an enclosed bridge. The Meltzer Center will also include a 750-seat volleyball and wrestling arena with a sky box. 
Other campus projects
In addition to the construction in the tunnel, AU is making changes to the meal plan. They are refreshing Subway and Starbucks, and Panera and Qdoba locations will open next year. 
“We are making enhancements to the meal plan, and I don’t think we’ve made significant changes to the meal plan in over 20 years,” Burleigh-Jones said. “And so we are rolling those changes out for our students.”
Other campus projects include Sudama, a large rock sculpture gifted to the University by the National Geographic Museum, which was completed and formally dedicated on April 4. AU was also gifted a house on Nebraska Avenue, which is intended for the University president’s residence. It was renovated over the last year using funds acquired by selling a previous president’s house. The president expects to host events at the house, including graduation celebrations, by May 2023.  
Leonard Hall, which was last renovated in 2007, will be renovated over the summer and completed on August 15. Renovations include pod-style restrooms, which will be lockable, single-stall rooms with a toilet and shower. Students will still share sinks. McDowell Hall, last renovated in 2011, is also set for renovations in 2024.
After an alleged sexual assault took place in Leonard last fall, students demanded that the University address sexual violence on campus. Many students raised concerns that shower stalls in Leonard Hall do not have locks.
“[The renovation] does address the number of the concerns that our students had raised,” Burleigh-Jones said, “but you should know that was already in the works before we had the event on campus that caused the concerns.”
Year-end budget projections and plans for 2024
Burleigh-Jones said that the University projects a potential $9 million to $15 million operating deficit for the 2024 fiscal year. AU has a total operating budget of $854 million, and the expected shortfall is about two percent of the total operating budget.
This deficit is largely caused by lower enrollment than was projected. 92 percent of University revenue is student generated. During fall 2023, AU reached a new student enrollment goal for undergraduates but did not meet the enrollment goal for graduate students. Both the undergraduate and graduate classes also had lower retention rates than projected. Overall, the University acquired about $30 million less in revenue than expected.
The University plans to make up for lost revenue by the end of the fiscal year by saving on supplies and expenses, including significant savings on online programs, lower utility costs due to an abnormally warm winter and unfilled jobs.
Burleigh-Jones said that AU will continue to analyze how the budget shortfalls will affect students. She also stressed a community effort to reduce the budget deficit as much as possible and asked that people reduce their spending wherever possible without suspending programs.
“We say we share stewardship of the University’s resources. So it’s not a budget office thing — this is an AU thing that we all have to be mindful [of] as we go forward,” she said.
The University expects the cost of attendance to increase in the 2024 fiscal year. As a result, AU will also need to invest more in undergraduate financial aid. 
Space management
“For a very long time, how we’ve managed space on campus has kind of been like the wild, wild west,” Burleigh-Jones said.
To counter this, AU launched the Office of Space Planning and Management in January 2023 using existing budget resources. The Office conducted the University’s first comprehensive space audit and is planning a workplace pilot program.
The Office plans to consolidate offices in the Spring Valley Building used by the Office of Finance and Treasury and move them to the third floor of the New Mexico Avenue building. This will open up between 15,000 to 17,000 square feet of space in Spring Valley. If the pilot program goes well, the University may consider similar options for properties on Wisconsin Avenue and Connecticut Avenue.
The University owns property on the second and third floors of 3201 New Mexico Ave. University offices are currently on both of those floors. To more efficiently use the space, the Office plans to consolidate University offices and move them to the third floor and rent space on the second floor to gain lease revenue. 
“Based on the demand that we have for those spaces right now, we could generate up to an extra million dollars in leasing income annually,” said Burleigh-Jones.
This article was edited by Abigail Pritchard, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks, Sarah Clayton and Stella Guzik.
Correction: A previous version of this story said construction of the Center will begin in May and finish in 2024. The story has been updated to reflect that it is likely to start in 2024 and be completed in 2026.
nlachac@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
