American University announced the launch of searches for the vice president of student affairs and the vice president of undergraduate enrollment, President Sylvia Burwell wrote in an email to the AU community on Friday. 
This search comes after the Jan. 5 announcement that Fanta Aw, vice president of campus life, inclusive excellence and undergraduate enrollment will be departing AU in March. The University is using Aw’s departure as “an opportunity for continued improvement” and has sought feedback from those who work in those offices and use their services.  
The positions will be filled on an interim basis until the search is complete. Andrea Felder, the current vice provost of undergraduate enrollment will be interim vice president for undergraduate enrollment. Sarah Baldassaro, Burwell’s current chief of staff, will be interim vice president for student affairs and inclusive excellence. Andrew Toczydlowski will take over for Baldassaro as interim chief of staff and was the director of graduate student success and development. 
The three positions will be vice president of student affairs, vice president of undergraduate enrollment and vice president of inclusive excellence, Burwell said. Searches for the vice president of student affairs and the vice president of undergraduate enrollment will be launched immediately, according to Burwell’s email, and will be coordinated by Storbeck, a third party firm with higher education recruitment experience.
One of Aw’s current roles includes vice president of campus life. Burwell’s email did not specify plans for the Office of Campus Life, which Aw oversees. 
“We are working on additional details, including the position description, which will include community input,” wrote Matthew Bennett, vice president and chief communications officer at AU, in an email to The Eagle. “The VP of student affairs will lead the current campus life functions. Discussion with stakeholders about possible renaming will take place as we move through the process.” 
Representatives from the AU community will also participate in on-campus interviews with candidates selected to move forward in the process and Burwell said the intent is to have the two positions filled by the start of the next academic year. 
Burwell wrote the University is finalizing arrangements for the vice president of inclusive excellence and “will share more information in the future.” 
“I want to thank the teams in Campus Life, Undergraduate Enrollment, and Inclusive Excellence, as well as all the partners across campus who collaborate with these functions to support our community, for their help, dedication, and flexibility as we conduct the transition,” Burwell wrote. 
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available. 
This article was edited by Mackenzie Konjoyan and Jordan Young. Copyediting by Isabelle Kravis, Sarah Clayton and Luna Jinks.
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Sam Smith performing live in 2015 in Brussels, Belgium. 
Sam Smith performing live in 2015 in Brussels, Belgium. 
After months on end of “Unholy” filling our TikTok feeds, Sam Smith’s fourth studio album “Gloria” has arrived. 
Prior to the album coming out on Jan. 27, Smith was the musical guest on Saturday Night Live on Jan. 21, and shockingly brought out their contemporary and collaborator, Kim Petras, to perform their fabled song “Unholy.” This performance radiated the essence of what Smith had intended for “Gloria” — a work that has proven to counter expectations of the artist’s typical soulful style. Most people are familiar with the four-time Grammy winner, but on “Gloria,” Smith makes an unapologetic reintroduction.
Back on their third album, “Love Goes,” we were introduced to a version of Smith beginning to celebrate themself, since they had recently come out as nonbinary. With groovy tracks like “Dancing With a Stranger” featuring Normani, we came to know Smith’s newest artistic intentions. On “Gloria,” Smith embraces their queerness, and seems to prioritize having fun with production and writing. 
To begin, the album leads with “Love Me More,” immersing the listener into the ethos of this record. “Every day, I'm trying not to hate myself,” Smith sings softly, ending the first verse with, “Maybe I am learning how to love me more.” 
Smith’s voice and lyricism pop out as the most rhythmic and luring aspects of the entire album. More importantly, this track speaks to the specific difficulties of learning to love yourself as a queer person in the limelight, where relentless homophobia and hate can feel inescapable. 
“I’m becoming the artist of my dreams,” Smith said in an interview with Zane Lowe on Apple Music. Being queer in the music industry and public eye takes a toll emotionally, especially as a nonbinary person who pushes the bounds of gender expectations. From “In The Lonely Hour” to now, we’ve seen Smith come into their own, but as we know, it hasn’t been without tribulations. 
Even now, Smith has received backlash after releasing a music video for the disco-pop song, “I’m Not Here To Make Friends.” Throughout the video, Smith owns and displays performances of their sexuality, embracing their queerness through ostentatious fashion choices, among other things. Controversy sparked chiefly among conservative circles, claiming the video was oversexualized, while many analysts have determined these critiques to be homophobic.   
Although this album appears to be a celebration of Smith’s identity and newfound self, it does fail to excel in the artist’s typical levels of in-depth songwriting. “How To Cry” stands out as the track that reverts to Smith’s signature soul-bearing lyricism, yet it comes off as insincere placed next to “Unholy” on this record. Similarly, the title-track “Gloria” is a beautiful arrangement of religious church choir, yet it is sandwiched between “I’m Not Here To Make Friends” featuring Calvin Harris and Jessie Reyez, as well as a disappointingly cliche Ed Sheeran feature. Unfortunately, this track falls completely out of place, which is an absolute disservice as it’s the most spiritually composed ode to the constant struggle of achieving self love.
It’s impossible to look at this record and not talk about Reyez’s contribution to Smith’s full body of work. Reyez’ vocals are featured on three tracks, and Reyez has songwriting credits on “Gimme,”  which also features Koffee. On Smith’s first track featuring Reyez titled “Perfect,” a slow and low beat brings the audience to a self-acceptance anthem, highlighted by lines such as “I wear my flaws like jewelry.” Much like Smith, Reyez fuses rhythm and blues with other genres in her own music, which proves to be Smith’s symbolic choice bringing her on board this record. 
Even though “Unholy” stands out as the most famous song on this record, it still leaves something to be desired. Yet, the yearn for more from Smith means perhaps the artist will sink deeper, reflecting more on their next project. “Gloria” serves as Sam Smith’s scratch at the surface of understanding themself, which is not necessarily a bad thing. 
For now, “Gloria” is the artist's first real step into unapologetically loving themself, which is something to be applauded.
Edited by Sara Winick, Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copyediting by Isabelle Kravis and Stella Guzik. 
jennaschwartz@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With Valentine’s Day right around the corner, there has never been a better time to rediscover the best rom-coms the 21st century has to offer. From electric chemistry to iconic musical moments, these movies have it all. Whether you're watching with a significant other or close friends, these movies are sure to leave a smile on your face.
How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days (2003)
The eminently likable Kate Hudson and Matthew McConaughey star in this 2000s masterpiece, which recently got the seal of approval from Gen-Z TikTok audiences when it went viral in December. The initial setup is beyond improbable; Hudson’s Andie Anderson is a journalist in New York City tasked with making a guy break up with her in 10 days, while McConaughey’s Benjamin Barry (these are real names), has to make a girl fall in love with him over the same stretch of time. Cue devious scheming on both ends. Most significantly, Carly Simon's “You’re so Vain” provides the backdrop for one of rom-com history’s greatest musical moments as Hudson and McConaughey drunkenly duet the song together at a charity event. 
“How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days” is available to stream on Paramount+ now.
She’s the Man (2004)
Amanda Bynes is a national treasure and this is her magnum opus. “She’s the Man” reinterprets Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” for the MTV generation, and it does so with an ahead-of-its-time feminist angle. In order to prove a point about the sexism her public school’s women’s soccer team faces, Bynes’ Viola Hastings enrolls at Illyria, an elite boarding school, and joins the men’s soccer team disguised as her brother Sebastian. What ensues is a hilarious comedy of errors, made even more entertaining by the inclusion of Channing Tatum in his breakout role as Bynes’ love interest Duke. 
“She’s the Man” is available to rent on Amazon Prime now.
Twilight (2008)
Say what you want about the severely lacking chemistry between Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson, but with dialogue like “hold on tight, spider monkey” and “this is the skin of a killer, Bella,” “Twilight” is high camp. It is the ultimate guilty pleasure. For those looking to laugh away the pain of being single on Valentine’s Day, “Twilight” can’t be beat for sheer unintentional hilarity. It helps that the soundtrack is laced with the best alternative rock and pop punk the 2000s had to offer, including two different Paramore bangers. In addition to the other iconic scenes, there is also a baseball game played between vampires set to Muse's “Supermassive Black Hole.” Not to mention the iconic blue tint director Catherine Hardwicke put on every frame.
“Twilight” is available to stream on SHOWTIME now.
The Proposal (2009)
The first rom-com I ever watched remains my all time favorite, and my ultimate comfort movie. Ryan Reynolds has never been more charming than as Sandra Bullock’s long-suffering assistant in this 2000s gem. The narrative decision to uproot Bullock’s icy corporate boss from New York City to rural Alaska in a fake marriage scheme is what rom-com dreams are made of. Bonus points for Betty White, who gives a scene-stealing performance as Reynolds’ hilariously vulgar grandma.
“The Proposal” is available to stream on Hulu now.
Fire Island (2022)
“Bros” may have been the first gay rom-com to be produced by a major studio, but “Fire Island” is the best queer romance released last year. This modern take on Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice” stars Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang as best friends looking for love on the titular New York island. The movie tackles complex topics like anti-Asian racism, internalized homophobia and fatphobia with nuance and care for its subjects. It is also a heartwarming celebration of the love, acceptance and found family that comes with being a part of the LGBTQ+ community.
“Fire Island” is available to stream on Hulu now.
This article was edited by Bailey Hobbs, Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copyediting by Isabelle Kravis, Leva Amoui, Stella Guzik and Sophia Rocha
rgillis@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The new Call Your Mother on Connecticut Avenue on Friday, the first day it was open.

Popular D.C. bagel shop Call Your Mother opened a new location Feb. 3 on Connecticut Avenue near the Van Ness neighborhood. The local chain announced the new spot, which is less than two miles from American University, on Jan. 3, replacing Little Red Fox cafe. 
Located at 5035 Connecticut Ave., the new shop is within walking distance of AU. 
“It's a beautiful and historic space,” Nikki Rappaport, Call Your Mother’s chief strategy officer, told The Eagle. “But you'll find all of our signature menu items and design details, like our flower wall and phone wall.” 
Call Your Mother, a self-proclaimed “Jew-ish” deli, opened their first shop in fall of 2018 in Park View to owners Daniela Moreira and Andrew Dana. Since then, they have expanded to their current eight stores. The other locations are in Capitol Hill, Bethesda, Georgetown, North Bethesda, West End and Logan Circle. Moreira and Dana also plan to spread outside of the DMV and open two stores in Denver later this spring. 

Finishing touches were put on the building a few days before it opened.

Emma Miloglav, a junior in the School of Public Affairs, was hired to work at the new location. Last year, she visited the other locations with her friends frequently to get bagels and coffee and do homework. 
“The energy of Call Your Mother plus all the good experiences … made it seem like a great place to work,” she said. 
Miloglav’s favorite bagel is The Mountain View on a cheddar bagel with added bacon. 
Call Your Mother was dubbed a “Joe Biden-approved” establishment when he visited the Georgetown location in January 2021, making it his first restaurant visit as president. More recently, the president chose Jeff Zients, a founding investor in Call Your Mother, as his new chief of staff this January. 
Little Red Fox, a local cafe, closed in December after nine years. Owners Matt and Jena Carr posted a statement on Instagram announcing the news. Their sister store, Sugar Fox, also closed. They said the choice was a personal decision, not a business decision. “In order to address complicated health issues and prioritize the well being of our family, we’ve had to make the very difficult decision to close,” the post read. 
The Carrs are working on a cookbook in a comic book style with their Little Red Fox recipes and are planning to do a Kickstarter sometime in March. 
Matt Carr reached out to Call Your Mother directly when he was looking for someone to take over the space. 
“It was the perfect fit for them and us,” Rappaport said. 
Additionally, at least five cooks from Little Red Fox are now working at Call Your Mother. 
Olivia Jensen, a sophomore in the School of International Service, worked at Little Red Fox from August 2022 until its closing. “I’m still very close with some of my coworkers,” she said. “It was a lot of other students from AU who worked there … Other people in D.C. who are [of] similar age and just creating that community was really nice,” Jensen said. 
Matt Carr spoke with The Eagle about his favorite memories at Little Red Fox. “All the wonderful people that came through and spent so much time working for us and customers spending time in the shops,” he said. “We built a real amazing group of friends and family over our nine years, and that's something I will cherish forever.”
This article was edited by Gabe Castro-Root, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing by Isabelle Kravis, Sarah Clayton, Leta Lattin and Stella Guzik. 
ahatting@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
