Bridget Trogden will start as the dean of undergraduate education and academic student services on July 1, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Peter Starr announced in an email to the American University community Thursday. 
Trogden, previously an associate dean and professor in the department of engineering at Clemson University, will supersede Dean Jessica Waters, who announced her departure from the position in October 2022. Waters will remain at AU as a full-time faculty member in the School of Public Affairs. 
Trogden, who holds a PhD in chemistry from the University of Illinois, will also be a tenured professor in the School of Education.
In her time at Clemson University, Trogden oversaw efforts to implement a new curriculum with interdisciplinary and engaged learning to improve general education, according to the email. 
“A strong believer in the value of a holistic undergraduate experience, Dean Trogden has played a key role in leading curricular innovations in general education at Clemson,” Starr wrote in the email.
Trogden also led STEM efforts at Clemson and is a principal investigator on multiple grant-funded initiatives in STEM education. 
Before her time at Clemson, Trogden served as the director of Research that Reaches Out in the Office of the Provost at Mercer University. In this role, she “enhanced” retention rates and education through research that focused on local, national and global issues. Trogden also taught in Mercer University’s College of Liberal Arts, specializing in chemistry and the Honors Program. 
In the email, Starr thanked Waters for her work on AU’s core curriculum, first year advising, student wellness and more. Waters began as dean of undergraduate education and vice provost for academic student services in 2016. She earned both her B.A. and J.D. from AU. 
“I am deeply grateful to Jessica Waters for her extraordinary work as dean over the past seven years,” Starr wrote. “Throughout her tenure, she has been an instrumental part of the university’s efforts to enhance the student experience.”
This article was edited by Jordan Young and Abigail Pritchard. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Stella Guzik.
aturner@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
On this week’s episode of Beyond the Byline, host Lydia LoPiccolo sits down with the Eagle’s new editor-in-chief, Abigail Pritchard. They discuss her life as a student, her experiences in journalism, and her hopes for the future of the paper.

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
In the entirety of 2022, there were 647 mass shootings in the United States. In the first six weeks of 2023, there were 71. While shootings in K-12 schools have unfortunately been a relatively common occurrence, shootings at higher education institutions were far less frequent until a few months ago.
Since 1996, there have been 12 college shootings in which there were three or more fatalities. This school year, however, there have been two deadly mass shootings on college campuses thus far — first with the tragedy at the University of Virginia on Nov. 13, and again just a few months ago at Michigan State University on Feb. 13. These two incidents of gun violence raise concerns for students at American University, many of whom do not know what safety protocols are in place to prevent an incident like this.     
In the days following the MSU tragedy, I began hearing conversations across campus about what to do in the case of an armed assailant breaching University buildings. It was not until then that I realized I had virtually no understanding of what the University’s protocols or procedures are in the case of an emergency like this. In the wake of these horrific events, students, especially first-years, should have been promptly informed about AU’s safety protocols.  
Although I understand that in the case of an incident such as an active shooter there is no way to be perfectly prepared, AU’s “emergency preparedness” website merely provides students with a one paragraph description of a one-minute video by the Department of Homeland Security guiding students to “run, hide, fight.” Upon further research, an active shooter preparedness memo from over six years ago, as well as a security resource notification from October 2022 can be found.     
On March 16, the AU community received a memo from Phillip Morse, assistant vice president of University police services, reinforcing these safety plans. However, each of these resources simply restates the same information from a few videos or articles, none of which are AU-specific. The resources are certainly useful, but they are painfully insufficient. Additionally, these pieces of information have yet to be consistently relayed to the AU community or updated with new information.   
It is imperative the AU community is well-informed about emergency procedures in the hopefully unlikely event that tragedy strikes our campus. “It will never happen here” is an all too commonly used phrase given the habitual acts of gun violence perpetuated all across the country every day. Without compromising protocol, of course, it would benefit the University to reexamine its active shooter preparedness documents to include information addressing AU campus-specific details.     
The first sentence of the final paragraph of the “Active Shooter Preparedness” memo reads: “the biggest obstacle to safety and security is complacency.” I implore the University’s security officials and the administration to take their own advice and avoid complacency. By streamlining communication to students and the community as to what preventative systems are in place and making the necessary changes to current protocols, the University has power to act. Given the uptick in shootings on college campuses, AU must take action to alleviate students’ fears and ensure that everyone is, without question, aware of the security measures and protocols in the case of an active shooter.     
Alice Still is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and a columnist for The Eagle.
astill@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
The student governments in D.C., despite representing colleges with large student populations in political science and international studies, lack substantial policy action. American University, George Washington University and Georgetown University have all faced recent calls to abolish their student governments. These calls are warranted by this lack of policy action and unmet goals of “integrity, professionalism, and transparency,” as well as failure to “advocate, allocate, advertise, and assist,” in undergraduate needs. Although change is necessary, organized student leadership should not be completely abolished, as it would lead to increased administrative control. As they stand, D.C.’s student governments may leave dangerous power vacuums and disorder in higher education.     
An analysis of the student governments’ shortcomings may be more beneficial than complete abolition; however, D.C.’s student governments have done little to persuade undergraduates against abolition. The AU Student Government specifically lacks transparency. SG leaves students in the dark, as it has not formally updated its policy reports listed on its website since 2020.     
The available policies proposed by SG contradict the changes that have been made at AU. In one instance, SG presented The Affordability Roadmap: Concrete Steps for a More Affordable AU, only for AU’s tuition to increase in the years since. Although SG alone can’t change tuition costs or administrative policies, when their proposals directly contradict university actions, it shows SG’s inability to advocate for students. In falling short of the primary goal of advocacy, mistrust rightfully builds among the student body but breezes past the possibility of analysis.  
Effective student governance not only requires analysis but collaboration from administration. Currently, AU makes little room for student voices. Without administrative cooperation, little can be achieved. Struggles within SG are also a prominent issue in effective student governance, as observed by repeated speaker elections and a dissent on the misuse of power and ethics from the Judicial Board. The lack of available policy reports and consensus hinder the prioritization of undergraduate issues, but the policy that is developed is still halted by administrative barriers. Both SG affairs and administration then leave these patterns of dysfunction without a resolution. SG creates barriers to undergraduate advocacy by providing minimal policy information, yet as it cannot enact policy changes itself, administration must be more open to student voices.  
Power struggles within the George Washington University Student Association are clear as well, most notably between the SA’s president, Christian Zidouemba, and his cabinet members. Zidouemba was recently tried in the SA student court by a cabinet member, who attempted to declare his presidency illegitimate. In response to campus frustration, a student court representative said, “Don’t hate the player, hate the game,” as reported by Washingtonian Magazine. Although a common phrase, this mindset has no place in student governments, as it deflects responsibility and facilitates the abuse of procedure.     
Members of student governments have the privilege to change “the game” more than any other student group on college campuses. Moreover, there is little excuse for their complaints without accompanied action. Suggesting undergraduates “hate the game” is a misuse of an office position and facilitates the drama that leads news outlets to pick up student government stories.  
Other members of GW’s SA and undergraduates at the university seem to blame its own governing documents for creating conflict and disorganization. This provides little support for future use of these procedures. While SA has now developed a committee for the improvement of its governing documents, this must be in conjunction with an evaluation and adherence to its priorities. Organized student leadership should still be put in place to prevent greater administrative discretion, but this does not endorse the continued use of faulty foundations. Leadership in student government can and should take accountability while acknowledging errors in the system, instead of continuing to operate on the same foundations that lead to government and public unrest.     
The Georgetown University Student Association recently attempted to reevaluate its priorities and abolish its government. However, the reform fell short of the necessary 25 percent voter turnout needed for the constitutional referendum. As Georgetown’s SA strayed from student priorities and was instead used to build resumes, undergraduate belief in action dwindled. This resulted in inaction, even in abolishing the root of on-campus dysfunction. Now, the university’s high concentration of passionate government and foreign service majors refrain from taking part in the system they are affiliated with, instead of working to improve it.    
Lack of participation in elections, especially at a university known for its political prestige, is cause for significant concern. This low turnout also occurs at AU, with only 10 percent of students voting in the fall 2022 election. This reflects a larger distrust in political institutions, as only 27 percent of youth in the United States cast a ballot in 2022. Although considered high for youth voters, undergraduates and student governments can work on these voting issues on a smaller scale to build institutions that work for its people and push for accessibility. University administrations, however, must make substantial room for student voices for student governments to function.     
All three student governments reflect that attempting to implement the same systems we see play out in D.C. and in our country are ineffective and perhaps dooming. The lack of transparency and professionalism present at all three schools go hand in hand with this and result in public distrust. These issues are often systemic, like that of voter turnout, but the analysis of such dysfunction with collaboration and movement away from current governing documents can create change on our smaller scales. Although these changes certainly take time, administration, undergraduates and especially student government leaders should examine policies for improved efficiency and cooperation, instead of playing by a system that only works on a resume. At higher institutions with political focus, we must use our privilege to improve our governance.    
Rebeca Samano is a sophomore in the School of Public Affairs and a staff columnist for The Eagle.  
rsamano@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Este semestre, American University abrió un nuevo restaurante en East Campus. Durante el día, Freshens ofrece ensaladas, batidos de frutas y panes planos a la parrilla, entre otras opciones. A las 9 p.m., CraveTown, una nueva opción para cenar por la noche, toma el control. 
Como alguien que se estaba cansando de las pocas opciones ofrecidas aquí en el campus, yo estaba emocionada de ver el nuevo menú. En las opciones proveídas en el menú, CraveTown esta categorizado como cocina mexicana y americana, así que me intrigó ver qué comida de estilo mexicana tenían para ofrecer.     
Después de ver el menú, no fui impresionada por la comida de “estilo mexicana” que se ofrecía. Además, me sorprendieron algunos de los nombres de las opciones de comida. Por ejemplo, el tazón de arroz titulado “mexicano” tiene frijoles negros, salsa, ranch de chipotle y arroz blanco. Esta es una visión demasiado generalizada y estereotipada de la comida mexicana. Al ver estas opciones, no me sorprendió ver la otra opción que también tenían. Todas eran las mismas opciones de comida que he visto en los restaurantes de comidas rápidas.  
Sin embargo, la opción el “On The Border Crunchadilla”, dejó a mis amigos y a mí en un silencio conmocionado. Al principio, pensamos que habíamos leído mal el título, pero allí estaba escrito en blanco y negro. ¿Por qué un plato tiene que llevar el nombre de la frontera? A diferencia de las otras opciones que se sirven en CraveTown y Freshens como el “Nashville Hot”, que tiene coleslaw y salsa picante de Nashville o “Chicken Avocado Crunchadilla”, que tiene, lo adivinaste, pollo y aguacate, la crunchadilla “On the Border”, no da ninguna indicación de lo que hay en el plato. Simplemente tiene un término audaz y potencialmente ofensivo para cualquier estudiante que haya lidiado con problemas de migración en el pasado.   
¿Por qué asociamos uno de los únicos alimentos Latinos en el menú con la frontera? ¿Y cuál es la necesidad de hacer esa comparación?     
Descubrí que Freshens no es exclusivo en el campus de AU, también está ubicado en aeropuertos y campus es de todo los Estados Unidos. A pesar de que AU no puede cambiar el menú, pueden decidir si tener un menú que sirve alimentos con nombres ofensivos a sus estudiantes. Sin embargo, incluso con los platos que AU puede controlar, el personal del comedor sigue encontrando la manera de bautizar los platos con nombres culturalmente insensibles. Por ejemplo, el Terrace Dining Room sirvió un plato llamado “Buddha's Delight”, que es un salteado vegano. Incluso cuando la universidad puede elegir los nombres de lo que está en el menú, todavía eligen poner algo que es culturalmente insensible.   
AU no es la única universidad que muestra controversias en sus elecciones alimenticias. La Universidad de Nueva York intentó (y fracasó) hacer un menú para Black History Month. El menú ofrecía una sección de bebidas que incluían “Kool-aid” y “watermelon-flavored water”. Las bebidas fueron retiradas inmediatamente tras la reacción de los estudiantes.   
Entonces, ¿se debería perder toda la esperanza? No necesariamente.    
Mientras los servicios de comedor de AU carecen de sensibilidad cultural, el Bridge Café es capaz de apreciar las culturas de la comunidad de AU. Realizaron un evento llamado “Un Semestre Sin Ti”, una semana de bebidas especiales para celebrar Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Para celebrar a la población estudiantil Latino, The Bridge Café hizo un menú de bebidas inspirado en el nuevo álbum de Bad Bunny titulado “Un Verano Sin Ti”. Las bebidas tenían nombres creativos que hacían referencia a los títulos de las canciones. The Bridge pudo crear un menú de bebidas único que no tenía nombres ofensivos o políticamente cargados. Además, cada una de las bebidas giraban en torno a la cocina tradicional latino, como tres leches, horchata, agua fresca, etc.     
Los alimentos culturales deben ser respetados y representados de manera justa o por lo menos, sin llevar el nombre de algo tan politizado como la frontera. Es triste que American University tenga dificultades encontrando formas apropiadas de incorporar diferentes culturas en las comidas que se sirven aquí en el campus. 
pcraig@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Trás las manifestaciones democráticas en Brasil y Perú, el fundador y CEO de Profs and Pints, Peter Schmidt, decidió invitar a Fulton Armstrong, un profesor adjunto en el Center for Latin American & Latino Studies de la School of International Service en American University, para que de una presentación.     
Armstrong ha trabajado para el gobierno americano por muchos años como investigador y analista político, enfocándose primariamente en temas latinoamericanos. Al iniciar su presentación, Armstrong dejó claro que esto no era una clase ni una conferencia, era un “briefing” de las situaciones en los dos países.     
“Sus síntomas, sus crisis actuales son síntomas simplemente de un fenómeno muy arraigado”, dijo Armstrong. “Pero [los dos países] tienen bastante en común con estos impulsores subyacentes, diferencias históricas, sociales y étnicas, incluso si no tienen la misma estructura y desafíos económicos”.     
Los temas que destacaron en su sesión informativa fueron los ataques recientes a la democracia, la inestabilidad política en latinoamérica y los problemas latentes que causan estas crisis y sus posibles soluciones.     
Armstrong se basó en los bruscos cambios de poder político en países latinoamericanos y se enfocó en las llegadas a poder de Jair Bolsonaro y Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva en Brazil y Pedro Castillo y Dina Boluarte en Peru.     
“Las manifestaciones no son solo atreverse a enfrentar los escudos de la policía, son gente modesta, indígenas que son políticamente activas”, dijo Armstrong sobre Perú. Continúo diciendo que las manifestaciones eran una parte del ejercicio de poder democrático en esta región, sin embargo, culpó a otras causas del aumento de manifestaciones e inestabilidad política en la región, tomando como ejemplo la invasión del Palácio do Planalto el 8 de enero en Brasilia.     
“Las causas fundamentales son en general los problemas internacionales no resueltos del pasado, corrupción de élites y gobiernos, desigualdad económica, choques externos en el comercio y la pandemia y liderazgo hemisférico”, decía su presentación.    
Elaboró más sobre el tema de liderazgo e inestabilidad gubernamental diciendo que es a causa tanto de los líderes como de los mismos partidos políticos que hayan habido tan fuertes cambios de poder y dio como una solución la mejora de instituciones gubernamentales y privadas.     
“Cuando sucede eso, entonces tienes estos cambios enormes, es como si el país no tuviera raíces”, dijo Armstrong. “Mientras que si tienes instituciones fuertes fuera del gobierno, así como de la sociedad civil, los medios, las raíces pueden crecer, y evitan que los cambios sean demasiado drásticos, demasiado radicales”.     
Armstrong dió su análisis de qué puede hacer los Estados Unidos para apoyar la crisis en latinoamérica. “Creo que lo primero que podemos hacer es mejorar la democracia y mejorar nuestra propia democracia para demostrar su eficiencia, demostrar su adaptabilidad”, dijo Armstrong en una entrevista para El Águila.     
Recalcó que en años recientes, especialmente con el asunto de Donald Trump y las elecciones del 2020 en Estados Unidos, el sistema democrático en todo América ha sido atacado. 
“En lo que nos hemos convertido ahora es algo así como lo que yo llamo la posición latinoamericana de la política, y es que nos hemos ido hacia el personalismo, nos hemos ido hacia la deslegitimación de puntos de vista opuestos”, dijo Armstrong.  
Su solución es buscar la manera de restaurar el sistema democrático en Estados Unidos para dar el ejemplo a latinoamérica y además brindar más apoyo a la región, dado a que, según él, los Estado Unidos es un país latinoaméricano por su alta población Latina y su ubicación geográfica. Pero, aún hay problemas en recaudar interés por la región en el gobierno y en las universidades.     
“No creo que la imagen de América Latina, la hermosa cultura y los aspectos únicos de su cultura, reciban suficiente atención entre los especialistas en política exterior y de América Latina en general”, dijo Armstrong. Él alude esto a una burbuja y cómo él piensa que salir y visitar Latinoamérica y realmente envolverse en la cultura es una aventura en sí misma. 
“Ir y ponerse en lugares fuera de su zona de confort es un desafío”, añade Armstrong. “Es incómodo, pero es enriquecedor. Es lo que realmente hace que algo como América Latina sea muy divertido”.     
Sobre la presentación hubo mucho que decir y apreciar, y Schmidt, el organizador de esta y muchas otras presentaciones en D.C., reconoce la importancia de brindar sesiones informativas a estudiantes y académicos en esta ciudad.     
“Solo trato de informar a las personas para que se comprometan a tomar decisiones políticas sabias y, ya sabes, D.C. es una ciudad donde se está haciendo política”, dijo Schmidt en una entrevista para El Águila. “Entonces, si he estado poniendo ideas e información importante en el éter aquí estoy feliz de hacerlo”. 
abehar@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Pitches Be Trippin’ celebrated its 10-year anniversary with a concert in the Kay Spiritual Life Center on Saturday that included new arrangements and blasts from the past. The group performed a mix of well-known pop songs and emotional bangers that generated standing ovations. 
Pitches be Trippin’ was founded in 2013 by American University students to establish a community for upper-voice singers of all music styles.
“I’m so thrilled that we have this chance to honor all the pitches who came beforehand,” Elizabeth Napier, Pitches be Trippin’s music director and a senior in the School of Communication, said. “This is a celebration of everything Pitches has been and everything it will be.” 
Helena Chaves, the manager of Pitches be Trippin’ and a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences and School of Public Affairs, said the group has been preparing for the anniversary for the past year. 
“It’s been a really long process to make it what it was today,” Chaves said. “I’m really proud of the finished product.” 
Preparations for the concert included trying different members for different parts to highlight everyone’s talents, according to Napier, who conducted the members throughout the performance. 
Besides establishing a community for singers, the group's founders also wanted to assist and uplift the voices of marginalized communities through community service. 
The 10-year anniversary concert doubled as a fundraiser for the non-profit organization Task Force Nyx. Task Force Nyx is an organization that helps Afghan women who are writers, journalists, artists and activists achieve “access to dignified third-country resettlement and asylum.”
“It’s a wonderful organization and they are really looking for donors to make sure their organization stays afloat,” Chavez said. 
The concert kicked off with a powerful performance from Chaves, who belted Back to Black by Amy Winehouse. Pitches Be Trippin’ originally performed the song in 2017, but for this concert, Chaves made some fresh rearrangements. 
“I really wanted the song to be on the setlist because Amy Winehouse is the whole reason why I sing,” Chaves said before the performance. “So it’s so incredibly amazing I get to sing her for my final concert.” 
Jocelyn Quinan, a freshman in SPA, performed the song “Pray” by Sam Smith for the first time Saturday, despite the fact that former Pitches be Trippin’ member Nadia Nugent originally arranged it in 2020.
Quinan’s rendition of the song elicited cheers from the audience when they hit the high notes during the chorus. 
Both Chavez and Napier said it feels “bittersweet” to have performed their last concert at AU. The performance closed out with all four Pitches Be Trippin’ seniors singing main vocals for “You Gotta Be” by Des’ree while holding hands. 
Every Pitches Be Trippin’ senior has performed the song at their last concert since 2014. 
“It’s an honor to be up here with all my friends to sing this song one last time,” Chaves said. 
This article was edited by Sara Winnick, Kylie Bill and Abigail Pritchard. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis.
Correction: a previous version of this story misspelled Jocelyn Quinan's last name as Quinn. The story was updated to include the correct spelling.
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
