American University’s commencement speakers this spring will include high-profile figures with ties to the D.C. region including Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson and former Maryland governor Larry Hogan. 
According to a University press release, the speakers include Jackson, Hogan, the owner of the Washington Wizards, Washington Capitals and Washington Mystics Ted Leonsis, Chief Executive Officer of Millennial Challenge Corporation Alice P. Albright, Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Nasdaq Adena T. Friedman and Artistic Director of the Washington Ballet Julie Kent. 
The speakers will address 3,400 graduates at ceremonies in Bender Arena, which will also be streamed live, according to the press release. Jackson will address the graduates of the Washington College of Law at their May 20 ceremony. Jackson, an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, is the first Black woman to serve on the Court. 
Leonsis will speak at the School of Communication and School of Education ceremony on May 12 at 10:30 a.m. He is the founder, chair, principal partner and chief executive officer of Monumental Sports & Entertainment and owns several D.C.-area professional sports teams. 
Albright, who has also previously worked as executive vice president and chief operating officer of the Export-Import Bank of the United States and chief financial and investment officer for the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations, will speak at the School of International Service ceremony on May 12 at 3 p.m.
Friedman, chair and CEO of Nasdaq, will speak at the ceremony for the Kogod School of Business and the School of Professional and Extended Studies on May 13 at 3 p.m.
Former Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan will address the School of Public Affairs on Saturday, May 13 at 1:30 p.m. Hogan served two terms as governor and was only the second Republican governor in Maryland history to win reelection. 
The College of Arts and Sciences will be addressed by Julie Kent, the artistic director of the Washington Ballet on May 13 at 6 p.m.
This year’s commencement ceremonies mark the 60th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy’s address to AU graduates in June 1963, where he called for a nuclear disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union. 
“Only at American University do six changemakers of this caliber come together to celebrate our
graduates and charge them to continue their pursuit of the change our world needs,” wrote AU
President Sylvia Burwell in the press release. “Our commencement speakers set examples for us all through their lives and experiences, and they will provide an inspiring conclusion for our Class of ’23 Eagles.”
This article was edited by Jordan Young. Copyediting done by Isabelle Kravis.
Correction: A previous version of this story misspelled Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson's name as "Kentaji." The story has been updated with the correct spelling. 
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
the basis of “Recovery” — recovering from loss and moving forward as a stronger person.  
The 23 year-old rapper gained attention in 2018 for shooting hit music videos in his Savannah, Georgia neighborhood. The videos for “ABG” and “Scarred From Love” both have millions of views on YouTube, and 2021’s “Still Taking Risks” and 2020’s “QPac” are some notable projects by him. Quando even had a collaboration with YoungBoy Never Broke Again, his close friend and labelmate. 
Quando’s distinctly raspy voice and soulful melodies are his trademarks. Whether it’s slow guitar, or a booming Louisiana rap beat, listeners can feel the emotion in Quando’s voice throughout his work. Quando’s heartfelt singing and quick flow switches make him one of the more versatile rappers of today.  
In “Recovery,” Quando is at his best when he’s rapping and singing on happy gospel inspired piano beats like the one in “R.I.P. Phat Phat.” The song is a tribute to Phat Phat, another fallen friend, and it begins with Quando harmonizing to the soft piano intro. In the first verse he sings; “Why I'm so attracted? Can you be my best friend? / Nah, like lil shorty for real. / Ain't been the same inside my mind since lil somebody got killed.” 
Quando then jubilantly jumps into the rest of the song as the beat rapidly picks up and drums come in. Throughout this track, Quando acknowledges the toll that Phat Phat and Pab’s deaths had on him, but also highlights the good in his life, rapping extensively about the fruits of his labor like “stainless steel audemars” and “lamb trucks.” 
He also jumps on another gospel piano beat with his song “Vision,” and the two-minute track is a triumphant anthem about his success. The happily braggadocious hook is accompanied by lyrics about Quando's past life and his current state of mind;  “Hurricane round my rollie. / No wonder, I'm ignoring all this pain, I ain't sober. / Yеah, serving caine with that toaster.” Despite the exultant energy of the song, Quando shows some more vulnerability with his signature mix of rapping and singing. “Blame” and “Lost Ones” are other songs on “Recovery” with similar gospel piano sounds. 
Quando also sings on some guitar-led beats with mixed results throughout. “Me First” has a relaxed guitar chord progression, but Quando's singing feels awkward, and his cadence sounds amateurish. In “Cut You Off”, Quando finds himself on a soul beat that Omarion or Chris Brown might hop on. The slow tempo has a nice electric guitar riff in the background, but it’s one of the only standout parts of the song. Quando does in fact make a soul song, but the lyrics and singing lack originality — with the romantic lines sounding like ones you could find in any song; “When we beefing, I'ma cuss you out. / All around the world, I’m still at your house. / Cause I can't find a way to cut you off.” 
The album has plenty of bright spots with reflective and story filled songs like “50” and “Long Live Pabb” as well. The only issue is that Quando's willingness to test unconventional flows and melodies sometimes don’t work out. “Where Would I Be” has a hook that’s particularly hard to listen to, as it simply consists of Quando singing “In the grave,” repeatedly. 
Arguably, the best song on the album is “Speeding.” The slow piano beat and Quando’s impassioned hook gives the song a pensive tone, and the lyrics truly feel heartfelt. Throughout the track, Quando sings deep lyrics like; “Wrong or right, you know I'm riding, that's what left me sеasick. / I could never leave my brother, that's just on some G shit. / Ain't been the same since big bro Pablo left us all on defense.” Quando is true to himself in this song, no R&B attempts or strained vocal inflections. 
Quando makes some questionable decisions on the way he uses his voice, but he’s ultimately able to shine throughout “Recovery” with his piano beats, signature lyrics and flows. Most importantly, Quando’s ability to keep Pab’s name alive with this project. 

Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Robert Kramer, a professor at George Washington University, filed a complaint with the Copyright Claims Board (CCB) against American University for plagiarism and copyright infringement. 
The complaint, which was filed Feb. 28 with the Copyright Claims Board, alleges that the University plagiarized Kramer’s paper, “From Skillset to Mindset: A New Paradigm for Leader Development” which was published in 2016 and copyrighted in 2017. According to the abstract, the document details “a new paradigm for how leaders should be trained and developed.”
The Copyright Claims Board is, “available to resolve copyright disputes of a relatively low economic value as an efficient, less expensive alternative to federal court,” according to its website.
Kramer claims a portion of the paper from page 41 was used for the AU’s website on Action Learning for Federal Agencies certificate program. 
Kramer wrote under days four through five of his curriculum, “By the end of day five, the teams have engaged in the necessary steps to fully implement the transformative action learning model and have developed a plan for implementation over the next 4–6 months.”
On the ALFA website, it says under days four through five, “By the end of day five, the Action Learning teams have engaged in the necessary steps to fully implement the Action Learning model and have developed a plan for implementation over the next 4-6 months.”
Kramer is seeking $30,000 in damages for “relief for his losses,” which is the maximum amount a complaint filed with the CCB can request.. According to the complaint, he is “unable to market [his] leader development program to Federal agencies in Washington DC because American University uses its weight and imprimatur to market its own program, based almost entirely on [his] copyrighted article.”
Previously, Kramer filed a complaint against AU professor Robert Tobias due to his being listed as the creator of the ALFA program, but he has since dropped this complaint after the CCB dismissed it. Kramer also said that he and Tobias are good friends. Kramer offered to help Tobias create a program similar to ALFA, but they were unable to agree on a salary and the program was not pursued, Kramer said.
Kramer emphasized that he has “no desire to harm the [University’s] reputation.” In the past, Kramer worked and “was very happy” at AU, winning awards for his teaching in the School of Public Affairs and for programs he developed for the University. 
Although Kramer has already reached out to news organizations such as The Washington Post, he says that he would be willing to settle the dispute quietly outside of the public eye, so long as he receives proper compensation.
“I don’t even care if they don’t take it off their website,” Kramer said. “I have no objection to that, I simply want to be compensated.” 
Following Kramer’s complaint for copyright infringement, the CCB will now determine whether or not the claim is reasonable. If found reasonable, AU will have a chance to respond and choose to either follow through with the CCB or waive the process and force the case to district court. 
Kramer said he is willing to settle the dispute in district court, although he would prefer not to. He says he does not “need an apology,” just the money he believes he is owed. 
“It’s a matter of principle,” Kramer said. “No author will tolerate a university plagiarizing from their work. It’s simply the worst possible, the most grievous, academic sin.” 
Kramer added that the University contradicts itself: holding students to high plagiarism standards without holding itself accountable.
“I can not emphasize enough how serious a charge of plagiarism is in an academic community,” Kramer said. “That’s why it was deeply painful for me to see my own work on the AU website.”
“Our general counsel is said to have been mentioned in another complaint, but as of [April 3], she has not been served with any formal complaint by the CCB,” said University spokesperson Jasmine Pelaez in a statement to The Eagle. 
This article was edited by Abigail Pritchard, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks and Stella Guzik.
Correction: A previous version of this article categorized the complaint as a lawsuit and wrote that Kramer was “suing” American University. The language has since been updated to reflect the nature of the complaint. This article has also been updated to better reflect the purpose of the CCB. A previous version of this article also said Kramer had “[found] no evidence against Tobias.” The article now reads that the CCB dismissed the complaint. 
tdavis@theeagleonline.com and sskolnick@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Recently, my friend was updating me on a protest movement at Connecticut College, where she goes to school. To learn more, I turned to the best source: its student media organization, The College Voice. It’s the same thing I did when I was learning about the recent anti-sexual violence movement at Harvard University and the local anti-racist movement at Georgetown University. I texted The College Voice’s managing editor, praising her for its thorough and student-centered coverage. I understand covering these issues can be difficult and complicated, mostly because I’ve made American University’s student journalists’ lives difficult and complicated. 
I led the student walkout against sexual violence and administrative inaction in November, I wrote the demands that over 1,400 community members signed and I’ve continued to drive student organizing against sexual violence on AU’s campus. 
None of this was done alone; I had incredible co-organizers for the walkout, demands, subsequent events and our recent protest outside the Community Working Group meeting. There is another important piece of this: student journalism. Prior to the walkout, we sent a media advisory to multiple local reporters and stations. Very few responded, with the only national coverage being written by a former student reporter, Finley Muratova, for The Nation. Most of the coverage has been done by on-campus outlets like The Eagle, the American Agora, AWOL, The Rival and HerCampus.
Publications like The Eagle have spent more time than the administration focusing on sexual violence and meeting with organizers to understand the scope of the issue. I know this because I’ve spent more time speaking with student journalists, sometimes giving interviews, other times giving advice or offering context to complicated issues, than I have with administrators. They’re also significantly more dedicated to improving and learning. When my friend Faith Ferber was organizing at AU, she had a contentious relationship with The Eagle. She said she felt as though The Eagle let administration get away with the institutionalized victim blaming we still see today, with no critical examination of the University’s statements, leading to stories perpetuating or uplifting victim blaming and rape culture. Since then, The Eagle has put in a concerted effort to ensure all coverage of survivor issues is thoughtful and well-written. I’ve proudly introduced journalists to Ferber, never once thinking they’ll hurt her the way some did previously. The administration hasn’t changed at all, despite their assertions otherwise. 
Student journalists who have covered protests or events I’ve hosted have been respectful of boundaries, the subject matter and our time. They understand the sometimes chaotic life of a student — the random 20-minute break between classes and the unique stress students face — because they are students. Administrators treat us like we’re either children or enemies of the state, simultaneously talking down to us while also accusing us of being vigilantes or tearing down and destroying the University community.
“Students know what students need” is something I’ve found myself repeating over and over in meetings with administration when I’m begging for them to just listen. In student journalism, students know how to represent students’ voices better than any outside organization. They’re able to connect with the subject matter more, have access to other students and generally understand the campus idiosyncrasies in ways that would be near impossible to explain to an outsider. It’s hard to make a Wonk Cat joke to a Washington Post reporter, but someone from The Eagle will understand exactly what I mean.
For another measure of how seriously student journalists are taking this, look no further than The Rival. The campus’ most famous satire outlet prides itself on making fun of the strangest parts of our community — of which there are plenty — but it has emphasized taking sexual violence seriously. It has vocally and outwardly supported our demands and protests, as their lack of affiliation with the University gives them free will to do as they please. 
The Eagle has also endorsed the demands in a staff editorial and published other editorials that show the paper’s support for the movement and covered every protest or event we’ve had. As an organizer, I value the relationships I’ve built with student journalists. I’m able to give them a heads-up prior to events so they can plan their coverage, I make myself available for interviews and I make sure they’re prepared for what the event will look like. 
This is not to say that The Eagle is perfect. There are recent times in which it has harmed marginalized communities, especially students of color, and I do not speak for those impacted. Nobody gets it right all the time, and The Eagle is no different. There's still room to grow, for all of us. I can only speak to my experience and how The Eagle has attempted to cover sexual violence respectfully.
There’s a level of mutual respect because we are, in many ways, the same. Student journalists are mistreated by the administration just as students are mistreated by the administration, and student journalists are subject to the same oppressive systems at the University as the rest of us.
So, to student journalists: thank you for your dedication and care. To organizers: get to know your student journalists, they’ll be important to your success.
Lillian Frame is a senior in the School of Public Affairs.
This article was edited by Jelinda Montes, Alexis Bernstein and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Natasha LaChac and Sarah Clayton.
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
