American University announced new COVID-19 protocols that, starting May 11, will put an end to COVID-19 vaccine requirements and PCR test distribution, according to a Tuesday email to the community.
COVID-19 vaccines and boosters will still be strongly recommended for all community members and guests, including May Commencement attendees. Rapid tests can be picked up on Main Campus, at the Washington College of Law, Spring Valley Building and the 4401 Connecticut Ave. building, but the PCR vending machines used during the 2022-2023 academic year will be discontinued.
“We will continue to use the latest information and conditions to inform our decisions,” said Fanta Aw, the vice president of undergraduate enrollment, campus life, and inclusive excellence and Sarah Baldassaro, the interim vice president of student affairs and inclusive excellence in an email sent to the AU community on March 7. “Our approach moving forward is to support community health and safety within the context of the overall public health situation, advance good health choices and behavior by our community members, and recognize that individual response elements will continue to change.”
The email comes after President Joe Biden’s announcement that the public health emergency declared for the coronavirus pandemic will end on May 11. D.C. is currently experiencing moderate COVID-19 transmission with 210 cases recorded last week, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
According to the email, the self-report form for coronavirus cases will still be active for community members in order to get a letter from the Dean of Students to share with professors or enable Human Resources to notify the appropriate supervisors.
With the exception of the Student Health Center, Center for Well-Being Programs and Psychological Services and the Academic Support and Access Center, masks will continue to be optional. The University will continue distributing masks at the Mary Graydon Center information desk, the AU Welcome Center in the Katzen Arts Center for prospective families, the Spring Valley Building, the WCL Warren Reception Desk and the first floor reception desk at the 4401 Connecticut Ave. building. 
The announcement elaborated, “If a member of our community asks others to mask when in close contact with one another, please treat these requests with respect and give them full consideration,” and that “Anyone who tests positive for COVID should wear a mask when in public or in proximity to others.”
Isolation protocols will continue to require positive community members living on campus to isolate in their own residences, allowing them to leave to obtain food or supplies, seek medical care or other necessary activities. 
“Beginning in May, university staff will no longer proactively reach out to individuals who test positive,” the email said.
For community members who are immunocompromised, the University suggested steps they should take to protect themselves amid the new protocols. 
“The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends immunocompromised individuals consult with their physician, adopt a regular booster/vaccine regimen, and wear masks,” the email said. “We also have processes for requesting reasonable accommodations for students and for faculty and staff.”
The University said that all community members should wash their hands, stay home if they are sick and get tested if they have been exposed or are symptomatic.
This article was edited by Abigail Turner and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis.
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available.
jyoung@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Editor's note: This story contains references to sexual assault.
In the months following the disturbing break-in and alleged sexual assault in Leonard Hall, student organizers have continued their robust efforts to reassess how American University can prevent sexual violence on campus. The Community Working Group on Preventing and Responding to Sexual Harassment and Violence, established by President Sylvia Burwell and the AU administration, is designed as a space for roundtable dialogue with students, faculty, sexual assault prevention organizations, the AU Police Department, and others regarding sexual misconduct on campus. Members of the Office of Equity and Title IX have noticeably been absent at each of the four meetings. However, in its infrequent meetings thus far, it continues to have a disproportionate makeup between students and faculty, with significantly more faculty and staff members than students in attendance. Student advocates and AU’s chapter of It’s On Us, an organization dedicated to sexual assault prevention and education, have recognized this and have taken it upon themselves to ensure that more students are heard with a people’s working group. 
The Community Working Group is a step in the right direction. It is a clear effort from AU to hear concerns and relay recommendations for solutions to senior leadership. Unfortunately, the low student turnout greatly taints the quality of the work being done. Lillian Frame, a senior at AU and student organizer and survivor advocate, told me that “there are a max of seven students at the working group.” 
There are a myriad of issues that may be causing this low turnout, the first being that students do not have the information accessible to them to be able to attend the working group. As I scoured my email, social media and the internet, I could not find any information for where or what dates and times the meetings are held, only a link to enter your email to demonstrate interest in the group. More than three weeks after emailing, I have yet to receive a response. 
This presents a grave accessibility problem — students cannot attend a meeting when they do not know when it is happening. It perfectly illustrates where this issue, which is so important to students, ranks on the administration’s priority list. AU has a responsibility to properly inform students of the Community Working Group. Otherwise, the concept behind it is lost. While the outrage has simmered down since November, when the student-led walkout occurred, the work for organizers has not stopped, nor has the fear for students. 
I attended the student-run people’s working group on Jan. 24, and I was met with a group of individuals who deeply cared about getting students’ voices heard by the administration and faculty. Students in attendance wrote responses to different questions like “what works for survivors on campus?” and “what does not work for survivors on campus?” The responses were vast and should be listened to and addressed through not just an email, but by action. 
The people’s working group also wrote love letters to survivors in light of Valentine’s Day approaching. While communicating our concerns and demands is certainly vital in this ongoing fight, small gestures like these letters go a long way and are often overlooked. It’s On Us and the organizers of the event providing love letters to fellow survivors of sexual assault reminded me that in the midst of working to correct this problem at a systemic level, the personal level of this issue can be forgotten — especially when students are unrelentingly trying to communicate their demands to a distant administration. It also illustrates that while the Community Working Group’s purpose is to address systemic issues, they should also be making efforts like this to make personal connections with survivors. 
As our community continues to navigate how we can stop sexual violence on campus, it is clear that if changes to the Community Working Group are not implemented, the solution lies in our hands. As students, we have the unique opportunity to organize as a collective, which Burwell and the rest of the AU faculty will have no choice but to listen to. It is evident that there are students and organizations at AU like It’s On Us who are in it for the long haul, not just when there is an immediate outcry in light of an incident. The protest held on Feb. 22 in response to the Community Working Group’s mere third meeting is a brazen example that students recognize this group is not doing enough. We must continue to join in efforts like these in addition to demanding the changes that we are entitled to, that survivors deserve and that students need to feel safe. 
Alice Still is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and an opinion columnist for The Eagle.This article was edited by Jelinda Montes, Alexis Bernstein and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Natasha LaChac and Sarah Clayton.
astill@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After Adam Kaplan and Ross Mallor met in their first year at American University in 1993, they spent the next four years following the men’s basketball team, attending every game while they were students, regardless of the team’s success. Thirty years later, the two still follow the Eagles just as closely.
“We love basketball and fell in love with the program and followed them ever since,” Kaplan said. 
Kaplan and Mallor graduated from American University in 1997, and despite moving away from AU and D.C. and starting careers and families, they remain loyal fans to the team they loved as students.
Living in different states, the pair was unable to watch the games together like they did as students, resorting to texting during games to communicate.
“We were just having the best time analyzing the team with each other and figured, ‘why not figure out a way to turn that into a podcast,’” Kaplan said.
The early success of men’s basketball this season inspired the duo to start their podcast, “Top Fan.” The name stemmed from the title they had earned from their interactions on the men’s basketball Facebook page. 
“We didn’t plan to start this season. But after the success the team had, we knew we had a chance to be decent this season, and so early this season we decided to go for it,” Mallor said. 
The first guest the duo had on the show was the men’s head coach Mike Brennan. From there, only three months after starting the podcast, Kaplan and Mallor have had a star-studded lineup of guests. Guest stars have included AU alumus and legendary NBA reporter David Aldridge, AU hall of famer Gordon Austin and color commentator and acclaimed college basketball writer John Feinstein.

“We have been incredibly fortunate to be able to talk AU hoops with these amazing guests.” Kaplan said.
“Top Fan” has found an audience in the friends and family of the men’s basketball team. “I think it’s great that they take so much interest in the team and cheering them on this year,” Tanya Ball, mother of junior guard Lincoln Ball, said.
“We’ve had parents recognize us at games. One family told us they listen to our podcast on the way to the games,” Mallor said.
“They are so excited about the team and so positive about every player. They have some very insightful comments but also great encouragement for the players,” Crystal Knotek, mother of senior guard Jaxon Knotek said. 
With the men’s basketball falling to Lafayette in the Patriot League Tournament semifinals, their job covering the Eagles is over for the season. When it comes to what’s next, the two still have yet to decide what the future holds for the podcast. 
“We just love talking AU hoops, on and off the podcast.” Kaplan said.
This article was edited by Penelope Jennings and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Natasha LaChac.
dhoke@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
