The American University lacrosse team (6-5) fell to the Army Black Knights (11-1) in their March 18 game at Jacobs Field, 10-18.
Sophomore attacker Maddy Spratt began the scoring promptly with a free position goal less than a minute into the game. Fellow sophomore attacker Alyssa Apuzzo added on with a goal of her own a minute and half later. Army’s defense pressured American hard, resulting in a turnover. That pressure allowed them to roll through the Eagles’ defense and get on the board. Maintaining intensity, Army fouled AU, sending freshman attacker Annabelle Jackson to the free position line. Jackson scored, putting American up 3-1. 
The scoring subsided for about six minutes as the two teams’ defenses battled. The Black Knights surged and scored three goals in the final minute and half of the quarter to take the 4-3 lead over the Eagles. The first two goals were scored unassisted as the American defense crumbled, and the final was scored on a free position shot.
Spratt began the quarter’s scoring once again to pull American even with Army. The Black Knights immediately fired back, regaining the lead 18 seconds later. The Eagles and Black Knights exchanged pairs of goals to maintain a one goal Army lead, as freshman midfielder Reagan Murdoch scored on a free position shot and Apuzzo added her second of the game. American received more free position chances, but a number went wide or were saved by Army. 
Apuzzo and Spratt completed hat tricks in just the first half, but their contributions couldn’t stop Army from holding onto the lead. The Black Knights capped off the half with another goal with just five seconds left. 
Army entered the second half up by two goals, but they were not going to stop there. The Black Knights scored again to go up by 3 just a minute into the quarter. Freshman midfielder Kellie Linehan scored to bring American back within 2, but Army scored again shortly after. Junior goalkeeper Mary Alice Collins made a series of great saves to keep the Eagles in the game. 
American received a yellow card towards the end of the quarter, but it was not enough to stop Spratt from scoring her fourth of the game. Army scored a man-up goal on that same card. Spectators got deja vu as American took another yellow card which allowed Army to score another man-up goal. Army kept on their trend of scoring in the final seconds of the quarter and scored man-down with just three seconds left in the third.
The Eagles and Black Knights exchanged shots and turnovers for the first half of the final quarter, but no goals were scored. Halfway through, Army ended the drought with another man-up goal. The Eagles attempted to remain within reach of the Black Knights; however, their shots were saved, and Army broke through the American defense twice more. Army won the game by a score of 18-10. 
The Eagles next take on the Lehigh Mountain Hawks on Saturday, April 8 at 12 p.m. for their senior day on Jacobs Field.
This article was edited by Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Natasha LaChac.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
In an email to the American University community on Friday, President Sylvia Burwell shared new details for the Student Thriving Complex that is expected to be completed in 2026.
The complex has a $103 million investment behind it and is a part of the University’s Change Can’t Wait campaign, which was announced in May 2021. In the email, Burwell said there will be “three vital hubs for student life” that the complex will include. 
According to the email, the Student Thriving Complex will house new wellness facilities including the Center for Well-Being Programs and Psychological Services, the Student Health Center and have “a dedicated focus on preventative health activities, with opportunities ranging from yoga to healthy eating.” 
Additionally, the Complex will host the Alan and Amy Meltzer Center for Athletic Performance, which will include “state-of-the-art competition, practice, sports medicine, locker room, and training facilities,” and will be the first new athletics and recreational construction on campus in more than 30 years.
Renovations to Mary Graydon Center will also take place starting in 2024. According to the email, the goal of the renovation is to “meet students where they are, both today and in the future.” 
Included in the email were mock-ups of the new buildings that are to be constructed by 2026 and details of shifting locations for current offices on campus. Construction for the Complex and the renovations for MGC are both slated to begin in 2024 and finish by the spring 2026 semester. 
This summer, the campus store will move to the current location of Eagle’s Nest in the tunnel, and the Eagle’s Nest will move to the former Capital One Bank location across from the entrance to Bender Arena.  
Burwell also announced plans for moving current facilities on campus, including consolidating the Academic Support and Access Center offices to the location of the current campus store in Butler Pavilion. This move will take place in the spring 2024 semester.
President Burwell wrote that collaboration with the AU Neighborhood Partnership and the Community Liaison Committee is included in plans for the project. The University plans to file further processing applications for the Meltzer Center project with the D.C. Zoning Commission in the future. 
Abigail Hatting, Natasha LaChac and Katie Mass contributed reporting to this article. 
This article was edited by Abigail Pritchard, Jordan Young, and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Sophia Rocha.
csturniolo@theeagleonline.com and swinick@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
