Storbeck Search, the firm currently being used by American University to find a new vice president of student affairs and vice president of undergraduate enrollment, has a history of rocky searches for presidents at several universities, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education.
Storbeck faced scrutiny after the search committee at the University of Maine, Augusta was not told about several no-confidence votes cast against a candidate for the president position at a previous university. At the University of Wisconsin, Madison, the leading candidate for the school’s president withdrew from consideration after faculty members pointed out he was also the subject of no-confidence votes at his previous university. 
AU President Sylvia Burwell identified Storbeck as the firm it would use to fill the new positions in a Feb. 10 email to the AU community announcing the search for candidates.  
“We are immediately launching searches for the vice president of student affairs and the vice president of undergraduate enrollment. These two searches will be coordinated by Storbeck, a firm with extensive higher education recruitment experience,” Burwell wrote in the email. 
University officials said Storbeck alone is not solely responsible for recruiting new candidates and said Storbeck has been used before by the University. Previous firms used in University searches include Diversified Search, which Storbeck became a part of in February 2020, and Witt/Kiefer. 
"We have used the Storbeck Search firm in successful recruiting for several leadership positions at AU, including CAS Dean Linda Aldoory and University Librarian Jeehyun Davis,” University Internal Communications Manager Jasmine Pelaez wrote in an email to The Eagle. “For the current VP of Student Affairs and VP of Undergraduate Enrollment searches, we are working with Storbeck to source potential candidates for the committee.”
The University uses a variety of methods to hire new officials, including consulting with campus stakeholders and having representatives from the AU community participate in on-campus interviews with candidates. 
“The final hiring decision is made by university leadership based on a variety of factors–including the interview process, stakeholder feedback, and candidate references, among others–and which candidate will best meet the needs of our community,” Pelaez wrote. “Storbeck does not determine the final outcome." 
The University has seen transitions in several high-level positions over the past three years, including multiple of Burwell’s cabinet members and several deans, some of which were filled internally and some from external candidates. 
Pelaez did not answer The Eagle’s question on whether or not the University was aware of past issues with Storbeck Search in the initial inquiry made by The Eagle. 
This article was edited by Abigail Turner, Jordan Young and Abigail Pritchard. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin and Stella Guzik. 
nheller@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Ramòn Cruz answers questions from SIS professor Simon Nicholson and students. 
Ramòn Cruz, president of the Sierra Club, aims to expand social justice initiatives in the environmental organization, according to a talk he gave in honor of Nancy Weiser Ignatius in the School of International Service on April 4. 
The Sierra Club was not always inclusive to marginalized groups in the past, according to Cruz. Founded for wilderness exploration by John Muir in 1957, the club used to be invitation only. Cruz reckoned with the organization’s racist and exclusive past, which included pushing Indigenous peoples off their native lands. 
“Before the great national parks, the lands belonged also to people that had been much better stewards than us and or anybody that came after them,” Cruz said. 
Cruz said he received criticism for venturing outside the bounds of the environmental movement. He wants to include “voting rights, working rights, reproductive rights, labor rights and housing rights” in the organization’s work. These issues all intersect with the environmental movement, according to Cruz. 
“I hope that Sierra Club supporters concerned about whether we focus on a narrow definition of environment can find a way to broaden our idea of the Sierra Club,” Cruz said. 
Cruz is the first Puerto Rican and Latino president of the organization. When the organization was founded, his father and grandfather would have been excluded from participating in the organization. 
“Things are very different today thanks in large part to people of color and white allies who fought to open the doors of these organizations to people like me, but it doesn't mean that there is no discrimination in the environmental movement,” Cruz said. “For many years, I was the darkest in the room with a cute Spanish accent.”
Now, the Sierra Club is taking steps towards environmental justice by adopting the principles of democratic organizing, according to Cruz. These principles include “Be Inclusive, Emphasis on Bottom-Up Organizing, Let People Speak for Themselves, Work Together In Solidarity and Mutuality, Build Just Relationships Among Ourselves and Commitment to Self-Transformation,” according to the Sierra Club website. 
It takes more than reckoning with the past to change the future, according to Ariana Lippi, a first-year graduate student in SIS. Lippi volunteered with the Sierra Club in New York before starting her graduate program at AU. 
When Lippi volunteered on the sustainable finance committee of the Sierra Club in New York, she found it difficult to create change and mobilize in the organization due to leadership and bureaucratic processes. Although Cruz pointed out the chapter has a new president, Lippi believes there is an “infrastructure problem” in the organization. 
“I do think that there is so much that could be done to make it more inclusive,” said Lippi in an interview after the event. “I think environmentalism overall, the environmental movement in the U.S. is not inclusive towards people of color, trans people, just different identities and youth as well. There's a very white, old guard in that movement.”
Lippi wished the organization could improve its outreach since it is mostly volunteer based. There was a long application process she went through to become a volunteer. She thinks this process can be cut down or eliminated. Cruz said the organization now does student coalition training, but he recognizes that is not enough.
“I think it's the people and the old school organizing that can get us there,” Cruz said. 
This article was edited by Patricia McGee, Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Stella Guzik.
mtedesco@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American Univeristy's lacrosse team defeated Howard University 15-2 in its Feb. 24 home opener.
The American University lacrosse team (6-6) fell to the Lehigh Mountain Hawks (8-5) in their April 8 game 11-16.
Before the Eagles’ game, they honored their six seniors and all of their contributions to the program. After a quiet first few minutes, freshman attacker Annabelle Jackson opened the day’s scoring. The Mountain Hawks quickly bounced back as they scored twice within 50 seconds. 
Lehigh’s 2 goals had come shortly after Jackson’s, but the scoring paused for about seven minutes until junior midfielder Hannah Spease fired home her 20th goal of the season. Spease’s goal tied the game at 2, but the Mountain Hawks went on a run and scored 6 goals in a row through the end of the first quarter and into the beginning of the second.
American countered with their own run of 4 goals in a row, featuring 2 from freshman attacker Rachel Kolton; however, they remained down by 2. Kolton’s second goal was the first of 11 combined goals scored in an active third quarter. The Mountain Hawks followed up with another 3 goals in a row, two of which came 20 seconds apart. American responded with 2 goals of their own as Jackson and Spease scored their seconds of the game, but Lehigh remained ahead by 3 goals.
The Mountain Hawks and the Eagles alternated scoring to close out the third quarter, but Lehigh scored 3 to American’s 2 and held onto the lead. Entering the fourth quarter up 14-10, the Mountain Hawks did not relent. They proceeded to score twice more in the first few minutes of the quarter, increasing their lead to 6 goals. Kolton completed her hat trick with three minutes to go in the game, but it would not be enough as American fell to Lehigh, 16-11.
The Eagles’ 11 goals came from Jackson and Kolton, who each had 3, Spease and freshman midfielder Kellie Linehan, each adding 2, and sophomore midfielder Becca Frank. Jackson’s 3 goals in this contest put her season total at 24, the highest mark on the team.
The Eagles next take on the Navy Midshipmen on Wednesday, April 12 at 4 p.m. for their mental health awareness game on Jacobs Field.
This article was edited by Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Natasha LaChac.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
A class-action lawsuit against American University for partial spring 2020 tuition refunds will proceed after a district court judge ruled the University is not exempt from consumer protection laws. 
The plaintiffs, who originally filed the lawsuit in May 2020, say they paid thousands for in-person learning – an experience cut short in March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The plaintiffs also argue that AU broke an implied contract by continuing to advertise on-campus experiences during the admissions process, while students paid the same amount for remote learning.
The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia gave the go-ahead to students’ claims for partial tuition refunds, following the Court of Appeals’ reinstatement of the case in March 2022. A lower court had initially dismissed the case. 
“With respect to the breach of contract claim, the court held that ‘Plaintiffs adequately allege the Universities breached an implied-in-fact contract to provide in-person education in exchange for tuition,’” Judge Christopher R. Cooper wrote in the opinion.
AU motioned to dismiss the case by arguing the University is not subject to the D.C. Consumer Protection Procedures Act, since it is a nonprofit that provides “training or credentialing activities.” Cooper ruled AU does not qualify as a nonprofit exempt from CPPA liability, since the D.C. Council would have explicitly included educational activities in the law if the exemption was meant to cover colleges and universities. 
“As a matter of common parlance, ‘training’ and ‘credentialing’ bear a business and professional connotation distinct from ‘educating,’” Cooper wrote in the opinion.
CPPA prevents deceptive business practices, such as breach of contract and unjust enrichment. Unjust enrichment occurs when one party confers a benefit onto another without the proper restitution required by law. 
The Court of Appeals previously upheld the plaintiffs’ claims that AU breached a contract to provide in-person education in exchange for tuition payments. Additionally, Cooper ruled that fees charged for access to on-campus facilities, like the sports center fee, do not qualify as “membership services” under the CPPA nonprofit liability exemption. 
Cooper said in the opinion that designating such fees as membership services would be a “cryptic way” for the D.C. Council to describe the facilities and extracurriculars at universities. 
Students are seen as consumers since they are purchasing a service of personal nature, according to Cooper. Since schools like AU are marketed as liberal arts to achieve well-rounded students, Cooper said undergraduate education is still a consumer service protected by CPPA.
“To the extent American suggests, as a general rule, that all college students seek out higher education only for business or professional—rather than personal—purposes,” Cooper wrote in the opinion. “That notion is contradicted by the University’s own stated mission to ‘advance knowledge, foster intellectual curiosity, build community, and empower lives of purpose, service, and leadership.’” 
After a lower court dismissed the case in June 2020, finding AU didn’t violate any contractual promises, plaintiffs urged the Court of Appeals to revive the case. The Court of Appeals revived the case in March 2022 and found that the plaintiffs had presumably alleged AU breached the implied-in-fact contracts for in-person learning. 
Roy Willey, attorney for the plaintiffs, declined to comment on the matter at this time when contacted by The Eagle. 
Since Cooper of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled against AU’s motion to dismiss the case, students can proceed with their COVID-19 refund claims in the lawsuit. 
“This is an ongoing legal case currently in the discovery phase, so we are unable to comment beyond that,” said Jasmine Pelaez, AU’s internal communications manager.
This article was edited by Abigail Pritchard, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks, Sarah Clayton and Stella Guzik.
aturner@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
