Two American University professors and the president of AU Pride discussed inclusivity and transgender-inclusive policies at a discussion of transgender life in higher education hosted by the School of Communication on March 7. 
The event, part of SOC’s Inclusive Excellence Week, began with an introduction by Tia Milledge, the SOC director of communication and outreach.
Perry Zurn, an associate professor in the College of Arts and Sciences, spoke about the importance of talking about the trans experience, something that is not often discussed.
“Honestly, we don’t talk about trans issues a lot at AU, whether that’s in classrooms or in public events or even in queer spaces,” Zurn told The Eagle. “There’s just not a whole lot of conversation about it. So I’m hoping that people come into that room and have an experience they rarely could have on AU’s campus. … Let’s grapple with the state of trans life here at the University.”
Zurn said this conversation is especially important in light of the influx of anti-trans legislation being passed in the U.S.
Nearly 1.7 percent of U.S. undergraduate and graduate students reported their gender as transgender, nonbinary or questioning, according to a study by the Association of American Universities. However, there is limited data about LGBTQ+ students in higher education.
Cheyenne Smith, the president of AU Pride, said one of the biggest challenges facing the trans community at AU is a lack of information. They described certain “roadblocks” in the educational setting.
“The fact is, we live in a transphobic system inherently, and so we’re going to have inherent biases,” Smith said at the event, adding that they hope for a future in which trans and nonbinary students no longer have to explain themselves.
Juliana Martínez, an associate professor in CAS, said another related challenge stems from cisgender normativity, the assumption that everyone is, or ought to be, cisgender. She also said there is a lack of representation of trans people in higher education leadership.
“The higher you go up the food chain, the more and more cis it gets, the less diversity of any kind you find,” Martínez said at the event. “Nowadays, particularly, it’s very rare to find any high-up administrators that are not cis. You’ll find increasingly more people that are openly gay, bisexual, lesbian, pansexual, but they’re still pretty cis and that keeps the system going, creating blind spots.”
She added that higher education leaders can remedy this problem by hiring more trans or nonbinary faculty members.
Martínez said the inclusion of trans people should not only apply to those who align with cisgender norms.
“We need to also be mindful that sometimes the model of inclusion can look a lot like assimilation, and that has a lot of problems,” Martínez said at the event. “Because it’s like, ‘as long as you’re the good kind of … Latina, the good kind of Black person, the good kind of trans person,’ and the ‘good kind’ really means that you follow the norms and expectations that the majority have.”
She added that inclusion needs to go beyond using someone’s correct pronouns. Zurn said there is a distinction between policy-driven inclusion — provisions such as name changes or restroom access for trans students — and trans poetics. Trans poetics describes the “art and labor of transgender poets,” according to Transgender Studies Quarterly. 
“You’re the sort of person who needs this sort of thing and sort of pass all [these policies] so you can function well,” Zurn said about the way systems in power allay the trans community. “That kind of policy-driven inclusion doesn’t get to supporting the community.”
Zurn said AU should make more of an effort to connect with local LGBTQ+ groups, as community-building is integral to the trans experience.
“I think it will be much better too if the University had stronger ties to the D.C. queer and trans organizations,” Zurn told The Eagle. “It’s common for trans people to feel super isolated and often not know each other and not know our histories and not know why it matters. And kind of helping to plug us into or connect us to local queer and trans communities, it would be a huge benefit.”
This story was edited by Mackenzie Konjoyan, Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks, Sarah Clayton and Stella Guzik.
zbell@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Before starting her senior capstone project, American University student Ariel Tresser never expected to gain work experience from a college class. Now, the student in the School of Communication has been working with five other classmates since January to support the mission of women’s rights organization Task Force Nyx, an opportunity she didn’t think she would get while still in college. 
“I really like working one-on-one with clients, and I really do want the work that I’m doing here to translate into my post-grad work, so I think it’s a really great experience,” Tresser said.
She began this project in her capstone class, a required three-credit course designed to give students the chance to demonstrate the knowledge and skills they have gained in their time at American University, according to the AU Core website. Students in the PR capstone project were offered three different clients to work with. Tresser said she was immediately attracted to Task Force Nyx’s mission and all-women team. 
“I thought it'd be really cool if I could make an impact not only on that organization, but the women and girls that they help, too,” Tresser said.
Task Force Nyx is a women-led, all-volunteer nongovernmental organization that advocates for the rights of Afghan women and girls whose freedoms have been restricted by the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan since August 2021. 
To support Task Force Nyx’s work, Tresser and her teammates have created several events to help raise awareness and increase the organization’s donor base. One of their main events is a virtual panel that was held on March 8, which was also International Women’s Day, featuring several female Afghan activists. 
The featured speakers were Hoda Khamosh, Zahra Haqparast, Hakimeh Zairfi and Homura Rezai, who will also serve as the moderator. There was also a fourth panelist whose name is being withheld for safety concerns. The panelists discussed their experiences as advocates for Afghan women and girls and their personal journey of overcoming injustice. 
“One of the things that we’ve always been looking to do at Task Force Nyx is amplify the voices of Afghan women, particularly those who have a lived experience in Afghanistan from August 2021 forwards,” said Task Force Nyx Co-founder and Chief of Strategy Laura Deitz. “We wanted to ensure that this newer generation of up-and-coming human rights voices and leaders were respected and given a platform to share both their own life story and history, but also their work and their current perspective on what the international community should do to support Afghan women and girls today.” 
Additional activities that Tresser’s team have planned for their project are a lacrosse game against Lafayette College where the AU athletes will wear turquoise ribbons in their hair or uniform to show support, an April 7 movie screening about a woman’s life in Kabul before the Taliban invasion, and a trivia night at Solly’s Tavern on March 22. All the proceeds gathered at these events will be donated to Task Force Nyx.
These efforts come as women and girls in Afghanistan are faced with increasing human rights violations. Afghan women are currently banned from traveling long-distance without a male chaperone, girls cannot attend school past the sixth grade and women are barred from working most jobs outside the home, according to UN Women. 
Deitz said the panel is intended to motivate audiences to action and educate them on ways to support Task Force Nyx’s mission. 
“Sometimes situations that are so far around the world seem quite distant and removed from our own day-to-day, and also the scale and the enormity of the human rights crisis in Afghanistan … can seem so overwhelming that people think ‘What can I do?’” said Deitz.
Deitz added that some key action steps are listening to the stories of Afghan women like the panelists and joining the effort of organizations supporting women’s rights like Task Force Nyx. 
“Anyone anywhere in the world can really get involved and do something irrespective of their background and network and access,” Deitz said. 
Tresser said that working with Task Force Nyx has made her feel like she’s making a real difference, an experience that she hopes to bring into her professional career. 
“This is like real-life work that you would be doing at a public relations agency, so it’s very cool that the professors at AU give us this responsibility and have trust in their students to do all this,” Tresser said.
This article was edited by Jordan Young and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Leta Lattin, Luna Jinks, Sarah Clayton and Stella Guzik.
mfishel@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The sixth time's the charm for this horror franchise. “Scream VI” opens with one of the series’ all-time best opening sequences and only ramps up the action and bloodshed from there. 
If “Scream” (2022) played it a little too safe as a glorified retread of the original, “Scream VI” upends audience expectations entirely. There’s only so much snarky commentary a movie series can make before it caves in on itself, and “Scream VI” knows when to keep its mouth shut. While previous entries mixed self-aware critiques with horror, this film focuses almost all of its attention on delivering satisfying slasher fun. 
The film follows sisters Sam (Melissa Barrera) and Tara (Jenna Ortega) Carpenter and twins Chad (Mason Gooding) and Mindy (​​Jasmin Savoy Brown) Meeks-Martin as they attempt a fresh start at Blackmore University in New York City after the grisly killing spree they survived in “Scream.” Ghostface soon returns to hunt down the freshly minted “core four” through a city brimming with new, shady characters, and a full-blown bloodbath ensues. Barrera’s Sam gets a particularly shocking arc that fans of the franchise are sure to appreciate, as she goes from the victim to the accused. 
Directors Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Tyler Gillett made a wise call uprooting the series from the smalltown of Woodsboro, California to the sinister streets of New York City. The big city setting provides the perfect backdrop for jaw-dropping setpieces. Ghostface takes on victims in a bodega, the subway, a high rise apartment and an abandoned theater, making for some of the best chase sequences since the original. 
The actors bring new depths to the core four Gen Z characters, including standout performances from Jenna Ortega as Tara Carpenter and Mason Gooding as Chad Meeks-Martin. Hayden Panettiere makes a scene-stealing appearance as fan favorite Kirby Reed from “Scream 4,” and Courteney Cox more than compensates for final girl Neve Campbell’s absence with a typically sharp performance as Gale Weathers. Everyone brings their A-game to the proceedings, and after she became a household name with “Wednesday,” “Scream VI” is sure to land Ortega even more admirers. The chemistry between the core four characters is undeniable and a scene between film buffs Kirby and Mindy delivers the sort of casually scathing commentary the series does best. 
A “Scream” film is only as good as its Ghostface reveal, and this one is both unexpected and subversive, bringing a new twist to the venerable franchise. The series has always heavily relied on the mystery and suspense of its basic premise, a whodunit with a killer, and this film takes extra pleasure in pulling the rug out from underneath audiences. The final confrontation is expertly choreographed and delightfully intense.
The soundtrack is also killer, mixing contemporary pop from girl in red and Billie Eilish into scenes for maximum emotional impact.  
However, the best part of “Scream VI”is how relentlessly scary it is. This is a no-holds-barred thrill ride from start to finish. Audiences will jump out of their seats and gasp in equal measure at the gruesome killing spree Ghostface unleashes in New York City. The chemistry between the cast is palpable, the chills are heart-stopping, and the reveals are shocking. “Scream VI” practically begs to be seen in theaters. 
Scream VI comes out March 10, 2023.
This article was edited by Bailey Hobbs, Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis. 
rgillis@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
The American University wrestling team competed at the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association Championships on March 4-5 at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Ten wrestlers from American competed as one of 17 schools at the EIWA Championships this past weekend. American’s representatives were 125-pound sophomore Maximilian Leete, 133-pound sophomore Jack Maida, 125-pound freshman Raymond Lopez, 149-pound redshirt senior Patrick Ryan, 157-pound redshirt sophomore Jack Nies, 165-pound freshman Caleb Campos, 174-pound redshirt freshman Lucas White, 184-pound graduate student Colin Shannon, 197-pound redshirt junior Connor Bourne and heavyweight redshirt junior Will Jarrell.
Leete began his day against Micah Roes of Binghamton. Roes defeated Leete 3-2 at Bender Arena on Feb. 17 and then defeated Leete again at the EIWA Championship 6-0. Leete then advanced into the consolation round of eight where he achieved his 12th pin of the season, which ties him for fourth all-time at AU. However, Leete’s competition ended shortly after as he fell in a major decision of 12-1.
Maida was pinned by no. 31 ranked Brendan Ferretti of Navy in the round of 16, but  defeated both of his opponents in the consolation round of eight. On the second day of competition, he faced off against no. 25 ranked Kurt Phipps of Bucknell. Maida pulled off the upset in the 15-9 bout, scoring the most points he ever has as an Eagle. Maida fell again to Ferretti in the consolation semifinals, but he secured his trip to Tulsa for the NCAA Championships, winning 6-3 to earn fifth place in the 133-pound weight class. 
Lopez also fell in the round of 16, but turned it around in the consolation round of eight as he pinned his opponent with only 18 seconds remaining in the bout after he already led 16-4. However, his day ended with a loss in his next bout.
Ryan’s day began in the round of 32 where he won by injury default. He then fell to no. 12 ranked Doug Zapf of Penn in a major decision. He was successful in his first bout of the consolation round of eight. However, he fell in his second bout of the round, ending his tournament.
Nies started out with a loss in the round of 16, but he then won both of his bouts in the consolation round of eight. He advanced to the second day of competition where he won his consolation round of four in sudden victory overtime. He fell in the consolation semifinals 8-1, and then lost again in the fifth place bout. Nies finished sixth in his weight class after being seeded ninth.
Campos lost in the round of 16 in a close bout by a score of 5-4. He then won his first bout in the consolation round of eight by a major decision of 13-2. However, he fell to no. 22 ranked Evan Barczak of Drexel by a score of 5-3 in his second bout of the round.
White began his tournament in the round of 16 with a loss and then lost again in a major decision in the consolation round of eight.
Shannon’s round of 16 bout resulted in a loss, and he was once again dealt a loss in the consolation round of eight.
Bourne started out with a loss in the round of 16, but secured a win in his first bout of the consolation round of eight. He was eliminated from competition after falling in a major decision in his subsequent bout.
Jarrell fell in the round of 16, but won in his next bout in a major decision by a score of 11-2. He was eliminated in his second consolation round of eight bout, and his season ended.
Each conference and weight class have different numbers of automatic spots at the NCAA Championships. Maida’s specific weight class, 133 pounds in the EIWA, has five spots at the NCAA Championship, meaning he automatically qualified by coming in fifth in the weight class at the EIWA Championship. Nies finished sixth at 157 pounds, but his weight class only gets three automatic bids from the EIWA Championship to the NCAA Championship. There are four at-large bids for the 157-pound class available, but those wrestlers were drawn from a total of seven conferences, and just one from the EIWA made it.
No. 32 Maida will represent American as he takes on No. 33 McGwire Midkiff of North Dakota State University on Thursday, March 16 in the first round of the NCAA Championships.
This article was edited by Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Natasha LaChac and Sophia Rocha.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
Women's Basketball ended its tun in the Patriot League Tournament against Holy Cross on March 6. 
The American University women’s basketball team (9-22) lost to the Holy Cross Crusaders (22-8) in their March 6 matchup 73-44.
American started the scoring for the game, thanks to jumpers from junior guard Ivy Bales and senior forward Lauren Stack. The Crusaders quickly evened up the score, but the Eagles kept pace. Bales added another jumper after Holy Cross tied the game, and junior guard Kayla Henning contributed a layup after the Crusaders tied it up again. Bales increased the Eagles’ lead to 10-6 with two successful free throws. The Crusaders evened up the score before the first quarter concluded, and they went into the second quarter tied at 10-10.
American began the second quarter much like they ended the first, as junior guard Anna LeMaster hit a 3-pointer to put AU back in the lead. Holy Cross began to step ahead, but an 8-point run from Stack brought the Eagles within reach. Senior guard Sadie Stetson tied the game with a layup and took what would be AU’s final lead of the game with a free throw. At this point, American led 24-23. The Eagles were off their previous rhythm as they missed a number of shots and were having foul trouble as Holy Cross ended the half ahead 31-24.
AU continued their streak of getting the first points of the quarter with a jumper by junior forward Emily Johns, though their sporadic scoring could not stop the Crusaders. American struggled to make shots in the third quarter as Holy Cross pulled ahead by as much as 15 points. Johns, Stack and Henning were the only Eagles to score in the third quarter, putting up just 8 points between the three of them. 
LeMaster made a free throw to begin the final quarter of the game to pull American within 14. AU did not score again for another three minutes as Stetson nailed a 3-pointer to bring the score to 56-36. Stack and Henning contributed another layup and free throw, respectively, but Holy Cross’ lead was far too substantial at this point. Freshman guard Anna Rescifina subbed into the game with just under four minutes left and scored the Eagles’ final 5 points of the game. Her efforts made a small dent in Holy Cross’ lead and brought the deficit down from its peak of 30 points. The Crusaders defeated the Eagles by a score of 73-44 to advance in the Patriot League tournament and face Lehigh.
American’s field goal percentage in the loss was just .288, compared to Holy Cross’ .609. There was a similar deficit between their 3-pointer percentages, though the two teams had identical free throw percentages. Stack played an astounding 38 minutes after playing 40 minutes in the Eagles’ defeat of Navy in the first round. Johns, on the other hand, played just 11 minutes after getting into foul trouble. Stack led the team in scoring with 16, and was followed 10 points behind by Stetson and Bales with 6 points each.
After winning the 2022 Patriot League Championship, the Eagles’ 2023 season comes to an end in the second round.
This article was edited by Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Sophia Rocha, Natasha LaChac and Sophia Rocha.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
After 10 seasons as the men’s basketball head coach, American University has parted ways with Mike Brennan, according to a press release sent out by the Athletics Department Thursday night. He was first named head coach on April 30, 2013. He currently sits at third on AU’s all-time career wins list with 125. He ends his AU head coaching career with a record of 125-165.
American finished this season 17-15 and 7-11 in Patriot League play. Their season ended with a 84-76 loss to Lafayette on March 5 in double overtime after making costly mistakes in the first overtime.
AU went on a 3-10 streak after The Washington Post called them “the best men’s college basketball team in D.C.,” Despite finishing their regular season on a six game losing streak, AU’s record was one of the best they had seen since Brennan’s first year as head coach at AU.
In each of Brennan’s last three seasons with the team, American finished under .500. American won the Patriot League tournament in Brennan’s first season as head coach and hasn’t won it again since. Brennan was also named the Patriot League Coach of the Year and was honored as a finalist for the Joe B. Hall — top first-year head coach — and Hugh Durham — top mid-major head coach — awards. 
“I want to thank Mike for his contributions to AU over the last 10 seasons,” said AU Athletics Director Billy Walker in the press release. “Under his leadership, the student-athletes in his care have achieved accomplishments on the court and in the classroom.”
Mike Brennan was not able to be reached for comment in time for the publication of this article.
This is a developing story and will be updated as more information becomes available. 
This article was edited by Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis and Sophia Rocha.
pjennings@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
