Entering February brings about a couple changes: the constant struggle to spell the month’s name, day’s getting just a little bit warmer and, of course, the most romantic holiday of the year. But right around this candy and heart filled time of the month is a monumental holiday all about friendship, fun and hanging out with friends: Galentine’s Day.
Here’s a list of some options to help you celebrate Galentine’s Day in style.
See a comedy show
D.C. has some great comedy spots to keep you laughing all night. Going with a group of friends is sure to be a fun time and a good way to indulge in some horrible Valentine’s Day stories.
The Comedy Loft of DC has some great upcoming performers and events this Galentine’s Day, such as Alingon Mitra, Matt Rife, Yolks on You Burlesque and Variety Brunch and more. The Comedy Club has a variety of different comedians per show to give you a range of sets each night. Or why not try The DC Improv Comedy Club that has various stand-up performers, including specials on Valentine’s Day with Wil Sylvince and Couples Therapy.  
Host a dinner party
For a more intimate experience celebrating your friends, try hosting a dinner party. Theme it Galentine’s Day to have an excuse to get all dressed up with your friends. Have each person bring their favorite dish to the dinner, or if cooking isn’t up your alley, order takeout from one of these restaurants. It’s the perfect opportunity to have a great meal and try something new with your close friends. 
Have a game night
If you’re looking for a more chill game night, play a low- stakes card game that helps you get to know more about each other, like We’re Not Really Strangers, For the Girls or Let’s Get Deep. If the mood for a longer game hits, play something like Catan, Monopoly or Clue. 
Charcuterie or fondue night
Why not host a charcuterie or fondue night? Everyone can bring a dish to add to the meal. If it’s a charcuterie night and the weather is permitting, take it mobile and host it by the Georgetown waterfront, on the National Mall, at the Wharf or stay local and have it on the AU quad. 
For a fondue night, have a nice night at home, dipping all the best treats in fondue while you snuggle up to a comforting movie together. Some classic Galentine movies are Mean Girls, She’s the Man, Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, Clueless or The Other Woman. But really any movie that brings nostalgia is enjoyable, and, of course, a good girl power message would be perfect to pair a fondue night.
No matter what option you chose from this list, just make sure Galentine’s Day is celebrated in style, focusing on loving friendships, strong bonds and cherished relationships. In the wise words of Leslie Knope, “What’s Galentine’s Day? Oh, it’s only the best day of the year.” 
This article was edited by Kylie Bill and Nina Heller. Copy editing by Isabelle Kravis, Stella Guzik and Luna Jinks.
gdinardo@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
With the pressure of buying gifts and making romantic gestures, it’s easy to overlook the impacts of increased consumption during Valentine’s Day. It is estimated that 9 million kilograms of additional carbon dioxide is released into the air on Valentine’s Day alone. Stereotypical customs of buying stuffed animals or candy packaged in substantial amounts of plastic produces large amounts of waste. However, there are plenty of accessible Valentine’s Day activities ranging from visiting museums, ice skating or environmentally-friendly crafts where you can engage in a sustainable celebration of love this holiday. 
Enjoy the romantic atmosphere of the winter season by visiting the National Sculpture Garden Ice Skating Rink, which offers an opportunity to get outside and enjoy time with friends or a significant other. Open until March 5, weather permitting, the rink is surrounded by sculptures, monuments and museums. Its location showcases the city’s iconic architecture and intriguing art. 
For those up for a challenge, Rock Creek Park, located right here in the district, provides a mixture of fresh air, history and hiking. Open year-round, the park is a 1,754 acre property and has numerous paths so guests can customize their hike by utilizing the Western Ridge Trail and Valley Trail. Rock Creek Park, with its water features and bridges, is perfect for those seeking a casual stroll or rugged romantic adventure. 
Another popular hiking spot is Great Falls Park. Guests can explore 15 miles of trails with varying levels of difficulty, allowing visitors to choose an experience best suited for them. The park has three overlooks with viewing platforms of the Great Falls.
If an outdoor date sounds appealing but you want something more laid-back, the National Capitol Columns in the U.S. National Arboretum is the perfect place for a romantic picnic. Beyond the columns, the property hosts a range of serene locations including the Friendship Garden, which has benches and seating areas accessible by brick paths.  
A warmer option this Valentine's Day is to visit one of D.C.’s museums. For example, the National Portrait Gallery offers various exhibits such as In Memoriam, which includes a print of Sidney Poiter, the writer of For Love of Ivy, which was the first romantic comedy featuring two Black movie stars.
Lastly, there are plenty of sustainable DIY crafts and gifts that show your affection for someone just as much as a box of chocolates, if not more. Buying houseplants will last longer than pre-cut flowers from a store, and making Valentine’s Day cards out of recycled paper is not only cheaper but can be a more personal gesture. 
If you want to share the love with the environment, create homemade birdseed valentines, which are heart-shaped birdseed ornaments you can hang anywhere outside or give to loved ones so they can pass on a sweet treat for nature. 
With so many local options and crafts to choose from, it's easy to avoid spending on disposable items. This Valentine’s Day, consider how reducing your consumption can still make for a memorable holiday that expresses your love for a special someone and the planet.
This article was edited by Patricia McGee, Kylie Bill, Nina Heller. Copy editing by Isabelle Kravis, Stella Guzik, Sophie Myers and Sophia Rocha.
mzaczkiewicz@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
American University President Sylvia Burwell held a panel on free expression and the updated Freedom of Expression and Expressive Conduct policy on Feb. 1, along with other university heads from across the country. Burwell and her fellow panelists spent the majority of the event discussing values like inclusion and diversity, but the message fell flat — ultimately seeming more like a PR move appealing to donors than true sentiment on expanding free expression across campus. 
Panelists discussed the responsibility for university leaders to foster spaces for respectful dissent and ideas like including speaker events to cultivate debate. However, such a platform already exists on AU’s campus, led not by University administration, but by faculty and supported by student organizations.  
The Project on Civil Discourse, based out of the School of Public Affairs, does exactly what the panelists, including the current AU president, called for. This begs the question: is Burwell so far out of the loop that she is calling for programs that already exist to be created on campus? If the point of the discussion was to promote the idea to other universities across the country, why was the Project on Civil Discourse not brought up as a positive example of how AU contributes to such an “inclusive and differentiated” environment?
The existence of the event altogether is somewhat unusual. AU’s freedom of expression policy was updated in August of 2022. This event centered around that policy was held in February of the following year, almost six months later. Events hosted by Burwell are relatively few and far between, and the choice to focus so strongly on this topic is somewhat perplexing. This discussion on free expression in such abstract and empty ways seems to be less important to students compared to the litany of other current issues on campus and around the world.   
AU’s promotion of its updated policy through this event seems hypocritical when considering student groups that are often suppressed by the University. 
The updated policy has a section dedicated to journalistic freedom, which states, “student journalists and news organizations associated with the University [are free] to pursue their journalistic missions without outside interference and in accordance with recognized standards of journalistic excellence.”
The irony of this quote and the reality for AU’s student journalists is startling. Student reporters contacting the University for information often get stonewalled or severely delayed, regardless of the information they seek. A new process announced by the University to student media groups last semester requires student media organizations to fill out a form with what information they are asking for rather than being able to directly contact individuals they wish to talk to. After that, reporters must wait for another University official to coordinate scheduling between them and the person they want to interview, and sometimes reporters never receive an interview altogether. 
After more than a semester of going through this process, The Eagle has seen this significantly slow down our reporting compared to previous years. Even students outside of student media groups working on class assignments find AU nearly impossible to receive comments from in a timely manner. 
It seems that when it comes to free expression by the student press, AU often interferes with students’ expressive abilities. Intentionally or not, the lack of cooperation of the University toward student media contributes to a suppression of free speech — especially speech that must be made in a timely manner.  
When examining this event and the policies Burwell chooses to publicly promote, students — especially those within student media — continue to question the sincerity and purpose behind what is discussed and what remains unaddressed. Moving forward, the University and its leadership need to reexamine their strained relationships with the student body and address the barriers they create for students’ freedom of expression. 
This article was edited by Nina Heller. Copyediting by Isabelle Kravis, Sarah Clayton, Luna Jinks, Leta Lattin and Natasha LaChac.
opinion@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
American University women’s basketball lost to Boston University in Bender Arena on Feb. 8
The American University women’s basketball team (5-18) took on Boston University (17-6) in Bender Arena last Wednesday, Feb. 8, losing  59-40 to the Terriers. Despite the loss, there’s hope for a new and growing program led by head coach Tiffany Coll. 
Boston University has made incredible strides in the league this season, with a 12-0 record in the Patriot League and a promising future at winning the conference. For AU, this was a game of growth. Players and coaches went in acknowledging their opponents success and where their program is at. 
“They’re on a streak right now, and they’re feeling good,” said Coll. “We’re in the process of developing our players while they’ve already become successful in that process.”
An in-league loss takes a hit to any team, although while it impacts the Eagles, they also are learning about their strengths and weaknesses as a team, things needed to differentiate between before they can decide where efforts will best be spent during practice time. 
BU took an early lead in the first half, with senior guard Sydney Johnson being a critical part of their scoring efforts. The Eagles continued to put BU to the challenge, but they needed help to keep up with the Terriers’ offense. 
AU’s offense was led by freshman guard Laura Nogues and freshman forward Molly Lavin. 
AU is chasing growth after such a successful season last year — followed by the transfers of  forward Taylor Brown and guard Emily Fisher. 
Although a successful 2021-2022 season for the Eagles put them in the first round of the NCAA Division I March Madness Tournament, they've been pining for the same wave of wins ever since. 
Despite a 4-8 record in the Patriot League, there's hope for AU with Nogues and Lavin both putting points on the board, in addition to the game played by lone sophomore guard Bailey Garbee. 
“A freshman becoming a part of the game early in her career is critical for our growth as a team and as a program,” said Coll. 
Dynamics on the court were intense, with constant pushback from AU to keep up with their opponents. Even until the last minute on the clock, the team was catching rebounds and making runs for the hoop. 
The final moments of motivation for AU indicate a strong future: a team who can continue to fight, even when facing a top-ranked team. 
The Eagles will return to Bender Arena on Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 7 p.m. to face off against the Bucknell Bison.
This article was edited by Penelope Jennings, Delaney Hoke and Nina Heller. Copy editing done by Isabelle Kravis, Natasha LaChac
kbenzingplourde@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
