THE EAGLE
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Professors of color are disproportionately underrepresented across the country. American University is no exception to this. As The Eagle examined faculty diversity around campus, what we found was unsatisfactory. Although each school within AU has a disappointingly low number of faculty of color, some schools lack more than others.     
The biggest culprits? The School of Public Affairs and the School of Communication.  
Only 15 of the 111 full-time SPA faculty members identified as persons of color for the 2021-2022 academic year. This number is likely a symptom of a much larger problem than just AU’s hiring practices. Since the inception of the United States, the federal government has been dominated by white men. Although the government has become more diverse in recent years, the effects of decades of racial discrimination in hiring practices directly influence the current job market. Because many SPA faculty are hired due to their experience in government and law, it tracks that white people are dominating the job market. This is systemic.  
Similarly, only 15 percent of full-time SOC faculty members identify as persons of color. This percentage, unfortunately, is in line with the journalism industry as a whole. The Columbia Journalism Review found that racial and ethnic minorities compose only 17 percent of U.S. newsroom staff. This causes an identical issue to SPA. The government and journalism industries must improve their hiring practices to diversify their talent. In doing so, universities will have more diverse candidates.
This is not to absolve AU of blame, however, for the lack of diversity in faculty. AU must make more of an effort to close this hiring gap. In its Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Statement, AU recognizes the importance of a diverse faculty. The fourth step of goal 4 of the Inclusive Excellence plan is to “continue efforts to diversify faculty hiring and retention.” There are specific steps listed to achieve this, yet based on faculty demographics, it seems that either the plan has not been implemented or it is not working.

The Kogod School of Business has a hiring program specifically designed to diversify faculty. Thirty-three percent of Kogod’s full-time faculty are racial or ethnic minorities, the second highest of any AU school. While this percentage should still be improved upon, it shows that a white-dominated field, like business, can still produce a diverse hiring pool. Other schools, like SPA and SOC, should look to Kogod to see how they can improve.     
AU’s advertisements, emails and social media campaigns are flooded with the phrase “inclusive excellence.” Students who come to AU expecting to find faculty members with shared identities due to this campaign should not have to be disappointed when they show up to class. Students of marginalized identities should be able to see themselves represented in the classroom, regardless of what major they choose. Unless every student can have professors with which they share commonalities, “inclusive excellence” will just be a buzzword that gives students unrealistic expectations.     
Students have a role to play in this, too. By filling out the Campus Climate Survey, students can let AU know what is and isn’t working and how they feel about AU. The Inclusive Excellence Plan was a direct result of students’ responses in the 2017 Campus Climate Survey. Students often complain that the University isn’t listening to them, but the University has no way of knowing how we feel unless we tell them. The Campus Climate Survey is a chance to do this. Students should give the Campus Climate Survey the same energy we give the end-of-semester Student Evaluations of Teaching for professors. This is our chance to make our voices heard and we shouldn’t ignore it.     
Once the Campus Climate Survey has been filled out by students, the University needs to make the results public and clearly explained so students can see if their complaints have actually been addressed. It is one of many ways administration can become more transparent.  
Students want to be heard, but after years of being told that we should just go through the 'proper channels' — filling out surveys, sending emails or applying to join working groups — to do so, it becomes tiring when we don't see the results of those actions. The University needs to show students that our feedback is not being thrown in a filing cabinet to never be seen again, and that it is actually being taken to heart.     
Students and faculty are more than just business transactions. Improving faculty diversity can only lead to more students feeling represented and comfortable in class, leading to greater success in the future.     
Faculty are often a student's first impression of what an industry looks like, and by not having diverse faculty, the University is showing its students of color that they will not be valued in their chosen fields. 
editor@theeagleonline.com      
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.     
American University’s new Positive Alarm Sequence requires personnel to respond to pulled fire alarms, inspect the scene and ensure the presence of an actual emergency. This new protocol for responding to pulled fire alarms has proven to be incredibly discriminatory. Following the implementation of the new system, local flames began protesting the personnel, who frequently declared them non-emergencies based on their height and hue.     
In the immediate time following the initial rollout, no flames reported substantial changes in their typical lives. But as the rate of intentional alarm pulling ramped up, so did the flammable profiling. Reports of security personnel measuring flame height to assess the fire’s danger have flooded The Seagle’s office.      
After one student’s dinner caught fire in a lounge, the Top Ramen flame ran to pull the alarm, believing they were responsible. Curiously, no alarm sounded. Instead, about a minute and a half later, a man with a clipboard trudged his way over to the chicken-scented flame.  
“What’s the reason for your creation, sir?” asked the man in a nasally, snobbish voice. The lanky man stood there with slumped shoulders, high-waisted khakis and a less-than-sunny disposition.    
“Kid burnt his food,” claimed the flame. The man nodded begrudgingly and did not hurry to declare an emergency.  The flame grew impatient watching the cartoonish man continue to ignore this dire emergency and inquired about alerting the resident hall’s inhabitants. After a few judgy glares, the man bent down, whipped out a tape measure and measured the flame. After being told his flame did not meet the height requirement for an actual emergency, the flame became irate and exploded away.
Last month, a first-year student tried to microwave a metal bowl, and the system discredited the flame due to the clarity of their orange hue.  
The flame met with Seagle reporters to share their story with the campus. Through a painful recounting of events, they claimed the worker tasked with the fire’s severity deemed the fire “incapable of damage” because the flame was “not orange enough.”     
After the University revealed the tremendous backlog of reports of these failed fires, mounting complaints from flames across campus caused a whirlwind, as flames refused to leave until they were deemed emergencies. All attempts at extinguishing these protests have proved futile. The flames have left their mark on campus, in both the figurative and the literal sense. 
In an attempt to quell the fiery discontent, administrators released a series of statements throughout the semester. While these statements purport to “reevaluate” criteria for defining fire-related emergencies, the flames have yet to be convinced.     
In fact, the flames were so dissatisfied with the performative statement, they lashed out. As of last week, the campus remains entirely engulfed in flames. Students are dying. Buildings are burning. The entire recorded history of the University is being loudly charred to bits by the roaring protests of profiled flames.      
The University’s administration maintains its position. When interviewed by a Seaglereporterinaflame-proofbox,one flame said, “This new system has brought burning questions to administration in the fields of discrimination, safety and consistency. We won’t back down until this whole place is charred to the ground.”      
Evidently, neither will the administration. The Seagle expects more fiery protests and fuming students in the weeks to come.      
Jared Bowes is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and is a satire columnist for The Eagle. 
jbowes@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
The following piece is satire and should not be misconstrued for actual reporting. Any resemblance to a student, staff or faculty member is coincidental.
As wonks across American University’s campus are suffering from stress ulcers in the wake of finals, many look to the greener pastures of summer break for a glimmer of hope. The Office of Campus Engagement recently conducted a survey in an attempt to gauge which factors excite AU students the most about the upcoming break and remind us all of the light at the end of the tunnel. Here are the top seven activities AU students are most excited to do come May 10, most of which were a surprise to precisely no one:    
1. Referring to D.C. as “the city” in their hick hometown. This answer was reported by 28 percent of students.     
My brother in Christ, let's stop pretending Joe Biden is your neighbor; you live in Tenleytown. You are closer to Wegmans than the red line.      
2. Paying under $15 for a shot. This answer was reported by 22 percent of seniors.  
Sure, the bar will have an autographed picture of Rudy Giuliani and only play country/pop sung by neck-bearded tenors, but nothing tastes better than cheap feels! Fair warning, though, some bars will not allow every wandering, babyfaced 19-year-old to slip through the doors, so use that awful fake sparingly. Not every bar values your dollar over their liquor license.  
3. Name-dropping Congress members they briefly interacted with during their Hillternship. This answer was reported by 17 percent of students.    
Cory Booker made eye contact with you at Union Station because you had mustard on your chin, not because you’re the next AOC. Also, the most you’ve ever done to advance your pro-worker agenda was mute the constituent ten minutes into his thirty minute rant about how your moderate democratic state representative is a pawn for ANTIFA.    
4. Cheating on their Georgetown situationship with their hometown situationship. This was reported by 12 percent of students.      
A real Edward versus Jacob moment.      
5. Complaining about their internship. This answer was reported by 9 percent of students.      
What’s more fun than complaining about the classes you’re voluntarily paying a small fortune to take? Complaining about the internship acceptance you literally prayed for! After a grueling nine months of complaining about classes, complaining about an internship will be a breath of fresh air.      
6. Eating a “real” bagel. This answer was reported by 8 percent of students.  
As much as it pains the Seagle to acknowledge the so-called “state” of New Jersey, the people have spoken: there is nothing more important to them than the gluten product they have chosen to define them as a people. This answer wasn’t even a survey option, either. Those watered-down “Italians” abused our “other” section like their terrible fake tans abuse our eyes. 
7. Mansplaining the election for Speaker of the House. This answer was reported by 4 percent of students.      
Our SPA-iest of Eagles are salivating at the mouth to explain to every innocent home friend or unsuspecting younger sibling the historical significance of Kevin McCarthy’s humiliating speaker election. While this event will be months old by the time summer comes around, everyone knows explaining political events aren’t about educating anyone: it’s about that sublime feeling of superiority. And the best part? You don’t even have to be a man to engage in mansplaining. As long as your attitude is pretentious enough, you’re golden.   
Whether your parents are paying for your overpriced apartment in the city or you’re loitering around suburban America and working your part-time high school job: best of luck on your finals and, of course, HAGS.      
India Siecke is a freshman in the School of Public Affairs and a satire columnist at The Eagle.
isiecke@theeagleonline.com     
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
Editor's note: this story contains references to ableism and eugenics    
“American University does not offer COVID-19 accommodations.” I’ve heard this a million times from administrators. This is the first semester to begin without mandated coronavirus precautions in classes since the pandemic started. As an immunocompromised student, it has made safely attending AU nearly impossible.     
Immunocompromised students are left fighting for scraps of safety and contemplating whether we should be enrolled at all. According to the American Medical Association, 2.7 percent of the population is immunocompromised. Applied to AU’s enrollment population, that would proportionality be 401 students silently scavenging for professors and classmates who respect their right to survive the education they paid for when AU’s policies do not.“If a member of our community asks others to mask when in close contact with one another, please treat these requests with respect and give them full consideration,” is the only line addressing immunocompromised students in each email lifting COVID-19 precautions. This is also the advice I’m given in personal emails with Bernard Schulz, the project manager for AU’s coronavirus response. There is no portion of any University correspondence about the coronavirus directing immunocompromised students to accommodations.     
Every semester, I’ve tried to get accommodations from the Academic Support and Access Center, but a current doctor must provide a diagnosis and make recommendations for ASAC to provide accommodations. Here’s the problem: I don’t have a doctor because even medical offices have removed coronavirus precautions. My medical records are all over the place from moving. I cannot afford to run diagnostic tests again. The Student Health Center can’t provide the recommendations. The list of hoops to jump through puts official accommodations out of reach. But even if I could get them, as the Dean of Students Office and ASAC have told me, “AU does not offer COVID-19 accommodations.”     
The Dean of Students Office told me in several meetings, though, that professors are allowed to provide unofficial accommodations. “Good news!” I thought. Except every professor I’ve asked has said their department head will not allow them to require masks or allow virtual attendance. The University has made sure immunocompromised students are blocked from safety at every turn. I am only kept safe by those willing to break the rules.   
The past three semesters have started the same. I plan every class possible. I check Rate My Professors, looking for signs that the faculty aren’t too strict of rule followers. I email each professor the following, with hyperlinks to immunology journals and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's recommendations:     
Each of these are responses I’ve received:
“I require masks in class for this reason!”
“You can reach out to ASAC for accommodations.”
“I’m an adjunct, so I can’t bend any rules, as I might lose my job.”
“I will not be requiring masks in class. Hope this helps.”
When a professor is unwilling to teach me safely, I have to drop the class, even ones I desperately wanted to take. Lots of professors, luckily, do work with me. I’ve had professors who require masks the entire semester or give me a Zoom link. Some let me do the readings and assignments at home and have meetings during office hours instead. These accommodations are against AU’s rules. Everything that has made AU navigable as an immunocompromised student has been in spite of University leadership and policies.     
This semester, the School of Communication has helped me. My last two classes in SOC were moved from small, windowless rooms with little ventilation to McKinley 100, an all glass room with two small rooms off to the side. I sit in one of those, 10 feet away from the nearest student.     
I am grateful for the faculty members who pulled the strings to make this exception for me. This was a kindness, but not every class can be moved, nor is every department willing to help. University-wide policies make this support impossible to implement on a larger scale. Refusal to require masks or allow virtual attendance as an accommodation has made physical segregation the best-case scenario.     
“Segregation — excluding [people] with disabilities — sets up an ‘us/them’ mentality and reinforces negative, stereotypical, and erroneous perceptions about individuals with disabilities,” writes disability activist Kathie Snow in her article, “Consequences of Segregation.”“Perceptions and attitudes are intertwined, and our attitudes drive our actions.”     
Policies that segregate immunocompromised students let able-bodied students think we don’t deserve to be here. I have personally begged my classmates to wear a mask, explaining my condition, buying masks and baking brownies to say thank you. They refuse, rolling their eyes and commenting on my social media, “What makes you think you deserve to live?”  
AU’s only avenue for immunocompromised students is to be physically segregated, but segregation creates hostility. What happens when women and Black students are disproportionately immunocompromised?     
Those assigned female at birth are four times as likely to have an autoimmune disorder, according to the National Institute of Health. Additionally, “Black students are overrepresented in nine of 13 disability categories and are more likely than their White peers to be placed in ... exclusionary educational settings,” explain disability scholars Beth Ferri and David Connor. 
These policies and attitudes communicate that immunocompromised students should either leave campus or not apply to AU in the first place. Students must have functioning immune systems and organs to safely attend.     
To any immunocompromised students, if you contact the Disabled Student Union, you can find and add to a private spreadsheet I’ve started of particularly ableist, or accommodating, professors.     
I hope able-bodied community members will break AU’s rules and make it safe to attend, no matter what immune function one has.     
Greta Mauch is a senior in the School of Communication and a columnist for The Eagle. 
gmauch@theeagleonline.com
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
From the Newsstands: This story appeared in The Eagle's April 2023 print edition. You can find the digital version here. 
The United States is the land of the free, as long as those free have cars and homes. Car dependence in America is an undoubtable reality. The image of a six-lane road lined with fast-food restaurants and gas stations is seen all across the country as the byway between residential and commercial areas.     
D.C. is not divorced from this, and Black communities bear the deadly brunt of car-centric neighborhoods everyday. It is no coincidence that Ward 3, one of the wealthiest and whitest areas of D.C., had no traffic deaths in 2021, and Wards 7 and 8, which have majority Black populations, hosted almost half of all D.C. traffic fatalities in 2021.     
These majority Black neighborhoods are designed with the traffic concerns of D.C. commuters in mind, not the residents themselves, by having a much larger share of high-speed roadways and highways crossing directly through southeastern D.C. neighborhoods.    
With a general lack of mixed-use zoning permitted in sprawling cities and suburbs alike, commercial and residential zones are geographically separated. This feeds the need for cars to get from the home to work, school and other establishments. The image evoked at the beginning of this piece is referred to as a “stroad”: a portmanteau of street and road. Urban planner Charles Marohn Jr. coined the term to describe “multi-laned thoroughfares you encounter in nearly every city, town, and suburb in America.”     
A stroad is the combination of a street, which involves people interacting with commercial and residential areas, and a road that is built with high speed limits akin to a highway. Although they are often busy connectors of business and residences, most stroads don’t have well maintained sidewalks or safe crosswalks — making pedestrians’ travel either unsafe or impossible.  
Stroads exist because of urban sprawl and non-mixed zoning areas where residential areas are far enough away from all other places that people need a car to accomplish daily tasks. If sprawling cities and towns were designed to be denser, stroads wouldn’t be necessary, but dangerous, connectors.     
Urban sprawl exists because of American freedom — freedom to intricately craft barriers restricting minorities and lower classes from popping the perfect suburban bubble. Freedom to influence zoning policies and even carve out portions of cities to be built like suburbs plays a role, too.     
This is seen in D.C.’s R-2 zone definition, which intends to “protect these areas from invasion by denser types of residential development.” This type of residential zone only allows development of semi-detached homes on medium-size lots, which essentially restricts housing designs other than two single-family homes connected by a shared wall. The only exceptions in R-2 zoning are for completely detached single family homes. Residential apartment zones that are meant for medium-to-high density living are quite few and far between in D.C., with Wards 4, 7 and 8 having practically no zones permitting such high density development.    
Exclusionary zoning practices create artificially inflated housing markets that only allow the development of residential zones in specific areas. Such residential zones are often specified for only detached single-family homes, preventing more affordable multi-family homes and apartments from being constructed and restricting the kind of people who can live in a certain area.     
Dense living is more efficient, cost-effective and community-oriented, so why isn’t there more incentive to build mixed-use and apartment friendly areas that allow residents to live, work and consume without the need for a car?     
The answer is easy — urban sprawl requires a car, so as long as the car lobby remains powerful, mixed-use zoning and quality alternative transport will not be supported or funded. Without mixed-use zones, housing will continue to be segregated between those who can afford homes and those who need to rent.     
The car lobby’s power is backed by the even larger oil lobby. Koch Industries is a conglomerate that produces gasoline, asphalt and various other car parts; the Koch brothers fund a libertarian lobbying group called Americans for Prosperity which has effectively lobbied against mass-transit projects in over seven areas across the country.     
To many, an expensive SUV and a six-bedroom house represent the American dream, a dream sold to us by car companies and housing developers. This dream was born out of the racist “white flight” desires of rich and middle-class white Americans to carve out their own exclusionary utopias, where the barrier to entry is artificially high housing and vehicle prices. 
Awareness about such systematic exclusionary urban planning, funded by the car and home development lobby, is the first step in creating more equitable and efficient cities and towns in the United States.     
Jelinda Montes is a junior in the School of Public Affairs and School of Communication and the assistant opinion editor for The Eagle. 
jmontes@theeagleonline.com     
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
THE EAGLE
As the spring semester comes to a close and The Eagle faces its last day of publishing for the semester, we, the staff, would like to thank our graduating seniors for their tireless effort and commitment to The Eagle. 
Throughout their college careers, juggling classes, multiple majors and minors, relationships, jobs and internships, our seniors have remained dedicated to The Eagle, making it better every day and giving younger staffers something to look up to. A commitment to The Eagle is no small thing, and our Class of 2023 seniors handled it with grace and skill.
Former Editor-in-Chief Nina Heller wrote in her own goodbye to The Eagle, as many EICs have done before, that the community at The Eagle is special. All of our 2023 seniors helped make it that way. 
“Knowing there are people who are willing to do the work to make it better shows how special this place is,” Heller wrote. 
Just as every graduating class does, the Class of 2023 helped make The Eagle what it is today. Congratulations to our graduating seniors. We invite you to read some of their reflections on their time at The Eagle below. 
Georgina DiNardo, Life Staff Writer, Bachelor of Arts in Journalism 
Four years ago I applied to The Eagle as an eager, doe-eyed young freshman excited to make my mark on D.C. and take my first step in becoming a professional journalist. Little did I know that I would be sitting in my room, fiddling with my Eagle graduation cord as I tried to find the best way to approach this tearful farewell. 
I’ve had a unique path at The Eagle, to say the least. I started as an opinion section writer with the intent to write whatever I felt and express my opinions in my pieces for once, however, this was not for me and I quickly transitioned to assistant copy editor. I fell in love with the copy team, which edits all the articles that come across The Eagle’s desk. As my freshman year came to a close, I applied for Managing Copy Editor, fully expecting to get rejected for being too young or lack of experience, but to my delight and surprise, I got the position. I held that position for two years, in which I helped the Copy team grow and expand, worked hard to keep The Eagle up to date on style rules and create an easy editing process for everyone else. This job, however, could not be done alone. I need to thank the wonderful Isabelle Kravis, one of my first hires as Managing Copy Editor, who has now taken over the position and is doing a better job than I ever could. I want to thank the entire Life section that has welcomed me with open arms and Kylie Bill for being an absolutely amazing Life Managing Editor. Despite already having moved on to bigger and better things, I want to thank Clare Mulroy and Spencer Nusbaum for being amazing friends and office buddies who always have my back. I also want to thank Nina Heller and all my past editors-in-chief who have dedicated their time, effort, love, tears and sweat to making this paper shine. Finally, I want to thank all the friends I’ve made on staff throughout the years who have been along for the ride through thick and thin.
The Eagle has left me with many wonderful memories, countless laughs, some great photos with Zac Efron and even a few great water polo games with fellow eaglets. I leave The Eagle as a better writer, editor, coworker and friend. While on The Eagle, there have been tough times when it’s seemed easier to just quit, but the people and my love for journalism kept me going. The thousands of stories edited and the dozens written will never compare to the memories and friendships I have made during my time at The Eagle and I can’t wait to see where everyone’s careers take them. See you all on LinkedIn!
Olivia Kozlevcar, former Life Managing Editor, Bachelor of Arts in Journalism and Literature
I have never really been big on being part of the news. I became a journalism major on a whim and started at The Eagle during my sophomore year as a way to make friends during the pandemic because a talkative kid in my reporting class was part of it.
Lucky for me, it worked out, as The Eagle has brought me some of my closest college friends.

Skye Witley, former Administration and Local News editor and that aforementioned talkative kid, has become one of the greatest friends I could ask for by buying into my wackiness. Clare Mulroy and Nina Heller, both former EICs, have not only been overwhelmingly kind to me when I have needed it but have also taught me all I needed to know about reporting. Spenser Hoover and Tristan Au, whom I met when we teamed up to create the District of Cinema podcast, are not only amazing people who have cared for me at my worst but were also responsible for sending me down the career path of screenwriting that I will now be embarking on at the University of Southern California. Without any of them, I don’t know if I’d be as happy with the person who I am today.
I also owe a huge thank you to the multimedia team — Carly, Izzy, Mariana and Natalie — who made my silly little projects happen. I’d also like to give a shout out to the Life staff old and new, who helped to shape both my personality and leadership skills. Hannah, Kylie, Jenna, Kendall, Sara, Bailey, Sam, Mia, Trish, Maria and so many others — thank y’all for being you. I hope our time together was truly great and that you actually never cried.
I am somewhat notorious around SOC for being the journalism student who constantly reminds everybody that she doesn’t want to be a journalist. Though my career in this field is undeniably coming to a close, I feel so grateful for the lessons it taught me about navigating community, professionalism and making a good time out of stressful situations.
Natasha LaChac, Assistant Copy Editor, Bachelor of Arts in Data Science for Political Science and Journalism
If there is one thing I regret from my undergraduate experience, it is this: I didn’t join The Eagle sooner. I came into college terrified that I wasn’t good enough to write for the paper. It took me two years to work up the courage to submit an article, and I never looked back. Everyone at The Eagle has been supportive and kind. I’ve been able to write (which I thought was my passion) and edit (which may be my true passion) knowing that the staff has my back. Thank you to everyone who made my time here unforgettable. And to anyone who wants to join The Eagle but is nervous, take the leap.
Greta Mauch, Opinion Columnist, Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations & Strategic Communication
I didn’t join The Eagle until the second semester of my senior year. For the first three and a half years, I only pitched one opinion piece, as a guest contributor. Then, after taking an Opinion Writing course, I was inspired to submit a couple more. In doing so, I was met with the encouragement of the Opinion section’s editors, who messaged me out of the blue on Instagram and over email saying “The Eagle is currently hiring opinion columnists. I’d love to see you apply!” 
On a whim, knowing how much I loved my Opinion Writing class, I applied. I was overjoyed joining the team, and I’ve been overjoyed with every meeting and article since. Assistant Opinion Editor Jelinda Montes has been absolutely incredible to work with. Former Editor-in-Chief Nina Heller and Managing Copy Editor Isabelle Kravis have made me happy-cry with their supportive comments on my article drafts. I am unbelievably grateful for the short time I’ve worked with Editor-in-Chief Abigail Pritchard. Even before officially joining, having former Opinion Managing Editor Kayla Kelly edit an article of mine was an honor. Opinion Managing Editor Alexis Bernstein, above all, was extraordinarily helpful, and the absolute best part of my experience at The Eagle. I’ve never felt more fulfilled than with this group of wildly talented writers and editors.
Becoming an opinion columnist gave me a purpose. Where I once felt hopeless after unsettling events on campus, I am now able to channel that into my writing, feeling like I finally have some semblance of a voice. When my friends and classmates are in trouble, being a part of The Eagle makes me feel like I can actually do something. I have no doubt that my place here and the people I’ve met have completely changed the course of my career and life. I am saddened to leave, and I wish I had joined earlier, but I am so proud of this team and all the work they will continue to do. 
Rebecca Oss, Online Managing Editor, Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations & Strategic Communication
I want to start this by saying that every time I’ve edited out an Oxford comma, I was in pain. Other than that, I’ve loved every moment of working at The Eagle. AP style grievances aside, since joining the Online team, I’ve gotten to work with amazing people having conversations about everything from strategic posting times to graphic design — and providing timely news coverage better than Barstool ever could.
Getting to seek out folks to write each week’s Eagle Explains in our newsletter has been one of my favorite parts of this position. The Online team is often separated from the rest of The Eagle because the work we do is so unique. But I’ve read powerful investigative journalism and heard about amazing behind the scenes work from folks across every team at this paper, and then we get to highlight their passionate work; while I’m going to miss working with the authors of these blurbs, I’m excited to open the newsletter next semester and read about the amazing work that folks here are going to keep doing. 
Insert the “I also have so many people to thank” line here, because even though it’s cheesy, it’s name drop time. Nina Heller has been an editor, a mentor, a friend and more. Her guidance has been invaluable, on captions to my never-ending questions to rants. Eliza Schloss set me up for success and encouraged me to apply for positions with increased responsibility; I was ready to post Instagram stories when I first started, and I’ve gotten to do that and so much more in the semesters since. I’ve only gotten to work with Abigail Pritchard for a little bit, but I’m so excited to see where she takes the paper. To the current Online team: Neev Agarwal, Taraji Ellington, Aaron Russell, Sachi Carlyn Lozano, Sarah Flakus and Tiffanie Roye — thank you, not just for your diligence to disseminating reporting across platforms, but for your enthusiasm, dedication, thoughtfulness, creativity and genuine feedback. To Taraji, your graphic design skills not only far outpace my own but show your talent and interest in making our Instagram feed outstanding. To Neev, I’m excited to leave the team in your hands — don’t worry, I’ll keep opening the newsletters to keep your engagement rate high. Thank you to everyone who wrote an Eagle Explains, and thank you, finally and far too broadly, to every single reporter, editor, photographer and multimedia creator who has produced such amazing work that I’ve had the honor to read and send out.
Jenna Schwartz, Life Staff Writer, Bachelor of Arts in Journalism and Political Science 
My first couple years of college did not go as planned. I think a lot of college kids now would agree that the pandemic flipped everything on its head and straight into chaos. For a year, there were no in person classes, and I felt absolutely disconnected to campus. At the end of my sophomore year, I decided to join The Eagle as a Life staff writer and suddenly, I didn’t feel as lost. As a journalism major, I initially joined The Eagle so I could gain more experience in my field. But, I wanted to write about so many different things that it felt overwhelming. I finally picked up my first story: an album review of Clairo’s “Sling” and from there things just started to fall into place. With the support of my editors and everyone else on staff, I finally felt that it was okay to not know everything and just explore. The Eagle gave me the space to learn so much about myself and what I wanted to do with my life — a space that I had longed for since the beginning of college. As I am graduating soon, I’ve been really reflective over the past four years and what they’ve meant for me. With that, I’ve come to realize how essential The Eagle was in finding myself. As the Class of 2023, going to college when we did was undoubtedly challenging, but finding a community and a safe space felt possible when I became a writer, photographer, and an editor for The Eagle. If there is any advice I would give to AU students who feel a little lost, join an organization like The Eagle. I am forever grateful to have been a part of this wonderful publication and community. 
editor@theeagleonline.com 
Would you like to support our work? Donate here to The Eagle Innovation Fund.
© Copyright The Eagle 2023, All Rights Reserved.
Powered by  Solutions by The State News.
