Sophomore kicker Maikon Bonani ran sprints during Mondays practice for the first time since injuring his vertebra, said USF special teams coach John Hendrick. Bonani fell 35 feet while working on a ride at Busch Gardens in July. He cracked his 12th thoracic vertebra and he was hospitalized for five days. Bonani returned to practice two weeks ago and has made considerable strides, Hendrick said.  He needs to get back in shape and wake up the muscles a bit, Hendrick said. He kicked some today. He looks rusty, but hell get stronger and better and he took some nice kicks from some pretty good distances. Bonani, who was 15-for-21 in field goals last season, kicked the game-winner against Kansas last year. He was expected to be USFs kicker heading into this season before the injury.  Mitchell, Wilson among several injured Bulls USFs bye week couldnt have come at a better time, as several Bulls are nursing injuries. The big concern is junior wide receiver Carlton Mitchell, who left Fridays win against West Virginia with an ankle injury. Mitchell, who is the teams leading receiver was on crutches at Mondays practice with what USF coach Jim Leavitt said was a sore ankle. Leavitt said Mitchells progress is day-to-day. Senior linebacker Kion Wilson suffered a groin injury Friday, but Leavitt said he will be fine. I think his groins a little sore, Leavitt said. Could he play today? If he had to … probably, but itd be hard. He needs rest. A knee injury leaves sophomore cornerback Tyson Butler doubtful for the Nov. 12 game against Rutgers, Leavitt said.  I think hell be out, Leavitt said. Senior safety Nate Allen suffered a hip-pointer Friday but practiced Monday.  USF hosts Florida Southern in exhibition In preparation for the upcoming season, the USF mens basketball team hosts Florida Southern in an exhibition tonight at 7 in the Sun Dome. Its the only exhibition game until USF opens its regular season schedule Nov. 13 against Southern Methodist University in Dallas. Florida Southern went 29-7 and finished first in Division IIs Sunshine State Conference a year ago. Theyre pretty good, USF coach Stan Heath said. Itll be a good test for our team right out of the gate.  Wilson honored Senior linebacker Kion Wilson was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week by the league for his performance against West Virginia. Wilson had 12 tackles (2.5 for loss) and an interception.  Redshirt freshman quarterback B.J. Daniels, who had 336 yards of total offense and three passing touchdowns, made the Big Easts weekly honor roll.  Mens soccer gets Marquette in round one USF, which fell to a No. 3 seed in the Big East tournament thanks to its loss at Rutgers on Saturday and St. Johns win over Syracuse on Sunday, will host No. 6 seed Marquette on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the first round. USF could have clinched a No. 2 seed and a first-round bye with a win against Rutgers or a St. Johns loss. The Bulls tied Marquette 1-1 on Sept. 18 at the USF Soccer Stadium. If USF wins Thursday, it will play at either Connecticut or Notre Dame on Sunday at an undetermined time.