Junior college transfer Jarrid Famous played his first Division I college game Tuesday night. It doesn’t seem like he’s having any problem adjusting.


Famous scored 20 points, grabbed eight rebounds and had two blocks as the Bulls got little resistance from Florida Southern in their 110-79 exhibition win Tuesday night at the Sun Dome.


“It seems like he has another gear when the lights come on,” said coach Stan Heath of Famous. “I like that about him. He seemed very comfortable out there on the court.”


Famous, who was expected to provide immediate help offensively and defensively, did just that with a steal and two rim-rattling dunks.


“He was better than what I expected tonight,” Heath said. “The next step for him will be scoring with his back to the basket. He can, but I think it’s something he can be more efficient in.”


Famous didn’t commit a turnover in 27 minutes.


I felt good out there,” Famous said. “I think we played good as a team for being out there for the first time. We have a lot of things to work on.”


Heath alluded to comments in the off season about rebounding as one of the focal points of improvement, but the Bulls got out-rebounded 43-42.


“If we rebound like that, we’re going to have a lot of problems,” Heath said. “That’s fixable.”


The offense was the bright spot, as several Bulls dominated the night.


Junior guard Dominique Jones, a preseason second-team all-Big East selection, continued his scoring success from last season with 20 points and eight assists in 25 minutes. Senior Mike Mercer added 17 points in 24 minutes.


The 110 was the most points scored by a USF team and only the second time the Bulls have exceeded the century mark in Heath’s tenure, which began in 2007.


“There’s a lot more offensive depth this year than last year,” Mercer said “We have a lot of offensive firepower.”


Every Bull that played scored. Freshman forward Toarlyn Fitzpatrick had 14 points and seven rebounds off the bench.


“He’s been a real bright spot,” Heath said. “Out of all the guys on the team, I’m probably the hardest on him because we’re going to need him. That’s a big concern of mine … our depth on the inside.”


A performance like Famous’ may have eased his mind a bit, though.


“He made some passes out of the post,” Heath said. “For the most part, he gave us a presence inside that we really haven’t had.”