Later this month, students will be able to pay for their laundry on campus using USF Bull Bucks ― but it will come at a price.


Washer and dryer use has increased in price to $1 each, up from 75 cents.  Upon returning this semester, students were unaware of the price increase.


“Economic times over the past several years made it necessary to increase laundry prices,” said Kelly Best, associate director of Facilities and Maintenance for Housing.


The difference will help offset University costs, as well as help pay for a program that will allow students to swipe their ID cards and use Bull Bucks to pay for their laundry.


Bull Bucks are part of a program set up in May that allows students to spend electronic money on campus at places such as the dining facilities, the bookstore, the pharmacy, and on printing and copying at the Library and computer lab, said Chris Akin, associate director of Information Technology (IT).


“Students, faculty and staff can deposit funds into an electronic account for use on campus,” Akin said. “It’s kind of like a gift card.”


Before May, students could pay for laundry with a “vend stripe” on their card, Akin said.  When USF initiated the Bull Bucks program, the electronics needed to allow students to use Bull Bucks were not available. Until the equipment is up and running, coins must be used to operate the machines.


At the start of this semester, students found a sign in the laundry rooms that reads: “All machines are coin-only until further notice. Card reader scheduled to come online mid-January.”


Best said that hardware and wiring is already in place, and that the machines will be installed and programmed this semester to work with the IT department.


Money generated from laundry facilities is used to fund resident programs such as events, meetings and alcohol awareness, said Lucy Willis, associate director of business for Housing.


“One hundred percent of those costs are from laundry commissions,” she said.


One advantage of using Bull Bucks is that students will not have to worry about finding quarters to use in the machines, said Samantha McLean, a fine arts major.


“(The system) is more convenient,” said biology major Tatiana White, “because people will not have to find change.”


Students have differing views about the increased price, though.


Though McLean said she thinks people can afford the price increase, she added that the previous price of 75 cents was still too much to pay for laundry.


Chris Jenkins, a music major, said that even though people have the money for it, “people will always complain.”