In Tampa, art is in the eye of the beholder — if it can be found.


For USF students, the on-campus Contemporary Art Museum (CAM) offers no shortage of visual stimulation for those who seek it out. But for art aficionados out and about in the city, it takes a bit of searching to find the great art it has to offer.


Bleu Acier
For a wide range of art from the U.S. and across the pond, Bleu Acier is a fine host. Bleu Acier is a residence, print shop, studio and gallery space owned and operator by artist Erika Greenberg-Schneider.


“I though it would be a good place to introduce international art and bring European artists to arena,” she said. “I show a lot of works on paper and prints and I bring original works here occasionally when I can afford to.”


Bleu Acier hosts beginning, mid-career and established U.K. and U.S. artists and offers a wide variety of genres and themes anyone can enjoy.


Where: 109 W. Columbus Drive, Phone: 813-272-9746, Web site: bleuacier.com


three04
Lisa Harasiuk, founder and curator of three04, likes to bring outsiders’ art to Tampa.


“I want to expose people to things outside of the Tampa culture that they don’t see every day and to broaden people’s horizons on all things beautiful,” she said. “I like sculpture and I have so far shown drawings and paintings with a pretty wide range (of artistic styles).”


The gallery accepts submissions through the Web and is funded by donations from local artists and art lovers.


Where: 1906 N. Armenia Ave. #304, Phone: 813-260-0130, Web site: three04.com


[5]art
Though most curators share the goal of expanding viewers’ horizons, Tracy Midulla Reller, founder and affiliate of [5]art, has a more simplistic primary goal.


Reller said she just wants to bring the community art that is professional and relatable.


She also said she wants to promote working artists and give the local community a way to engage in visual arts.


“Because we work as a collective, we basically toss all of our ideas in the hat. We always try to keep emerging and mid-career artists — mix it up,” she said.


The collective shows contemporary and emerging art and hopes to usher student artists into the working world.


Where: 1906 N. Armenia Ave. #211, Phone: 813-340-9056, Web site: five-art.com


Flight 19
Flight 19’s main function is to provide a space that supports local community artists of all mediums. The venue is an abandoned baggage claim that the artist collective Experimental Skeleton uses with permission from the city of Tampa. The collective hosts visual art, live music and performance shows, projects, lectures and workshops.


Past visual art shows have included Mark Mothersbaugh’s Beautiful Mutants, vintage portrait photographs manipulated by Mothersbaugh; LOUDART, a collection of Tampa punk show flyers from the ’80s and ’90s; and Furniture Challenge, a reality show pilot in which contestants competed to build the highest-quality chair.


Where: 601 N. Nebraska Ave. (baggage claim at Union Station), E-mail contact: bobdorsey@gmail.com, Web site: experimentalskeleton.com


To learn more about Tampa artists and venue locations, visit tampaartist.com.