With movie prices at an all-time high, not everyone can afford to take a date to see recent films like “Dear John” or the unoriginally titled film, “Valentine’s Day,” on Sunday night.


Luckily, Hollywood has created dozens of romantic movies for every occasion that are just one Netflix queue or video rental store away.


Depending on your mood and romantic situation, use this list to figure out which flick best suits your movie night this Valentine’s Day.


If you want to see “Dear John,” watch …


“The Notebook”


Based on the novel by Nicholas Sparks, who also wrote “Dear John,” “The Notebook” is a popular film that’s perfect for Valentine’s Day.


Played almost once a week on the Oxygen network, the story follows a young summer romance that’s framed by an older couple reading a story in a nursing home.


The young couple faces distance and social differences and learns to make the choice between obligations and first love, which draws similarities
to “Dear John.”


Runner-up:

“A Walk to Remember”


If you’ve just lost love, watch…


“Return to Me”


The film, which may have you crying 15 minutes in, follows the love story between Bob Rueland and Grace Briggs.


Individually, the couple is suffering with their own previous losses – Rueland’s loss of his wife, whose heart is donated after her death and Briggs’ near loss of her own life – but after a strange twist of fate brings them together, they find that anything is possible.


Despite the early tears, “Return to Me” is a heart-warming film reminding viewers that even great loss can lead to brighter futures..


Runner-up:
“Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind”
If you’ve just found love, watch…


“The Princess Bride”


Light-hearted and fun, “The Princess Bride” is a perfect first-date film with enough romance for any woman and plenty of sword fights and torture for men.


Full of one-liners, unique characters, death, life and love, it’s one of the rare films that encompasses most genres and appeals to many different audiences.


In the film, the maiden Buttercup falls in love with a farm boy, Westley, and then loses him after she is kidnapped in a pirate attack. Westley joins up with a team and goes after the one he loves.


Runner-up:
“Shrek”


If you’re a single woman, watch…


“Lost in Austen”


A modern twist on the novel “Pride and Prejudice,” this BBC mini-series is the perfect distraction from unworthy suitors and date duds for any woman on Valentine’s Day.


The series follows Amanda Price, a girl sick of unimpressive men and enchanted by the world in her favorite novel, “Pride and Prejudice.” When she discovers a door to the world in her bathroom, she finds the charming Mr. Darcy more frustrating than the men in her own life – at least at first glance.


The series is funny and endearing and shows that everyone makes mistakes when it comes to love, but things always work out in the end.


Runner-up:
“Clueless”
If you’re in a long-distance relationship, watch…


“Ladyhawke”


The 1985 film that flew under the radar is an iconic tale for the expression “so close, yet so far away.”


Lovers Etienne Navarre and Isabeau get separated by a jealous bishop who curses the couple so they can never be together in human form. At night, Navarre transforms into a wolf, and during the day Isabeau lives as a hawk.


With the help of “The Mouse” – a thief played by Matthew Broderick – and a priest, the couple works to break the curse and finally be together.


Runner-up:
“Kate and Leopold”


If you want to impress your girlfriend, watch…


“Casablanca”


Often regarded as the most famous romance film, “Casablanca” has stood the test of time and is still loved today. Suggest this movie this weekend and your girlfriend would be crazy to refuse.


In the film, Rick Blaine, his former lover Ilsa and her husband Victor Laszlo try to escape a World War II-torn country after Blaine is given stolen letters of transit that allow him to leave.


The film is full of memorable one-liners, including “I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.” The film, made in 1942, was one of the first to involve an on-screen love triangle and will leave your heart hanging on your sleeve until the end.


Runner-up:
“Beauty and the Beast”


If you want to make your boyfriend happy, watch…


“Top Gun”


While your boyfriend impresses you with chocolates and roses, suggest a movie he will enjoy.


“Top Gun” has often been regarded as a guy movie, but it has enough romance to work on Valentine’s Day. Pete Mitchell, or “Maverick,” is an up-and-coming fighter pilot who becomes attracted to one of his instructors at the Navy’s Fighter Weapons School.


While the aerial battles and banter may be aimed at males, there are plenty of shirtless men and romantic ballads to keep the mood alive – and enough action to keep your boyfriend’s spirits up.


Runner-up:
“300”


If one love story is not enough, watch…


“Love Actually”


The film follows eight different intertwined love stories from different walks of life.


With so many characters, the film appeals to different age groups, social situations and types of relationships, making it easy to find at least one character that audiences can relate to.


Perfect for the indecisive couple, the film boasts an all-star cast with Liam Neeson, Emma Thompson and Colin Firth and is sure to add charm to any romantic movie night.


Runner-up:
“He’s Just Not That Into You”