Add another trophy to the mantle.


Five days after former USF men’s soccer player Zak Boggs was taken in the Major League Soccer draft, he was named the 2010 Coach Wooden Citizenship Cup Award winner Tuesday night.


Presented by the Athletes for a Better World (ABW) at the East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta, the award is given to a collegiate and professional athlete each year who have made the greatest positive influence in the lives of others.


Other finalists were’quarterback Colt McCoy (University of Texas, football), goalkeeper Brianna O’Donnell (University of North Carolina, field hockey), midfielder Rebecca Poskin (Dartmouth College, soccer) and third baseman Melissa Schellberg (Harvard University, softball).


‘(Tuesday) was just an amazing night,’ said Boggs, the lone Big East representative among the finalists. ‘Just being’mentioned with the other’finalists was a tremendous honor, and to be the recipient of such a prestigious award from a great organization like Athletes for a Better World is very humbling. I just have to thank my head coach George Kiefer, our coaching staff and players, (Assistant Director of Athletics) Justin Miller and everyone in academics ‘hellip; I am truly honored.’


Boggs, who started all’44 games for the Bulls the last two seasons, also won the 2008-09 Big East Conference Male Scholar-Athlete of the Year in February. In 2008, he helped USF to its first Big East title. He was selected in the second round of the MLS draft by the New England Revolution on Jan. 14.



Women’s tennis faces top team


The USF women’s tennis team will play No. 15 FSU on Saturday in Tallahassee at’11 a.m. in its first dual match of the spring season.


The Bulls, who opened the season No. 75 in the ITA’rankings, won two flights at the FGCU Classic last weekend.



Men’s tennis heads on the road


USF men’s tennis, the defending Big East champions, will face No. 34 Tulsa'(3-1) on Saturday at 6 p.m. The No. 37 Bulls (1-0) beat FGCU 6-1 Tuesday, winning two singles matches and five doubles matches.


‘