While Pixar has run the 3D world of animated children movies, Universal has decided to join its league, making “Despicable Me” its first 3D-animated film. Even the jumping yellow “minion” compares to the Pixar lamp. However, this movie plays on the idea that every villain has other responsibilities besides trying to rule the world.


The main character, Gru (Steve Carell), might be the best villain ever, if only he could pull off something great. The movie begins with us already assuming he’s a villain in that rather than helping a kid who just lost his ice cream he gives the kid a balloon and then pops it in front of him. Like many of the other super villains, Gru is obsessed with pulling off a heist that will be talked about for ages; his plan isn’t to rule the world, though, but rather take the moon.


The task of stealing the device to steal the moon should be easy for a veteran, but it isn’t as Gru finds out a young villain, Vector (Jason Segel), ends up grabbing the device necessary to do so and confines himself to his hideout spot. However, it is once Gru finds out that Vector has this device that the story really begins as the battle over who is the best super villain initiates.


Even though the story turns into the typical battle, the writers throw a 180 at the audience as they show Gru being responsible for three girls.While critics may say that the plot diminishes as a result of this, others may disagree and find this view refreshing. Instead of having Gru as a dynamic, stand-alone character, he is viewed as a three-dimensional character and not the predictable villain viewers are used to seeing.


With different characters coming together and audience members being exposed to different settings, it seems evident that this movie conquers trying to reach out to both children and parents. Silly stunts shown in the film are intended for kids, and whenever Gru is seen facing parenthood difficulties, it becomes apparent that those moments were for parents.Whether it’s the Russian accent with a hint of American slang from Gru or the girls, there are multiple elements to keep everyone laughing throughout the film.


While this movie has been criticized for not matching up to Pixar expectations, “Despicable Me” does have genuinely funny moments. Considering this is Universal’s first shot at making such a film, it is still entertaining and worth watching to see the differences in special effects between the two companies.