Fears of a serious injury to USF redshirt junior B.J. Daniels’ right shoulder were alleviated by coach Skip Holtz on Tuesday, though the quarterback’s status remains unclear.


“B.J. has what has been deemed a AC (acromioclavicular) joint bruise,” Holtz said. “It is on his right shoulder, and how much he will be able to play or practice at this point, I don’t know. He is a question mark.”


If Daniels is unable to play, sophomore Bobby Eveld will make his second career start Friday against Louisville. In five games for the Bulls, he has thrown for 598 yards, two touchdowns and six interceptions.


“Bobby Eveld has now been in the system for two years,” Holtz said. “He’s had an awful lot of reps in practice, and he should be ready to go.”


Behind Eveld, the depth chart is fluid. True freshman Matt Floyd, currently sitting out a redshirt year, will be the backup quarterback, ahead of walk-on Ryan Eppes. Holtz said if Eveld is injured, he would consider inserting Floyd and burning his redshirt year, especially if it is a close game where the Bulls have a chance to earn their sixth win and become bowl eligible.


Wide receiver Victor Marc and tight end Evan Landi, both former quarterbacks, are other options the coaching staff would consider, albeit in a limited playbook.


Gilchrist day-to-day


Senior forward Augustus Gilchrist also suffered a shoulder injury over the weekend, missing the second half of Sunday’s game against Penn State. The news on Gilchrist’s shoulder is also positive.


“We’ll know a little bit more (Tuesday), but it could be a game-time decision,” men’s basketball coach Stan Heath said. “It’s an injury that he’s had before and it normally settles down, but it takes a few days before you really know exactly where he is.”


Heath said Gilchrist’s status for Wednesday’s game against Georgia Southern is unclear, but he is expected to be healthy in time for Saturday’s game against Florida Atlantic.


Freshman point guard Anthony Collins is expected to make his collegiate debut Wednesday after recovering from a hip flexor injury. He is likely to take over the starting point guard position, with Blake Nash moving to shooting guard.


Guard Jawanza Poland, who has not played this year due to a back injury, will be evaluated by the medical staff Monday. Once he is cleared to play, he will begin serving a two-game NCAA suspension for participating in an unsanctioned summer league.


Holtz addresses UNC rumors


Yahoo! Sports writer Charles Robinson set rumors swirling Saturday night that Holtz was the leading candidate to land the vacant coaching job at North Carolina.


Holtz addressed those rumors Monday, saying he had not spoken with anyone from North Carolina.


“I have not talked to anybody,” Holtz said. “It’s this time of year when speculation goes on everywhere. Who’s going to take what job? I have not talked to anybody about the North Carolina job.


“It’s flattering your name is mentioned. I have a great job. I have one that I chose to be here two years ago. This was a choice I made. It’s where I want to be, it’s what we’re trying to build here, what we’re trying to develop here. Right now, I’m going to do everything I can to find a way to get these last two wins. That’s where my focus is, that’s where my concentration is, that’s where my efforts are going right now.”