Former USF midfielder Bernardo Anor, currently a rookie with the Columbus Crew of MLS, won the Player of the Week Award after scoring a goal and setting up another in the Crew’s 2-0 win over the Houston Dynamo on Saturday.


Anor made the most of his first MLS start and helped the Crew top Houston for the first time in franchise history.


Anor was the 48th overall selection in the 2011 MLS Superdraft after a four-year career with the Bulls.


Eriksen, USA visit campus


The USF baseball and softball stadiums will host a pair of familiar faces Friday as USA Softball comes to town.


Both the USA Softball Women’s National Team and the USA Softball Junior Women’s National Team will practice at the facilities in preparation for an exhibition doubleheader Saturday evening at Plant City Stadium in Plant City.


USF softball coach Ken Eriksen, also coach of the senior national team, will lead two practice sessions on the softball field from 9 a.m. to noon and again from 5:45 p.m. to 8 p.m.


The junior team, featuring USF shortstop Kourtney Salvarola, will practice on the baseball field from 9 a.m. to noon before moving to the softball side of the complex for a practice from 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.


The practice sessions are open to the public.


Game one of Saturday’s doubleheader begins at 6 p.m., with an autograph session following the games.


Men’s soccer signs two


With All-American goalkeeper Jeff Attinella now in the professional ranks, USF men’s soccer coach George Kiefer has brought in a high-profile transfer to mind the net when the 2011 season opens in August.


Former Michigan goalkeeper Chris Blais has joined the program after leading the Wolverines to the 2010 Final Four. Blais led the Wolverines to a 17-5-3 record a year ago with a 1.31 goals against average, including four shutouts.


The Wolverines beat UCF, No. 7 South Carolina on the road and No. 2 Maryland on the road to advance to the Final Four before losing to eventual champions Akron in the semifinals.


Midfielder Isaiah Ferguson, a native of Port St. Lucie, will also join the Bulls after transferring from USC-Upstate.


Ferguson has been a member of both the Trinidad & Tobago and U.S. junior national teams programs and was a standout player at Treasure Coast High School.


Football fills schedule


It’s still three seasons away, but USF has signed a contract to open its 2013 campaign with a home game against McNeese State University. The Cowboys have been added to a non-conference slate that also includes Miami, Michigan State and FAU.


The Bulls and Cowboys met for the only time in program history in 2006, with a 41-10 win for USF. McNeese State, which plays in the Football Championship Subdivision’s Southland Conference, will receive $400,000 for their trip to Tampa, according to the Tampa Tribune.