The Bulls for Human Rights event, hosted by the Cuban American Student Association (CASA) has one goal – fundraising.


At the event, which will begin tonight at 6 p.m. in the Marshall Student Center Amphitheater, students can make charitable donations to four different human rights causes, including World Vision, a humanitarian organization which donates livestock to produce milk and other dairy products to poverty-stricken families abroad, said CASA Vice President Janet Rojas.


“They will take a cow or a goat, and give it to a family in need of food,” she said. “It would go to (a family) in another country like Belize or Cambodia.”


Rojas, a senior majoring in political science and women’s studies, said it cost $500 to donate a dairy cow and $75 to donate a goat. CASA hopes to raise $600 for World Vision by selling $1 raffle tickets for prizes such as four tickets to a Tampa Bay Rays home baseball game.


CASA will also be raising money for TOMS Shoes, which donates one pair of shoes to a child in a developing country for every pair of shoes bought by a customer, and the Pulsera Project, which buys and sells hand-woven bracelets made by low-income Nicaraguan youths and families. Rojas said the Bulls for Human Rights event grew out of a spring 2010 fundraising event for TOMS Shoes. About 15 other student organizations are helping run the event, she said.


“This time we wanted to shift it more to helping kids in the world,” Rojas said. “As a student organization we’re trying to steer away from that because we have a TOMS Shoes club (on campus) now, and a lot of what we’ve done with TOMS Shoes will probably go to them.”


Though TOMS Shoes sales were conducted on campus last week, Rojas said the bracelets, or pulseras, cost $5 and will be on sale at the event. CASA has already sold 140 of its 600 total pulseras.


The event will also feature a collection bin for students to donate old cell phones to Cell Phones for Cuba. The phones that can be fixed are sent to Cuba, and the ones that cannot are sent to a recycler for money to purchase calling cards for Cubans to connect with others outside of their country. Rojas said CASA hopes to collect at least 50 phones.


She said CASA collected $800 in donations from entities such as Fade Masters Barbershop and Real Estate One. The group spent $200 in Activity and Service fees on glow sticks and cooperated with the USF chapter of Amnesty International to spend $1,000 on T-shirts.