Chic & Cheap is a fashioncolumn that runs down thelatest trends and shares ways to get designer styleon a collegestudent’s budget.


Often neglected, accessories hold enough power to make or break an outfit.


This season, it’s time to show them some respect and incorporate these fashion add-ons into our daily style as the focus of an amazing outfit. The myriadchoices of accessories can be overwhelming, so a concise list of the major must-haves will give your wardrobe a littlepick-me-up without falling victim to impulse buys.


Sunglasses


For those living in the Sunshine State, having a good pair of trendy sunglasses is a necessity. Whether you favor the quirky cat eye or a classic aviator, you are bound to find a pair that suits your style. American Eagle offers a pair of baby blue Wayfarers for $9.50. These squared frames are ideal for oval, round and diamond face shapes. Urban Outfitters’ bright yellowrounded shades are perfectfor heart and square shaped faces. At $39, these sunglasses are a definite investment in your wardrobe. If you really want to make a fashion statement this year try Urban Outfitters’ cherry red cat eye-style sunglasses for $16. These bold frames will add an edgy feel to any outfit.


Belts


Belts are a subtle way to add depth to an outfit. This season, belts aren’t only for function, but also are a stylish item that can shake your look out of the mundane. Go tribal with Urban Outfitters Gaucho-inspiredprinted belt for $34. Paired with dark wash jeans, this is a daring way for guys to stray away from the classic leather belt.


Forever21’s fun and flirtyyellow polka dot belt is perfect for pairing with a summer dress, and for $2.50, very wallet friendly.Macy’s snake-print, wide belt is flattering for cinching shirts or dresses at the waist anddisguising any unwanted bulge. Depending on how you style this accessory, it can be worn casually or dressed up. This exotic belt is on sale for $19.98.


Watches


Offering both functionalityand style, the wristwatch is an underrepresented accessorypiece. Though its waningpopularity is due in part to othertime-supplying electronics, watches have evolved with innovative shapes and designs. Asos, an online fashion store, offers an eclectic collection of watches,from a funky piece with a hot pink face and black-and-whiteleopard band for $35.81 to a rugged, masculine design with a square face and leatherwraparound band for $44.76.


Shoes


The futuristic metallic trend has been taking over the fashion world. This glittery trend, synonymous with the club scene, has blended into other style genres. Designers Marc Jacob and Brian Atwood really took to this trend this season. Asos carries acolor-blocked metallic ballet flat for $44.76, while Macy’s offers sneakers with metallic accents for $49.99.


Bags


From oversized to miniature, chain straps to wooden handles, bags are alwayschanging. This season theclutch is in thespotlight with day and night styles. Urban Outfitters offers a tribal print canvas clutch for $24 that will lend your outfit a boho-casual feel. For under $20, H&M carries a clutch in a variety of colors with an optional chain strap. This faux suede clutch adds a chic touch to any outfit.


Guys may not favor clutches,but there are plenty offashionable and appropriatebags to carry gear aroundcampus. American Eagle has a canvas messenger bag perfect forlugging around textbooks at $39.50. H&M’s $49.95 faux leather weekend bag is a sleeker style for the stylish man onthe go.