After a season that saw great success for the USF womens golf team with a Big East Championship, three juniors have been honored for a different kind of course work. Christina Miller, Anna Hancock and Kelsey Gibson have been named to the 2011-12 National Golf Coaches Association All-American Scholar Team for Division I.


Miller earned a GPA of 3.83 and was named the Big East player of the year award after winning three tournaments and finishing in the
top five out of 10 event. The health science major, who transferred from Ole Miss, finished the season representing the Bulls in the NCAA Central Regional.


Gibson had a 3.80 GPA and earned a spot in the USF nursing program after transferring from Southern Miss. She finished in the top 25 twice, including a tie for 13th at the JMU/Eagle Landing Invitational in March.


Hancock had a GPA of 3.68 after transferring from Stetson University as a criminology major. She finished in the top 25 four times, with her top performance coming at the UCF Challenge when she tied for ninth.


Golfers are unique  most have really good skills of organizing time, coach Marci Kornegay said in a press release. There are so many parts of golf to practice and they learn time management skills from an early age.All three juniors will be entering their second year at USF.


Duval arrested for iPhone theft
Sophmore Jordan Duval, a walk-on for the USF football team, was arrested Friday night and was accused of stealing an iPhone from the USF Campus Recreation Center.


According to University Police, a USF student reported the theft of an iPhone, and used a phone locator app to find the GPS location of the phone. Police were then led to Duval, who had removed the SIM card in an effort to prevent the phone from being tracked.


Due to the value of the phone being over $300, at $730, the theft was considered a felony. Duval was arrested at 9:17 p.m, and was released on a $2,000 bond at 4:16 a.m Saturday. He was not available for immediate comment.


Eriksen, among others, honored
USF softball coach Ken Eriksen continues to rake in recognition for his contributions in his coaching career.


Eight years after the 2004 Olympics in Athens, when the U.S national softball team won a gold medal while outscoring opponents 51-1 and earning the nickname The Real Dream Team on the cover of Sports Illustrated magazine, Eriksen and the rest of the team were honored with a spot in the U.S.


Olympic Hall of Fame. Eriksen was an assistant coach with the 2004 team, which was honored in Chicago on Thursday. He was not present, as he was with the current U.S. National softball team in Canada, playing in the ISF Womens World FP Championship until July 22.


Football Fan Fest announced
USF football fans will be able to welcome the 2012 season with the annual USF Fan Fest, which will be held Sunday, Aug. 19 at Raymond James Stadium. All fans are welcome to attend the event for free, and parking will be in Lot 4 of the stadium.