Its been a long journey for Joey Lovecchio to become a starting pitcher for the USF baseball team, but two unplanned detours havent stopped the junior from making his mark on a team thats having a resurgence of its own.


Lovecchio personifies the team he now plays for. Both the pitcher and the Bulls have dropped off in recent years but are climbing back uphill in a big way.


For Lovecchio, the story begins in his freshman year at the University of Miami, where he committed to play baseball after a successful high school career. Unfortunately, his success did not translate immediately to the larger stage for a powerhouse program, and the freshman struggled.


I was successful in high school, I was successful in summer ball and I got a good offer, Lovecchio said. I was really excited. But, when I got down there, I didnt really have my A game. I thought I was in over my head, but I wasnt. I didnt prove myself.


As a freshman at Miami, Lovecchio pitched a little more than nine innings, the lowest total on the team  a sign that both the pitcher and coaching staff were beginning to lose confidence. Rather than wait it out, he decided to transfer away from the school hed dreamt about, instead moving to Seminole State College, a tiny junior college in Sanford.


I didnt trust myself the next two years, and I didnt trust them with me, Lovecchio said. Its kind of unfortunate  you look forward to going to Miami, then you leave after a year to (junior college), which is basically back to high school.


Determined to make it back to the big stage, Lovecchio played for the Trojans in the 2011 season, going 2-2 with a 3.30 ERA in 30 innings. He worked every day in hopes that he would get a chance to redeem himself.


The then-sophomore was rewarded for his determination with an offer from USF, which saw potential in the pitcher.


(Assistant) coach (Chris) Heintz saw me, and he told (head coach Lelo) Prado he liked me, Lovecchio said, So Seminole sent (pitching coach) Chuck (Hernandez) video, they called me down and gave me an offer. I sat on it for a week, committed to it. I was just excited to be back to Division I baseball.


Lovecchio made his unheralded debut in the USF starting rotation this season and has gained a reputation for his consistency. He is 7-0 this season and leads the team with 58.1 innings pitched.


Hes everything we thought he could be. When you compete, you pitch late into games  hes a (Randy) Fontanez type  hell give you a lot of innings, Prado said, referring to USFs stellar pitcher who graduated last year.


The trust shown by his coaching staff means a lot to Lovecchio, he said, and has helped him find success in his first season as a Bull.


Trust is really the most important thing  the coaches having trust in you gives you confidence, he said. I wanted to come here, knowing what Chuck has done, and having that guy having confidence in me meant a lot.


As for his winning record, Lovecchio thanks his offense for the run support theyve provided him this season.


Its kind of funny, I joke with (Andrew Barbosa) a lot, he said. Hes our ace. Hell go out and dominate and only get a couple of runs (of support). Its funny, but Im also very fortunate.


Prado said he considers himself lucky to have Lovecchio in his rotation and appreciates the success that the journeyman junior has had.


Hes done a great job, he said. Hes a competitor. He competes every game and when he does that, the team loves playing behind him. He throws strikes and is a super addition to our club. Hes one of the reasons that we are where we are in the conference.


USF fans can see Lovecchio and the rest of the Bulls this weekend, as they return from an eight-game road trip for a weekend series against Louisville, which is third in the Big East.


The series begins Friday at 7 p.m. Lovecchio will start Saturdays game at 6 p.m. before a 1 p.m. finale Sunday.