Oct. 1 is World Vegetarian Day. Take some time out of your busy schedule to celebrate with these sandwich recipes.


Eggplant veggie burgers
This recipe takes several different parts, so its perfect to use with leftover rice and mashed potatoes.


1 large eggplant
1/2 red onion, finely diced
1 cup cooked lentils (or canned)
1 can black beans
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 cup mashed potatoes
1/2 cup cooked rice
1/4 cup tomato sauce, diced tomatoes
or tomato paste
1/4 cup to 1 cup flour
Salt and pepper
Oil for frying


Peel eggplant and cut into 1-centimeter cubes. Heat in skillet over medium heat, stirring, until cubes are gray and soft.


In a large bowl, mix together all ingredients except flour. Add flour slowly, until mixture is thick and not too sticky.


Heat a small amount of oil on medium heat. Form mixture into 1/2-inch-thick patties and cook until outside is crispy. Serve on bun topped with veggie burger sauce, pineapple, feta cheese, lettuce and onions.


Veggie burger sauce
1 teaspoon oil
1/2 cup fruit, chopped (pineapple,
peaches or strawberries work best)
1/4 red onion, finely diced
2 tablespoons jam or preserves
Salt and pepper
Rosemary


Heat oil to medium-low in pan. Add onion, salt, pepper and 1 tablespoon jam and cook until onions
are soft, or about 5 minutes. Add remaining jam, fruit and rosemary.


Cook until sauce thickens, or about 5 minutes.



Hannah Feig


Veggie-packed falafel
If nutrient-rich garbanzo beans arent enough to assuage your guilty conscience from the crunchiness
of this traditionally Middle Eastern, deep-fried delight, this version includes vegetables for more vitamins.


1 large can chickpeas (16 ounces)
1 small onion, chopped
1 cup spinach, chopped finely
1/2 cup carrots, chopped finely
2 cloves of garlic, chopped
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons parsley
1 teaspoon cumin powder
1 teaspoon coriander powder
1 tablespoon olive oil
Drain chickpeas, but keep a little chickpea water and pour into mixing bowl.


Mash chickpeas and add vegetables, garlic and onion. Make sure consistency is texturized and is thick and paste-like.


Mix in remaining ingredients.


Form paste into small balls and flatten into disc-like shapes.


Falafel is typically fried, but the health conscious can bake them, though baked falafel dont always hold together. To bake, grease a shallow dish with oil, and preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place discs on baking dish and bake for 10 minutes, flip the sides and bake for 10 more minutes. To fry, fill a shallow frying pan with about 1 1/2 inches to 2 inches of oil at medium heat. Drop a small piece of batter in to see if the oil sizzles. If it does, drop the discs in the oil and fry for about 5 minutes, or until golden brown.


Serve with hummus or pita  or, make into a pita sandwich with lettuce, tomato, radishes and hummus.



Divya Kumar


Egg and veggie sandwich
Heres a way to cut the meat from your morning routine and still give it a little kick.


1 carton of eggs
Onions
Jalapenos
Tomatoes
Shredded cheddar cheese
Pepper jack cheese
Bread
Oil or butter
Pan
Break two eggs per person into a bowl. Whisk until scrambled.


Chop onions, jalapenos and tomatoes and place into bowl of eggs.


Sprinkle in a handful of shredded cheese and mix.


Lightly spread oil or butter in pan over medium heat.


Pour in egg mix and flatten. Cook until egg becomes solid, then flip and wait until fully cooked.


Fold egg, put on one slice of bread, and place slice of pepper jack cheese on top of the egg.


Top with bread and press sandwich in pan. Flip after 10 seconds or when bread is toasted.


Allow to cool before eating.



Rames Ali