With Labor Day over and classes in full swing, the fall television season is set to kick off.
The Oracle
recommends the following can’t-miss premieres of the season.



Sundays



666 Park Avenue, Sept. 30 at 10 p.m., ABC
Evil supernatural forces threaten the inhabitants of an upscale Manhattan apartment building, The Drake. Dave
Annable
and Rachael Taylor star as new co-managers of the building, and come to find the world of demonic powers they live in. From Alloy Entertainment, the group that created Pretty Little Liars, Vampire Diaries and Gossip Girl, this show will be marked by its dark undertones of obsession.



Mondays



Partners, Sept. 24 at 8:30 p.m., CBS
From the creators of Will and Grace comes a show reminiscent of unconventional relationships. Two childhood friends and business
partners, Joe and Louis, played by Michael
Urie
and David
Krumholtz
, become partners in an architecture firm and their friendship becomes strained as Joe gets engaged and Louis enters a new relationship.



The Mob Doctor, Sept. 17 at 9 p.m., FOX
A Chicago resident becomes indebted to the mafia in an attempt to repay her brother’s gambling debts.
Jordana

Spiro
, who plays the doctor, deals with the clean conditions of a prominent Chicago Hospital by day but operates out of dire conditions by night, keeping
her dual duties secret from all. From the writer of BONES and Drop Dead Diva, this show is expected to be fast-paced from the onset.



Tuesdays



Ben and Kate, Sept. 25 at 8:30 p.m., FOX
Starring Nat
Faxon
and Dakota Johnson, this light-hearted comedy features a tale of two siblings, free-spirited Ben and the serious Kate, who live together as they face the challenges of raising Kate’s five-year-old daughter
Maddie
. From the writers and executive producers
of last year’s New Girl, Ben and Kate will provide the yin and yang necessary to balance the show.



The Mindy Project, Sept. 25 at 9:30 p.m., FOX
Mindy
Kaling
, writer, producer and actress who stars as Kelly
Kapoor
on The Office, stars as an
OB-GYN
who yearns for a romantic
life that mirrors her successful professional one. The 31-year-old’s hopeless awkwardness is relatably hilarious, and Kaling’s delivery never falls flat.



Go On, Sept. 11 at 9 p.m., NBC
Matthew Perry, or Chandler from Friends, returns to NBC as a widowed sportscaster who joins a support group. When a stereotypical
“guy’s guy” who doesn’t like to talk about feelings goes to therapy, funny things are bound to happen.



The New Normal, Sept. 11 9:30 p.m., NBC
A young, single mother with an eight-year-old becomes a surrogate
for a Los Angeles gay couple looking to start a family. As the story line progresses and other family members join the crew, the
definition and roles of family expand from its conventional sense.



Wednesdays



Nashville, Oct. 10 at 10 p.m., ABC
A rising star tries to topple a country music legend’s career. Connie Britton stars as a country singer who’s appeal is quickly fading,
and Hayden Panettiere takes on the role of a teen sensation who tries to take the place of the legend.



Animal Practice, Sept. 26 at 8 p.m., NBC
A quirky veterinarian prefers animals to humans as he runs a veterinary clinic in New York. While Justin Kirk stars as a veterinarian
with animal companions, he expresses distaste for pet owners while he adores the animals.



Guys with Kids, Sept. 26 at 8:30 p.m., NBC
Men in their thirties try to reconcile fatherhood with their desire for a social life. Created by Jimmy Fallon, the show featuring dads with babies strapped to their chests scurrying from play groups to guy nights reflects a societal trend of an increasing number of stay-at-home dads.



Thursdays



Last Resort, Sept. 27 at 8 p.m., ABC
The crew of a military submarine takes refuge on an exotic island after crashing under odd circumstances. After being branded as rogue enemies of the state for not following government orders, the crew attempts to find life on the island as they clear their names in hope of return.



Elementary, Sept. 27 at 10 p.m., CBS
Johnny Lee Miller, who stars as Sherlock Holmes, investigates crime in modern-day New York City with Lucy Liu, who stars as Dr. Watson. After leaving rehab, Holmes looks to reclaim his fame as a top-notch detective.



Fridays



Made in Jersey, Sept. 28 at 9 p.m., CBS
A working-class attorney finds herself at a fancy New York City law firm. While she lacks the polish of some of her colleagues, she relies on her stick-to-it-iveness and tenacity to get the job done.