As the USF womens soccer team went 2-0 over the weekend, surpassing its win total from a year ago in the process, freshman keeper Christiane Endler picked up two more shutouts in a pair of 1-0 wins over Connecticut and Providence  giving her seven shutouts this season and making her second in the Big East.


You want your goalkeeper to save some of those shots that probably should have gone in, and I thought she was absolutely solid, coach Denise Schilte-Brown said.


After a season of close games, including nine that went into overtime, the Bulls have made a habit of winning games late in regulation. Freshman midfielder Olivia Chance made sure the trend continued on Sunday in Providence.


With the teams deadlocked at 0-0, Chance made a shot from 20 yards out in the 84th minute, giving USF its eighth win of the season.


Schilte-Brown said the team had set a tone with its performance in the first half.


We were in control of the game in the first half and created a lot of opportunities, she said. It was a somewhat tenuous situation not getting the goal because we worked so hard for it. It was important that they came into the second half with determination.


The win over the Friars followed another close affair against Connecticut, when sophomore Sarah Miller delivered a goal in the 87th minute to break a scoreless tie.


USF will finish its home season this weekend when it plays Syracuse on Friday at 7:30 p.m., followed by Senior Day on Sunday against St. Johns at 1 p.m.


Volleyball falls short in tough road losses
The USF volleyball team prepared twice for a match-deciding fifth set over the weekend, and twice, the Bulls were unable to pull off a win.


After falling in five sets to the Syracuse Orange on Friday, the Bulls dropped the final set in another five-set loss on Sunday to Marquette. Freshman Erin Fairs led USF with a career-high 17 kills in the loss to Syracuse, while junior Kayla Walton led the team with 16 kills against Marquette.


The pair of losses dropped the Bulls to 10-9 on the season, with 11 matches remaining in the regular season. The team will return home for a four-game home stand over the next two weekends.