Two seasons, 12 games and 705 days.


The USF mens soccer team added to its impressive performance in Big East regular season play with a 0-0 draw against Cincinnati in Ohio on Wednesday night.


After becoming the first team in Big East history to go undefeated in conference play with an 7-0-2 record in 2011, the Bulls added to the streak thanks to the play of its defense, led by junior keeper Eric Osswald.


Facing a Cincinnati team sitting at first place in the Big East Red division, the Bulls picked up their third shutout in four games, after giving up five goals in a loss to Akron. Osswald picked up two saves in the double overtime draw.


The last time the team lost a regular season conference game was the final game of the 2010 season, a 2-0 loss to St. Johns.


Though the Bulls were unable to put a goal into the net, they got strong performances from midfielders Roberto Alterio and Leston Paul. The sophomore Alterio led the team with five shots and two shots on goals while the senior Paul chipped in with three shots, two of which were on goal.


With six games remaining in the regular season, the Bulls are at second place in the Big East Red Division, and are looking to win their second consecutive division title, and third in the last five years.


After delivering the Bearcats their first non-win of the 2012 Big East season, the Bulls return home for a season long home stand, three of which will be conference games.


On Saturday night at 7:30, the Bulls will take on the Rutgers Scarlet Knights, the same team the Bulls sealed their division title against in New Jersey last season.


The Bulls will finish off with games against Syracuse on Oct. 13 and Louisville, in a nationally televised game on Oct. 17 which will also be Senior Day.


Despite the teams recent success in Big East play, coach George Kiefer said the team has to stay grounded and focus on each match.


I dont think you look at it as a whole body of work, because then you start to get distracted, he said. Its really just focusing on each game.