When news broke Sunday afternoon that USF football coach Skip
Holtz
had been fired, students and fans took to the Internet.
Reports broke online a few hours before the official announcement was made at a press conference at 4 p.m., with much of the student reaction coming from Twitter and Facebook.
“Twitter is about to get buck wild #USF #
SkipHoltzFired
,” Jordan Romero, a student majoring in finance and leadership studies, tweeted.
Many students initially reacted with excitement to
Holtz’s
firing.
“It feels like Christmas Day. I woke and finally heard USF admin has wised up and was kicking Skip
Holtz
to the curb,”  Jenna Broughton, a class of 2007 alumna, tweeted.
With USF’s  3-9 record many fans had already been calling for USF to fire
Holtz
.
The “Official Fire Skip
Holtz”
page was created on Dec. 2, 2011, exactly one year before he was fired.
“It has been done!” the  Facebook page read hours after rumors spread.
“Mission accomplished,”
@FireSkipHoltz
tweeted.
But student body President Brian Goff said it was a shame to lose
Holtz
.
“I think Coach
Holtz
is a great man,” he said. “I think he genuinely cares about USF and the football program. We all can agree that it was a disappointing football season… (but) it’s tragic when anyone loses their job.”
Goff said he hopes for a quick turnaround and a new coach for the football program soon.
“I hope we can quickly get a head coach with the talents to work with a program of our size and to keep the talent that we have,” Goff said. “I think Skip
Holtz
has been an excellent recruiter for our school. … It’s tough not to get caught up in the emotions of a losing season.”
Chris
Cacciotti
, an alumnus who graduated in 2011, said the responsibility for the team’s dismal record did not rest on
Holtz
alone.
“We beat Notre Dame, and that was a pretty big win. He’s not getting that many wins but I don’t think it’s just him,” he said. “It’s weird he got fired.”
But Collin Tennant, a senior majoring in environmental science, said he was looking forward to seeing a new coach.
“(
Holtz
) probably needed to be done,” he said. “Hopefully we will get a better coach. I hope we get a coach that is tougher. (
Holtz
) seemed to be smiling too much, even when we were losing.”