The
11th
anniversary of the horrendous terrorist attacks occurred this past week, which invariably led to commemorations of this notorious event throughout the country.



As the president and the first lady held a moment of silence from the White House, the Today Show aired an interview of Kris
Jenner
in regards to her recent breast augmentation surgery.



The Today Show has suffered severe backlash from this blunder, evident in many Twitter account feeds calling for a boycott of the show. The Today Show no longer holds the No.1 spot among morning news television show ratings and this significant mistake will not bode well to its regaining that spot.



Despite the decline of Today Show quality and ratings, I cannot help but associate this blatantly unpatriotic act to a newfound mantra. Simply put, many Americans are calling for a “scaling back” of the commemoration ceremonies of the 9/11 attacks to signify that the country is “moving on.” While this maybe OK for those who were not directly affected by the attacks on the U.S., for many Americans time has not healed the broken hearts.



The controversial gaffe made by the Today Show echoes recent feelings in regards to remembering 9/11. A New York Times article highlighted the notion that some hold that moving on entails a “scaling back.” These measures have been reflected in the National Cathedral, in Washington, D.C., which discontinued its commemoration events this year in favor of specific prayers during regular services.



The cries of outrage that reverberate throughout the nation after the Today Show failed to air the moment of silence and commemoration of the 9/11 attacks is evidence enough that a call to “move on” has been made too early. In fact, I am disinclined to believe that there will be a time when this nation will ever move on from such a tragedy. Remembrance is a significant part in the healing process of any loss, and loss at a scale as grand as the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon will undoubtedly lead to a lengthy, yet necessary, healing process.