It only took a government shutdown and a consecutive string of government failures, but it seems Americans have finally figured it out.



U.S. citizens have a constitutional right to choose who gets put in office and, according to the Los Angeles
Times, recent polls bring bad news for almost everyone in office.
It seems Americans are coming around to the idea they have control over who represents them in the government.



The voters have voiced the resounding message through a poll conducted by the Washington Post and ABC News that they do not approve of what President Barack Obama has done and they’re not sold on Republican
alternatives either.



According to the results released Tuesday, 55 percent of respondents disapprove of Obama’s handling of his job as president. This is not surprising at all considering the numerous problems with the new health care law. In
the poll, 57 percent of respondents disapprove of the changes in the health care system specifically. When Obama promised change in 2008, he should have clarified that it meant change for the worse.



It is exceptionally discouraging that in the poll, 50 percent of respondents said they did not think the president was honest and trustworthy.



If a country cannot trust its president, then it becomes difficult to support the
government’s decisions at all.



Those who responded to the poll conveyed the right
message. Other than increasing the debt ceiling, the U.S. government has yet to make any productive progress
pertaining to major national issues since the shutdown.



Congress couldn’t negotiate a budget, resulting in a 16-day shutdown, immigration reform is at a standstill,
leaving broken promises for
the U.S. population
without proper documentation, Obamacare is a complete disaster leaving the public very confused and little to no action has been done about the Syria conflict that arose before the shutdown.



In light of all of the
disappointing actions in the
U.S. government, or lack thereof, hopefully it has
created a strong enough
impact to remind voters who they elect for president
and congressional leaders
really does make a
difference. Citizens can’t rely on an unlikely epiphany in Congress, but it does appear that they are finally realizing it’s up to their votes to make a change.






Ali
Leist
is a junior majoring in mass communications.