The 16th annual Bullstock will take place in at the Meadows tonight at 6, rain or shine.


Bullstock  — which began in 1997 —  is USF’s variation of the famed music festival Woodstock. The event is free and open to the community as a part of USF Week.


For the first time, Bullstock will feature two stages for bands to perform.


This year there are two Battle of the Bands winners — the People’s Choice winner, South of Holly, and the Judge’s Choice winner, Variance — opening for the main performers.


After the Battle of the Bands winners’ performance, the three chart-topping headliners will perform. First in the line-up is Hot Chelle Rae, which will be followed by Owl City and The All-American Reject’s whose hit “Gives You Hell” peaked at No. 4 in 2009 on Billboard’s Hot 100 list.


Hot Chelle Rae was formed 2005. The band consists of Vocalist Ryan Keith Follese, guitarist Nash Overstreet, drummer Jamie Follese, and bassist Ian Keaggy. According to Billboard their genre of music falls under mainstream pop with energized, guitar-heavy dance-rock. In 2011 their hit “Tonight Tonight” came out on their album “Whatever.”


The electronica/emo-pop Owl City is the work of Adam Young, who started his musical career in 2007. His big hit, “Fireflies” was a part of his first album in 2009. His most recent album is “Midsummer Station,” which was released in 2012.


The All-American Rejects is a well-known band that started in 2000 while Vocalist/bassist Tyson Ritter and guitarist Nick Wheeler were still in high school. Guitarist Mike Kennerty and drummer Chris Gaylor joined the band in 2002 and created their debut album “Move Along” in 2005. Their most recent album is “Kids in the Street,” was released in 2012 .


“I’m really excited to see Hot Chelle Rae,” junior Dawn Krockta said. “I’m glad it’s at USF because last time I went to their concert, the place was packed with high school girls. I plan to get to Bullstock at 2 p.m. to make sure I get up close to the stage.”


According to Campus Activities Board (CAB) Special events Coordinator, Haley Radeka, the artists are chosen through an agency that provides information on who is available, price information and what bands are touring.


“We pick our artists first and then from there we figure out the logistics with staging, lights, production, food, and such,” Radeka said.


Before the concert begins there will be a pre-partythat starts at 4 p.m. which will include a zip line, rock wall, bungee jumping, inflatables, three food trucks and airbrush tattoos. During the pre-party music will be provided by Bulls Radio until the concert begins.