Dina
Krall
– Ruth
Eckerd
Hall, Wednesday, 7 p.m.



Krall
has sold 15 million albums worldwide and is often considered one of the top selling artists of her time. The jazz artist has seven multi-platinum, three platinum and nine gold albums under her belt.
Krall
has also been the recipient of two Grammy Awards. The show at Ruth
Eckerd
should not be one to miss by lovers of jazz.




Rebekah Pulley – The Tap Room at The Hollander, April 9, 7 p.m.



Pulley, somewhat reminiscent of a female Ray
LaMontagne
, can be heard on 88.5 FM,
WMNF
. It’s hard to find a lot of her stuff for free, so as any lover of music should, support local artists by seeing them live.




Bob
Saget
–
Improv
at
Ybor
, April 11 -13



You may know him as Danny Tanner or that guy who hosted America’s Funniest Home Videos back in the day. Stand-up comedian
Saget
will be in town April 11-13. Now in his
mid-50s
, his routine is a little more vulgar than his days as the 90’s sitcom’s favorite dad. The comedian had a small role in the movie “Half Baked” and was roasted by Comedy Central in 2008.
Saget
also has some directing work on his resume and directed the film, “Dirty Work.”




Jim
Breuer
–
Straz
Center, April 12, 7:30



Breuer
was a member of the classic Saturday Night Live cast in the 90’s. He was also the co-star with Dave
Chappelle
in the stoner comedy classic, “Half Baked.” Tickets start at $180.30.




Tampa Bay Blues Festival –
Vinoy
Waterfront Park, April 12-14



The Tampa Bay Blues Festival will feature the legendary Dickey Betts on the
12th
. Some other acts include: Jonny Lang, Cyril Neville, Tab Benoit, Trombone Shorty and Orleans Avenue and Rosie
Ledet
and the
Zydeco
Playboys. Single day tickets start at $40.00.




Umphrey’s
McGee – Janus Live, April 13, 6:30 p.m.



Umphrey’s
McGee are considered gurus in the jam band scene. The band is very progressive and almost remind you of King Crimson or Phish. The group has played and headlined pretty much every big music festival. Tickets start at $30.35.




Rihanna – Tampa Bay Times Forum, April 19, 7:30 p.m.



Rihanna’s Diamonds World Tour is coming to town. If you enjoy canned music that was created by record executives to make a lot of money, this concert may be for you. Or if you enjoy what today is considered R&B, this concert may also be for you. Tickets start at $51.95.




Taylor Swift – Tampa Bay Times Forum, April 20, 7 p.m.



This show should speak for itself. Tickets start at $99.