Standing with its front legs bent and its horns pointed forward as if it were about to charge, a new bull will join the herd.



In an effort to create a new tradition on campus, Student Government and USF Physical Plant will work to erect a statue of a bull outside the student entrance of the Sun Dome.



The statue, anticipated to be complete by the time of spring commencement ceremonies, will be outside Gate D, of the Sun Dome, and students will be encouraged to touch it on their way into the arena on game days, student body president Brian Goff said.



Goff said he hopes the addition to the Sun Dome will draw people to the arena to take pictures and see the new landmark.



“It’s something we’ve seen at other universities, where they have statues of the mascot and have the students touch it for good luck,” Goff said. “It came up prominently at the New Traditions Competition that was held last spring and it was the most popular choice.”



After Goff was elected last April, he created a competition to generate new campus traditions, and after hearing the idea multiple times, Goff said he and Student Body Vice President George
Papadeas
went to university officials to begin work on the project.



In early February, Physical Plant and
SG
finalized the plans for the bull’s appearance.



It will be about 6 feet long, 2.5 feet wide and 3.5 tall, and will be supported by a concrete platform with lights and foliage.



“Our hopes are to make the student section of the Sun Dome more engaging, and more friendly and inviting,” Goff said.



Goff said the project will cost less than $14,000, which is one-third of the original budgeted price.



Goff said SG is working on “minor technicalities” that should be resolved within the next few weeks so that the project can start as soon as possible, such as avoiding hitting a water main that runs through the anticipated location of the statue.



The project will begin as soon as that is resolved and USF obtains the proper permits, Goff said.



“We’re excited that we could take the voices of the students and make what they want happen,” Goff said.