The Arctic Monkeys’ strong fan base has given the band free reign to venture into any artistic territory it chooses.



Those who have stuck around since the days of “Dancing Shoes” from the first album are here to stay.



The Arctic Monkeys return to their roots with their latest album “AM,” taking elements from all their previous albums: the rawness of “Whatever People Say I Am, That’s What I’m Not,” the funk of
“Favourite
Worst Nightmare,” the whimsicality of “Humbug” and the splendor of “Suck It And See.”



For its fifth LP, the band created something entirely new, while still staying true to its distinct sound.



Fans got a little taste of the band’s newest album in February when “R U Mine?” was released.



Luckily those craving more didn’t have to wait much longer for another taste.



Two months later, the band
released its second single, “Electricity.”



Throughout the year, fans savored the samples they received, but the feast finally came when “AM” was streamed through iTunes a week before its release last month.



With “AM,” the Arctic Monkeys give yet another reason to admire their brilliance and their versatility.



“Do I
Wanna
Know?”



“There’s this tune I found that makes me think of you somehow/And I play it on repeat until I fall asleep,” lead vocalist Alex Turner croons. Almost anyone who has had a crush can relate to this tell-all tune. The song is a strong start for an equally strong album.



“R U Mine?”



Starting off their album with back-to-back questions accentuates the uncertainty factor. “She’s a silver lining climbing on my desire/And I go crazy ’cause here isn’t where I
wanna
be, and satisfaction feels like a distant memory,” Turner sings.



Some feelings really are timeless. The Arctic Monkeys take a modern approach to vintage themes and styles.



In their black-and-white music video, they temporarily put aside their leather jackets and picked up a camcorder to create the feel of an almost homemade video. Turner’s gelled
quiff
set the scene even more.



“Snap out of it”



Sounding much like a Broadway number with its thumping piano and its Grease-like groove, “Snap Out of It” seems like it was taken straight from the stage – or maybe, the stage is where it’s headed. Who knows? The Arctic Monkeys might pull a Green Day and hit the Broadway scene.