The defense on USF’s football team received national recognition as two players were added to national watch lists last week.



Redshirt
senior linebacker
Devekeyan

“DeDe”

Lattimore
earned a spot on the
Bednarik
award watch list. Meanwhile,
redshirt
sophomore defensive end Aaron Lynch was added to the
Bronko

Nagurski
Trophy
preseason watch list.



Throughout the season, their names are subject to drop off the list pending performance. Winners of the watch lists will be announced in early December –
Bednarik
on Dec. 5 and
Nagurski
on Dec. 9.



Chosen by the Maxwell Football Club,
Lattimore
joins the
Bednarik
list a year after making the 2012 Rotary Lombardi award watch list. He wasn’t a finalist for the award, but the 6-foot-1, 237-pound linebacker managed to shine on a defense that struggled in last year’s three-win season.



Starting in all 12 games, the Georgia native racked up 76 tackles last season while leading the team in tackles for a loss with 7.5.



While some eyes will be on
Lattimore
and his senior season performance, Lynch will also be getting looks while playing his first season as a Bull.



The 6-foot-6 defensive end sat out in 2012 due to transfer rules after he came to USF from Notre Dame.



With the Irish, Lynch played in 12 games, starting in six as a true freshman, and earned first-team Freshman All-America honors. In an impressive first year, he posted 33 tackles, seven for a loss, with 5.5 sacks.



Now in his second year on the field, Lynch has the chance to earn an award named after NFL Hall of
Famers
Chuck
Bednarik
and
Bronislaw

“Bronko”

Nagurski
, who are known for their records playing in both college games and the NFL, both offensive and defensive.



The
Nagurski
Award is given to the best defensive player of the year as well as having a
Nagurski
National Defensive Player of the Week named each Tuesday throughout the season.



Each list has numerous names, and each award holds high honor – finalist or not, the recognition alone sheds light on a once
struggling defense that looks to turn things around in a new
conference this season.