Summer is the season for
mov
ies
. It is the time when the most anticipated films are released into theaters. Here are the films that The Oracle editors are excited to see this summer.






“Before Midnight”
– May 24


Before Midnight will be the long-anticipated install
ment
after “Before Sunrise” and “Before Sunset,” both which have excellent, rich
dialogue
between very relatable characters. To see where the
protago
nists have come after nine years of hiatus will be a treat for fans.



Divya
Kumar, Editor in Chief






“The Purge” – June 7


The Purge is such a
futur
istic
look into this
dystopi
an kind of world. It seems like a perfect world except on this particular day, when all crime is legal and a mob just tear apart this family. This movie should really give a look into the inner psyche of the human mind.


Alex Rosenthal, Managing Editor






“This is the End” – June 12


I’m excited to see “This is the End” because it stars a lot of actors that are hilarious, such as James Franco and Paul Rudd, and they are all playing themselves. It just seems like it is going to be a really funny movie.


Jasmine
Abney
, Photo Editor






“Man of Steel” – June 14


I really like comic books, and I thought that the Brandon
Routh
“Superman” movie was a terrible adaptation of the comic book. I am hoping Henry
Cavill
as Superman in “Man of Steel” will be more successful.





Roberto
Roldan






“Monster’s University” – June 21


Everyone my age saw the original when we were younger. Now all of those characters we grew to love are in college in this movie – a very relatable theme. I think that’s really cool, and I’m excited to see it.


Adam
Fenster
, Sports Editor






“World War Z” – June 21


I’ve always been fascinated with the post-apocalyptic, dystopian society theme. The idea that the world is turning into this mob of flesh-eating
zom
bies
and you are forever being constrained while the zombies chase you is


intriguing. And to think that it can spread like an epidemic just blows my mind. It just makes you think what can happen in a
glo
balized
society.



Konstantin

Ravvin
, Opinion Editor



“The Wolverine” – July 26





I have been in love with Hugh
Jackman
playing Wolverine since the first X-Men movie was made. I think he brings the true persona of Mar
vel’s
Wolverine character to life. Marvel has done an amazing job with the films it has produced lately, and I cannot wait to see what it does with the next instal
lation
of this series.



Shaunda
Wickham, Montage and Scene & Heard Editor