A few times a year, the regular people of the world gather with the common goal of watching the stars of Hollywood rise and fall in accordance with their award show outfit choices.



Award show season is in full swing, and this year the stars upped the sparkle and hair as they strutted across the red carpet before the Golden Globe award ceremonies.



Before “Saturday Night Live” alums Tina Fey and Amy
Poehler
got a chance to host the awards, the stars competed for the best-dressed award.



Aside from the big hair and big sequins, many stars sparingly passed when it came to avoiding the over-made. Hayden
Panettiere
– who was nominated for best supporting actress for her new series
“Nashville” – joined Amy Adams and Isla Fischer in choosing neutral-colored dresses.



Golden Globes presenter Megan Fox turned quite a few heads as she showed off her
post-baby body in a tight fitting Dolce and
Gabbana
blush dress. She kept it simple as she told Ryan
Seacrest
“It’s tight. It’s lacy. That’s all there is to it.”



Nominated for her song
“Skyfall
,” Adele also made her first
appearance since having a baby. She didn’t stray too far from her typical black, floor-length gown.



One of the favorite nominees of the evening was Jennifer Lawrence for “Silver Linings Playbook,” who may have seemed a
little less “Hunger Games” and a surprising level of classy, in her bright
red-oraange
, strapless, belted A-line Dior Haute Couture dress.



Zooey

Deschanel
was also able to don the color of the carpet in her Oscar de la
Renta
strapless gown with a sweetheart neckline. True to her unique sense  of style,
Deschanel
also sported some film camera nail art and a simple ponytail.



Another popular color of this Golden Globe award show was eggplant, which was taken in two different directions by two
vastlydifferent
stars.



“Girls” star Lena Dunham chose to rock a short hairstyle and an off-the-shoulder
Zac

Posen
dress, while Taylor Swift looked elegant in a high-necked Donna Karan gown.



While the red carpet was mostly divided between neutral dresses and bright, colorful pieces, Lucy Liu stepped out in a Carolina Herrera floral gown. The dress was fun and original, serving as a refreshing change of pace for all couch viewers.