The USF Sun Dome arena went black Saturday as a beat began to rise from the silence that filled it.



Instead of opting for the usual large screens or large props to add effect to the performance, as most concerts tend to do, the band kept its set simplistic and inviting.



One chandelier rose, followed by four more. A blue light reflected onto the stage, and one by one the band members of The
Lumineers
appeared.



Though many might have expected the band would open or close with the song it is most recognized for, “Ho Hey,” it instead hid it unassumingly in the beginning, as almost to prove it had more to offer.



The band began the night with “Submarines,” from its self-titled solo album, and followed with “Ain’t Nobody’s Problem.”



The evening gave off a personal feel and the band furthered its connection to fans by asking crowd members to put their phones away to create a more intimate atmosphere.



The
Lumineers
did not need to rely on theatrics to give a great performance.



The fans in the crowd continuously sang the words, jumped, danced and clapped to the beat.



Wesley Schultz (lead vocals, guitar) knew how to command the crowd and captivated the audience with every lyric he sang. He managed to not only tell the stories through song, but also with his body during the performance.



Throughout the night, Schultz and his band mates showcased their abilities and versatility with their instruments.



Jeremiah
Fraites
, normally on drums, picked up a tambourine and guitar when the songs required. Pianist
Stelth

Ulvang
showed his skills by playing a mini piano, accordion, tambourine, guitar and snare drum.



The performance was stripped down half way through the set, when Schultz sang two songs alone on stage before being joined by one band member.



Schultz and
Fraites
became a little closer with their fans when they performed “Darlene” and
“Elouise”
on a pop-up stage in the middle of the crowded floor area.



Ulvang
got closer to fans while walking through the higher level seating while playing the accordion.



As the show came to an end and the lights went out, the only noise that filled the air was the screams and chants of an encore. The band gave the people what they wanted.



The
Lumineers
played a three-song encore accompanied by its opening acts Nathaniel
Rateliff
and Dr. Dog for a group number.



The opening act, Dr. Dog, created a vintage themed performance. The
’60s-inspired
indie rock band entered, playing its opening song from offstage, slightly capturing attention from the audience.



Dr. Dog hit multiple dull moments in its performance and did not receive a resounding applause until the end of its set.



However, the group did not show any signs of this affecting its performance, as members became lost in the music on stage and had group jam sessions with each other.



The other opening act, Nathaniel
Rateliff
, whose new album “Falling Faster Than You Can Run” kept its set simple with no production elements.



The group received an eruption of applause, and interacted with the crowd, giving the band excellent showmanship.
Rateliff
lets its music speak for itself and left the crowd screaming for more.