Fall Out Boy proved they have not fallen out of touch during their five-year hiatus as they performed the last leg of their “Save Rock and Roll Tour” to a sold-out crowd at the USF Sun Dome on Sunday night.



As soon as the curtain dropped to the first beat of the song “The Phoenix” from the band’s latest album, “Save Rock and Roll,” more than 7,000 fans screamed and raised their hands as the ski-masked band members hit the stage.



Anyone could tell if they looked around that the audience was more than just spectators, as nearly all of them sang along to every verse and chorus of the 22-song set list, with the exception of the cover of the Drake hit, “Going Home,” in which Fall Out Boy fans looked more confused than anything.



Even though the band is far from “saving rock and roll,” they showed they have the ability to save the average rock and roll show, as theirs was filled with a lot of stimulating theatrics and unexpected guest performances, such as from Cobra Starship’s drummer, Nate
Novarro
, who replaced Andy Hurley during Fall Out Boy’s double-platinum hit, “Sugar, We’re Going Down.”



Opening act’s Panic! at the Disco’s lead singer, Brendon
Urie
, made a surprise, casual appearance during Fall Out Boy’s performance.
Urie
came out shirtless toward the end of “20 Dollar Nose Bleed,” eating a sandwich and singing at the same time.



The rest of Panic! at the Disco then quickly joined
Urie
and Fall Out Boy as they moved the concert to the back of the arena to perform, “I’m Like a Lawyer,” demonstrating why Panic! was a perfect fit as one of the opening bands.



Panic! performed a 10-song set that included hits such as “Nine in the Afternoon” and “I Write Sins Not Tragedies,” as well as perform a new song, “Miss Jackson,” from the band’s upcoming album “Too Weird to Live, Too Rare to Die!” which will be released Oct. 8.



While the band performed “Miss Jackson,” four bodies in black
unitards
ran around on stage. The
unitard-clad
bodies lifted their masks, unveiling the faces of the four Fall Out Boy members. The headlining band did not contribute anything to the set other than sending the audience into a complete tizzy.



Urie
lightly got a little political while sending female fans into an excited frenzy as he bragged that he was lucky enough to see his band naked every day this tour.



“There is nothing wrong with a guy naked,”
Urie
said. “And there is nothing wrong with kissing another guy naked.”



The other opening band, Twenty One Pilots, was sure to make new fans during their set just in time for their next visit to Tampa on Nov. 21 at the Ritz
Ybor
.



Lead singer Tyler Joseph, knew exactly how to get the crowd pumped as he performed the song the band is most recognized for, “Holding on to You,” from within the audience.



In perhaps the most endearing song of the set, Joseph donned a flowery robe and a ukulele as he performed “House of Gold,” that he wrote for his mother.



The duo performed a 10-song set and finished with a cascade of percussion, as a marching band filled with men banging on Lowes buckets joined the stage as they performed their last song, “Guns for Hands.”



Wentz
told the crowd that because Sunday night’s show was the last show of the tour, there was more
hijinks
than normal.



“We’re usually just stoned,” lead singer Patrick Stump added.



The band ended with the recent hit, “My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light Em Up),” before coming out to a screaming audience, which was waving bull horns and chanting Fall Out Boy, to perform a three-song encore that included, “Save Rock and Roll,”
“Thnks

fr

th

Mmrs”
and “Saturday.”