Most students – both new and old – are familiar with the daily trudge of getting from point A to point B, but this week USF is celebrating the start of the spring
semester with different events happening across campus for Week of Welcome. Below are some of the events on campus this week:






Monday:



Cupcake You’re Back



Students can pick up a free cupcake between noon and 1:30 p.m.today from the Cupcake Truck, which will be stationed outside the north entrance of the Marshall Student Center (
MSC
).



Swing Dance Mixer



An almost embarrassing number of us have at one time or another said we would like to learn how to swing dance but never did anything about it. 7 p.m. in
MSC
2708, the Swinging Bulls are providing the music, the dance floor and of course, the lesson so students can do the ‘Charleston’ into their new classes for the semester. No, there won’t be a time machine.



Tuesday:



Ninja Warrior Competition



The Asian Students in America organization will give a glimpse into their culture with the clever guise of something recognizable across campus – ninjas. Obstacles, cultural games and free food will be part of the Ninja Warrior Competition at 5 p.m. near the
MLK
Stage. Prizes will be given to the most savvy ninja.






Board Game Breakout



From 9 p.m. until midnight, the
MSC

SkyPad
on the fourth floor will be filled with different sort of gamers than usual – board gamers. Light refreshments provided.



Wednesday:



Fire Safety and Street Smarts



Students are never too old to learn about fire safety. But this is not just about
Smokey’s
friends. From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. USF’s Environmental Health and Safety will provide fire extinguisher training and provide a fire pit, as well as bicycle and pedestrian safety tips.






LGBT
and Ally Ice Cream Social



From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in
MSC
2709, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and Wellness Education invites all members of the
LGBT
community and allies to mingle over ice cream.



Thursday:



Welcome Back Picnic



From 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. students can feast on free food and meet Student Government leaders in the
MLK
Plaza.






Friday:



iBuddy
Kickoff



Imagine leaving the familiar surroundings of home for an academic experience.  Culture shock can shadow the 4,059 international students at USF, while many
domestic students dream of getting an in-depth look of different nations and cultures. The Office of Multicultural Affairs will host an event that allows domestic and
international students to partner up and explore cultural diversity. The
iBuddy
program kicks off at 3 p.m. in the
MSC
Ballroom.






Bulls
Nite
Out:
Dueling Pianos



The first Bulls
Nite
Out involves a lot of live music and a multitude of comedy. Off-key singing is welcome, too. Two pianists are slated to battle in the
MSC
Ballroom at 9 p.m. Student will be able to sing along and indulge in arguably the best thing about being a college student – free food and drinks, provided by the Center for Student Involvement.