The annual gaming conference Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) showcased several new and upcoming titles this month at the Los Angeles Convention Center. This year, the revealed games focused on cooperative gameplay as well as refining graphics to match the capabilities of new consoles such as the Xbox One. Time to save up and make some new friends for these upcoming games:


“The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt”


The highlight of Microsoft’s press conference was “The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt,” which won IGN’s People’s Choice Award for the second year in a row. Live gameplay revealed the role-playing game’s (RPG) gorgeous graphics as the main character hunts a griffin. The game is the third installment in the series, based on and taking place after Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski’s novels of the same name. The game’s developer, CD Projekt RED, described the world of “Witcher 3” as “20 percent bigger than the current standard, Skyrim,” an impressive feat that will allow for more exploration and options for players.


“Dragon Age: Inquisition”


EA opened its press conference with a trailer for the next installment of one of its most distinguished series, “Dragon Age: Inquisition,” with live theme music performed on cello. The world is at war, and it us up to the Inquisition to set it right again. In this RPG, as in the games before it, every choice made affects the game’s progression as well as the world around you. With, as its website describes, “beautiful vistas” and the ability to “explore hidden caves, defeat truly monumental creatures, and shape the world around you,” this game is one to anticipate.


“Far Cry 4”


Ubisoft revealed the opening of the next installment of the popular Far Cry series, “Far Cry 4.” In the preview, the main character is on a bus headed to the Himalayas with a fake passport before it is violently stopped. Previous games in the series have been first-person shooters with an emphasis on world exploration, switching between main characters and settings between each game. Not much information was given on the gameplay or plot of the new installment, though it was announced that players will be able to co-op with friends who don’t own the game.


“Destiny”


Sony stole the show with “Destiny,” an expansive first-person shooter game in which you play as a guardian of Earth’s last city. Travel through the long-abandoned ruins of the galaxy, from Mars to Venus, as you and your allies attempt to defeat Earth’s enemies. This game boasts sharp, beautiful graphics, complete customization of characters and an array of playing modes, including campaign, cooperative, social, public and competitive multiplayer. “Destiny” was designed to be a multiplayer game from the start, according to creators. Public events may be stumbled upon in game, allowing players to join up with one another spontaneously to complete tasks before returning right where they left off in their game.


“Splatoon”


Nintendo’s “Splatoon” was revealed as an online four-on-four action game in which players change between squid and human as they shoot to claim the most territory and blast their enemies. Become a squid to move through your team’s ink more quickly and switch to a human to shoot. You can even move through the playing field vertically by spraying the wall with ink and moving through it as a squid. You can also splatter your enemies in an explosion of ink, which covers more ground for your team.


Fans may be disappointed that all console games presented at E3 were almost exclusively for Xbox One, PS4, or Wii U and are not backward compatible.