Through a 2-10 season where USF’s passing game ranked among the worst in the NCAA, the Bulls started four different quarterbacks. Matt Floyd, one of the four, announced his official transfer March 16, taking snaps at South Alabama.



At the start of USF’s spring practice and before Floyd’s announcement, the
redshirt
junior was already off the updated roster and his plans to transfer became apparent, but whether or not he would play football was still up in the air.



Floyd used the winter break as a time to speak with his parents about the decision.



In USF’s 2013 season opener – the infamous loss to
McNeese
State – Floyd entered Raymond James Stadium as a starting quarterback and team captain.



After going 9-of-20 and throwing two interceptions, one to open the second half, Floyd was pulled from the game. The Bulls would go on to lose 53-21 that game.



Though Floyd would remain team captain, he wouldn’t see playing time again.



Despite bouncing around between Bobby
Eveld
, Steven Bench and Mike
Whiteat
quarterback, USF coach Willie Taggart never gave Floyd another in-game opportunity.



When asked about the decision to keep Floyd on the bench for the remainder of the season, Taggart simply said he was looking for highly competitive people.



Now Floyd will be entering the same conference Taggart came from when he left Western Kentucky – the Sun Belt Conference.



Floyd joins a South Alabama team whose quarterback, Ross
Metheny
, ranked third in the conference. The Jaguars also ranked third in the conference overall when it came
to passing.



USF’s most recent starting quarterback, White, ranked second to last in the AAC just as the team did overall.



With redshirt senior Metheny leaving the Jaguars, going 6-6 last season, his backup, Brandon Bridge, saw action in nine games going 29-of-66 (43.9 percent) for 398 yards with two picks and no scores.



In Floyd’s 2012 campaign, when he saw playing time in five games, he went 57-of-110 (51.8 percent) for 466 yards, five picks and no scores.



With the departure of Floyd, and Eveld,who will be
graduating, the Bulls will be left with Bench and White battling for
the No.1 spot.