The USF softball team may have gone 1-1
on Friday
against Wright State and Binghamton, but coach Ken
Eriksen
said the Bulls should have ended the day 0-2.






“We didn’t show any discipline or leadership whatsoever,”
Eriksen
said. “I can tell you we worked hard as a coaching staff this week, busted our butts. We were prepared for these games today. Our team didn’t show up today.”






USF (2-3) was down 6-3 to Wright State in the fourth inning when the Bulls initiated a two-inning stretch of moving runners along the base paths. Aided by three Wright State errors, USF scored a run in the fourth and four more in the fifth to take the game 8-6.






“We didn’t play well in either game,”
Eriksen
said. “Wright State gave us the ball game, they didn’t catch the ball in the middle infield. In all honesty we should be 0-2 today.”






After escaping with the win, USF faced off with Binghamton, who went 30-17 last season, and
Eriksen
assured the media was a formidable opponent
on Thursday
.






Sophomore pitcher Erica
Nunn
continued a hot start to the season with 4 2/3 innings of work with 10 strikeouts, two walks and two hits allowed, but took the hard-luck loss and dropped to 1-1 as the Bulls lost 1-0 due to an unearned run in the fourth inning.






Sophomore infielder Monica Santos dropped a throw to tag a runner at third base from
Nunn
, and Binghamton took the 1-0 lead.






Nunn
hasn’t allowed an earned run in 10 1/3 innings in two starts, and is leading a group of underclassmen that is standing out,
Eriksen
said.






“She’s given us a chance to get ahead,” he said. “Our freshmen and sophomores are showing a big-league mentality that I’d like to see come out of our upperclassmen a little more.”






Eriksen
listed freshman outfielder
Ta’coia
Williams as having a good at-bat in each attempt so far, and freshman outfielder
Juli
Weber’s play in her first start, along with the rest of the underclassmen making a positive impression, which is putting
Eriksen
in a difficult spot.






“Right now I’m in a quandary because when you see a team with heart it’s easier to do the things we’re use to doing,” he said. “We’re trying to find our heart. We’ve got a couple young people showing heart that will get playing time.”






USF plays former Big East foe Pittsburgh and No. 2 Tennessee
on Saturday
starting at
1:45 p.m.