SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE






Halloween began as a holiday in which children wore scary costumes when they went door to door asking for candy.


While the costumes have certainly gotten less frightening, the number of calories and amount of sugar in the candy has not. Children often find that the candy is the best part of the holiday, and they look forward to it all year.


In the past, people have tried to give children healthier or even non-food items such as pencils, bracelets, apples and raisins. While those are better options than sugar-filled treats, they often receive a negative reaction from kids and end up unused and uneaten in trick-or-treating baskets.

Candy should be eaten in moderation, though a lot of children (and adults) break this rule and eat a large portions of candy in a single sitting. Also, there are healthier alternatives that top the list of “healthy” Halloween candy.


Frighteningly fruity


Twizzlers and Smarties are famously fat-free treats, and a great option for trick-or-treaters. Airheads are also a good choice, with less than 50 calories and seven grams of sugar per bar. Dum Dum Lollipops are another smart choice; with only 20 calories and less than four grams of sugar per pop, they have a huge variety of flavors from cherry to cream soda.


Chillingly chocolaty


Chocolate lovers can enjoy Raisinets and a Nestle Crunch Bar as low-calorie options, at three grams of fat per fun-size bar. Hershey’s Special Dark is a great option for those who enjoy dark chocolate, as it is filled with antioxidants. Peanut M&M’s are a better choice because the peanuts add protein, fiber and calcium, with less than 100 calories and 10 grams of sugar per snack-sized bag.


Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups Miniatures are often a chocolate and peanut butter lovers’ favorite candy, and with less than 100 calories and five grams of fat for every two miniature cups, they can be a great option. 3 Musketeers are a fluffy and light indulgence at less than 50 calories and eight grams of sugar for two fun-size bars. Last but not least, Kit Kat Bars weigh in at 70 calories and less than four grams of fat for a two-piece bar, making them another great option.


Naturally nightmarish


In addition to the mainstream healthier candy options, there are also up-and-coming options for those who prefer Halloween treats with natural and organic ingredients. Surf Sweets are made with natural colors and flavors and are one of the only types of candy made without corn syrup. They have many options to choose from including, gummy bears, gummy worms, sour worms, peach rings and organic jellybeans. In addition to their year-round candy, they also have Spooky Spiders fruit snacks, which haunt grocery shelves around Halloween.


Yummy Earth Organics is well known for its lollipops, which include flavors from hot chili to strawberry. They also carry organic

sour beans, gummy bears and fruit snacks, and seasonal Halloween options. Annie’s Homegrown is another

brand that makes natural, organic and gluten-free food options, such as pasta, fruit snacks and cookies. Annie’s has Halloween Bunny Grahams and Organic Bunny Fruit Snacks that are seasonal and  come decked out in their own Halloween-themed packages. Many of these options can be purchased at health-food stores, such as Whole Foods, as well as online.