Sophomore midfielder Lindo Mfeka was one of three Bulls to score in the second half in USF’s 4-3 loss to Tulsa.

ORACLE PHOTO/ADAM MATHIEU







With emotions running high after USF’s 4-3 loss to Tulsa that went down to the final shot, a fight broke out involving Tulsa’s goalkeeper and several USF players.


Both benches cleared after Tulsa’s goalkeeper ended the game by deflecting a free kick. No player was injured in the fight.


A spokesman for the team said players were not allowed to make comments after the game and coach George Keifer refused to make a statement about the fight.


The Bulls started off the game with sloppy ball control and forced passes, which eventually led to Tulsa’s first goal off a counter-attack from senior defender Byron Knowles-Ramirez, who sped past the defense on the left side of the field and shot toward USF sophomore goalkeeper Spasoje Stefanovic’s far post.


The second half was back and forth as Stefanovic and Tulsa goalkeeper Brandon Hanat made continuous saves to keep their teams within reach.


The Bulls responded with two goals within a minute by sophomore midfielder Lindo Mfeka and senior forward Edwin Moalosi, respectively.


“I was pleased in the second half,” Keifer said. “We made a few tweaks to (our gameplay) and I felt like the game was going our way.”


After USF (6-4, 2-1) appeared to have the game wrapped up, leading 2-1 in the 80th minute, Tulsa put the game out of reach, six minutes later, with three consecutive goals.


“When we were up 2-1, our energy was a little too high and our concentration to details was off,” Keifer said. “You always want to stay in the right zone of confidence.”


The Bulls scored one more goal by senior midfielder Lucas Baldin with a shot from roughly 20-yards away, but the referee blew his whistle before the Bulls could send the game into overtime.


“I think we did put ourselves in a chance to tie it,” Keifer said. “We were inches away from getting it. I can’t look down on the guys’ effort to try to tie the game back up.”


USF will travel to Cincinnati (3-5-3, 0-2-1) this Saturday as AAC play continues.