Drops led to missed oppurtunities last week. Heading into Week 3, the Bulls are emphasizing the passing attack in hopes of securing a win against N.C. State. ORACLE PHOTO/ADAM MATHIEU




Through the first two weeks of the season, the Bulls’ passing game has been ineffective, producing no touchdowns.


The starting quarterback has yet to be announced by coach Willie Taggart for Week 3 because the coaching staff is waiting to see how sophomore quarterback Mike White handles the pain from the compression fracture he sustained in Week 2.


“He’s as limited as the pain he can tolerate,” Taggart said. “He has something protective on his arm. We’ll go through practice and see what he can do with it and we won’t do what he can’t do.”


The coaches were able to watch White throw last night and Taggart said he didn’t see any reason that could prevent White from starting Saturday.


Senior tight end Mike McFarland returned to action Saturday and led the Bulls with 55 receiving yards. He is recovering well from his offseason knee injury.


“I’m still rehabbing, just working back into the rotation,” McFarland said. “I just need to keep pushing, keep moving forward and everything will be OK.”


McFarland originally injured his left knee in the beginning of training camp and had to sit out until this past week of practice.


“I tore my meniscus the second or third day of camp,” McFarland said. “We were still in helmets, so thank God it wasn’t too late. I got a scope of it and they only said I only had to sit out a few weeks.”


Regardless of who starts at quarterback for USF on Saturday, Taggart emphasized the receivers need to make less drops.


“Guys are getting open and the ball is thrown to them, they just have to catch the ball,” Taggart said. “We have a lot of different guys dropping the ball. It was good to see all the guys who drop balls stay after practice (Monday night).”


Taggart and the coaching staff still have a couple of days left to evaluate White before they make a decision, but Taggart is confident in the likelihood of White starting this week.


“I think his chances of starting are high, very high,” Taggart said. “He threw the ball well last night.”