On Sunday evening, the New England Patriots and the Seattle Seahawks will battle it out on the field of the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. While the Super Bowl is considered one of the most important sporting events of the year, for many, the only reason to tune in is to catch the iconic commercials that companies spend millions to air.


These 30-second spots sold for a record $4.5 million each this year, according to Forbes. Though they haven’t entirely been given away, here are some of the most talked-about Super Bowl XLIX commercials to keep an eye out for.


Keeping up with T-Mobile


In the style of a Sarah McLachlan animal shelter commercial, T-Mobile is taking a stab at everyone in its Super Bowl ad this year. A somber-faced Kim Kardashian West, now the “author” of two books composed entirely of her selfies, urges onlookers to save their data plans.


“Each month, millions of gigs of unused data are taken back by wireless companies,” she says. “Tragic. Data you paid for that could be used to see my makeup, my backhand, my outfits, my vacations and my outfits. Sadly, all lost. Please, help save the data.”


While this commercial is certainly funny, and has already gained over 1 million views, it puts everyone on blast for eating up the celebrity lifestyle that Kardashian plasters all over social media. Kudos to T-Mobile for saying what’s on everyone else’s mind.


What is the Internet?


Promoting the new BMW i3, former “TODAY” show hosts Katie Couric and Bryant Gumbel revisit a now-comical moment from a 1994 segment where they attempted to understand the Internet. Now, 21 years later, the duo is seen driving down the street in the BMW i3 with the same quizzical behavior as when they asked “What is Internet anyway? Do you write to it?” The Internet is now a main connection to the world for many individuals; and it seems that BMW is attempting to let the world know what they can expect from the bubble-like i3.


Stepping out of the stable


The beloved Budweiser Clydesdale horses have returned to their position in the Super Bowl lineup this year with one message: “Don’t forget your buds.” With one of the heavy hoofed horses standing guard in the beer aisle of the grocery store, a customer who attempts to purchase the off-brand brew receives an angry snort from the steed. Budweiser has once again used the lovable horses to win over beer drinkers.


The invisible woman


The hilarious Mindy Kaling once again steals the scene in the 30-second teaser for Nationwide auto insurance’s Super Bowl spot. Joking that Kaling has always been treated like she was invisible, she begins to believe that she is indeed invisible. After sitting naked in Central Park, stealing ice cream and croissants from strangers and putting herself through the automatic car wash, the teaser cuts off with “but Mindy was actually not invisible…” leaving viewers to wonder what comes next.


GoDaddy gets stopped


One commercial that you won’t see during the game comes from GoDaddy.com. The popular web hosting company pulled its controversial ad following a change.org petition that racked up 42,000 signatures on its first day. The commercial featured a small puppy making its way back home after falling out of its owners’ truck. When the puppy finally arrives, his owner is happy to see him as she exclaims that she just sold him using GoDaddy. Though the publicity might be a good thing for GoDaddy, it just goes to show that puppies are no joking matter.