Troy Holston Jr. was the only Bull to score in overtime against Tulane on Sunday. The guard scored 11 points throughout the game, including three 3-pointers.  ORACLE FILE PHOTO/SEBASTIAN CONTENTO




It had been nearly two months since USF (7-10, 1-3) went into overtime before the Bulls were defeated 56-51 in overtime by Tulane (12-4, 3-1) on Sunday.


The Bulls’ first overtime game of the season was a 73-71 victory over UAB, but they have only won four games since.


Only one of those wins, a 58-50 victory over East Carolina, was a conference game. The Bulls needed a win over Tulane, which is tied for second in the AAC, to avoid a losing record in conference play.


Though the Bulls scored the opening points of the game, they couldn’t get the offense going until the end of the second half,  trailing for almost the entire game in New Orleans and didn’t lead until only 22 seconds remained in regulation.


Tulane guard Jonathan Stark made one of two free throws to tie the game at 46 with 16 seconds remaining, and USF had the ball with a chance to win.


Junior guard Anthony Collins patiently let the clock wind down and then drove hard to the right side of the basket. Collins was met with several defenders and wildly threw the ball at the backboard.


Freshman center Ruben Guerrero collected the miss, but his put back attempt fell short as time expired.


Freshman guard Troy Holston Jr. scored five of his 11 points on two shots to open overtime for the Bulls, but Tulane was able to stop USF from scoring in the game’s final 2 minutes and 37 seconds.


Tulane guard Louis Dabney outscored the Bulls in overtime by himself. The junior scored six of his 25 points in overtime and made more than half of Tulane’s shots. Without Dabney, Tulane shot 21 percent from the field, including only 2 of 10 3-pointers.


USF made six more shots than the Green Wave, but lost because of the disproportionate amount of free throws the Bulls allowed.


The Green Wave made 22 of its 27 attempts, compared to USF’s four out of five tries.


USF will return to the Sun Dome in search of its second conference win when it hosts AAC-leading Tulsa (10-5, 3-0) on Saturday at 11 a.m.