Unlike his recruitment out of high school, Asiantii Woulard was fully confident in his decision to return home to Florida and play for the Bulls, announcing via Twitter on June 29 he would be transferring to USF.


The former UCLA quarterback de-comitted to USF twice in his recruitment out of Winter Park High School in 2013, but the four-star quarterback had little trouble making up his mind this time around.


“I feel like it’s a good situation,” Woulard said. “The whole community, city and university has just been waiting for that spark to come around and I want to be a part of it and help bring them where they’re trying to go.”


Woulard spent two years on the bench at UCLA, learning the playbook and biding his time until he would be given a chance to take over the reigns.


But that chance never came.


Despite not playing a down in his time at UCLA, Woulard said he has no regrets and he would make the same choice again.


“At the time, I just felt that UCLA was a better fit,” Woulard said. “I just needed to get away for a while, go see another world, another environment. I still don’t regret it, it’s probably one of the best decisions I’ve made.”


In his senior season at Winter Park, Woulard passed for 1,400 yards and 13 touchdowns and rushed for 11 touchdowns.


Woulard also won the MVP award of the Elite 11 quarterback skills competition, which included quarterbacks such as Joshua Dobbs of Tennessee and Malik Zaire of Notre Dame.


His success at Winter Park led to ESPN.com ranking him as the top dual-threat quarterback and earned him an invitation to the U.S. Army All-American Bowl, which is a game featuring the top 90 high school players.


When deciding on where he would transfer, Woulard said he was talking with several schools, but playing for the Bulls made the most sense as Tampa is close to his home of Winter Park and he was already familiar with the coaching staff.


Woulard said he was particularly impressed with coach Willie Taggart and his decision to switch to a spread offense.


“Coach Taggart is just a genuine guy, I think he really wants to bring the best out of his guys,” Woulard said. “I think it’s perfect timing with him going to more of a spread or no huddle offense. That’s what kind of guy I am and what I like to run.”


He won’t be able to test out Taggart’s new offense just yet, as he will have to sit out the upcoming 2015 season due to NCAA transfer rules.


But Woulard said he’s still excited to join the Bulls, who he sees as a talented team, despite the results on the field over the past two years.


“I’m not really sure what the struggles have been about because they have good players, but I think the main issue has been finishing games,” Woulard said. “They’ve competed in every game they’ve played in. It shows they have players who can compete, but now we have to put it together and finish.”


He said he knows Taggart’s job could be in jeopardy if the Bulls fail to reach a bowl game again this season, but he said he’s committed to USF for the long haul no matter who’s coaching.


“I would still stick with USF if coach Taggart is fired,” Woulard said. “You can’t get away from everything, no situation is going to be perfect. You have to take it in stride and keep moving.”