As voters prepare for the upcoming election, consideration must be given to the recent videos regarding Planned Parenthood’s illegal use of taxpayer dollars.


Presidential candidates are choosing sides for or against the pro-choice giant leading to increased levels of discussion about the corporation.


Undercover investigations of Planned Parenthood released to the public reveal their illegal procurement and sale of aborted baby’s body parts.


Deborah Nucatola, senior director of medical services for Planned Parenthood, is quoted saying, “Laws are up to interpretation. If I say on day one I do not intend to do this, what ultimately happens doesn’t matter.” This statement from Nucatola clearly shows her disregard for her own word, much less federal law.


The contract signed by Planned Parenthood and its patients protects women from altered abortion procedures in regards to tissue donation. Nucatola disregards this contract and federal law 18 U.S. Code 1531 in favor of an illegal partial-birth abortion by delivering the baby breech to ensure the egression of an intact head.


A patient visiting Planned Parenthood of Pasadena’s medical director Mary Gatter, quoted her as willing to speak to an abortionist about a manual vacuum to increase the chances of an intact baby. Said procedure would procure an intact baby, and a higher buying price.


Gatter is caught haggling prices of 8-9 week or second trimester babies for $75-$100 each. However, Gatter stated she must first research the going rates at other clinics to ensure she is receiving a fair price as “money is what makes it worthwhile… and I want a Lamborghini.”


Planned Parenthood CEO Cecile Richards apologized for the tone of voice the videos captured yet not the content concerning sale of human body parts.


The Washington Post quotes $528.4 million of taxpayer money are allotted by the government to fund Planned Parenthood. For this reason, presidential candidates are voicing opinions on the issue.


Regardless of political affiliation, voters must inform themselves on these issues. A vote against Planned Parenthood is not one against free contraceptives or available healthcare for women, but a stand for life and upholding federal law.


The nine videos released to the public have served to inform citizens of an issue they have the ability to change through their votes. A corporation that does not respect federal law does not deserve to be funded through the government.





Hannah Saucedo is a senior majoring in international studies.