After months of ongoing litigation with the university, with claims of discrimination and a requested restraining order, USF Registrar Angela DeBose will no longer be in her position come fall.


On May 19, DeBose was sent a letter of non-reappointment from the university, which states her employment at USF will end Aug. 19.


In a motion filed in February to the Tampa Division of the U.S. District Court, DeBose stated USF Vice Provost for Student Success Paul Dosal discriminated against her based on her race, stating the behavior was the result of “institutional racism.”


This motion for a restraining order to prevent retaliation from USF was filed against the USF Board of Trustees, Academic Affairs and Dosal. The motion was denied.


In one motion, DeBose also stated Dosal threatened to fire her based on discrimination against her gender as well.


According to the letter of non-reappointment, the notice does not constitute a dismissal or disciplinary action, but it is the university’s “prerogative to discontinue” her appointment.


DeBose did not return calls for comment from The Oracle.


On May 8, the university contracted a consultant from Ellucian, the company that hosts Degree Works. In the report, the consultant said USF “managed to create an atmosphere of working together for the good of the institution” but reported an “area of risk” was the registrar’s office “not willing to encompass change” and lacked an “atmosphere of working together for the good of the institution, staff and most importantly students.”


The report stated the registrar’s office is responsible for the majority of the data that Degree Works utilizes, but did not outline any specific changes for the office.


The consultant wrote in the report that such unwillingness could “ultimately hold (USF) back from (its) future goals.”


USF Media and Public Affairs Coordinator Adam Freeman declined to comment on behalf of the university and Dosal, stating the university does not comment on personnel issues.


While the university will launch a national search for a new registrar, Freeman said the new interim registrar is Carrie Garcia, a current director for the USF Information Technology department.