Actually She Can, a group that focuses on empowering college women, had the opportunity to speak to USF students last week at the “Path to Success” panel. The organization delivered a message on how to foster women’s identities in a cosmopolitan society where men continue to dominate the professional world.


The pharmaceutical company Allergan launched the organization July 21 to encourage women to pursue their dreams and guide them toward success.


Actually She Can’s encouraging message was effective in explaining the issues revolving around womanhood to the millennial generation. The Twitter handle #ActuallySheCan has increased in popularity, featured in tweets of positive feedback for the organization. By reaching college-aged students, Actually She Can could trigger a significant change in the mindset of people in the millennial generation.


According to a study by George Washington University, “34 percent of men in the South believe that men make better political leaders than women, compared to 24 percent in the Northeast.” The same study revealed “32 percent of men in the South believe that men make better executives than women, compared to 17 percent in the Northeast.”


In his 2014 State of the Union address, President Barack Obama said, “Today, women make up about half our workforce. But they still make 77 cents for every dollar a man earns. That is wrong, and in 2014, it’s an embarrassment.”


The campaign quickly began to attract attention when Her Campus, an online magazine targetting the female college student demographic, picked it up, and speakers for the organization began touring campuses across the country. The organization also made an appearance at the Wanderlust 108  triathlon in Atlanta on Sunday.


Lea Michele, star of “Glee” and “Scream Queens,” shared her support of the movement and has become the face of the new campaign.


“I attribute my personal and professional successes to not only my self-reliance and determination, but to the inspiration, education and support I received from others who helped me stay true to myself and my goals,” Michele said.


“I am sharing my #ActuallySheCan story so I can help motivate and encourage all women to share their individual journeys and goals, so we can collectively help each other reach milestones. There is nothing more gratifying than seeing a woman leave her mark.”


The aim of the campaign is for women from all walks of life to join together and encourage one another to focus on positivity and strive toward success. It encourages women to not be afraid to take risks, fight for what you want in life and say yes to new opportunities.


It is crucial for women to stand up for their rights and fight for true equality in all aspects of life. Whether you are a daughter, sister, wife or a mother, you play a vital role in redefining what society believes a woman can do.


Pallavi Dheeja Gopee is a sophomore majoring in management.