The fourth republican presidential debate of this campaign season led to a pleasant surprise. The candidates actually spent time focusing on issues rather than personally attacking each other.


While no single contender came out as a clear winner, several held their own and finally stepped up to the plate during the debate. It appears the U.S. will finally begin to see what plans the GOP candidates have for our country.


The candidates have all previously skirted around policies and details on how they plan to improve the nation if elected. But Tuesday, it seemed they had unanimously decided it was time to separate themselves from the group and establish their stances.


This led to very distinct differences becoming clear amongst the candidates, the largest being their views on immigration reform.


While Donald Trump continued to push his plan to deport 11 million immigrants and build a giant wall on the border, his opponents made it clear they found it as absurd as the rest of the U.S.


Gov. John Kasich of Ohio did not hesitate to declare Trump’s plan both unrealistic and inhumane.


“Come on, folks. We all know you can’t pick them up and ship them back across the border. It’s a silly argument,” he pointed out, all too rightly. “It’s not an adult argument.”


Well, of course it’s not.


Kasich essentially compared Trump’s to the mindset of a child who is adamant to get his way, even if it is entirely naive.


The Comb-over King, of course, bristled and once again called upon his oh-so-intimidating godlike attitude to declare, “I’ve built an unbelievable company worth billions and billions of dollars, I don’t have to hear from this man.”


While his clenched jaw and cocky attitude made him appear like the biggest schmuck in politics, it didn’t help voters establish the details of his insane policy.


Kasich was not the only one fed up with Trump’s outrageous claims. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush mocked Trump for believing his plan would work.


“They’re doing high fives in the Clinton campaign when they hear this,” he said.


Clinton’s press secretary Brian Fallon tweeted almost immediately after to confirm the claim, making it clear that the continuance of such an outrageous policy would only hurt the GOP.


It is refreshing, however, to finally have candidates voicing the disgust of voters over Trump’s ridiculous ‘fix’ to immigration.


Bush also revealed he had a plan that would offer legal status to undocumented immigrants if they agree to meet certain conditions, like learning English, even though the U.S. does not have a national language, and paying back taxes.


Sen. Ted Cruz completely disagreed with Bush, claiming his plan was identical to amnesty. Cruz said he plans to have a harsher method of dealing with immigration claiming, “It is not compassionate to say we’re not going to enforce the laws.”


Though the candidates all differ on the best method to tackling immigration one thing was made abundantly clear Tuesday night: No one agrees with Trump. The republican candidates have realized Trump’s policies are isolating voters and, thankfully, they appear to be ready to remedy that mistake.





Breanne Williams is a junior majoring in mass communications.