Places to Eat


A little over two miles from Raymond James Stadium,
Los Comparres
is a Tampa treasure. As a stationary food truck with a handful of seats, it’s less of a restaurant and more of a quick eatery.


However, its simple menu of Mexican favorites has been known to draw huge crowds, so students should show up with plenty of time to spare before the game. Be sure to try their Cuban sandwich, as it is the most popular item on the menu.


Just around the corner from the game is
AJ’s Press
, a sandwich and breakfast spot. With both outside and inside seating, this brightly colored watering hole is truly welcoming and comforting to patrons.


Its extensive menu includes breakfast bowls, pressed sandwiches and soups. They also offer daily deals. There’s sure to be something for everyone. Don’t forget to pick up some of their jalapeno bacon hush puppies, which are complimentary for first time customers.


Perfect for a game with a noon kickoff,
West Tampa Sandwich Shop
opens bright and early at 5 a.m. Even though they close at 3 p.m. Monday to Friday, 5 p.m. on Saturday and 1 p.m. on Sunday, they still have a full breakfast, lunch and dinner menu.


This Cuban diner has been known to attract political figures such as Tipper Gore, John Kerry and President Barack Obama, who now has a sandwich named after him. If students go before the game, they should order a cafe con leche in preparation for the long day.


Tailgates to Join


Anyone who has been to a USF football game has seen them on the Jumbotron, and anyone in any of the ‘USF Class of…’ Facebook pages has seen them trying to drum up support for all of the USF sports teams.


Now students can get painted with the
Beef Studs
. They plan on tailgating from 7 a.m. and body painting will begin at 9 a.m. There will be free food and musical accompaniment. Students can find more information on the Beef Studs and Babes Facebook page.


Students who don’t want to pay and fight for parking in West Tampa can take advantage of the Bulls Blitz buses provided by
Student Government (SG)
. The buses begin boarding at 8 a.m. at the MSC bus loop. Students will need to provide their student IDs and game tickets. Anyone who wants to take the bus should get there early because there is a limited availability of seats.


Later, students can join SG’s student tailgate, as they will be offering games and free food and drinks.


Places to Watch the Game


This Saturday,
Lee Roy Selmon’s
— named for the first Tampa Bay Buccaneer to make it in the NFL Hall of Fame — will be holding a USF vs. FSU watch party for supporters of both sides. The game will be projected on the big screen, and they’re expecting a large crowd, so get there early.