Sophomore Astin Donovan was also named AAC player of the week after a 7-for-11 perfomance against Tulsa.

ORACLE FILE PHOTO/ADAM MATHIEU






Sophomore outfielder Astin Donovan was named the USA Softball Collegiate National Player of the Week, the Amateur Softball Association (ASA)/USA Softball announced today.


The Connecticut native batted .636 in 11 at-bats last week. She also had three multi-hit games during USF’s sweep of Tulsa over the weekend.


“I was not expecting to be recognized, so it is an honor to be selected as a national player of the week,” Donovan said in a press release. “I felt like I had some really good at-bats this weekend and I felt better than I have most of the season.”


In Saturday’s comeback win over Tulsa, Donovan sparked a five-run fifth inning with a one-out single before coming around to score.


“I was really calm and confident at the plate and seeing the ball really well,” Donovan said. “I had a clear plan in mind as to what I wanted to do when I was at the plate but at the same time, I was just trying to get on base to help my team produce runs.”


Holman to transfer from USF


Redshirt sophomore linebacker Nick Hollman plans to transfer from USF. The news came late Tuesday night via a Twitter post.


Hollman wrote:




"Thankful for the times I’ve had and the relationships I’ve made that will last a lifetime during my two years at USF. It was a hard decision, but I’ve decided it’s best for me to transfer and pursue other opportunities. I’m looking forward to what the future holds for me athletically and academically."




The 32nd ranked prospect in Alabama coming out of high school, Hollman redshirted his freshman year after suffering a shoulder injury. He recorded five total tackles in 11 career games.


Hollman was listed as a backup on USF’s two-deep spring depth chart.


Odds and ends:
USF’s “Bark with the Bulls” night is Saturday, allowing fans to bring their dogs to the USF softball and Baseball games against UCF. Dogs must be on a leash and limited to two per person. The softball game begins at 4 p.m. with baseball following at 6.