ORACLE FILE PHOTO/ADAM MATHIEU







1:05 p.m.
— USF adds 6-foot-1, 245-pound inside linebacker Micario Stanley out of Cape Coral High School. He is the last on the list as far as commits, but there may be a few names still out there that the USF is working on.




12:30 p.m. —
USF has added two more signees to its list, bringing the total to 17.  The Bulls' added their fourth defensive back with three-star cornerback Michael Hampton. Hampton joins USF's class that also features safeties Craig Watts, Armunz Mathews and Josh Dunn.


USF coach Willie Taggart also added 6-foot-5, 240-pound defensive end Tramal Ivy from Butler Community College in Kansas. Ivy joins defensive ends Frank johnson and LaDarrius Jackson who signed earlier this morning.




9:45

a.m.
—The first big wave of Signing Day appears to be over for coach Willie Taggart and his staff. According to USF’s official website, the Bulls have inked 15 signees.


The first letter came from 6-foot-5, 270 –pound offensive lineman Logan MacDonald. From there, the fax machine inside the Selmon Athletic Center kept buzzing.


The big surprise came early with a pair wide outs signing with the Bulls. Four star Darnell Salomon had offers from major Power 5 schools — including three of the four schools who were in the College Football Playoff last season.


The other, three star DeVontres Dukes, is a 6-foot-4 athlete that has been missing from the USF offense.


The most recent signee was defensive back Craig Watts – USF’s other four star recruit. Watts looks to be part of a handful of freshman to make an immediate impact.


Taggart told local radio station 620 WDAE that this class is “probably the best since I’ve been here.”


His diamond in the rough: 6-foot-4 linebacker Andre Polk.


“I tell you what, I think the whole Bulls Nation is going to hear about him like, early,” Taggart said. “We kept him a secret for a while but now I think everybody's going to hear about him.”


Another surprise, but for good reason, came from Plant city’s Markese Hargrove. Hargrove will join USF as a walk-on after earning an academic scholarship per Kelly Parsons of The Tampa Bay Times.


A full list of USF’s signees can be found
here
.


—Follow for updates on Twitter

@JacobHoagUSF