The joke has become all too real. Donald Trump is snatching up state after state in the primaries, and the frightening reality of him as the presidential frontrunner for the GOP is not far-fetched.


Several GOP legends such as Mitt Romney and Glenn Beck have pleaded with the American people not to vote for Trump and instead seek a candidate truly representative of the GOP. Romney tweeted that Trump’s “coddling of repugnant bigotry is not in the character of America.”


Comedian Louis C.K. summarized the zeitgeist best in an email about his web series sent out over the weekend that began with, “Please stop it with voting for Trump. It was funny for a little while. But the guy is Hitler.”


While the Hitler comparison may be a bit harsh, there is no doubt Trump has an exclusionist outlook, which creates an “us against the rest of the world” mentality when it comes to those outside the U.S.


In particular, Trump’s desire to erect the wall on the U.S.–Mexican border contributes to this attitude of separating U.S. citizens from the rest of the globe.


Trump hasn’t behaved professionally and he even insults his own supporters. At his rally in the USF Sun Dome in February, Trump called those seated behind him smarter than those standing on the floor because those behind him will be “famous."


When discussing the plan for his wall at the rally, Trump said, “the president of Mexico yesterday, or the ex-president or whatever, whoever, who cares.” This is not the language of someone in contention for the presidency.


Trump’s belittlement of leaders from other countries reflects poorly on the people, as it presents an image of U.S. citizens as apathetic toward foreign politics.


Trump also referred to attacking the Middle East as “bombing the oil,” and lambasted U.S. leaders for not doing so before France. Summing up the entire Middle East as simply “the oil” clearly demonstrates Trump’s as unprofessionalism and unsuitability for the presidency.


In his letter, C.K. makes it clear he is not bashing the Republican Party or asking for people to vote democrat. C.K. goes on to say he would like to see a conservative president to balance having President Barack Obama for eight years, but he just feels Trump is “an insane bigot” and “dangerous” and thinks voters should select a different Republican candidate.


C.K. is not alone in his jab at Trump for being a bigot. Even Saturday Night Live (SNL) recently made a satirical video depicting people who appeared normal and claimed Trump was “a winner” and “authentic,” only to then reveal them to be white supremacists, grabbing Ku Klux Klan (KKK) uniforms or wearing Nazi armbands.


SNL and C.K. aside, the truth is that Trump has the support of David Duke, a former KKK leader. The humor emerged when Trump refused to condemn Duke or the KKK and said during CNN’s “State of the Union” that he would like to do research before condemning the group in order to be sure he is not wrongly disavowing them.


While his determination to want to vet a group before slamming them could be seen as admirable, there shouldn’t be much investigation needed to want to separate oneself from the KKK.


Simply put, C.K. has the right message. Trump is not the man needed for the presidency. He’s an unprofessional bigot spewing anger.


The problem can best be summarized by C.K.: “A vote for Trump is so clearly a gut-vote, and again I get it. But add a little brain to it and look the guy up. Because if you vote for him because of how you feel right now, the minute he’s president, you’re going to regret it.”


















Adam Mathieu is a senior majoring in studio art.