Following a trip to Clearwater Beach in lieu of Wednesday’s practice, the Bulls were back to work on Thursday night. Coach Willie Taggart said he believes the Bulls responded well to the trip, using the day off the re-energize and re-focus before the grind of a long season and equally grueling Fall semester.


“After having a day off, you always want to come out and see how the guys are going to respond,” Taggart said. “I thought they came out with a lot of energy today, with a mindset to get better. I feel like we got better as a football team today.”


Down the Stretch


While coming to the end of what Taggart claims to be the toughest training camp of his tenure at USF, he praised his team for maintaining a high level even coming out of tonight’s session.


“I haven’t heard one guy complain about coming out here and practicing an competing, and that’s a great sig,” Taggart said. “We just talk about our culture and what we’re trying to create here. We have two more days left, and with the energy and the way we did things today, you couldn’t tell we’ve been out here working in this heat.”


High Praise


Following Taggart in talking to the media, sophomore safety Khalid McGee received high acclaim from the head coach on making an impact early in training camp. Taggart even went as far to say that McGee will “definitely be one of the guys you see on the field on September 3
rd.
”


Replacing a graduated Jamie Byrd at the “striker” safety, McGee said he’s excited for the opportunity to make an impact on an already aggressive-minded defense.


“It’s so exciting, it’s fun,” McGee said. “I get to do so many things, I can run, I can cover, act like I’m blitzing or just blitz. It’s a savvy position.”


BULLet Points


Coach Taggart commented that as of Thursday that neither sophomore, Brent Gordon nor Jordan Acham, have pulled away to be named the starting punter… Saturday night’s scrimmage marks the final practice of training camp before regular season practice starts on Monday.