At the recent South by Southwest Music, Film and Interactive convention in Austin, Texas, the very popular video game manufacturer Telltale Games, released information regarding its newest venture, a Batman videogame.


On Friday, Greg Miller, a co-manager of the YouTube channel Kinda Funny, hosted a panel with Telltale Games to reveal the first details of this new game.


In attendance were some of Telltale’s key members, which included Head of Creative Communications Job Stauffer, CEO and Executive Producer Kevin Bruner, writer Pierre Shorette, and executive producer TQ Jefferson.


Telltale’s videogames are known for their multiple branching story lines and choices that affect the game play. The choices you make affect the story. With each new decision, new options emerge and connect, making each play-through different.


Depending on what choices the player makes, he or she can unlock and interact with new characters or learn new pieces of information otherwise unavailable on a different route.


This type of gameplay can be seen in some of Telltale’s most well-known games, including ‘Wolf Among Us,’ ‘The Walking Dead’ and ‘Tales from the Borderlands.’


According to the company’s blog, the “team is committing to a non-photorealistic interpretation of the universe, enhancing engine and technology to deliver a more seamless living comic book art direction. Taking inspiration from the works of over 75 years of artists such as Jim Lee, Greg Capullo, and Neal Adams.”


A Batman game is nothing new. In 2015, the release of “Batman: Arkham Knight,” the most recent console game in the Batman: Arkham series, sold over 5 million copies worldwide, according to IGN.


However, whereas previous Batman gameplay has been centered mainly on the actions and adventures of the Dark Knight himself, Telltale has focused its storyline not only on Batman, but on alter ego Bruce Wayne as well.


This stand-alone game will focus mainly on the struggles of Wayne and Batman, as your choices as each influences both Bruce’s daytime interactions and Batman’s nighttime adventures.


“Batman is the perfect character for the studio to explore in a Telltale series,” Telltale stated on its blog. “Giving the team the opportunity to dive deeper into the mind of the man behind the mask. Each night, Bruce Wayne chooses to change Gotham for the better.


The team wants to explore what the consequences are of the player’s actions when decisions made as Bruce have a critical impact on his nightly crusade as Batman, and vice versa. Certain key situations will give the player the decision to approach a scene as Bruce or Batman, with consequences for both sides.”


Although Telltale has diverged some information regarding game play, they have not announced any villains that will debut in the game. However, other key Batman figures, including Alfred, Commissioner James Gordon, Vicki Vale and Renee Montoya, are set to be featured.


The game is set to premier sometime this summer and is rated M for Mature. Scenes from the game will be available to the general public closer to the premiere.