Students can practice Yoga to improve flexibility, posture, breathing and sleep habits, among other things. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE






Many students should be glad when they realize that this semester is already a little over one-third finished. However, they might be under too much stress from classes to even recognize this milestone. While the year seems to be blowing by, they shouldn’t forget to take a breath or a moment for themselves sometimes. Here is a list of activities available on campus that students can try whenever they need to relax.


Yoga


Yoga gained its popularity in the Western world after people realized it’s long list of health benefits. Students can practice it to improve flexibility, posture, breathing and sleep habits, among other things.


Campus Recreation offers multiple types of yoga classes throughout the week at various times. These classes are good for beginners who don’t know where to start, and they also have begun to offer an advanced yoga class for for people who want a higher difficulty level.


Students can register for classes online and their fall schedule can also be found on their
website
.


Meditation


People that want the mental benefits of yoga without the physical exertion can try meditating. This is perfect for students who find themselves on the edge of a burnout.


A common misconception, meditation is more than just sitting down to think. It is being aware of both your physical and mental well being as well as your surroundings. It has been known to reduce stress while improving productivity and concentration.


The USF Counseling Center offers a biweekly meditation group on Mondays from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. and on Thursdays from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m.


Go running (treadmill or trail)


Students that find that they relax more whenever staying active can try running. It has been scientifically proven to release hormones that make people happier and it also can improve a person’s memory and heart health. This is only a few of a long list of benefits that running has on the human body. Students who need a little motivation can invite a friend to run with them or even start a group,


Students who prefer indoor running can stick to the treadmills inside Campus Recreation while others can try out the running paths on campus.


Read recreationally


At this point in the semester, it’s understandable if a student is tired of reading and books. However, some students still find comfort in this act as long as it’s not for a class. For the people that appreciate reading as a hobby, try finding a secluded spot in the library and take some time to start a new book.


Instead of spending money, students should look to see if the library already has books that interest them. They can do this themselves on the library’s website. If they don’t have a specific book, take this opportunity to try something new. There’s bound to be something there that can intrigue anyone, no matter their taste.