USF quarterback Quinton Flowers celebrates a touchdown during the Bulls' win over UConn on Oct. 15. ORACLE FILE PHOTO/JACOB HOAG






After becoming the first player in AAC history to pass and rush for over 200 yards in a single game, a feat USF quarterback Quinton Flowers accomplished in a 49-42 win over Memphis, the junior was named AAC Offensive Player of the Week.


It’s the third time that Flowers has taken home the award this season and the second consecutive week he has been named College Football Performance Awards (CFPA) National Performer of the Week.


Flowers amassed a school-record 447 yards and five touchdowns against Memphis, while also becoming the first USF quarterback to rush for over 1,000 yards and throw for over 2,000.


Flowers has 3,335 yards and 32 total touchdowns on the season making m=him a strong frontrunner for the AAC Player of the Year Award.


Men’s soccer to host FGCU


Despite falling in penalty kicks to Tulsa in the AAC Championship game, the USF men’s soccer team will host FGCU in the first round of the NCAA tournament on Thursday at 7 p.m.


The field was announced Monday with the winner of USF/FGCU traveling to play ninth-seeded North Carolina in the next round.


After beginning the season 0-3-2, USF rebounded winning nine of its remaining 12 games to end the season as AAC regular season champs.


It is USF’s 20th appearance in the NCAA tournament and the eighth in the last nine years under coach George Kiefer.


Eriksen inducted in Hall of Fame


USF softball coach Ken Eriksen was inducted to the National Softball Hall of Fame for “Meritorious service” at the ASA/USA Softball Celebration in Shreveport, Louisiana on Saturday.


Eriksen leads all USF coaches across all sports with 863 career wins in his 20 seasons with the program.


He was also an assistant coach on the 2004 Olympic gold medal team and has coached the U.S. national team since 2011.


The 55-year old coach has led USF to 11 NCAA tournament appearances, including the programs’ lone trip to the Women’s College World Series in 2011.