Early Monday morning, those hoping to get tickets for Donald Trump’s rally at the USF Sun Dome on Friday were met with the words “sold out.”


Eventbrite, the company through which students can register to get tickets, showed tickets were no longer available. Only a few hours later, however, tickets became available again.


The Eventbrite Communications Team said this kind of change could occur because event organizers are allowed to determine how many tickets are up for grabs when they first publicize the event. The Sun Dome has a maximum capacity of 10,000 people, but there may not have been 10,000 tickets originally available.


Event organizers can release tickets in increments of any size, possibly putting up just 100 and then, after those are claimed, putting up another 100. This would lead to periods of time when tickets appear sold out before more are made available.


“That is totally up to the organizers,” the Team said.


Eventbrite was unable to speak about the Trump rally in particular or give any information on how many tickets are available.


The rally will begin at 7 p.m., with doors opening at 5 p.m. Tickets must be printed or shown on a mobile device to gain entry. Those without proof of tickets will have to go to a separate check-in area.


Parking will be $20 per vehicle, with extra charges for larger vehicles.


On the day of the rally, the Campus Recreation Center will close at 2 p.m. and Bull Runner service from Leroy Collins Boulevard East and USF Willow Drive South will come to a halt at 2:30 p.m.


Parking lots 22A, 22D, 22E and 22F around the Sun Dome and part of lot 6 behind the Rec Center will all be closed on Friday, while lots 29A and 29B behind the library will close at 2:30 p.m.


Additionally, lots 36, 23T, 23A and 23B, between the Zimmerman School of Advertising and Mass Communications and the Patel Center for Global Solutions, will close at 4:30 p.m.


University Communications and Marketing advises those working near the event to consider speaking with their supervisor about working remotely if job duties permit, or making other arrangements, such as taking leave.