Nintendo is stepping back into the world of mobile gaming with its plans to bring the Fire Emblem and Animal Crossing worlds to phones everywhere.


During Nintendo’s quarterly financial briefing in Kyoto, Japan, on Wednesday, the company divulged information concerning its highly anticipated gaming system, the Nintendo NX, as well as plans for its mobile gaming platform.


“As we report the results of the last fiscal year, we also look forward to an exciting period ahead with further growth in our mobile business, new products for our dedicated video game systems and continued progress in our efforts to increase the number of consumers experiencing our IP through games, licensing and expanded entertainment,” said Tatsumi Kimishima, the president of Nintendo, according to Forbes.


Although fairly new to this market, Nintendo is no stranger to mobile gaming.


With the launch of its social media app, Miitomo, in March, Nintendo made quite an impact in the mobile gaming world. It was extremely popular in the U.S. when first released and earned approximately 1.6 million downloads during its first four days in the country.


According to Games Radar, Nintendo announced Miitomo now has 10 million worldwide users, has hosted 300 million conversations and shared 20 million Miifotos, which are photos you can take of your Mii avatar.


While Miitomo was geared toward social media, Nintendo’s next mobile apps will be strictly gaming ones.


Fire Emblem and Animal Crossing are particularly popular Nintendo products.


Animal Crossing allows you to play as a human villager who just moved into a town of cute anthropomorphic animals. You are responsible for aiding the citizens and performing tasks, such as fishing and bug catching.


The latest game in this series, “Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer,” was released in September and sold approximately 3 million copies worldwide, according to Nintendo’s Earnings Release’s Supplementary Information.


Fire Emblem focuses on battle and combat strategy. You move characters across a board to have them engage enemies in combat and interact with them in a medieval setting.


According to Nintendo’s Earnings Release’s Supplementary Information, the series’ latest installation for the Nintendo 3DS, “Fire Emblem: Fates,” was released in February and sold 1.84 million copies since then.


Both games are set to be released this fall for both iOS and Android devices.