Courtney Williams may have a better opportunity for playing time after being traded to the last-place Connecticut Sun on Saturday for All-Star center Kelsey Bone. ORACLE FILE PHOTO/ADAM MATHIEU




Courtney Williams had spent a season total of 25 minutes on the court for the Phoenix Mercury prior to being traded to the Connecticut Sun for All-Star center Kelsey Bone on Saturday.


Despite Bone winning the WNBA’s Most-Improved Player award and making the All-Star team last season, the Sun sent Bone to the Mercury in exchange for Williams and the rights to second-round draft pick Jillian Alleyne.


Williams joins the struggling Sun (3-12), who are likely looking toward the future with this transaction as its playoff hopes dwindle by the day.


The 6-foot-4 Bone, who is entering her fourth season in the WNBA, had a breakout season in 2015 when she averaged 15.4 points and 6.3 rebounds per game for Connecticut.


With the Sun off to the worst start in the WNBA, Williams could have more opportunities for playing time in the coming games.


Bulls in pro baseball



Luke Maglich no longer plays for the USF baseball team, but the Williamsport Crosscutters’ outfielder is still no stranger to late-game heroics.


Maglich, who won three games for USF last season with walk-off hits, delivered a walk-off RBI single in the bottom of the 13th in his third game for the Crosscutters on June 22.


In his first six games in professional baseball at the minor league level, Maglich has hit .200 with a double and two RBIs.


Former Bulls Brandon Lawson and Tommy Eveld have also began their careers at the professional level.


Lawson, who is pitching as a reliever after logging over 100 innings with the Bulls in 2016, owns a 3.86 ERA and three strikeouts in 4 2/3 innings over two games with the Hudson Valley Renegades.


Eveld, the highest-drafted Bull in 2016, has appeared in three games for the Hillsboro Hops, allowing one run on three hits over 3 2/3 innings.


Former Freedom High golfer transfers to USF


Following two seasons at Florida Southern College, golfer Jimmy Jones is transferring to USF.


Originally from Freedom High School in Tampa, Jones became a 2016 Division II PING First-Team All-American after finishing in the top 10 in seven of 13 events.


Jones averaged a 72.87 over his 35 rounds in his sophomore season, finishing as the 2016 Division II Jack Nicklaus Player of the Year Award semifinalist.


Jones will be joining a USF team that is losing seniors Chase Koepka, Jeffrey Meltzer and Aksel Olsen after coming off back-to-back appearances in the NCAA National Championship.