The feasibility study included renderings of what the potiential on-campus stadium may look like. Above is the rendering for its possible location near the Sun Dome.
SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/FEASIBILITY STUDY






The concept of an on-campus stadium might be one step closer to becoming reality as a
feasibility study
unveiled Tuesday focused on two optimal locations — one near the Sun Dome and the other near Research Park — that will continue to be looked at. To build a stadium at either location would cost around $200 million, according to USF officials.


The stadium cost would not come from tuition, fees or taxpayer money, according to USF vice president for administrative services Calvin Williams, who did not address any sources of funding.


The study looked at four potential locations, but two are currently being emphasized. The first is on Fowler Avenue and USF Bull Run Drive, across from the Sun Dome.


According to the report, this option offers around 34 acres of land and direct access to major traffic areas. However, parking would be a challenge and the process would involve significant infrastructure impacts. Stadium construction is projected to cost $194,240,634.


The second is near Bruce B. Downs Boulevard and Fowler Avenue. According to the report, this location would offer around 74 acres of land, direct access to major traffic areas, the possibility for more parking and several potential locations for the stadium within the area. Stadium construction is project to cost $202,382,356.


“Both locations, both zones offer advantages,” Williams said. “One offers more acreage potentially available than the other, but because of unforeseen site locations, we really can’t say. We are so preliminary in this. So right now we know that these are locations that we know are viable locations.”


Both locations would be able to house a stadium of 40,000 seats and could be used as a multi-use facility. Additionally, both would offer two areas for tailgating.


The other two locations considered are the current location of the Museum of Science and Industry directly across Fowler Avenue from campus. The fourth location is where the Magnolia Fields Complex currently is. This is on Alumni Drive and Magnolia Drive near Juniper Poplar Hall and Magnolia Apartments housing.


The report will be presented to a committee of the Board of Trustees on Aug. 17.