Coach Bob Butehorn spent the past ten years as the head coach of Florida Gulf Coast before joining USF last winter.


SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/GOUSFBULLS.COM




The start to coach Bob Butehorn’s first regular season game as a Bull had to be put on hold for an hour Monday night, but the Bulls pulled through in the end and won their season opener amid heavy rainfall.


The constant downpour throughout the night didn’t deter the Bulls play against Lipscomb (1-0-1) as the Bulls defeated the Bison 3-0 at Corbett Stadium on Monday night.


"It's a good first win. That's the exciting part of this,” Butehorn said. “The players did a good job getting a win for USF and getting this thing started. We know the road ahead, but it was really good. They performed as I expected, with a lot of heart."


The Bulls scored three goals on 20 shots, while stifling the Bison’s to no goals on 11 shots.


“I was really pleased with Ricky (Ricardo Gomez) and how he got them fired up and juiced up to compete,” Butehorn said postgame. “I think for me it was good for Ricky to do that and good to see the freshman respond.”


Jumping on the Bison early, USF took 12 shots during the first half while Lipscomb recorded three. In the 28th minute, Bradley Farias capitalized on a pinpoint pass from freshman Adrian Billhardt that found him in stride for the game’s first goal.


The Bulls increased their lead in the second half with a goal coming at the 50-minute mark by Midfielder Alex Zis. Trey Jackson scored the final goal of the night at the 84-minute mark to seal the deal for the Bulls.


The Bulls also had seven freshmen make their regular season debuts on Monday night.


“It’s good to see what’s paying off in practice. I’ve never seen a group of guys come together like this new freshman class,” Gomez said when asked about the win. “Going into these next few games are going to be challenge but I think if we stick together I don’t see how we can’t come out with a result.”


Next up for the Bulls’ is the IU Credit Union Classic that begins on Friday in Bloomington, Illinois.


USF will face No. 25 Butler on Friday at 5 p.m. and No. 7 Indiana on Sunday at 8 p.m.