Mike Radomski came to USF in 2015 as the media contact for baseball and volleyball. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE




USF athletics and those associated with it were shaken by the news that Mike Radomski, the USF Athletics Assistant Director of Communications, died in a car accident on I-75 at 1 a.m. on Thursday.


Radomski, 29, constantly had a smile and positive attitude that radiated onto anybody he spoke to.


A graduate of Quinnipiac University, Radomski worked at the University of Evansville as a play-by-play announcer and sports information director before coming to USF in 2015. At USF, he was the media contact for baseball and volleyball when he first arrived, but was quickly promoted to be the men’s basketball contact for the 2016-17 season.


Friends and colleagues took to Twitter to share their stories and love for Radomski.







Gonna miss you buddy. You showed up to work everyday and always had this same smile. Going to miss our daily chats my friend.
pic.twitter.com/epRqQYZqUD


— Billy Mohl (@USF_CoachMohl)
October 12, 2017







At a loss for words. I came up in the business with Mike. No one could match his passion, kindness and charisma. Always had that smile on his face & his employers got his best every day. If you knew Mike Radomski, you're a better person because of him. RIP my friend.
https://t.co/VLixJUMZ3N


— Adam Young (@youngpbp)
October 12, 2017







I'll never get how the world can take away its most amazing people, but I know this: It'll always be a better place because of Mike Radomski
pic.twitter.com/Fm6OMJt6aZ


— Jeff Odom (@jeffodom)
October 12, 2017







Mike Radomski was one of the best people I’ve ever met. Just an incredible person. He would truly
#RockThePlanet
every single day.
pic.twitter.com/ryU4kpAhjr


— Elizabeth Krenzelok (@EKrenzelok)
October 12, 2017







I remember taking this photo for Mike & how excited he was to be working the Outback Bowl. That was him, always happy & optimistic about everything. The world lost a really, really good one today. Miss you, Domski. ❤️
#RIP

pic.twitter.com/aaedNtepFG


— Lindsey Morrison (@lindseeeeyyy)
October 12, 2017












Heartbroken. Mike attacked each day with a positive attitude. His energy was infectious and impactful. Prayers to Christina and his family.
pic.twitter.com/V2CRU1vEPK


— Coach Brian Gregory (@CoachBGregory)
October 12, 201
7









RIP to a great person, friend and always a Bull, you will be missed Radomski
pic.twitter.com/zeqPPyLXn2


— Phoenix Sanders (@PSanders_14)
October 12, 2017







Everyone please say a prayer for the South Florida basketball program, who lost SID Mike Radomski early Thursday morning. May God bless.


— Jon Rothstein (@JonRothstein)
October 12, 2017