Clemson holds the record for the longest active win streak in college football, but USF has now gone the most days (454) since its last loss.
SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/ DPDSDOGS.COM




Not only was Iowa State’s 38-31 win over No. 3 Oklahoma the biggest upset of Week 6 in college football, it gave USF a new distinction.


Already holding the active record for most consecutive games with 30-plus points scored with 22, the Sooners' loss meant that the Bulls now have gone longer without a loss than any other team in the nation.


Before losing to Iowa State on Saturday,
Oklahoma held a nation-best win streak at 14 games with its last loss coming against Ohio State in September of 2016.


The No. 18 Bulls, who have won a program-record 10 games in a row, haven’t lost since Temple beat them 46-30 on Oct. 21 2016, now giving them the record.


Clemson, which won three postseason games last season, now holds the title for most wins in a row with 11 after the Sooners' loss, but its last loss came Nov. 16, 2016 — making USF’s streak of not losing longer by nearly a month.


The next longest winning streak after USF and Clemson —  in time passed since last loss as well — is San Diego State, which hasn’t lost a game since Nov. 26 2016. Since falling to Colorado State in their last loss, the Aztecs have won eight straight games and are currently ranked one spot below the Bulls in the AP Top 25 at No. 19.







SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/@USFFOOTBALL TWITTER




USF announces what to wear for homecoming game:


USF announced in a tweet Sunday night that there will be specified colors for regular fans and student fans to wear to Saturday night’s homecoming game against Cincinnati that starts at 7:30.


The tweet asked for students sitting behind the north end zone to wear green and all other fans to wear white.


The Bulls’ are currently favored by 24.5 points to beat the Bearcats (2-4).


USF draws another night game at Tulane




USF announced on Tuesday that its game against Tulane on Saturday, Oct. 21 in New Orleans will be either at 7 p.m. or 7:30 on one of the ESPN networks. A decision between a 7 or 7:30 kickoff will be announced after this weekend.


The game, according to Tulane athletics’ website, will be a pink-out in honor of breast cancer awareness.


The night game will be the Bulls’ sixth in 2017 to start later than 4 p.m. local time.