One of the classes offered by Campus Recreation is a form of flow yoga that includes the use of glow sticks.


SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE




The absolutely relaxing, yet filled with Saved-By-The-Bell vibes, Glow & Flow Yoga at the Campus Recreation is the best way to spend an evening after a long day of classes. Flowing in the dark, which will take place Thursday, the Mountain Pose and Downward-Facing Dog will all be completed with glow sticks in hand. After the one hour yoga class, snacks will be provided and prizes will be awarded.


Looking for a way to light up her workout routine, Katie Benfield, a junior majoring in mass communications, already has the event locked into her calendar.


“I have been doing yoga for about three years now. It has been a very good experience thus far. I really enjoy feeling my body feels afterwards,” Benfield said. “I like how stretched and lose I feel after I flow. I have not been to the Glow and Flow event yet, but I think it’s a really unique yoga class to take. The only interesting class I have taken is hot yoga and, boy, was that intense.”


Campus Rec has a long list of group fitness classes, tailored to every student’s favorite mode of exercise. From Zumba classes to Strictly Strength classes, hours at the gym pass by swiftly.


“Since I used to dance, I love being in a classroom environment and learn and watch an instructor,” Benfield said. “So I just went on the search icon on the USF website and found this event by typing in the wellness center classes/events. I also want to push myself more in yoga, so I’m hoping this class will do that.”


The Glow & Flow Yoga event is also a perfect way to meet other like-minded yoga enthusiasts.


“I was looking at some fitness events I could go to at school because I want to try and be more involved and meet new people,” Benfield said. “I normally workout by myself, and I thought it would be fun to take a class that seems super fun. I am looking forward to meeting new people. I really want to find people who are interested in similar things as me.”


Whether it be first-time goers or seasoned yoga junkies, Glow & Flow Yoga opens the door to an enlightening evening. Maribeth Nguyen, a sophomore majoring in mass communications, has found herself wanting to add something new to her daily routine.


“I wanted to try something new and I have never done yoga before,” Nguyen, a member of Alpha Omicron Pi, said. “I encouraged some of my sorority sisters to come with me and we are really excited to try something new as a group. We participated in other Greek philanthropies but we have not done something as individuals. We always have fun practicing for POTH, which is Sigma Delta Tau’s philanthropic event called Putting On The Hits and it’s coming up soon. So this is a good way for us to unwind from all the late practices.”


The registration for the event, alongside all else the Campus Rec has to offer, is available on the Campus Rec website
usf.edu/campusrec
.