SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE






This controversial game of election politics has finally come to an end with President Donald Trump being sworn into office. At the end of the day both Trump and the Republican Party won this divisive election.


“We are transferring power from Washington D.C., and giving it back to you, the people,” Trump said Friday in his inauguration speech.


What exactly does President Trump have in store for the American people?


“We will bring back our jobs,” Trump said.


One of President Trump’s main focuses for the future of America is to bring back jobs from foreign countries and give them to the American people. The problem with this statement begins back in 2008 when President George W. Bush handed power to President Barack Obama. At that point in time the county’s unemployment rate stood at 5.8 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor statistics. Today, the unemployment rate has fallen to 4.9 percent.


So the question remains, when Trump speaks about “making America great again,” what exactly will he change that isn’t currently “great?”


Throughout President Trump’s speech, he made sure to focus on the negative aspects of government. He stood there and bashed the U.S. government in front of those who make up that very government. A truly amazing spectacle.


“For too long, a small group in our nation’s capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have bore the cost.” said Trump.


His speech was loaded with antiestablishment rhetoric, which is ironic considering his cabinet picks are part of the institution he vowed to dismantle. Most of his cabinet have ties with the “swamp” he promised to drain, as a variety of businesses are intertwined with their names.


The head of the educational department might be Betsy DeVos, multimillionaire, whose daughter co-founded Amway. The Trump administration has also decided to forgo the key platform of its campaign and hire five Goldman Sachs employees, solidifying Wall Street’s grip on the U.S. government.


“America First,” Trump boasted repeatedly during his speech.


On this aspect, Trump is right. America cannot function alone as the world’s police. The U.S. must focus on fixing itself first before going on to help other foreign nations. Our government needs to understand that the American people come first. Perhaps, under Trump, this concept will become a reality.


Predictably, the mass media also were heavily highlighted during the inauguration speech. Maybe he has a point to be skeptical. After all, following his speech the top post on Google was an article comparing a line in his speech to the monologue from supervillian Bane in a Batman movie.


The exact quote was “giving it back to you, the people.”


This quote was an obvious coincidence, but the media did not hesitate to pounce on the ludicrous theory. These articles just show the bias that certain parts of the current media hold against Trump.


Trump’s speech was by no means awe-inspiring, but it did what it needed to do. Attempt to unify this divided nation.


People need to accept this reality. Trump is our president, whether you like it or not.


It will only damage the image of this nation if protests, especially those relying on violence, continue. We should wish him the best of luck in his time in office.


After all, maybe this new beginning will be beneficial for our country.





Jose-Andres Leon-Gil is a freshman majoring in mass communications.