Marlon Mack has been projected to be drafted anywhere between the second and fourth rounds in the NFL Draft at the end of April

ORACLE PHOTO/JACKIE BENITEZ




For most of USF’s three-hour Pro Day at the Frank Morsani Football Complex, former Bulls Marlon Mack and Rodney Adams joined the scouts on the sidelines.


The two former USF standouts both attended the NFL Combine at the beginning of the month and were satisfied with the numbers they posted in Indianapolis.


So, the two potential NFL draft picks lounged around the practice fields for most of the afternoon, tossing a football with old teammates and staying ready with intermittent stretches.


"I talked to my agents, they said I had some good times and good feedback," Mack said. "So we just decided to just go off the combine numbers and come out here and just do position drills.”


While Adams and Mack spectated with the 20-plus NFL scouts in attendance, they witnessed other former Bulls such as Nate Godwin and Austin Aikens run 4.5 second 40-yard dashes, tying Mack’s combine time and falling just shy of Adams’ mark (4.44).


When it did come time to participate, Mack ran through cone drills with representatives from the Jets and Steelers, and then joined Adams in a route-running drill.


"It went great today," Adams said. "Displayed every trait that I had, all the traits that NFL scouts wanted to see, so I think I did really well."


With most of the scouting already complete on Mack and Adams, the two have little left to do before waiting to hear their names called on that last weekend of April.


Mack, who has been projected to be drafted anywhere from the second to fourth round, said he has a workout scheduled with the Titans in a few days. Several representatives for the team were present for his drills Tuesday.


Adams has been projected to be drafted in the later rounds, or perhaps be signed as an undrafted free agent this summer and said he’s scheduled workouts with the Vikings and Bucs this month.





Making their mark


Though Mack and Adams are undoubtedly the highest prospect on scouts’ radars come draft time, 16 other former Bulls performed at Pro Day, with some producing some eye-popping numbers.


Receiver Austin Aikens showed off both his speed and leaping ability, running a 4.5 40-yard dash time along with a 40 1/2 inch vertical jump.


Linebacker Nigel Harris posted solid numbers across the board, with a 4.53 40-yard dash, 15 reps of 225 pounds and a 36 inch vertical jump.


Former defensive lineman Daniel Awoleke showed off his strength, repping 225 pounds 31 times, far and away the most at USF’s Pro Day.