Sasha Gozun has won the AAC title every year since becoming a Bull in 2012.


SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE




For the second consecutive year, USF men’s tennis senior Sasha Gozun was selected at-large to compete in the NCAA Singles Championship.


After the Bulls’ season ended May 13 in Athens, Georgia, Gozun was the only Bull chosen to return to those same courts for the individual competition that begins today.


Playing as the Bulls' No. 1 in 2017, Gozun finished with a record of 13-7 in singles that included five wins over ranked opponents.


In the NCAA singles tournament, Gozun will compete in a field of 63 other players across the country in single-elimination format.


In his four-year career as a Bull, Gozun made the NCAA tournament as a team every year, and as an individual in 2016, when he was eliminated in the second round.


To go along with five NCAA tournament appearances in four years, Gozun also won the AAC tournament four times in a row with USF, and was named the tournament’s most outstanding player in 2017.


“Sasha was one of the guys that has turned this program around. When he came here four years ago, USF men’s tennis wasn’t on the map,” coach Ashley Fisher said after being eliminated from the NCAA Tournament on May 13.


Fisher said that Gozun has the talent to make some noise in the NCAA Tournament, as well as in his future endeavors.


“I really think he’s going to be one of the guys to beat in the NCAA Tournament,” Fisher said. “He’s going to have a big future moving forward.”


Men’s golf season comes to close


USF appeared in the NCAA postseason for the fifth consecutive time and tied for 10th place at the Baton Rouge Regional on May 17, but did not qualify to advance to the NCAA Championships.


Finishing 10th in a field of 14 teams, the Bulls dug themselves in a hole in the tournament’s first two rounds, and could never make up the lost ground.


USF entered the final round of the tournament in last place, and jumped ahead four spots to No. 10 after shooting 7-over as a team, finishing seven strokes better than its performance as a team on Day 1.


“I certainly would have hoped they would have finished on a little better golf note,” coach Steve Bradley said after the loss. “But at the end of the day, they’re still young men and they’ve got a bright future ahead of them. I’m really looking forward to next year already.”


The Bulls are returning all but one golfer next season.


USF women’s basketball adds assistant to staff


Head coach Jose Fernandez announced the addition of Jesyka Burks-Wiley as an assistant coach and recruiting coordinator.


Burks-Wiley spent time playing professionally in Europe after graduating from Boston College in 2009 and has served as an assistant coach at four schools prior to USF.


Having played overseas in three different countries, Burks-Wiley will join a Bulls roster that consists of six international players, all from Europe.


“Not many programs can say they’ve made 13 postseason appearances in the last 14 years,” Burks-Wiley said. “I’m honored that a staff of this caliber asked me to join their staff, it’s hard to turn down.”