Defensive end Marquies Price  played a prominent role on the Duke defense as a sophomore before being dismissed for “failing to meet the standards of a member of the program,” Duke coach David Cutcliffe said at the time. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE






Two defensive linemen, previously dismissed from the Duke football program, have announced via Twitter they will transfer to USF.


First reported Monday by Runningwiththebulls.com on Monday, defensive end Marquies Price and defensive tackle Brandon Boyce will have to sit out the 2017.


The duo played a prominent role on the Duke defense as sophomores before being dismissed for “failing to meet the standards of a member of the program,” Duke coach David Cutcliffe said at the time.


Collectively, they had 30 tackles, 3.5 tackles for loss and three sacks in 2016.


USF men's basketball lands big transfer


USF has landed its seventh new addition to the 2017-18 roster, this time in the form of 7-foot-2, 250-pound center Nikola Scekic.


The Serbia native, who spent a half of season at New Mexico, announced the transfer Sunday via Twitter.


Scekic won a national title last season with Hutchinson (Kan.) Community College, starting all 37 games, but averaged only 4.1 points, 2.2 rebounds and 10.4 minutes.


"I didn't play really that long (each game), because (the coaches) were playing guys who run and gun, and I was there pretty much just to be in there a little bit," Scekic told the Tampa Bay Times.


Scekic is expected to be immediately eligible.


Scekic joins a overhauled roster that has seen multiple transfers since the firing of former coach Orlando Antigua.


But new coach Brian Gregory will have a sliver of continuity after it was reported by Joey Knight of the Times that
Troy Holston Jr., Malik Martin, Tulio Da Silva and Isaiah Manderson will remain at the school.


UPDATED SCHOLARSHIP ROSTER


G Payton Banks, Gr-Transfer (Penn State)*

G/F Justin Brown, Fr.

F Tulio Da Silva, R-So.

G Troy Holston Jr., R-Jr.

PG Stephan Jiggetts, Gr-Transfer (Fairleigh Dickinson)*

G TJ Lang, Jr. (Auburn transfer)^

F Isaiah Manderson, Sr.

C Malik Martin, R-Jr.

G Terrence Samuel, Gr-Transfer (Penn State)*

F Alexis Yetna, Fr.


*-Player's arrival has been widely reported but not yet announced by USF

^-Must sit out the 2017-18 season