Maria Jespersen was named AAC Player of the Week on Monday after a 24-point performance that included six made free throws. ORACLE PHOTO/CHAVELI GUZMAN




For every free throw USF women’s basketball makes in February, it will be more than just another point on the scoreboard.


Instead, with each made free throw, $7 will be donated to the Kay Yow Cancer Fund as part of an annual fundraiser. The fundraiser, which currently features 13 schools, will give fans the opportunity to pledge funds for each free throw the team makes in February.


Currently, USF, which averages 12.3 free throws per game and plays eight games in February, is estimated to raise $525 during the month of February if its total money per free throw stays the same.


As of Monday night, USF had the highest projected amount raised, with only Georgia Tech ($15 a free throw) and Texas Christian ($34 a free throw), estimated to raise more.


The Kay Yow Cancer fund, named in memory of the legendary North Carolina State women's basektball coach who died in 2009, which finances research and assists underserved patients. Fans can add to the Bulls' pledge per free throw by visiting
pledgeit.org/usf-wbb
.


McClanahan reels in another preseason accolade


USF Baseball’s No. 1 pitcher, Shane McClanahan, was named to the first-team preseason All-American by Baseball America, which also projects McClanahan to be a top-10 draft pick in the 2018 MLB Draft.


McClanahan, who was predominantly the Bulls' ‘Saturday starter’ last season, finished 2017 with a 4-2 record and a 3.20 ERA. He also finished ninth nationally in hits allowed per nine innings, allowing 5.68 a game.


A redshirt sophomore, McClanahan had previously missed his first season at USF due to Tommy John surgery. The Bulls will open the season against North Carolina at 7 p.m. on Feb. 16 at the USF Baseball Stadium.


Two Bulls named to weekly conference honor roll


After a 24-point performance, women’s basketball senior forward Maria Jespersen received her first American Athletic Conference Player of Week honor Monday, while men’s basketball’s point guard Stephan Jiggetts was selected to the American Athletic Conference honor roll.


Jespersen led USF back from a halftime deficit against Temple, connecting on 8-of-11 shots from the floor, while making two threes and shooting 6-of-7 from the free-throw line and pulling down six rebounds.


Jiggetts led all Bulls scorers for the week, averaging 16.5 points in the two games. He shot 45 percent (9-of-20) from the field and was 13-of-17 from the free-throw line.