John Waller (right) will join his former high school teammate Zion Roland if he signs with USF, as expected, on Wednesday. Waller and Roland played football together at Admiral Farragut Adacdemy in St. Petersburg.


SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/ JOHN WALLER TWITTER




After receiving 24 letters of intent from high school football players during the NCAA's inaugural early signing period in December, USF football is expected to gain only two or three more players during National Signing Day on Wednesday.


One of the Bulls’ final signees for the 2018 recruiting class will be three-star defensive tackle and St. Petersburg native John Waller. Waller (6-foot-5, 350 pounds), who announced in November that he’d wait until February to sign his letter of intent, will join his former Admiral Farragut Academy teammate wide receiver Zion Roland at USF. Roland is currently the Bulls’ highest- rated 2018 recruit, according to 247Sports.


Another probable addition to the Bulls' 2018 class is defensive tackle Tyrone Barber of Venice. Barber (6-foot-3, 275 pounds) has been committed to USF since July 2017, but has since made a visit to Syracuse on Jan. 19.


Due to USF’s 24 early signees, which tied Minnesota for the most in the nation, it is unlikely the Bulls will add more than one or two players Wednesday due to NCAA rules, which state Division I-A teams are allowed 25 players per signing class. Schools, however, are able to count early enrollees to the prior year’s recruiting class, freeing up more space for signees.


USF signed 23 players in 2017 and has a total of six early enrollees.


USF's class is currently ranked second in the AAC, according to 247Sports and Rivals, with only Cincinnati ahead of it.





USF spring game set for April 14





USF announced Tuesday it will hold its annual spring football game April 14 at Corbett Stadium, USF’s on-campus soccer stadium and site of the last four spring games.


Kickoff is scheduled for 2 p.m., with free tickets available for both students and general public. A pregame street fest with music, games and food will be held prior to kickoff.


USF will begin its spring drills March 5 and will host its pro day March 26 at the Morsani Practice Complex.





Men’s golf starts spring with tournament win





USF's men's golf started its spring season with a one-shot victory at the Sea Best Invitational in Ponte Vedra Beach on Tuesday.


Down by four shots entering the day, USF (-6) scored 1-over 281 in the final round to pass No. 20 Arkansas (-5), Liberty (-1), No. 11 LSU (+2) and No. 28 Tennessee (+3).


Individually, USF seniors Cristian DiMarco and Claudio Correa both tied for 11th at 2 under, four shots away from the individual lead.


“It was kind of an up-and-down day but our guys just stuck to their game plan,” coach Steve Bradley said. “Executed their golf shots and really didn't worry about Arkansas, Liberty or even Tennessee, which made a little run there and LSU was playing well. Our guys played their game and it was cool to see.”


USF will shoot for its third straight tournament win at the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 17-18 in Gainesville.