Aside from his intense work ethic and passion for helping others, one of Mike Radomski’s most memorable traits was his smile — bright, contagious and constant. He exuded positivity and tried to make everyone else’s day better with his “Rock the Planet” motto.


It has been almost eight months since Radomski, USF men's basketball media contact, passed away in a car accident on his way home from work. He was staying in the office past midnight preparing the men’s basketball media guide.


To honor Radomski, USF Athletics announced the creation of the Michael J. Radomski Memorial Scholarship on Wednesday.


“Mike was such a positive and impactful young man who had incredible passion for USF and for serving our student-athletes,” USF athletic director Mark Harlan said. “We felt it was very appropriate to honor his memory with a scholarship that will provide aid to students learning and working in USF Athletics, and serve to recognize and foster in those students the many outstanding traits Mike was so loved for.”


The scholarship fund, which currently sits at $5,000, was established through the USF Bulls Club. According to the scholarship’s information page, the goal is to raise $25,000, which would allow the scholarship to become endowed and given to students annually.


The scholarship will be intended for students learning and working in the external departments of USF Athletics. The recipients will be selected based on their contributions as well as emulating the attributes displayed by Radomski.


One of Radomski’s trademarks was his handwritten thank you notes. After his wedding, Radomski and his wife, Christina, went on their honeymoon. When they returned, Radomski’s coworker, Erin Bean, found a gift and a handwritten note in her office. Radomski again went out of his way to brighten someone else’s day.


Bean also recalled a small notebook Radomski would carry around with him. She said the book contained lists of what is important right now, what is important next week and what is important long term. There were so many things on the lists, Bean recalled at least 30 items one time she checked.


“I’d look at him and say, ‘How on earth are you going to get all this done?’” Bean said. “But he did.”


Donations to the scholarship fund can be made at http://mybullsclub.com/giving-opportunities/radomski.aspx.