Evelyne Viens celebrates with her teammates after scoring her second goal of the night in USF's 4-0 victory over Detroit Mercy on Thursday night.
ORACLE PHOTO/SAM NEWLON






It was domination from kickoff until final whistle for No. 24 USF on Thursday night at Corbett Stadium.


USF women’s soccer defeated Detroit Mercy 4-0, thanks to a team effort that saw the Bulls record 20 shots, which matched its season high. Forward Evelyne Viens led the way for USF, scoring two goals and assisting on another.


“I think tonight we tried to play the game plan that coach Denise (Schilte-Brown) asked us,” Viens said. “(We did) a really good job of it. I think we need to keep improving on some of the aspects … we should have scored more than four goals tonight, but it’s still a learning process for us.”


The Bulls opened the scoring early, thanks to a goal in the second minute by midfielder Aubrey Megrath. Viens dribbled a ball down the left wing of the field before crossing to Megrath, who was wide open in the middle of the box.


Viens scored off an assist from defender Fanny Pelletier-Laroche in the 42nd minute, extending the USF lead to 2-0. She scored again – this time unassisted – midway through the second half, rounding out the scoring for the Bulls.


In between Viens’ goals, midfielder Andrea Hauksdottir made it 3-0 by scoring her first goal from the run-of-play since the 2016 season on a ball that appeared to take a funny hop before reaching Detroit Mercy goalkeeper Marina Manzo.


“(Hauksdottir) probably had at least four shots at the top of the 18 (yard box), so it was nice to see one finish,” Schilte-Brown said. “I really liked her desire to shoot from there. Statistically, in the run-of-play, that zone … that’s where the most goals come from in the run-of-play.”


Manzo was one of the few bright spots for Detroit Mercy. Despite allowing four goals, she recorded 10 saves and started the play that led to the lone shot on goal for the Titans in the first half, which came in the 32nd minute on a set piece near midfield. Detroit Mercy’s next — and only other shot on goal came in the 89th minute.


Thanks to the comfortable lead USF had toward the end of the night; the Bulls made some subs late in the game, which Schilte-Brown said is ultimately the goal every night.


“These girls work so hard, and they really are a good team,” Schilte-Brown said. “We work a lot on team cohesiveness and leadership and trying to care about each other … You spend so much time caring and giving and being selfless, that anytime you have the opportunity to get girls in the game – you really want to.”


Next up for the Bulls is a two-game road trip. USF will take on Navy on Sept. 7 at 7 p.m. and the University of Delaware on Sept. 9 at 1 p.m. Both games will be played in Annapolis, Maryland.