ORACLE PHOTO/CHAVELI GUZMAN




Twenty-eight NFL and two Canadian Football League teams sent scouts to USF’s Morsani Football Complex on Monday for USF’s pro day, where 23 former Bulls executed drills and strength tests.


The former Bulls mostly participated in the event to improve their placement and chances of being selected in the 2018 NFL Draft. Some of the players in attendance were quarterback Q
uinton Flowers, wide receiver Marquez Valdes-Scantling, cornerback Deatrick Nichols and defensive tackle Deadrin Senat.


Former USF quarterback and NFL journeyman B.J. Daniels performed as well, participating in quarterback and wide receiver drills.


Flowers, who played nearly every snap of his collegiate career at quarterback, performed running back and receiver drills in addition to throwing passes. He did the same at the NFL Scouting Combine less than a month ago.


"Some (professional teams) want me at quarterback, some want me at running back and some want me at slot,” Flowers said.


Playing different positions has been brought up to Flowers “throughout the whole process,” he said. Even before he became USF’s most explosive quarterback in its 20-year history, other colleges —
including Florida, Alabama and Miami —
were skeptical about him playing quarterback, according to Flowers.


Standing 5-foot-11, height is one reason professional teams question Flowers’ ability to perform at the next level. According to a 2015
USA Today article
, the average starting quarterback in the NFL in 2015 was 6-foot-3.


Flowers doesn’t believe his height will affect his ability to perform moving forward.


"It's not about the height, it's not about the size, it's about the heart," Flowers said. "If you know that you can go out there and do it, if you've got confidence in yourself, go out there and showcase your talent. That's what I did.”


Flowers said he talked to numerous NFL teams Monday, including Cincinnati, Cleveland, Green Bay and San Francisco. He’ll work out privately with the teams before the NFL Draft, which is April 26-28 in Arlington, Texas.


Other notes and stats from USF’s pro day include:






Nichols had a 37-inch vertical jump, 10'7" broad jump, 4.32 40-yard dash






Defensive end Mike Love had a 10' 11" broad jump and 35-inch vertical. He said he’s been talked to about playing defensive end and linebacker at the next level, according to Dakotah Wilson of Bulls247






Darius Tice had 27 reps on the bench press, 9' 11" broad jump, 33-inch vertical, and 4.68 40-yard dash






Offensive lineman Cameron Ruff had a 22.5" vertical jump






Running back D’Ernest Johnson had a sub 4.6 40-yard dash and a 9'9" broad jump






Linebacker Auggie Sanchez had a 36-inch vertical, 19 reps on the bench, and 9'5" broad jump.