Alexis Yetna recorded his second straight double-double on Wednesday night at the Yuengling Center. The Paris-native scored 15 points and collected 10 rebounds in the Bulls' 69-59 defeat of Florida A&M. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/GOUSFBULLS




USF men’s basketball (4-1) defeated in-state opponent Florida A&M (2-3) 69-59 on Wednesday at the Yuengling Center thanks to double-digit scoring efforts by David Collins and Alexis Yetna.


Yetna scored 15 points and collected 10 rebounds to earn his second straight double-double after recording one Sunday against Georgetown. Collins scored 21 points over 35 minutes, matching his season-high which was set Sunday against Georgetown.


“I feel pretty good,” Yetna said. “I feel like the coaches and team give me the confidence to play good and play hard. I’m just trying to do my best for my team to win.”


While Collins and Yetna had great individual performances, as a team, USF shot 39 percent from the field and 23 percent from three-point range.


“We didn’t finish enough baskets right around the rim,” coach Brian Gregory said. “It gets a little disheartening. And we didn’t respond well to that. We had a lot of looks right around the basket — you’ve got to finish those.”


Despite not shooting well, USF led the game for over 32 minutes, exchanging the lead with FAMU seven times — all in the first half.


The Bulls both shared and held onto the ball well, combining for 17 assists and only 11 turnovers, which pleased Gregory.


“To our guys’ credit — and I probably don’t give them enough credit — we are an unselfish team,” Gregory said. “Our decision making is still not exactly where I would like it to be. But, we do share the ball. And with only 11 turnovers today … that is a positive. It is a good quality of this team is there unselfishness and willing to turn down a good shot to get a great shot.”


USF also rebounded well, collecting 42 rebounds as a team. Freshman Michael Durr led the way with 11 rebounds, all during the final 20 minutes of play.


“I was very pleased with our work on the glass,” Gregory said. “I challenged [Durr] a little bit at halftime. He had no rebounds at halftime — comes back with 11 in the second half. I told him we need two halves like that.”


While Gregory appreciated the win against FAMU, he said his team needs to be better going forward.


“We did just enough to win the game, which in the big picture is fine,” Gregory said. “But in the stuff that we’re trying to get better at, we’ve got a lot of work to do.”


Up next for USF is a home game against The Citadel on Saturday. Tipoff is at 2 p.m.