Cecily Strong is known for her impressions of famous figures and for performing regularly on Saturday Night Live.


SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE




Like clockwork, the yearly tradition of a night of laughs in the Yuengling Center will return in 2018.


USF’s annual Comedy Round Up show, a mainstay in USF’s Week of Welcome, will open its doors to students starting at 7 p.m. Friday, with the show beginning at 8 p.m.


Saturday Night Live’s Cecily Strong will headline the show at the formerly named Sun Dome, USF’s Center for Student Involvement announced in a
Facebook event
.


The show will be free for anyone to attend, but will only provide guaranteed seating for students who arrive at Gate D with a valid ID. Students can enter the arena starting at 7 p.m. and can bring one non-student companion with them, according to the Facebook event.


The general public may enter the Yuengling Center starting at 7:30 p.m. at Gate A, but are not guaranteed a seat.


Known for her recurring appearances in sketches and for formerly co-hosting SNL’s “Weekend Update,” Strong is viewed by some as one of the country’s most recognizable comedians.


Famous for her impersonations, Strong regularly imitates famous figures such as
Melania Trump
and
Kendall Jenner
, as well as other original Weekend Update characters, such as “
The Girl You Wish You Hadn't Started a Conversation With at a Party
.”


Numerous characters she impersonates often revolve around current political figures or serve to poke fun at modern-day trends.


Advancing her career beyond Saturday Night Live, Strong has started a career in film acting, performing in flicks such as “The Female Brain” and “The Boss.”


Her comedy has caught the attention of some of America’s most powerful people, including former President Barack Obama, who invited her to headline the 2015 White House Correspondents' Association Dinner.


Strong will be supported Friday by fellow comedian Rashida Olayiwola, an ensemble member of The Second City Chicago House of Comedy.