ORACLE FILE PHOTO/JACKIE BENITEZ




USF’s annual spring football game on April 14 will feature a pre-game twist in 2018.


Starting at noon, a street festival will be held outside of Corbett Stadium, where the game will be played, USF announced Monday. The festival will feature live music, food trucks and family entertainment.


Caricature and airbrush artists, a rock climbing wall, balloon twisters and more will be a part of the event.


The game will start at 2 p.m. and is free to the public. Seating will be available in the stands and on the grass hills surrounding the field. USF has reached capacity for its past three spring games.


Dom Dwyer nets two goals in season debut


After missing the first three matches of the season, former Bull Dom Dwyer scored twice in his season debut for Orlando City on Saturday, helping lift the Lions over the New York Red Bulls 4-3 for its first win of the season.


Dwyer’s lone season as a Bull was in 2011. In the one year, however, Dwyer led the Bulls to the NCAA Tournament’s Elite Eight. He scored a conference-high 16 goals that season.


Bulls lose 2019 tight end commit


Three-star Tallahassee Lincoln tight end Kamari Morales decommitted from USF on Saturday, he announced via Twitter.


With Morales decommitted, USF’s only class of 2019 verbal commitment is three-star safety T.J. Robinson.


“I was young and not mentally ready to commit when I did so,” Morales said.


Morales also announced on Twitter that he’d be attending Ole Miss’ Spring Game on Saturday. Since commiting to USF in July, he received offers from Power-Five schools Kentucky, Ole Miss and Maryland.


Early enrollee scores in scrimmage


Six months ago, freshman wide receiver Zion Roland was still playing high school football at Admiral Farragut Academy in St. Petersburg.


After signing his letter of intent and enrolling early at USF on Jan. 8, Roland excelled in USF’s scrimmage Saturday. Playing in front of nearly 300 recruits at USF’s junior day, Roland caught a 40-yard pass from quarterback Brett Kean and caught an  8-yard touchdown.