The NPHC representational plots are expected to be built in a semicircle near Holly Drive. The start date for this project is yet to be determined.


SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE




Funding for the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) representational plots is projected to go through after a debate over the merits of Student Government’s decision to provide funds.


The SG Senate originally voted in October to provide NPHC with $113,500 for the plots. Additionally, the administration agreed to supply $265,000 with NPHC being responsible for $19,000 and continual upkeep.


The funding will go toward a collection of nine plots constructed in a semicircle near Holly Drive. Each plot will represent one of the fraternities or sororities included in NPHC with information about the specific organization, such as its founding date.


Logan Holland, who ran for student body vice president last year, filed for the SG court to review the use of Activity and Services (A&S) fees for this, saying it violates seven rules for funding. These include three that reference A&S-funded items being available to all students, one that restricts allocation to organizations that have mandatory dues and two that discuss differential or discriminatory practices based on race or color.


NPHC is a council comprised of primarily African-American fraternities and sororities known as The Divine Nine. According to the website, the organizations are “all-inclusive and excepting (accepting) of all men and women.” The funding requested would go toward a plaza with a plot for each organization and would include information about the organization.


The trial was originally scheduled to happen before winter break, but was moved to Tuesday.


However, on Thursday Holland moved for the court to dismiss the case, which means the Senate’s decision to provide funding stands.


While the original projected date to break ground was during winter break, because of the delay it has not been started and a new date has not been decided yet.


According to Student Body Vice President Shaquille Kent, himself and student body president Moneer Kheireddine will meet with Provost Ralph Wilcox and Paul Dosal, Vice President for Student Affairs and Student Success, to organize the construction.


He said they expect the process to proceed reasonably quickly due to interest.