Emma Davies battles a defender during the second half against Cincinnati on Oct. 4. Davies played 30 minutes off the bench against the Bearcats. ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB







The USF women’s soccer was in high spirits after it defeated Cincinnati 2-1 at Corbett Stadium on Thursday night in an AAC matuchup. The results were in contrast to last Sunday’s away loss to Temple in double overtime.


The Bulls defeated the Bearcats for the first time in the past six meetings with Cincinnati — the Bulls previously lost twice and drew three times against Cincinnati.


The Bulls put the pressure on Cincinnati’s defense in the first half — they registered 13 shots with six on goal. However, Bearcats keeper Madison Less was a brick wall, making six saves.


“Even though we were knocking on the door, they gave us some opportunities that we weren’t taking advantage of,” Coach Denise Schilte-Brown said.


The second half featured a refreshed Bulls side thanks to a few tactical adjustments and some words of encouragement from Schilte-Brown.


“You might as well be two goals down because you’re not going to feel good if you walk off this field without a win,” Schilte-Brown said to the team during halftime.


The team took this to heart into the second period when Bri Blethen was able to break Cincinnati’s defence in the 68th minute. Midfielder Andrea Hauksdottir registered her fourth assist of the season after she delivered a corner to Blethen who headed it past the keeper for her second goal of the season.


After the team failed to score in the first half, Blethen was excited to score the first goal.


“I needed this one,” she said. “It just had to happen. We couldn’t miss any more of those opportunities.”


The Cincinnati defense was broken again just four minutes later when Evelyne Viens glided past the defence and fired a volley into the Bearcats’ net. It was Viens’ 12th goal of the season, matching her tally from last season.


The Bearcats’ only goal of the match came as a penalty kick in the 76th minute when Bulls defender Kelli Burney took down Cincinnati’s Bri Constigan inside the penalty box. Costigan converted from the spot and scored the consolation goal for Cincinnati.


USF takes on East Carolina on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Corbett Stadium.