The Bulls are looking to snap their three-game losing streak as they take a 17-0 lead into halftime.
ORACLE FILE PHOTO






PHILADELPHIA — USF football leads Temple 17-0 at halftime at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia.


After losing three straight games, USF’s three-score lead heading into halftime is a breath of fresh air. This game is a long way from over, of course, but if the Bulls play just as well in the second half as they did the first, their losing streak could end today.


Here are some halftime takeaways from the City of Brotherly Love.


Cronkrite’s 1,000-yard season


With his 49-yard rush during USF’s first drive of the game, running back Jordan Cronkrite becomes the fifth Bull to rush for 1,000 yards in program history.


Cronkrite has had an amazing year in his first season in green and gold since transfering from the Gators, so it’s great to see him get rewarded with a permanent spot in the record books.


On the day, he’s been pretty good as well. Cronkrite has rushed for 82 yards and two touchdowns. This could be the bounceback game he’s been looking for after several quiet games.


Barnett is back


After missing last week’s game against Cincinnati due to a shoulder injury, quarterback Blake Barnett is back under center for the Bulls against Temple.


Barnett threw 8-for-13 and 45 yards in the first half, but the important thing is he’s back. Barnett split practice time with both backup QBs — Chris Oladokun and Brett Kean — so his status wasn’t known until close to game time, but he clearly felt well enough to play today against Temple.


So is Duran Bell Jr.


Duran Bell Jr. received a few carries in the second quarter, rushing for 11 yards.


But the big story is this is his first playing time since the Georgia Tech game on Sept. 8.


The running game has been struggling for USF the past few weeks, so some depth at the running back position may be just what the doctor ordered to get Cronkrite and Johnny Ford cooking again.


So far, so good with Armstead


Temple running back Ryquell Armstead set an AAC record with six touchdown runs last week against Houston. The senior rushed for a total of 210 yards in that effort.


Thus far, it looks like the Bulls did their homework and have neutralized a dangerous weapon. Armstead has rushed 12 times for 34 yards for 2.8 yards per carry — his longest run is 22 yards.