Junior Evelyne Viens is just four goals away from breaking USF’s single season scoring record of 16 goals, which she tied her freshman year.
ORACLE PHOTO/SAM NEWLON






Viens closes in on USF women’s soccer history


Junior Evelyne Viens scored just once in No. 24 USF’s victory against ECU on Sunday. Her lone goal, however, puts her on pace to score the most goals in program history.


She’s currently tied with Siri Nordby, who set the record with 41 career goals in 2000 after a four-year career. Viens is also on track to break USF’s single-season goal record, which she tied at 16 her freshman season.


This season, Viens has 13 goals in 10 games, which leads the nation with 1.3 goals per game. USF still has five games left on its schedule.


“Everyone knows who [Viens] is, she’s always marked in our games,” freshman Sydny Nasello said.


But this season, Viens has stepped up as a leader on the team as well.


“[Viens] is really hard on me, but she always tells me that she wants me to be the best possible player I can be,” Nasello said. “She’s one of my close friends on the team and she’s always giving me advice before the game when the nerves are high. She’s been there, she’s done it and she knows what it’s like.”


Former Bull to represent national soccer team in Tampa


The U.S. Men’s National Team will take on Colombia in a friendly at Raymond James Stadium on Thursday. Last week, New York City FC defender Ben Sweat received his first-ever international call-up from the Men’s National Team to play for the U.S.


Sweat is originally from the Tampa Bay Area and went to USF. He played four years for the Bulls and holds the record for games played.


Sweat already made his return to Tampa in training sessions at Corbett Stadium, where he played in college for four seasons.


This return, however, will be a little different as his team represents the U.S. at the highest level of international play.


“I am extremely honored and blessed to have received this opportunity,” Sweat said in a Tweet. “It has always been on my list of goals in my career and I couldn’t be any more grateful and excited to wear the crest of the @ussoccer_mnt and represent this entire country.”


USF men’s soccer returns to Corbett Stadium on Friday


After a 1-1 tie against SMU that went through double overtime, the USF men’s soccer team will return to play at home against Temple on Friday at 7 p.m.


All three of the Bulls’ conference matches have gone into double overtime and the same could happen this week against a team that has three ties this season.


Temple (4-5-3, 1-1-1) and USF (4-5-2, 1-0-2) are both competitive in the AAC standings with just four remaining conference games on their schedules. Six teams are all within one win of each other to claim the top of the group.


UConn (7-2-1, 2-0-1) and UCF (8-2-1, 2-1) are both ahead of USF, though only by a narrow margin.