USF will face Boise State at Raymond James Stadium in 2025. The Bulls will play on Boise State's famous blue turf in 2027.
ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB






USF football fans, do not adjust your television sets — on Sept. 11, 2027, that is.


That’s because the Bulls will be playing on the famous blue turf of Boise State, Vice President of Athletics Michael Kelly announced Wednesday.


The 2027 trip to Idaho will mark the return trip for USF in a series scheduled to start Aug. 30, 2025, at Raymond James Stadium.


“Boise State is a very exciting addition to our football schedule and one I believe will have national interest,” Kelly said in a statement. “The Broncos have a highly successful program that has been prominent on the national stage over the last two decades, and I think our student-athletes and fans will look forward to two high quality games and a trip out west to compete on the blue turf.”


Boise State’s addition to USF’s future schedule required a change to the Bulls’ 2025 nonconference slate. USF was scheduled to travel to Northern Illinois on Aug. 30, 2025. Instead, the Bulls will visit DeKalb, Illinois, on Sept. 25, 2027.


Additionally, San Jose State’s return trip from USF’s 2017 visit has been moved back from the 2023 season to Sept. 20, 2025.


USF’s 2025 nonconference schedule now consists of Boise State (home — Aug. 30), Florida (away — Sept. 6) and San Jose State (home — Sept. 20), with one remaining game to be filled.


Corrick named finalist for USA Softball Player of the Year


USF softball pitcher Georgina Corrick was named a finalist for USA Softball Player of the Year on Wednesday.


The Bulls’ ace is one of 26 athletes being considered for the most prestigious award for Division I collegiate softball players.


Corrick is in the top 25 nationally in seven statistical categories, including ERA (No. 3 — .87), shutouts (No. 12 — 8) and strikeouts (No. 12 — 209).


The list of finalists will be narrowed down to 10 on May 8. The final three finalists will be announced May 22, while the ultimate Player of the Year will be announced May 28.


Rideau declares for NBA Draft


USF men’s basketball may have been dealt a blow to its 2019-20 roster.


Possibly.


Laquincy Rideau has entered his name into the NBA Draft, the junior guard announced via Twitter on Monday.


“I want to see where I am with pursuing my dream of playing the sport I love professionally,” Rideau’s tweet said. “I want to use this opportunity to evaluate what skills I need to develop more and what I need to work on in order to become a better player and make it to the next level.”


By no means does this mean Rideau will not be with the Bulls next season.


“Throughout this draft process I will continue to maintain my NCAA eligibility & not hire an agent,” the tweet continued.


Coach Brian Gregory supported Rideau’s decision.


“
With his performances this past season, he has earned the opportunity to explore this tremendous option,” Gregory tweeted. “The team, staff, and entire Bulls Nation will support him during this process.”


The NBA Draft is June 20. However, for Rideau to continue to maintain his NCAA eligibility even without an agent, he must withdraw his name by May 29.