SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/GOUSFBULLS


Michael Kelly and Associates has its man.


Jeff Scott, Clemson’s co-offensive coordinator since 2015, was named the fifth head coach in program history late Monday afternoon by Vice President of Athletics Michael Kelly.


“Jeff is a very bright, enthusiastic and driven leader for our program and we are thrilled to welcome him to USF and back to Florida, where he was born and where he has recruited so well for Clemson for many years,” Kelly said in a statement. “He is a young and extremely gifted offensive mind, a developer of high-level talent and an elite national recruiter who brings the experience of having played an integral role from the beginning in helping to build one of the most successful programs in college football. We are thrilled that he and his wife, Sara, and their daughter, Savannah, are joining our Bulls family and will be part of the exciting future of USF football.”


A native of Arcadia, Scott helped lead Clemson to five straight ACC titles, including Saturday’s 62-17 victory over Virginia in the ACC Championship where the Tigers gained more than 600 yards on offense.


In his time as co-offensive coordinator alongside Tony Elliott since the 2014 Russell Athletic Bowl, Clemson has posted a 69-4 record with just two regular-season losses. The Tigers have won two national championships during that span, including the 2017 national championship over Alabama at Raymond James Stadium.


In Scott’s five seasons as co-offensive coordinator, Clemson has averaged more than 500 yards four times and set 138 individual and program records, including total offense (527.8 ypg in 2018) and total touchdowns (90 in 2018).


Scott, who turns 39 on Dec. 28, has been part of the Clemson coaching staff since 2008, when he joined as wide receivers coach. Prior to joining the Tigers’ coaching staff, he served as wide receivers coach at Presbyterian High (Clinton, S.C.) in 2007 and head coach at Blythewood (S.C.) High the year prior.


Scott was a three-year letterman at Clemson as a wide receiver from 2000-2002, graduating cum laude with a 4.0 grade point average in 2003. He went on to earn a master’s degree in education instruction technology from American Intercontinental University in 2005.


“I am delighted to welcome Jeff Scott to the University of South Florida community,” USF President Steven Currall said in a statement. “We seek to attract top talent across our entire University, and Coach Scott fits that profile as one of college football’s most promising coaches. He brings national championship-level experience to USF from a very successful, highly regarded football program. I congratulate Michael Kelly for his leadership throughout the search process, and I am confident about the future of USF football under the direction of Coach Scott.”


Scott will be introduced to the USF community Wednesday, with details still to be announced. He will remain with Clemson throughout its run in the College Football Playoff.


“I have great respect for the USF football program and what has been accomplished in a very short time and can’t wait to get to work building on that foundation to produce a championship program,” Scott said “I am thankful to President Currall and Michael Kelly for this tremendous opportunity and their support and belief in me. It is difficult to leave my alma mater and the great program we have built at Clemson, but I believe we can do great things at USF. I am thankful to Coach [Dabo] Swinney and all the Clemson players and staff for the great experiences and lessons that have prepared me to lead USF football. Go Bulls!”