ORACLE PHOTO




A water-line break at the Hub — the on-campus dining option located in The Village — Tuesday resulted in the facility having to temporarily close.


Now, two days later, the location still has not reopened.


According to Aaron Nichols, the assistant director of communications for the Office of Administrative Services, the water-line break was repaired two hours after it first happened. But regulations are keeping the location from reopening.


“In accordance with Dept. of Health regulations, we had to take water samples after the repair was finished and have them tested,” Nichols said in an email to The Oracle. “While we are waiting for the results, a “boil water notice” has to be posted.”


Nichols added that he was expecting to have the results from the test by Thursday afternoon.


Jessica Cicalese, a spokesperson for USF dining, said in an email to The Oracle that she expected the Hub to reopen at 7 a.m. Friday.


But Cicalese did not respond to questions about how the break occurred and the cost of the repair by the time of publication Thursday afternoon.


On the USF Dining Instagram page, a “Hub Update” was posted thursday morning, notifying students of the substitution options being offered while the Hub is closed.


“While the Hub is temporarily closed, Champions Choice will have extended hours and will be open until 7:30pm tonight,” the caption on the post read. “Argos Exchange will have expanded menu offerings including Grill favorites open until 11pm.”


Nichols added that the Facilities Management team is remaining active during the repair process.


“…personnel from our Facilities Management team were onsite to shut off the water and they remained with the contractor who performed the repairs in case they were needed,” Nichols said. “Facilities Management also collected the water samples and got them to the third party lab for testing, to ensure the tests were expedited so things can get back to normal as soon as possible. At the end of the day, it is our goal to do everything we can to keep the campus running smoothly.”






Additional reporting by Alyssa Stewart