Laquincy Rideau announced in April he was declaring for the NBA Draft. The AAC Defensive Player of the Year withdrew his name from the draft Tuesday and will remain at USF for his senior season.
ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB






He’s back — or, rather, he’s not leaving.


Laquincy Rideau announced Tuesday night that he has withdrawn his name from next month’s NBA Draft and will stay with USF men’s basketball for his senior season.


“It has always been a dream of mine to play in the NBA,” Rideau said in a statement, “but after speaking with my family and my coaches, I have decided to remain at USF for my senior season.”


The AAC Defensive Player of the Year announced in April he was entering his name into the draft in order to evaluate
his skills in an effort to eventually play professionally. During the process, where Rideau was able to “work out at NBA combines or for teams specifically,” according to a USF release, he continued to maintain his NCAA eligibility by not hiring an agent.


“Testing the NBA draft and gathering feedback on where I am as a player and what I need to improve on was a tremendous experience,” Rideau tweeted Tuesday. “I am even more inspired and motivated.”


Rideau had until Wednesday to withdraw his name from the draft in order to maintain his NCAA eligibility even without hiring an agent.


During the 2018-19 season, Rideau was a threat both offensively and defensively, averaging 13.4 points and leading the AAC with 2.9 steals per game. He recorded the first ever points-steals-assists triple-double during conference play in program history Jan. 12 against Temple.


With Rideau staying, USF is set to return over 90% of its production in scoring, rebounding, assists, steals and minutes.


Corrick earns All-American honors


USF softball ace Georgina Corrick took home second-team All-American honors Wednesday.


The sophomore pitcher had a season for the USF record books. Her 25 wins sits seventh in single-season program history, and, after posting 11 shutouts in 2019, sits at seventh in career shutouts with 14.


Additionally, her 2019 shutout total ranks eighth in the nation. At one point during the season, Corrick went 47.2 straight scoreless innings.


The AAC Pitcher of the Year for the second consecutive season, Corrick led the conference with a 12-2 record and 0.79 ERA and 128 strikeouts during league play.


Corrick is the 10th All-American in program history and first since Erica Nunn in 2016.


Fernandez adds to signing class


Following the departure of both Alyssa Rader and Kitija Laksa to the NCAA’s transfer portal, USF women’s basketball has an addition to its 2019-20 roster in the form of Mihaela Lazic.


Lazic, a 5-foot-6-inch guard out of Croatia, signed a National Letter of Intent, coach Jose Fernandez announced Wednesday.


“Lazic is a dynamic guard that will give us depth in multiple positions and allow us to continue our tradition of outstanding guard play,” Fernandez said in a statement.


She comes to USF with international experience, having played in the 2017 and 2018 FIBA European Championships, averaging 7.9 points, 3.2 rebounds over seven games in 2018.


Lazic joins what is considered one of Fernandez’s best signing classes in his 20 seasons at USF. She joins freshmen Kristyna Brabencova (Czech Republic) and Maria Alvarez (Bal Harbour, Fla.) as well as junior college transfer Bethy Mununga (Belgium) as the newest Bulls.