USF women's basketball coach Jose Fernandez announced two additions to his roster Thursday.
SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/GOUSFBULLS






Following the departure of freshmen Makaela Kestner and Janeta Rozentale, USF women’s basketball coach Jose Fernandez has added to his roster for the 2019-20 season.


Kristyna Brabencova, a six-foot wing from the Czech Republic, was announced as part of the 2019-20 signing class Thursday after signing a National Letter of Intent.


In the 2017 FIBA U18 Women’s European Championship, Brabencova shot 25-of-57 (44 percent) from the field and 7-of-15 (47 percent) from 3-point range over the span of seven games.


“We are very excited about Kristyna joining our program,” Fernandez said in a statement. “She is a great fit for our athletic department on and off the floor. She has competed at a high level internationally, and we look forward to what she will bring to our team.”


Fernandez also added a junior college transfer Thursday.


Bethy Mununga, a six-foot forward, joins USF from Northwestern Oklahoma A&M College where she was a two-time NJCAA All-American, averaging 17.5 points per game and 13.5 rebounds per game in 2018-19.


She also competed for her native country Belgium in the 2017 FIBA U20 Women’s Euopean Championship.


Mununga and Brabencova join Maria Alvarez as Fernandez’s 2019-20 signing class. Mununga will be a junior in 2019-20, while Alvarez and Brabencova will be freshmen.


AAC and SEC announce nonconference games


The AAC and the Southeastern Conference (SEC) have agreed on a nonconference scheduling partnership in men’s basketball that will pair four teams from each conference in home-and-home matchups over the next two seasons, the conferences announced Thursday.


The teams involved in the SEC/American Alliance, as the two conferences are calling the agreement, will be announced in late May. The games will be televised on ESPN networks.


“I am extremely pleased that we have entered into this scheduling alliance with the SEC,” AAC commissioner Mike Aresco said in a statement. “SEC basketball offers quality opponents which will elevate our nonconference schedules. The additional Quadrant 1 and 2 games for our members and the SEC will prove mutually beneficial when [NCAA] Tournament bids are awarded on Selection Sunday.”


More than half of the AAC’s teams made postseason appearances this season — four made the NCAA Tournament, two made the NIT, while USF won the College Basketball Invitational.


Thomas earns honors


Former USF safety Jaymon Thomas earned post-collegiate honors Thursday when he was named a member of the
National Football Foundation Hampshire Honor Society.


The Hampshire Honor Society is comprised of collegiate football players from all divisions who maintained at least a 3.2 GPA throughout their entire college careers and were significant contributors to their teams.


Thomas, who graduated in December with a 3.45 GPA, finished his senior season with 51 tackles while playing in all 13 games.