Alongside his acting career, David Harbour is also a vocal proponent for mental health issues. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE


Actor David Harbour, best known for starring in the hit Netflix original series “Stranger Things,” will be coming to USF to close out the University Lecture Series for the semester Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Marshall Student Center Oval Theater.


Harbour will be paid $39,700 for the lecture, according to his ULS contract.


The RSVP option on BullSync has reached its capacity as of Tuesday. However, a non-registered and community member line will begin forming at 5:30 p.m. in the MSC.


Having graduated from Dartmouth College in 1997, Harbour began his acting career in 1999 with appearances on Broadway and “Law & Order.”


Harbour acted in background roles until he received recurring roles on the TV shows “The Newsroom” from 2012 to 2014 and “Manhattan” in 2014. In 2015, he gained the attention of Carmen Cuba, the casting director for “Stranger Things.”


Now, he is recognized by millions as Chief Hopper on the series.


“[Harbour] was one of the first ideas that came to mind for me when I was reading [the script],” Cuba said in an interview with Netflix. “He had that ability to really hold a scene opposite all these bigger actors.”


Ranking as one of Netflix’s most-watched shows, the third season has drawn over 40.7 million views since its July 4 debut, according to a Variety column.


Other than rehearsing lines for Stranger Things, the 45-year-old actor hosted an episode of “Saturday Night Live” with singer Camilla Cabello and also starred as the lead actor in “Hellboy” this year.


Alongside his acting career, Harbour is also a vocal proponent of embracing mental health issues and mutual acceptance on Twitter.


“The ‘mentally ill’ (this arbitrary societally agreed upon cattle brand to differentiate ‘us’ from ‘them’)… are overwhelmingly SUBJECT to violence, not perpetrators,” Harbour said in a tweet in October.


Harbour experienced mental health stigma firsthand when he was younger. He was committed to a psychiatric hospital at age 25 by his parents due to his bipolar disorder.


“I really had, like, a bit of a break where I thought I was in connection to some sort of God that I wasn’t really in connection to,” Harbour said in an interview with comedian Marc Maron on Maron’s podcast.


Harbour said that acting has had only positive effects on his mental health.


“It’s important for me to be an artist, and I think if I wasn’t an artist I’d be a lot worse off and it has made work more vital to me. It’s kind of a lifeline,” Harbour said on the Blank Podcast in September.


Harbour is going to star as Alexei Shostakov, Black Widow’s husband, in the upcoming “Black Widow” movie in 2020. He is also currently filming for Season 4 of “Stranger Things.”