ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB






USF football’s future nonconference schedule took a serious blow Friday when it was announced Texas ended its scheduled two-for-one with USF.


But the Bulls still walked away with a parting gift.


Instead of playing in Austin in 2020, Tampa in 2022 and Austin in 2024 as originally scheduled, the Bulls and Longhorns will only face off one time — Sept. 5, 2020.


The renegotiated deal also comes with a $1.9 million payday for USF, the largest single-game cash guarantee in program history.


“
We’re disappointed to not have the game here,” Vice President of Athletics Michael Kelly told the Tampa Bay Times, “but feel that we’ve negotiated a good compromise.”


Kelly also told the Times while he’s “open-minded” to how he’ll fill the dates left by Texas’ cancellations, he will be actively pursuing other Power Five opposition.


Women’s basketball to play in Cancun Challenge


USF women’s basketball will spend its Thanksgiving break in the tropical paradise that is Cancun.


The Bulls are set to participate in the 2019 Cancun Challenge from Nov. 28-30, where they will play three games.


Highlighting USF’s trip to Mexico will be a chance to take on NCAA Tournament runner-up Notre Dame on Nov. 30. The Bulls and Fighting Irish last played each other on Nov. 25, 2017, as part of the Gulf Coast Showcase in Estero, Florida.


USF will also play South Dakota State on Thanksgiving Day and FGCU on Black Friday.


Men’s basketball to play in Cayman Island Classic


USF men’s basketball will spend its Thanksgiving break in the Caribbean as part of the 2019 Cayman Island Classic.


The Bulls are one of eight teams selected to play in the tournament, which will be held at John Gray Gymnasium in George Town, Grand Cayman. Joining USF will be New Mexico State, Old Dominion, Loyola of Chicago, Nebraska, Colorado State, George Mason and Washington State.


"One of the things you look for in a holiday tournament is not only the level of competition, but having the opportunity to bring your players to a place they will remember for the rest of their lives," coach Brian Gregory said in a statement. "It also gives us an opportunity to play in front of our fans because the Cayman Islands are a location that people would love to visit, so I think this tournament checks all those boxes.”


Exact matchups and game times will be announced later in the summer.