David Collins led USF with 19 points on Sunday, but it was not enough.
SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/GOUSFBULLS


Despite forcing 28 turnovers, USF men’s basketball (1-1) failed to convert its chances offensively in a 74-60 loss to Boston College at the Yuengling Center on Sunday.


“If you told me you we were going to force 28 turnovers, you’d think you’re going to win the game,” coach Brian Gregory said. “But you can’t force 28 turnovers at the expense of giving up 58 percent from the field in the second half. … It’s either you get a steal or you give up a layup or an open 3.


“Against a team like that, you’re not going to win.”


Missed chances made a difference, according to Gregory.


“We probably left 10 to 15 points on the rim on layups,” Gregory said. “Can’t do that. Not against the quality of opponents we’re now playing.”


From the 7:58 mark until the 4:33 mark in the second half, USF went on its largest scoring drought, missing 10 shots in the process with six consecutive missed chances from 3-point range.


The Bulls shot 36 percent, going 22-of-61 from the field. Meanwhile, the Eagles were 25-of-50.


“It’s a good lesson for us to learn,” Gregory said. “And sometimes you got to see other guys do some stuff to think to yourself, ‘Maybe I can impact this team that way.’”


Three Bulls scored in double-digits — junior David Collins with 19, senior Laquincy Rideau with 14 and sophomore Zack Dawson with 11. All three combined for 11 steals.


Despite being effective in taking away the ball, USF failed to convert its chances. It was a lack of quality decision making that caused a lack of conversion, according to Collins.


“I think you’ve got to make better decisions on the break, then transition and play a little more unselfishly,” Collins said.


The lack of sophomore Alexis Yetna, who is out for the season with a knee injury, may have led to the Bulls simply trying to do too much.


“One of the things we have to fight is our guys trying to do too much to make up for what we’re missing,” Gregory said.


Instead, Gregory said he wants his team to work to produce more on the defensive side, as the Bulls were outrebounded defensively 27-17 on Sunday.


“What I’d like them to do is do too much on the defensive glass … the offense will take care of itself.”