Students at the “Take the Pledge to Stop Hazing” event in 2017. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE


The Center for Student Involvement (CSI) will host hazing prevention events all week in the Marshall Student Center (MSC).


The purpose is for colleges to “(educate the campus) about hazing, and promote the prevention of hazing,” according to the Hazing Prevention website.


CSI kicked off National Hazing Prevention Week (NHPW) on Monday with “Traveling Through the Haze: An Interactive Experience,” where students learned the origins of hazing and walked through an exhibit depicting real-life hazing experiences. Some of these scenarios included financial shaming, alcohol poisoning and even death.


Students gathered with staff to discuss their emotions about the exhibit and newfound knowledge of hazing. Many students expressed shock and disbelief when they learned that hazing dates all the way back to ancient Greece.


On Sept. 25, CSI will host a “Lunch & Learn,” which will include a provided lunch and strategies students need to know to prevent hazing from occurring with peers, administration and staff.


Joshua Brown, coordinator for CSI and adviser for the National Pan-Hellenic Council and Multicultural Greek Council, urged students to attend the weeklong events.


The allocated cost for the week is $4,050, which is covered by CSI’s budget, according to Brown.


“These programs provide education and awareness and provide tools and tips designed to dismantle hazing cultures,” Brown said.


When it comes to reporting hazing, there are plenty of resources accessible to students. The University Police (UP) website recommends students contact the Dean of Students, UP or USF Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention. Students can also make an anonymous report through the USF EyeWitness system by texting “USFtip” to 67283.


“If you see something, say something,” Brown said. “Know and utilize the multiple resources across campus to help with concerns of hazing. In many cases, there are bystanders who could have taken the initiative to speak out against actions that caused harm. This is a way that everyone can help prevent hazing.”


Wrapping up NHPW, CSI will host “Take the Pledge to Stop Hazing” on Thursday in the MSC Atrium from 3:30-5:30 p.m., where students can sign a pledge to stop hazing nationwide.


“While USF may not see an abundance of hazing cases, this does not mean that it has not or cannot take place here as well,” Brown said. “National Hazing Prevention Week is one of the ways in which we educate the USF community to ensure that any potential issues are prevented.”