USF signed 21 recruits to play football for the Bulls next season. This year’s recruiting class contains a good mix of high school and transfer players that’ll look to improve Jeff Scott’s team next season. ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB


Early signing day has officially come to a close for the class of 2021. In coach Jeff Scott’s first full year of recruiting, the Bulls had 21 players sign a letter of intent to play football for USF next season.


With one of the deeper recruiting classes in the conference and USF’s best class since 2018, Scott is hoping that the incoming freshman and transfer players will play a big role in helping improve a team that went 1-8 in 2020.


Leading this exciting recruiting class is a quarterback-wide receiver duo from Seminole High School in Sanford.


Quarterback Timmy McClain is a three-star dual-threat and is ranked as the 49th best dual-threat quarterback in this year’s class. He joins a very deep position group at USF that has six quarterbacks competing for the starting job. During his senior year at Seminole, McClain threw for 1,405 yards along with 15 touchdowns and two interceptions in 10 games. He also racked up 440 yards on the ground and added eight touchdowns on 78 carries.


USF also received the signature of McClain’s top target in three-star Seminole wide receiver Jimmy Horn Jr.


In his senior year at Seminole, Horn caught 42 passes for 736 yards and nine touchdowns. He also ran for 196 yards and three touchdowns on 29 carries.


McClain and Horn will play for the 8A Florida High School State Championship against Osceola High School Saturday.


USF’s recruiting class also includes a junior college transfer quarterback who adds to the already competitive quarterback position.


Former junior college four-star quarterback Jarren Williams is another highlight of this year’s class. Williams originally played at the University of Miami for the 2018 and 2019 seasons before entering the transfer portal.


As a sophomore in 2019, Williams threw for 2,187 yards and 19 touchdowns. The 6-foot-2-inch quarterback transferred to Garden City Community College in Garden City, Kansas this summer before signing with the Bulls. Williams was a four-star, top-100 player and a top-five quarterback in the country coming out of high school.


USF also snagged three Division I transfers, all three being cornerbacks.


The most notable of the three is Christian Williams, a four-star transfer from Miami. Williams had six tackles in his two seasons with the Hurricanes. Williams will be joined at the position by three-star Will Jones who is transferring from Kansas State, and former four-star recruit Matthew Hill coming in from Auburn.


After KJ Sails and Mike Hampton entered the NFL draft this past offseason, USF desperately needed some help and depth in the cornerback room. Together, these three players will look to beef up USF’s secondary next season and beyond.


While Scott impressed in his first full year of recruiting for the Bulls, he is not quite done yet. There are currently three players who are verbally committed to USF and have yet to sign, according to 247 Sports. Those three players are defensive tackles Jacquez Williams and Jhalin Hobbs and safety Jordan Blackmon.


USF will continue to recruit heavily before national signing day, which will take place Feb. 3.