The AAC has reportedly adopted a scheduling model for the 2020 football season. USF is likely without its first three nonconference opponents, however.
ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB


Just a month away from the proposed start date of the 2020 season, the AAC has reportedly adopted a scheduling model. Teams will play eight conference games and up to four nonconference games, as reported by Ross Dellenger of Sports Illustrated.




NEWS: As many expected, the AAC has approved a 2020 scheduling model of 8 conference games and as many as 4 non-conference games, a source tells
@SINow
.


Announcement expected later today.


— Ross Dellenger (@RossDellenger)
August 5, 2020




The season will likely start Labor Day weekend, Dellenger also reported.


USF, however, is likely without its first three games due to scheduling models adopted by the Big 12, Mountain West and MEAC.


The Bulls’ home opener against Bethune-Cookman was
reportedly scrapped after the MEAC announced July 16 it was canceling all fall sports
.


USF’s season opener at Texas is in jeopardy after the Big 12 on Tuesday announced its teams would play nine conference games and one nonconference game. The Longhorns had already
lost a game against LSU when the SEC voted Thursday to play a conference-only schedule
.


Texas has two nonconference games available — Sept. 5 against USF and Sept. 19 against Texas at El Paso (UTEP). With only one slot to fill, the Longhorns are expected to keep the Miners on the schedule, according to Chip Brown of Horns247.




Per
@ChipBrown247
,
#Texas
one non-conference game is expected to be
#UTEP
and not
#USF
.


More➡️
https://t.co/Lc8PQEWBDm

https://t.co/eXVJobBtCS


— Horns247 (@Horns247)
August 4, 2020




USF’s game against Nevada on Sept. 19 has reportedly been canceled after the Mountain West on Wednesday adopted an eight-game conference schedule and a two-game nonconference schedule.
The Mountain West season will start no later than Sept. 26, which means all games scheduled prior to this date have been scrapped or postponed.


The Bulls’ game against Florida Atlantic is still scheduled for Sept. 26 and doesn’t seem to be in jeopardy, as Conference USA is keeping its eight-game conference schedule and will
allow its teams to play as many nonconference games as they want.


This is a developing story and will be updated.


*This story was updated to reflect the Mountain West’s decision to push back the start date of the season to Sept. 26