Applications will open Jan. 11 at 12:01 a.m. and close Feb. 5 at 11:59 p.m. ORACLE PHOTO/LEDA ALVIM


As the fall semester comes to an end, preparations for the new academic year begin, especially when it comes to the Student Government (SG) 2021 general elections.


In accordance with SG statutes, applications for the 2021 general election will open Jan. 11 at 12:01 a.m. and close Feb. 5 at 11:59 p.m. Students can
apply to be the next student body president, vice president and fill Senate positions.
They will also
vote on new constitutional amendments and referenda.


Applicants will go through an approval process to confirm their eligibility to run for any position. The process will be administered by the SG Advising Office from Feb. 8-12.


To be placed on the ballot, applicants need to submit the official application package, a declaration of intent and a student record waiver. Applicants must also attend at least one of the candidate information sessions, which will take place from Feb. 8-12.


Campaigning will officially begin Feb. 13 and end March 11. During that period, candidates are allowed to promote their tickets until the final day of voting.


The voting period will take place from March 8-11. Once the election results are announced and certified, the ERC will determine need for a runoff, which would be March 16-17.


As stated by the SG statutes, all elections should take place nine days before the start of spring break.
But
due to COVID-19, the 2021 spring break was postponed from March 15-21 to April 12-18
, so the statute is not applicable this election.


However,
due to the uncertainties around COVID-19, the Senate approved an amendment Nov. 17 allowing modifications to the general election timeline in case the university makes changes to the academic year. The changes to the election timeline must be submitted at least 48 hours before the Senate meeting in which the changes are being proposed. The changes will then be approved by the Senate within five business days.


All elections, including runoffs, must be concluded by March 31.