In a systemwide email, Currall announced that the university will be moving into phase I to resume campus operations on Monday. If conditions allow, the university will begin phase II on June 29. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE


As part of the
Resuming University Operations Amid a Global Pandemic plan to resume campus operations in the fall, the university will kick off phase I on Monday.


In a systemwide email sent Friday, USF President Steven Currall released details as well as expectations of the campus environment for four-phased plan. The plan will limit the number of individuals on campus and implement new guidelines to promote a safe and healthy environment for students, faculty and staff.


During phase I, all course instruction will remain online and employees will continue to work remotely. For staff and faculty performing critical functions on campus, they can return to work if they meet certain health and safety conditions.


Besides the
enforcement of cleaning procedures and social distancing requirements to limit the spread of COVID-19
, no more than 25 percent of employees should be on campus during phase I and in-person meetings or events should be held virtually.


Although the first phase does not represent a significant change in how campus is currently operating, Currall said it will allow “
us to progress toward later phases that permit additional on-campus activities.
“


“It is imperative that we all see our return to campuses as a shared responsibility to adopt new behaviors for the health and safety of the entire university community, especially staying mindful of any individuals who are at high risk or may have family members considered as such,” Currall said in the email.


If conditions allow, the university will begin phase II on June 29.


With up to 50 percent of employees back on campus, phase II will allow some in-person meetings to resume as well as open other on-campus services, including dining services.


For phase III,
75 percent of staff will be allowed back on campus
and most of the on-campus operations will resume. The university plans to reach phase III by the beginning of the fall semester.


More information regarding phases III and IV will be announced at a later date, according to Currall.


“As we move forward, our plans will be flexible and include contingencies to consider reverting back to a previous phase, if necessary,” Currall said in the email. “The health and safety of our students, faculty and staff remains our highest priority.”