President Donald Trump has tried everything from minimizing his COVID-19 diagnosis to bringing up outdated scandals from 2016 to boost poll numbers as voters are increasingly favoring his opponent, former Vice President Joe Biden. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE


President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden did not meet voters’ expectations at the first presidential debate on Sept. 29, and the polls have reflected this sentiment in the weeks after the event.


Trump has since tried and failed to get himself back in the positive view of the public after his voter support weakened and Biden’s lead nearly doubled.


Following the debate, The Wall Street Journal and NBC News conducted a public opinion poll consisting of 800 registered voters, with 46% identified as Democratic and 36% identified as Republican, between Sept. 30 and Oct. 1 that showed Biden held a 14-point lead when just last month he was ahead by only eight points.


Trump was given the opportunity to gain voter support and demonstrate compassion on Oct. 2 after he announced that he and First Lady Melania Trump tested positive for COVID-19 in a tweet.


Instead, he generated more controversy.


In the days after the diagnosis, he documented his recovery through Twitter, performed unnecessary
photo ops
and downplayed the threat of the virus on Monday before he left the hospital.


“Feeling really good,” Trump tweeted. “Don’t be afraid of COVID. Don’t let it dominate your life. We have developed, under the Trump administration, some really great drugs and knowledge. I feel better than I did 20 years ago.”


After this Twitter thread, Trump lost another two points in a CNN public opinion poll consisting of 1,205 citizens, with 1095 registered to vote, 33% identified as Democrats, and 28% identified as Republicans, from Oct. 1-4 which showed Biden at a 16-point lead.



To compare this with Trump’s 2016 presidential run against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, ABC News did a public opinion poll between Oct. 20 and 22, 2016, consisting of 874 likely voters, with 36% identifying as Democratic and 27% identifying as Republican. This poll showed Clinton with just a 12-point lead over Trump.


While Clinton lost the election after a strong October lead, the Electoral College is overwhelmingly projected to vote for Biden, according to international weekly magazine The Economist.


The Economist made a model to project who will win the electoral votes in each state. As of Oct. 8, this model had predicted a 92% chance that Biden will win the Electoral College, receiving anywhere between 227 and 424 electoral votes.


This percentage could increase as Trump continues to lose favor with the American people. Late Tuesday, he sent out four tweets about the second stimulus bill that is currently under negotiation in the Senate. With the unemployment rate at 8% and Americans struggling to get by, Trump has turned his citizens’ misfortunes into a case of bribery as he declared no deal will be made until he wins the election.


“I have instructed my representatives to stop negotiating until after the election when, immediately after I win, we will pass a major stimulus bill that focuses on hardworking Americans and small business,” he wrote.


After this tweet, the S&P 500 closed 1.4% lower. Trump backpedaled and tweeted he would sign a “stand-alone bill for stimulus checks ($1200).” He also encouraged Congress to use money from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act to provide support for small businesses and airlines.


Trump has reached deep into the last presidential election’s issues to try and stir anything that might help him. Within the same day, he brought up Clinton’s campaign issues from the 2016 election.


“I have fully authorized the total declassification of any and all documents pertaining to the single greatest political crime in American history, the Russia hoax. Likewise, the Hillary Clinton email scandal. No redactions.”


As Trump’s support takes a dive in the polls, he is getting more desperate to try to win back his base. Trump’s campaign staff is about to have their work cut out for them as Trump appears to already be throwing Hail Marys. At this point, one should grab a bucket of popcorn and watch as Trump’s relentlessness sabotages his chances at reelection.