Dickies Arena will host the AAC women’s basketball tournament in 2021 and 2022.
ORACLE PHOTO/BRIAN HATTAB


Move over, Mohegan Sun Arena, the AAC women’s basketball tournament has a new host arena.


AAC commissioner Mike Aresco announced Tuesday the 2021 and 2022 AAC women’s basketball tournaments will be held in the Dickies Arena in Fort Worth, Texas.


For the first time in conference history, both the men’s and women’s tournaments will be held in the same city. The women’s championship will be held March 8-11 and the men’s tournament will take place March 11-14.


“I am pleased that both our men’s and women’s basketball tournaments will be held at this spectacular facility in 2021 and 2022,” Aresco said in a statement. “The city of Fort Worth, the Fort Worth Sports Commission and Dickies Arena have proven to be great partners since we first announced the three-year agreement for our men’s tournament in 2017.”


Mohegan Sun Arena was the host of the women’s tournament since the AAC’s inaugural season in 2014.
The arena will host the 2021 Big East women’s basketball tournament
after UConn rejoined the conference.


Viens listed in Sky Blue’s Challenge Cup roster


It’s been five months since former women’s soccer standout Evelyne Viens was drafted by Sky Blue F.C. in the 2020 NWSL college draft. She may finally make her professional debut next week.


Viens was listed as one of four forwards in Sky Blue F.C.’s 2020 Challenge Cup roster Tuesday.




NEWS | Sky Blue FC Announces 2020
@NWSL
Challenge Cup Roster


— NJ/NY Gotham FC (@GothamFC)
June 23, 2020




A star-studded Sky Blue front line meant first-team action was likely hard to come by for Viens, as U.S. women’s national team regulars Carli Lloyd and Mallory Pugh were favored as starters.


However, Pugh and Lloyd withdrew from the Challenge Cup roster with injuries earlier this week.


With fewer options available, Viens could make her debut in Sky Blue’s opener against OL Reign next Tuesday.


Viens led USF in goals and points for four straight years and set the record for career goals as a junior with 48. She finished her USF tenure with 73 goals and 23 assists.


Koepka qualifies for Travelers Championship


Former USF men’s golf standout Chase Koepka, younger brother of former No. 1 in the world Brooks, earned a qualifying spot in the Travelers Championship field after making it through a five-for-two playoff on Monday.




There will be two Koepkas in this week’s Travelers Championship field.


With his big brother watching, Chase Koepka Monday qualified his way into a stacked
@TravelersChamp
:
https://t.co/vq7szSeWfT

pic.twitter.com/T8Fmxdis7n


— Golf Channel (@GolfChannel)
June 22, 2020




This will be Chase’s third PGA Tour start of the season and his first event he hasn’t needed a sponsorship exemption for. Chase’s career-best finish was in the 2019 Zurich Classic of New Orleans where he tied for fifth.


Chase played for the Bulls from 2012 to 2016 and holds the program record for most tournament victories with four.