Sophomore point guard Caleb Murphy is one of four players returning to the team from last season. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Auburn is one of the more notable opponents on the nonconference slate for the USF men’s basketball team this upcoming season, leading the Bulls to welcome the Tigers to town Nov. 19 at Amalie Arena, according to a Monday press release.


“This is a big matchup and a great test for our team against a great opponent from the SEC,” coach Brian Gregory said via the press release. “We’re looking forward to a great turnout and an amazing atmosphere on the big stage at Amalie.”


USF is returning four players from last season, including sophomore Caleb Murphy, juniors Jamir Chaplin and Russel Tchewa, and senior Mark Calleja. Between incoming freshmen like Trey Moss and transfers like Jake Boggs and Serrel Smith Jr., it will be interesting to see how all the new pieces fit together.


Tickets for the game will go on sale Wednesday at 10 a.m. They can be bought over the phone by calling 1-800-Go-Bulls or online at usfbullstix.com.


The Bulls will open their season at home against Bethune-Cookman University on Nov. 9. Tipoff time has yet to be announced.


Women’s soccer extends winning streak to four


It took two overtimes for the USF women’s soccer team to beat Tulsa on Friday, but a goal by freshman Madeleine Penman-Derstine pushed the Bulls past the Golden Hurricane.


After losing two games and tying another over a four-game stretch, USF (7-2-1) has responded with four consecutive wins over Miami, East Carolina, Florida Gulf Coast and now Tulsa (5-5-1).


Penman-Derstine’s goal came in the 108th minute, less than two minutes before the end of the second overtime.


USF will host Houston for Senior Night at Corbett Stadium on Thursday at 7 o’clock. It will be streamed live on ESPN+.


Men’s soccer drops match to No. 7 SMU


The USF men’s soccer team held a 12-10 shot advantage over No. 7 SMU on Friday, but ultimately fell 2-0 to the Mustangs.


Although the Bulls (2-4-1) only had one less shot on goal and one less corner kick than SMU (5-0-2), the Mustangs’ defense proved to be stout.


Junior midfielder Gabrielle Privitera fired off two shots on goal for USF, but SMU goalkeeper Cole Johnson was able to stop both.


Next up for the Bulls is the War on I-4 against UCF at Corbett Stadium on Wednesday at 7 p.m. The game will be streamed live on ESPN+ and broadcast on iHeartRadio Bulls Unlimited.


Volleyball loses pair of matches against Cincinnati and East Carolina


The USF volleyball team welcomed two conference foes to the Corral over the past week but couldn’t secure a win in either match.


The team (6-7) fell to Cincinnati (6-4, 1-1 AAC) 3-2 on Friday and later lost to East Carolina 3-1 on Sunday.


Junior defensive specialist CC Clausen led the way in digs in both games with 20 each time, and freshman setter Eke Denessen had 50 assists over the course of both matches. Sophomore setter Kelsey O’Loughlin also had 49 assists.


The Bulls will return to the floor Oct. 1 for an away match against Tulsa at 2 p.m.