Senior Morgan Baxendale (second from right) shot 3 under par in the second round of the Evie Odom Invitational on Monday. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


The USF women’s golf team has for the second time this season broken the record for lowest 18-hole score in program history, as the Bulls collectively shot 279 in round two of the Evie Odom Invitational on Monday.


The previous mark, which was set Sept. 4 in the USA Intercollegiate, was 280.


Senior transfer Morgan Baxendale recorded five birdies and was in second place. The tournament is set to finish Tuesday.


After the completion of the Evie Odom Invitational, USF will prepare for the Palmetto Intercollegiate on Oct. 25-26 at Turtle Point Golf Club in Kiawah Island, South Carolina.


Men’s soccer drops match to No. 4 Tulsa


The USF men’s soccer team outshot No. 4 Tulsa on Saturday and led in shots on goal (8-7), but the Golden Hurricane was much more clinical in its chances as USF lost 4-0.


Both teams struggled to find a goal in the opening 45 minutes, but Tulsa (9-0, 4-0 AAC) came out of the half firing with scores in the 52nd, 58th, 59th and 65th minutes.


It’s been a less than ideal start to conference play for the Bulls (2-6-1, 0-4 AAC), as they have dropped their first four matches against AAC opponents, including three against ranked teams.


USF faces Temple in Philadelphia on Saturday at 7 p.m.


Volleyball loses to Tulsa, Wichita State


USF volleyball went on the road to play Tulsa on Friday and Wichita State on Sunday, but it wasn’t able to muster a win in either match.


The Golden Hurricane (7-6, 2-2 AAC) jumped out to an early two-set lead and finished the match off in four sets after USF took the third 25-22.


The Shockers (7-7, 1-3 AAC), however, swept the Bulls (6-9, 0-4 AAC) in three sets.


USF junior defensive specialist CC Clausen etched her name in program history as she moved to third all-time in career digs with 1,447.


The USF Volleyball team’s next match will be at home in The Corral on Friday at 8 p.m. against Tulane.


Men’s golf finishes fourth of 14 in Windon Memorial Classic


The Bulls traveled to the Lake Shore Golf Club in Lake Forest, Illinois, for The Windon Memorial Classic on Sept. 27-28 and finished fourth out of 14 programs.


With rounds of 278, 285 and 282, USF finished 7-under-par 845, putting it above schools like No. 21 North Florida and No. 25 Georgia Tech. USF junior Luke Gifford finished third in the tournament.


The Bulls will compete at the Quail Valley Collegiate Invitational in Vero Beach on Oct. 17-18.


Men’s and women’s cross country both finish first in HOKA FLrunners.com Invitational


It was a good day for the men’s and women’s cross country teams, with both coming in first at the HOKA FLrunners.com Invitational.


The men had seven runners finish in the top eight. Sophomore Ben Kailes led the way with a second-place finish.


On the women’s side, sophomore Andie Gonzalez was the top finisher as she came in second.


The Bulls head to Tallahassee for the FSU Pre Nationals on Oct.15.