Sophomore Melanie Green helped the Bulls start their 2021 season on a strong note in the USA Intercollegiate. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


The USF women’s golf team started its season with a bang Saturday, setting a program record with an 18-hole team score of 280. In the following couple of days, the Bulls battled to place second of 17 teams in the USA Intercollegiate.


The Bulls finished with a score of 852, a 54-hole record for the program.


Sophomore Melanie Green led the way for USF, posting a 7-under-par 65, which is now a program record for a single round versus par.


The Bulls will take a trip Sept. 27 to Red Sky Golf Course in Vail, Colorado, for the Golfweek Conference Challenge. The event will take place Sept. 27-29.


Men’s soccer wraps up two away games


The USF men’s soccer team hit the road for a two-match series of away games, first against Florida Gulf Coast University (FGCU) on Sept. 2 and No. 4 Clemson on Monday.


USF’s match against FGCU was a tightly contested one, but neither team could find a way to get a ball past the other’s keeper, as the final score ended in a 0-0 tie. The Bulls had their chances to put the Eagles away, leading 13-6 on shots and 3-2 on shots on goal.


Against the Tigers, the Bulls virtually kept up in terms of shots, firing off 13 to Clemson’s 14, but couldn’t get any to find the back of the net, losing 3-0.


Next up, USF will have three home games in a row in Corbett Stadium, with the first against Stetson on Friday at 7 p.m.


Winner of green Mustang for 2020-21 announced


Over the course of the 2020-21 athletics season, Bulls fans had the opportunity to collect points via the Herd Perks app by attending various athletic events.


The more points a student earned, the better chance they had of earning the grand prize of a 2021 Ford Mustang, and at the end of the season, junior Kyndra McLeod was deemed the winner.


“Despite the fact that it was a different year due to COVID-19, I had a lot of fun using the app, and I can’t wait to be back to a more normal year in 2021 and 2022,” McLeod said.


USF Athletics will again be have the Herd Perks system in place for the 2021-22 season. In addition to the car, students have the chance to win other prizes, including a $500 gift certificate to the campus bookstore.


Volleyball loses pair of matches against UM


After three away matches to start the season, the USF volleyball team played their home opener in The Corral on Sept. 3, but lost to the Miami Hurricanes 1-3. In a subsequent battle two days later, this time at Miami, the Bulls also came up short 0-3.


Notable performances against the Hurricanes came from freshman Marta Cvitkovic, who logged two aces on Sept. 3 and 11 digs on Sept. 5, and freshman Eke Denessen, who had a combined 26 assists over the two matches.


The Bulls will travel to Jacksonville to take part in the Dolphin Classic Sept. 10-11. They are set to play Long Island University at 1 p.m. and Furman at 4 p.m. on Friday and Jacksonville University on Saturday at 2 p.m.