Executive Vice President and Provost Ralph Wilcox will continue to stay involved with USF as a professor after stepping down from his current role. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/USF


USF Executive Vice President and Provost Ralph Wilcox will step down from his role next year, Interim President Rhea Law announced in a universitywide email Monday morning.


The search for Wilcox’s successor will begin in the spring semester once a new university president is hired. Wilcox’s decision was made based on his desire to spend more time with his family, according to
his letter to the USF community
.


“While the university has, in so many ways, become an extended family for me over the years I regret to say I have repeatedly failed the work-life balance test,” Wilcox said in the letter. “As a member of the USF faculty, I look forward to engaging, once more, in the important work of teaching and learning, mentoring, scholarship and engagement — something I largely set aside when I dedicated my effort to higher education leadership and serving the needs of our faculty, staff and students.”


Wilcox’s last day was not specified in the email, but Law said he will stay in his role “as long as is needed” during the search.


“I am grateful that Dr. Wilcox has agreed to remain in his role as
p
rovost and assist in the transition for as long as is needed,” Law said in the email. “The search for a new provost will begin in the spring with the goal of selecting Dr. Wilcox’s successor shortly after a new university president is hired.”


Wilcox will remain involved with the university as a professor after he steps down. He’s been with the university for nearly two decades and has served in his current role for 15 years.


“Serving as provost and executive vice president at USF since January 2008 has been the greatest privilege of my professional career,” Wilcox said. “As you may know, it is rare for a provost’s term to extend beyond five years, let alone close-in on 15, and I count myself fortunate to have been afforded the opportunity to contribute in small part toward USF’s transformation into the academic powerhouse it is today.”