USF softball coach Ken Eriksen is also the coach for the USA Softball Women’s National Team. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


The USF softball team hosted a three-game exhibition series against the USA Softball Women’s National Team in Tampa from March 12-14. The results of the series, however, were not pleasant for the Bulls. The final score of game one was 12-0, 8-0 in game two and finally 10-1 in game three.


Although the Bulls were swept, the opportunity to play against the national team was something they valued, according to junior pitcher Georgina Corrick.


“Coming out here and having the privilege to play against [Team] USA is amazing,” Corrick said prior to the series March 10.


The Bulls will return to their normal collegiate schedule Friday as they host a three-game series against North Dakota from March 19-20, with a doubleheader set for the second day.


Football plays final scrimmage before spring game


The USF football team lined up for its final intrasquad scrimmage before the much anticipated spring game at Raymond James Stadium on March 27.


The quarterback position is still being evaluated, and all four signal callers are still in the running to win the starting gig. Sophomore quarterback Cade Fortin’s 46-yard pass to sophomore wide receiver Xavier Weaver was one of the highlights from the scrimmage.


Coach Jeff Scott remains focused on getting the most out of the final stretch of spring practices.


“It has been a very good three weeks,” he said. “But the key is going to be how we finish the final two weeks.”


Caleb Murphy makes AAC All-Freshman Team


The AAC released its selections for the 2020-21 AAC All-Freshman Team on Wednesday, and freshman guard Caleb Murphy made the cut.


He became the sixth USF player in program history to be honored on the AAC All-Freshman Team, a list that also featured teammates forward Alexis Yetna and guard David Collins.


Murphy started all but one game he played in this season, averaging 8.8 points and 2.8 assists per game. His 20-point outing Dec. 29 against Memphis was his standout performance.


USF soccer teams on win streaks


Both the USF men’s and women’s soccer teams walked away with wins from their contests March 13.


Women’s soccer (4-0-1, 3-0 AAC) recorded its fifth consecutive shutout with a comprehensive 3-0 win over Tulsa in Tampa on Sunday. The Bulls have yet to concede a goal in any match this season.


The men’s soccer team (4-2, 4-2 AAC) extended its own win streak to four with a 3-1 victory over Memphis on the road Saturday night.


Men’s tennis earns first conference win vs SMU


The USF men’s tennis team (10-2, 1-1 AAC) triumphed in its first AAC match of the season over No. 50 SMU by a score of 4-3.


The No. 34 Bulls have now won eight consecutive matchups, extending a winning streak that dates back to early February.


The final win, a three-set singles victory by junior Chase Ferguson, came in a deciding game where SMU could have won the cumulative match if the result had gone the Mustangs’ way.


Men’s golf returns to action for Valspar Collegiate International


USF men’s golf will travel to the Floridian National Golf Club in Palm City for the Valspar Collegiate International from March 15-16.


The Bulls will arrive ranked No. 29 in the Golfstat national rankings, but will have stiff competition as six top 10 opponents including top-ranked Florida State and conference foe No. 10 SMU will be competing.


In three previous tournaments this season, men’s golf finished top 10 in each, with a sixth-place finish at the Seminole Intercollegiate in Tallahassee, its best thus far.