Former USF Bull Jason Pierre-Paul won his second career Super Bowl on Sunday, the first coming in 2012 with the New York Giants. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Former USF football player Jason Pierre-Paul celebrated his second Super Bowl win in a very familiar setting Sunday as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeated the Kansas City Chiefs 31-9 in Super Bowl LV at Raymond James Stadium.


Pierre-Paul spent one season at USF in 2009, during which an impressive individual season led to his selection in the first round of the NFL Draft.


The pass rusher played a crucial role in a dominant defensive performance Sunday, helping the Bucs to their first championship in 18 years and becoming the first team to win the Lombardi Trophy in its home stadium.


Chiefs center Austin Reiter, also a USF alumnus, played in the game as well.


Women’s soccer opens regular season with win


The USF women’s soccer team started the regular season on the front foot with a 3-0 victory over Florida Atlantic in Boca Raton on Sunday.


Junior forward Sydny Nasello opened her account with the first goal of the match. The second goal was scored by senior midfielder Sabrina Wagner and assisted by Nasello.


Freshman defender Vivianne Bessette marked her collegiate debut with a free-kick goal and an assist while also helping to secure a shutout victory.


The win resulted in the Bulls making their first appearance in the Top Drawer Soccer Top 25 rankings, coming in at No. 25. Their next match starts conference play, on the road against SMU.


Stampede for Women Fund announced


USF Athletics, in partnership with Bulls Club, launched Stampede for Women, a program that aims to support women’s athletics at the university.


The launch was announced Feb. 3, coinciding with National Women and Girls in Sports Day.


The initiative will raise funds for multiple uses, including scholarships, facilities upgrades, mentorship programs and career development. It will also serve as a way for the USF donor community to connect more with the student athletes.


George Barlow joins USF football as cornerbacks coach


Coach Jeff Scott added 30 years of experience to his coaching staff with the hiring of George Barlow as cornerbacks coach.


Barlow comes to the coaching staff after last season’s cornerbacks coach, Jules Montinar, left the Bulls to join UF in late January.


Barlow arrives in Tampa after five years as assistant coach of defense and cornerbacks coach at NC State. His coaching background includes stints in the Big 12 with Oklahoma and in the SEC with Vanderbilt.


Barlow coached two players at NC State who went on to be chosen in the NFL Draft.


Results from the AAC cross country championships


The AAC cross country championships took place Saturday in Kansas, and the USF men finished in eighth place while the women finished 10th.


The fastest runner on the men’s team was sophomore Nickolas Kamen, whose 8K time of 26:30.80 was good for a top 50 finish overall.


Sophomore Alexandra Weir was USF’s fastest woman, finishing her 6K in 22:52.60 and placing 38th overall.


The cross country teams’ next meet is the FSU Invitational, which will take place March 5 in Tallahassee.