The AAC on Wednesday named senior defender Chyanne Davis the conference’s preseason defensive player of the year. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Sophomore defender Lucy Roberts scored on a penalty kick as the USF women’s soccer team beat Florida Gulf Coast 1-0 in an exhibition match Saturday.


The goal came at the five-minute mark.


The men’s soccer team fell 2-0 to FIU in an exhibition match Saturday.


The next time both squads take the pitch will be the real deal. The men kick off the regular season Feb. 6 versus Temple at 7 p.m. and the women begin their regular season Feb. 7 against Florida Atlantic at 1 p.m.


Chase Ferguson named conference player of the week


The AAC announced last Tuesday that junior Chase Ferguson of the men’s tennis team was tabbed the conference’s player of the week.


Ferguson earned the award by starting the season hot for the Bulls. He won most of his singles matches and doubles sets to start the season, including two performances that helped USF beat Clemson on Jan. 23 and Auburn on Jan. 24.


Next up for the team is a Feb. 6 matchup versus Stetson at 1:30 p.m.


Early season struggles for women’s tennis


The USF women’s tennis team has not had an ideal start to its season. The Bulls currently sit at 0-3 with losses coming against No. 9 FSU, Alabama and Auburn.


Coach Cristina Moros is still optimistic, however, despite the slow start.


“If we have the team that I truly believe we have, they will grow tough with these experiences and you will see some great things from the Bulls moving forward,” Moros said following the loss against Auburn on Friday.


Basketball games continue to be postponed


Since last Monday, both the USF men’s and women’s basketball teams have experienced more postponements due to COVID-19-related issues.


The women’s team had two games against Temple on Jan. 27 and Cincinnati on Jan. 30 postponed. The Bulls’ next game is scheduled for Feb. 7 when they are set to take on UCF at noon.


The men’s team also had two games postponed. The first being against Tulsa on Feb. 3 and the second on Feb. 6 against SMU. The team also had a previously postponed game against Houston rescheduled to Feb. 10 and had a game against Tulane pushed back a day from Feb. 13 to Feb. 14.


The next men’s game is the aforementioned Feb. 10 matchup against the Houston Cougars scheduled for 7 p.m.