The USF football team will open its season in an away game against North Carolina State on Sept. 2. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


The USF football team will return to Raymond James Stadium on Sept. 11 to take on UF in the 2021-22 season home opener, and the venue will be open to full capacity.


The Bulls will play six of their season’s 12 games at home this year against UF, Florida A&M, Tulsa, Temple, Houston and Cincinnati.


The home opener against UF will likely draw the largest crowd, as the Gators finished the 2020-21 season ranked No. 13 in the nation by the AP Poll.


Five of the home games will be on a Saturday, and one will take place on a Friday against Cincinnati on Nov. 12. Kickoff times and television details will be announced at a later date.


Single-game tickets will go on sale July 7.


USF men’s basketball team to play in Orange Bowl Basketball Classic, 2021 Diamond Head Classic


The USF men’s basketball team will be taking a trip to Hawaii for an eight-team holiday event in the Diamond Head Classic as well as competing against UF in this year’s Orange Bowl Basketball Classic.


In the Diamond Head Classic, each team in the tournament will play three games at SimpliFi Arena at Stan Sheriff Center in Honolulu on
Dec
. 22, 23 and 25. The two teams to remain unbeaten will battle it out in the championship game. USF will be joined in the tournament by Hawaii, BYU, Liberty, Northern Iowa, Stanford, Vanderbilt and Wyoming.


For the Orange Bowl Basketball Classic, the Bulls will play against the Gators on Dec. 18 at the BB&T Center in Sunrise, Florida.


Coach Brian Gregory has welcomed nine new Bulls to the program this offseason and likely hopes the new additions can help improve his squad heading into next season.


Track and field to send 12 individuals and three relay teams to NCAA East Preliminaries


The NCAA East Preliminaries will take place at North Florida’s Hodges Stadium in Jacksonville from May 26-29, and the USF track and field team will send 12 individual athletes and three relay teams to the event.


The athletes going to the event include freshmen Jadaja Baxter, Shaniya Benjamin, Kobe Babin, Jasmine Knowles and Zahria Allers-Liburd, and sophomores Dre’Shaun Sanders, David Ajama, Monte Parker, Kadesha Prescott and Danelson Mahautiere.


Also participating are juniors Arielle Boone, Patricija Roshofa, Stone Baker, Jae’Nisa Heckstall, Akeem Bradshaw and Shaneylix Davila, and seniors Toluwani Adebakin, Duncan Agyemang, graduate students Stephanie Lambeth, Gabrielle DesRosiers, Stefone Moore-Green and Dee Jennings.


The preliminaries will determine who gets to go to the NCAA Outdoor Track and Field Championships at the University of Oregon in June.


The men’s events will take place Wednesday and Friday, while the women’s events will occur Thursday and Saturday.


USF women’s soccer coaching staff tabbed a South Region Staff of the Year


After an impressive season for the USF women’s soccer team that saw the Bulls win the AAC tournament title, coach Denise Schilte-Brown and her staff have been named the South Region Staff of the Year.


In addition to the tournament title, the Bulls also picked up their third regular-season title in four years.


Winning the award put the staff in contention for the National Staff of the Year award selected by United Soccer Coaches, but FSU’s coaching staff locked up that honor May 21.