Junior guard Xavier Castañeda is one of five Bulls who have entered the transfer portal since the season ended. He averaged 8.5 points per game last season. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Following the news of seniors David Collins and Justin Brown entering the transfer portal on Monday and Tuesday, respectively, redshirt freshman Luke Anderson and juniors Xavier Castañeda and Rashun Williams also will be transferring, as reported by Verbal Commits and Tampa Bay Times reporter Joey Knight on Twitter.




Per my friend
@RussHoops
,
#USF
PG Xavier Castaneda also has entered the portal. That’s FIVE departures in the last week.


— Joey Knight (@TBTimes_Bulls)
March 17, 2021




Castañeda entering the portal was tweeted by Knight, but he cited @RussHoops on Twitter for providing the news.


Of the three most recent USF players to enter the transfer portal, Castañeda is the one who made the biggest impact on the floor in his career with the Bulls.


Over the course of three seasons at USF, the 6-foot-1-inch point guard averaged 5.5 points, 1.9 assists and 2.0 rebounds per game over 89 contests.


This past season was statistically his best, as he posted a career-high 8.5 points and 2.6 assists per game, mostly off the bench.




South Florida G Rashun Williams (JR) has entered the transfer portal.
https://t.co/ztfKWJJjUT


— Verbal Commits (@VerbalCommits)
March 16, 2021




The news that Williams had entered the transfer portal was the first to break between himself, Castañeda and Anderson, as Verbal Commits reported Tuesday evening.


In three seasons with the Bulls, Williams averaged 2.9 points and 2.0 rebounds per game over 62 contests. He also averaged 12.1 minutes per game.


Williams made four starts for USF this past season, the most of his career in a single season.




Former South Florida G/F Luke Anderson is transferring to College of Southern Idaho (JUCO).
@Lukebuckets11

https://t.co/l08pbrHy5D

https://t.co/Rg0DdJ1FXW


— Verbal Commits (@VerbalCommits)
March 10, 2021




Anderson did not spend much time in the portal, as he has already found a new home with the College of Southern Idaho.


The Twitter account for the College of Southern Idaho Athletics made a
post
announcing Anderson’s commitment to the program. Anderson also retweeted the post.


After redshirting his freshman year, Anderson made four appearances in the 2020-21 season during which he averaged 1.8 points in 6.5 minutes per game.


While the departures of Collins, Brown, Williams, Anderson and Castañeda are somewhat jarring, especially considering they came in virtual succession, it creates space for coach Brian Gregory and the Bulls to bring in new talent via the transfer portal themselves.