Junior pitcher Georgina Corrick (above) has logged 230 strikeouts so far this season. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Junior pitcher Georgina Corrick continued her season of dominance as she pitched a 15 strikeout, seven-inning shutout against the Florida Gulf Coast Eagles in a 4-0 win Sunday.


Corrick, who is 15-4 on the season with a 1.07 ERA, also pitched a complete-game shutout in the first game of a doubleheader Saturday, also against the Eagles. The Bulls dropped the second game of the doubleheader later that day.


USF will now only play conference opponents the rest of the way with 12 regular-season games left on the schedule.


The Bulls currently sit in second place in the conference standings behind Wichita State, but will have a chance to narrow the gap as they travel to Wichita, Kansas, for a four-game series against the Shockers on April 23-25.


Baseball crushes UCF 11-0, but loses series overall


The USF baseball team piled 11 runs onto the UCF Knights on Sunday, but that was the only win the Bulls were able to squeak out in the four-game series against their rivals.


Redshirt junior Riley Hogan led the way offensively in the win as he went 5-of-6 and knocked in four runs.


Redshirt sophomore pitcher Brad Lord allowed zero runs over six innings and struck out five as he improved to 2-3 on the season.


Women’s tennis wraps up regular season


The USF women’s tennis team finished its season 7-14 after losing to No. 46 Tulsa 4-1 on Saturday.


The match also served as a moment to honor the achievements of seniors Marcela Ifju, Alexandria Mjos and Evelyne Tiron.


“Tulsa proved to be too tough down the stretch for us, credit to them for taking control of the match after the good starts that we had,” coach Cristina Moros said. “I am happy we were able to honor our seniors before the match.


‘[We’re] looking forward to the conference tournament next week and [to] see what we are made of in the postseason.”


The tournament will take place in Lake Nona and is scheduled for April 22-25.


Men’s tennis closes season with win over No. 38 Tulsa


The No. 37 USF men’s tennis team finished its regular season with a conference victory over No. 38 Tulsa on Sunday by a score of 4-1.


“Tulsa is a very good team, well-coached team, a lot of good players, they’ve had some really good wins this year so we knew it was going to be tough,” coach Ashley Fisher said. “They got us in doubles, we got a win at one double … We’re getting better, the results haven’t shown in doubles but we are getting better.


“Just like we’ve been doing all year, the guys came out, we’ve never had a team with so much depth just one through six. We’re strong on every court, every position … Just really proud of the effort from the boys, we’re getting better every match and really peaking at the right time for the conference championship.”


The Bulls head into the tournament with a 14-8 overall record.


The men’s tournament will also be in Lake Nona and is set to go from April 22-24.