USF  football coach Jeff Scott has brought many new faces into the program, now including a well-seasoned quarterback that may be the key to the teams future success. USF ATHLETICS.


In the offseason, many of USF’s athletic teams have turned their heads to the transfer portal to fill the gaping holes on their roster. With both teams attempting to make repairs, football and men’s basketball have done their fair share of work to make the transfers count.


USF football has had to battle with three wins on their record over the last two seasons and new waves of coaches coming in to repair the downfall the team has faced. However, with one specific transfer, pieces may begin to fall into place.


Former Baylor quarterback Gerry Bohanon entered the transfer portal earlier in the spring and proclaimed to the sports world on Sunday where his next home would be — South Florida.


Bohanon is likely to inherit the starting quarterback position at USF and is expected to make a considerable contribution to the team. With the Bears, he produced 2200 passing yards and 18 touchdowns.


Men’s basketball has also shown a productive offseason, attempting to make a turnaround from their shining star freshman guard Caleb Murphy announcing his status in the transfer portal.


Memphis’ Tyler Harris will be taking his talents to the Yuengling Center in Tampa for the upcoming season, the team announced on Sunday. The well-seasoned guard will take over the spot Murphy has left.


The former Tiger averaged 8.8 points per game last season in 33 games played, and took part in Memphis’ AAC conference tournament run where they competed in the finals against Houston.


Harris has been with Memphis since 2018 and will bring a veteran presence for the team to look up to for the upcoming season. He will hopefully bring further success to the men’s basketball program as a whole.


These teams making major commitments with players like Bohanon and Harris will steer both programs into a better direction, pulling in season veterans that have performed well at their former schools to lead the Bulls.