Sophomore quarterback Katravis Marsh completed 14 passes for 124 yards and two touchdowns in the spring game on Saturday. ORACLE PHOTO/ALEXANDRA URBAN


USF’s spring football season culminated in the annual spring game on Saturday at Raymond James Stadium as the White team defeated the Green team 17-14.


The 112 players were split evenly with heavy rotation on both sidelines, giving every player a chance to see the field and make their case for a spot on the fall roster. As this was ultimately just a scrimmage, coach Jeff Scott wasn’t as interested in the final score as much as just seeing a good intrasquad battle.


“I wanted to see a competitive game,” he said in a postgame press conference. “I didn’t want to see one side, offense or defense, dominate the other.”


One of the standout performers was sophomore quarterback Katravis Marsh who finished 13-of-23 passing for 124 yards and 2 touchdowns through the air for the Green team. Marsh isn’t expected to be the Bulls’ starter come September, but his performance definitely opened some eyes.


“I was a little nervous at first, but once I got my first snap I felt comfortable because I’ve played in front of a big crowd,” he said. “Coming back and having a game-like experience all over again, it felt good. I was having fun out there with my brothers.”


His most potent connection through the air was with junior wide receiver Xavier Weaver, who produced the largest play of the night with a 29-yard catch-and-run in the first half. The same drive ended with a Weaver catch in the endzone for the first touchdown of the night.


Weaver praised the growth of the team throughout the spring and was confident in the squad’s ability to make some noise in 2022.


“We’re not building no more, we really got the foundation,” he said. “This is the year that you’re all going to see it.”


Sophomore quarterback Timmy McClain didn’t have quite as much success as Marsh on Saturday for the White team. He threw for over 100 yards without a touchdown, but he brushed off any speculation of a quarterback controversy.


“It hasn’t really been a competition,” he said. “We’ve been learning off each other, looking past a competition. We’re just trying to make each other better.”


With spring practice in the rearview mirror, Scott will turn to individual meetings with each player over the next couple of weeks before returning to the recruiting trail.


“We’ll meet as a staff on Monday for probably about four or five hours, go through every player,” he said. “We’ll spend five or six minutes on where he is on the depth chart, what he needs to develop.


“The guys, they’re hungry for information. They need to know what they did well, what they need to improve on.”


After six weeks of competing against each other for roster spots and lining up at Raymond James, Scott punctuated Saturday’s game with a message of unity for his players.


“What I told them after the game was over I said, ‘Hey, there’s a lot of good things on both sides, and now the next time we kick it off, everybody gets to be on one sideline and we get to get everybody back together.’”