USF has not officially announced if both coaches will join the staff, but it is likely given recent social media reports. ORACLE PHOTO/ALEXANDRA URBAN


With a new head coach comes new hires to rebuild the staff. There are reports of who coach Alex Golesh chose to oversee the defensive line, but none have been confirmed yet by USF Athletics.


Golesh said at his Monday introductory ceremony he already hired a defensive coordinator, but wouldn’t announce a name.


Bulls247 reporter Will Turner tweeted Tuesday that his hires seem to be “Twitter-official,” despite there being no announcement from Athletics.




First 2 hires of the Alex Golesh era appear Twitter-official, although
#USF
has yet to announce
pic.twitter.com/z9Vopo4w2X


— Will Turner (@WTurner247)
December 7, 2022




The two new possible staff members include former Florida Atlantic defense coordinator Todd Orlando and defensive line coach Kevin Patrick. Both of their Twitter accounts have been updated with what seems to be their official USF positions.


It also appears that the two are already actively sifting through recruits.


Tagged in three-star recruit Maverick Gracio’s post are both Orlando and Patrick, saying the two have issued him an official offer to join the Bulls.




Blessed to earn a scholarship to play at the University of South Florida! Huge thank you to
@DLineKP
and
@ToddOrlando
💚🤘
@USFFootball

@Alumni_USF

@CNHS_Athletics

@JackDan55847282

pic.twitter.com/YQFRhwCZVi


— Maverick Gracio (@MaverickGracio)
December 6, 2022




Reports of Orlando being hired began Monday, first by college football insider Pete Thamel citing his sources.




Sources: South Florida is expected to hire Todd Orlando as Alex Golesh's defensive coordinator. He's been the DC at Texas, USC and Houston. He brings an aggressive style that will complement the new high-tempo USF offense.


— Pete Thamel (@PeteThamel)
December 5, 2022




As for Patrick, the former Bull recruiter was reported to be joining USF Tuesday afternoon.




Sources: USF is hiring Kevin Patrick as the school's defensive line coach. He's a veteran coach who has been at USF, NC State and Texas Tech.


— Pete Thamel (@PeteThamel)
December 6, 2022




Patrick has once already played a role in the South Florida football coaching staff, where he was a defensive ends coach from 1996-98 and again in 2008. He was promoted to the defensive line in 2009 and defensive tackles in 2010.


As of Tuesday, USF Athletics has yet to confirm either hire.