Junior Albin Bergstrom has become one of the most accomplished golfers over his time at USF, owning seven program records. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


USF men’s golfer junior Albin Bergstrom was selected to compete for the International Team in the 2022 Arnold Palmer Cup on Tuesday. The competition is set to take place at Golf Club De Geneve in Switzerland from July 1-3.


Bergstrom, a native of Falsterbo, Sweden, was ranked in the top six international players in the Arnold Palmer Cup and was announced as part of the 12-man team. He’s the first USF participant in the competition.


He’s also one of three Swedish players to make the international roster, joining Ludvig Åberg of Texas Tech and Kajsa Arwefjäll, who plays at San Jose State.


The college-level tournament has been played annually in a team format since 2018, and has seen the best international players go up against the best collegiate golfers the U.S. has to offer.


It’s similar to the Ryder Cup, which is played at the professional level between American and European golfers.


Bergstrom has been on a tear this year for the Bulls, posting arguably his most successful campaign since he arrived in Tampa in 2018. The defending AAC individual champion has posted a 69.23 scoring average this season, which is on pace to break the program’s single-season record of 70, which he set in 2018-19.


He’s reached as high as No. 4 in the national rankings this year, and currently sits at 21. However, he’s the highest rated player in the AAC and the third-best in Florida.


USF’s record books have Bergstrom’s name all over them as he owns several of the program’s highs, including career scoring average (70.26), tournament low round (63), tournament low round to par (-9), tournament low 36-hole average (11-under-par 131) and low 54-hole total (11-under-par 201), among others.


With Bergstrom competing, USF will be among several American universities represented at the tournament, including Florida, Florida State, Illinois, Notre Dame, Oklahoma State, Texas Tech, San Jose State and Stanford.