The USF softball team went won four of five games over the weekend in the USF Tournament, recording a shutout in each victory. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


USF softball continued its impressive form over the weekend as it went 4-1 in the USF Tournament behind yet another dominant performance from senior pitcher Georgina Corrick.


Corrick, who was once again named the AAC’s Pitcher of the Week on Monday, made an appearance in each of the Bulls’ wins. She didn’t allow a single run over her 21 innings of work, pitching two complete-game shutouts in the tournament.


The Bulls (10-3) won their first two games Friday against Fairfield (3-7) and Saint Joseph’s (4-10) 8-0 and 5-0, respectively. Fairfield would get its revenge Saturday with a 4-0 victory. USF would then close out the weekend with another pair of shutouts against St. John’s (2-7), winning 6-0 and 2-0.


Coach Ken Eriksen’s team is currently having its best start to the season through its first 10 games since 2012, the year the program made its lone appearance in the Women’s College World Series.


Women’s basketball extends winning streak


With Sunday’s 68-60 road win against East Carolina, the USF women’s basketball team has now won eight consecutive games since a defeat against UCF on Feb. 13.


The team was led by an impressive showing from senior forward Dulcy Fankam Mendjiadeu who recorded her seventh double-double of the season with 18 points and career-high-tying 17 rebounds. She was joined in double-digit scoring by junior guard Elisa Pinzan who finished with 18 points of her own.


It was another tight game for the Bulls (21-7, 11-3 AAC) as the Pirates (11-16, 4-10) never allowed them to get ahead by more than ten points, but Mendjiadeu took over down the stretch scoring 13 of her points in the second half, seven of which came in the fourth quarter.


Pinzan also scored 12 of her points in the second half.


Additionally, senior forward Bethy Mununga made history by becoming just the fifth player in program history to grab 900 career rebounds.


USF’s final regular-season game of the season will take place in the Yuengling Center Wednesday night at 7 p.m. against Houston.


Pair of track athletes win AAC titles


USF indoor track and field saw two of its athletes bring back conference titles to Tampa following the AAC Indoor Championships in Birmingham, Alabama over the weekend.


Sophomore Shaniya Benjamin won the long jump championship with a leap of 6.13 meters. The title-clinching jump came on her final attempt of the competition. Her efforts earned her the AAC Indoor Freshman of the Year award due to her extra year of eligibility granted to her because of COVID-19.


The Bulls also took home the gold in the high jump as junior Romaine Beckford posted a leap of 2.20 meters, which currently ranks 12th in the nation and broke his own school record of 2.1.


The program also had a few others make the podium. Sophomore David Ajama earned a bronze medal in the triple jump with a leap of 15.33 meters and sophomore Victor Steiner also won bronze in the 60-meter hurdles, posting a time of 8.16 seconds.