USF women’s volleyball season comes to a close with a three-game losing streak. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


After another tough year, South Florida women’s volleyball concluded its season with a 3-0 loss to Tulane on Friday, increasing the program’s streak of losing seasons to four.


USF finished the year with an overall record of 10-20 (4-14 AAC), despite a promising 4-2 start to the season.


The turning point of the season came after a 3-2 win against Stetson on Sep 17. After the home victory, the Bulls proceeded to go 4-15 over their final 19 games, a stretch which included two losing streaks of five then four games.


Although the season certainly did not go the way USF may have wanted, the team did improve from last year’s 7-24 record, and there were some good things to take away from this season.


Game of the year


USF vs. Memphis on Nov. 4


Right before going on a three-game losing streak, USF upset conference opponent Memphis 3-2 at the Yuengling Center on Nov. 4.


Through three sets, the Tigers (18-15, 8-12 AAC) had taken a 2-1 lead over the Bulls, looking to sweep the series. But in the fourth set, the Bulls responded well, blowing out their opponent 25-14. In the final match-determining set, USF outdueled Memphis 17-15 to pull off the upset and a comeback.


Leading the Tigers in every major statistical category except blocks, the victory was arguably one of the most impressive feats the Bulls accomplished all season. South Florida even led their opponent 83-70 in total points, showing it could compete with the better teams in the conference.


Sophomore Amanda DeWitt had one of her best games all year, recording a game high 18 kills, leading any other player for either team by four. Junior standout Marta Cvitkovic also had a game high in Aces with five.


Toughest loss


USF vs. Ball State on Aug. 26


In just the second game of the season, the Bulls faced one of their most heartbreaking moments of 2022.


Hosting one of the better volleyball teams in the country in Ball State (24-8) on Aug. 26, South Florida fell 3-2 in what could have been the upset of the year.


The first four sets of the match were extremely competitive, each being decided by four points or less. The Bulls fell 15-13 in the fifth and final set, losing the match.


Despite taking the loss, the Bulls led the Cardinals 92-86 in points, 69-67 in kills and 14-5 in aces. USF outplayed one of the strongest opponents they would face all year, but lost in heartbreaking fashion.


Standouts


Junior Marta Cvitkovic had an outstanding year leading the team in multiple statistical categories while playing in all 30 of the games this season.


She put up a team high 340.5 points, leading any other Bull by 41.5 points. Cvitkovic also led in aces with 34, and kills with 282. These impressive numbers earned her the honors of AAC all-conference first team.


Promising freshman outside hitter Maria Clara Andrade had an impressive first year with the program and will certainly be one of the team’s key contributors in the years to come.


Playing in all but one game this season, Andrade was second on the team in points (299), second in kills (261), fourth in aces (22) and fourth in assists (23).


Other Bulls with notable statistical achievements this year includes senior setter Kelsey O’Loughlin who had an astounding 713 assists, leading the team by over 350, and senior defensive specialist CC Clausen who led the team in digs with 409.