Some resources, such as libraries and counseling, will remain operational throughout the week.
ORACLE PHOTO/LEDA ALVIM


As Hurricane Ian nears Tampa Bay, USF will be closed beginning Tuesday for all non-essential employees and classes have been canceled until Oct. 3, according to a Monday universitywide email.


Residence halls and dining locations on the Tampa campus will remain open, but the email said St. Pete residents have been ordered to evacuate. Students who do not have housing options outside of the residence halls will be relocated to the Tampa campus at 9 a.m. on Tuesday.


USF Dining locations remain open, but hours may vary on Wednesday and Thursday based on the storm. Students were given the option to go to The Hub or Juniper on Tuesday to build “to-go meals” with non-perishable foods and water.


Libraries, counseling and the Marshall Student Center will remain operational throughout the week, according to the email. However, Recreation and Wellness facilities will close Tuesday at 5 p.m.


The email said USF Health clinical operations will continue normally through Tuesday, but will pause on Wednesday and Thursday.


Associate Director of Center for Student Involvement Joshua Wilson confirmed Monday that Thursday’s scheduled University Lecture Series with actor Jai Rodriguez has been canceled. CSI will be working with his agency to reschedule.


***


Saturday’s football game against ECU, scheduled for 7 p.m. at Raymond James, was moved to Boca Raton, Vice President of Athletics Michael Kelly
announced Tuesday
.


It will now be at the FAU Stadium at 2:30 p.m. The game will be streamed on ESPN+ and broadcast on Bulls Unlimited.


***


Publix announced Tuesday it will be modifying its stores hours through Friday in 11 Florida counties.


The store located on the Tampa campus will be closed Wednesday and Thursday, and will reopen Friday at 7 a.m. To check the status of other Publix stores, use the company’s
store status site
.


***


Two Hillsborough County shelters are located on the Tampa campus.


The Yuengling Center opened as a special needs shelter Tuesday night,
Hillsborough County announced
. It is only for residents with medical needs that could not be supported at a regular shelter. Yuengling is also pet-friendly.


Pizzo Elementary School is also being used as a general population shelter.


This is a developing story. Stay with The Oracle for updates.


Last update: Sept. 27 at 11:30 p.m.