GJ de Vreede was named interim dean of the Muma College of Business and will begin his new role Aug. 1. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/USF


Following Muma College of Business Dean Moez Limayem’s appointment as the next UNF president, USF announced new leadership in the college across campuses.


Limayem was selected by the UNF Board of Trustees on May 16 and awaits approval from the Florida Board of Governors at its June meeting. President Rhea Law announced May 16 that USF will conduct a nationwide search for his successor, but further details have yet to be announced.


In the meantime, Associate Dean for Research and Professional Programs GJ de Vreede will serve as interim dean of the Muma College of Business starting Aug. 1.


After serving as interim dean of the Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance for almost a year, Gary Patterson (left) will begin serving in the permanent role July 1. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE/USF


Campus deans have also been named, including Associate Dean and finance professor Gary Patterson who will begin as the St. Pete campus’ Kate Tiedemann School of Business and Finance dean on July 1.


The search for a new leader spanned over a year, but came to an end when Limayem offered Patterson the role.


Patterson has held the interim dean position since July, and said he didn’t initially intend to occupy the permanent role, but was convinced by Limayem to accept it.


In filling this position, Patterson said he plans to progress technological efforts within the university.


“We made a strategic push into fintech, financial technology and are building the USF Fintech Center to support students, faculty and community partners,” he said. “These efforts will later impact our undergraduate finance program with enhanced technology in the curriculum.”


Joni Jones, associate professor in the School of Information Systems and Management, will be replacing Jean Kabongo as campus dean at Sarasota-Manatee. SPECIAL TO THE ORACLE


The Sarasota-Manatee campus’ Muma College of Business will also be under new leadership as Joni Jones, associate professor in the School of Information Systems and Management, was selected as its new dean.


Jones will be replacing Jean Kabongo, who served as campus dean at Sarasota-Manatee since July 2020. Kabongo will now become the associate dean for academic affairs and accreditation as well as the chief diversity officer.


Jones and Kabongo also begin their new roles July 1, along with incoming St. Pete Regional Chancellor Christian Hardigree.