Redshirt senior pitcher Georgina Corrick pitched 19 innings over the course of the series with two shutouts, one being a no-hitter, and broke the record for most career wins in the AAC. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


After being swept by Central Florida the previous weekend, USF softball collected themselves in its second week of conference play with a sweep against East Carolina in Greenville, North Carolina.


The Bulls (31-10) started the weekend with a 9-0 shutout win on Friday with a collective effort in the circle from redshirt senior Georgina Corrick and senior Erin Poepping. Together they limited the Pirates (18-18) to just one hit and struck out 12.


Corrick continues to break program records as she reached 100 career wins on Saturday with her seventh career no-hitter in a 6-0 win. She currently has the most career wins in the AAC, surpassing UCF’s Alea White on the leaderboard.


The Bulls finished their sweep on Sunday with a 5-1 win thanks to Corrick’s strong pitching yet again and the efforts of redshirt sophomore Meghan Sheehan at the plate. Corrick pitched a complete game with three hits and one unearned run while Sheehan went 2-4 in her at-bats with two RBI.


The Bulls will return home on Friday at 6:30 p.m. to face Wichita State in a three-game weekend series. The game will be broadcast on ESPN+ and iHeartRadio Bulls Unlimited.


USF baseball swept in first conference matchup


The Bulls may have shown they are a strong team throughout their nonconference play, but they ran into a wall on the road at Central Florida where their six-game win streak came to an end over the weekend.


Over the course of the series, the Bulls’ (18-10) offense scored just four runs in comparison to the 17 runs the Knights (18-10) put up. With the batters taking a step back, USF faced the consequences of three straight losses against their rival.


For the Bulls to continue to stay successful and make a comeback, the team must adapt to the stronger pitching staffs that some of the teams in the American possess. UCF has a collective 3.09 ERA and the Bulls’ upcoming opponent, Tulane, holds a 4.15 ERA. USF currently trails the two with a 4.52 ERA.


The Bulls will host a midweek game against North Florida on Tuesday at 6 p.m. The game will be broadcast on ESPN+ and iHeartRadio Bulls Unlimited.


Women’s tennis shut out by No. 42 FIU


USF dropped its second straight game in a 4-0 loss to Florida International at the USF Varsity Tennis Courts on Sunday.


The Bulls (5-13) struggled against the highly ranked Panthers (15-3) who have dominated just about every opponent throughout this season. FIU took control by claiming the majority of the singles and doubles matchups.


During the matchups, USF scraped together just one victory in their doubles match by freshman Grace Schumacher and sophomore Margriet Timmermans. Together they notched a 6-2 win over the FIU duo of Andreea Velcea and Kristina Miletic.


Other than that lone win, the Bulls were unable to compete against the Panthers consistently, dropping the third doubles matchup to lose the point and failing to grab a singles win.


Women’s tennis’ next opponent is Florida Atlantic at home Sunday at noon. The game will be broadcast on ESPN+ and iHeartRadio Bulls Unlimited.