Pitchers like Rays Shane McClanahan (pictured) and Brewers Peter Strzelecki have worked their way to the MLB, both coming from the 2017 pitching rotation. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


With many South Florida baseball alumni making their way into professional baseball, some have performed well in their seasons so far.


Last week, right-handed pitcher Peter Strzelecki was called up to the Milwaukee Brewers for his major league debut. He had previously spent four years in the minor league system after being signed as a free agent in 2017.


Strzelecki was the third pitcher from the 2017 bullpen to pitch in a major league game. He made his first appearance June 2 against the San Diego Padres as a relief pitcher.

The new Brewer pitched two innings, only giving up one run and three strikeouts, as well as earning the win for the game.


A pitcher not too far from South Florida has also been making an impact as a high-caliber baseball player. Lefty Shane McClanahan made his break back in 2020 with the Tampa Bay Rays and has eased his way into the starting rotation.


McClanahan currently leads the MLB with 89 strikeouts and holds a 2.10 ERA with a 6-2 record.


Another Bull made his way to the Rays as well, with Phoenix Sanders receiving his call up on April 14.


The right-handed pitcher threw his first game the same day as his promotion against the Oakland Athletics, where he pitched three innings with two strikeouts.


After his first outing, Sanders has made his way to the mound five times since April, pitching 10 innings and logging nine strikeouts. He was placed on the 15-day injured list on May 3, with a rehab assignment in Durham.


From the 2015 South Florida pitching staff, right-handed pitcher Jimmy Hegert has continued his MLB career from 2019 to now. He currently pitches for the Los Angeles Angels, where he holds a 2.89 ERA in 28 innings pitched and one save.


The minor leagues also hold some previous talent from the Bulls roster. At the AAA level, third baseman David Villar and infielder Coco Montes have had an accomplished season so far in 2022.


Villar was assigned to the Sacramento River Cats, San Francisco Giants affiliate on April 5, where he leads the team with 16 home runs, 24 extra-base hits and 46 RBI. The hot bat also carries a .291 batting average.


Montes currently resides with the Albuquerque Isotopes, Colorado Rockies affiliate. He recently joined the Isotopes on April 28 and has logged three home runs, 14 RBI and a .257 batting average so far this season.


Recent alum and member of the 2021 Super Regional campaign Logan Lyle has also made his way into the minor league system. The left-handed pitcher signed a contract with the Chicago White Sox on May 19, alongside teammate Dylan Burns.


Lyle earned his first win on June 5, with his two innings pitched paired with two strikeouts.


South Florida baseball has produced its fair share of talented ball players and will continue to do so with names such as redshirt sophomore Carmine Lane and Jack Jasiak reaching MLB draft eligibility.