Head coach Ken Eriksen led the Bulls in one of their most successful seasons, with the team racking up 45 wins for the first time since 2016. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


After passing the first round with a shutout win against Mississippi State on Friday, USF softball quickly slipped off its competitive start to the tournament and faced double elimination, ending its season.


Going into Saturday’s first game, South Florida faced ACC powerhouse No. 2 Florida State (54-5) who recently shut out Howard in its first game.


The Seminoles are a threat to any team they face, having a perfect nonconference record. They only have five losses, which were from other successful ACC programs like North Carolina and Boston College.


In five innings, Florida State was able to leave the Bulls without any runs, taking the game 8-0.


The pitching circle struggled without the start of senior Georgina Corrick, who was limited in the remainder of the regional due to an undisclosed injury.




USF head coach Ken Eriksen says it's an off day for Georgina Corrick after she suffered an injury in last week's AAC Tournament.


Says the goal is a healthy career ahead of her.


— Curt Weiler (@CurtMWeiler)
May 21, 2022




After the Seminoles put up seven runs in only two-thirds of an inning, sophomore pitcher Lexie Kopko was able to hold the fort down for the remainder of the game. Kopko only gave up one run and one hit in her 4.1 innings of work against a powerful ACC batting order.


South Florida then went into its elimination game against Mississippi State on Saturday night to fight for a chance to continue into the regional.


USF faced a similar fate against the Bulldogs, being shut out for the second time of the day, 6-0.


Corrick made an attempt to start but was pulled after just one inning. Afterward, three more pitchers came and went, giving Mississippi State an advantage that led to its success.


The batting order also struggled against a team the Bulls were once explosive against, not carrying over the momentum from their previous matchup.


With the USF softball season coming to an end, there are many positives the team has left behind in its 2022 campaign.


Corrick had a record-breaking year, shattering the limits that people may not have thought possible to reach.


The team also had memorable victories over some of college softball’s best programs, including No. 13 Michigan, Notre Dame and No. 7 Oklahoma State.