Freshman Cliona Walsh won four out of six single matches contributing to USF’s 13 wins at the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Regionals. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


The USF women’s tennis team competed Oct. 18 in its third event of the season at Georgia Tech, placing 13 wins overall in both single and double plays.


Freshman Cliona Walsh won four out of six matches at the Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) Regionals and made it to the quarter finals after defeating Georgia Tech’s sophomore Kate Sharabura 3-6, 7-6 and 10-3.


Placing a spot in the semifinals was senior Laura Pellicer who defeated Mary Weston Courville from Mercer with a 6-3, 6-2 win.


Both Walsh and Pellicer won a double’s play 8-4 against two students from Georgia Tech.


Making it into the main draw for the round of 32, sophomore Sierra Berry and junior Grace Schumacher defeated their opponents in the match. Berry beat FSU’s Ellie Schoppe 6-3, 6-1. Schumacher defeated Florida’s Emma Shelton with a score of 4-6, 7-6, 6-2.


South Florida will have its next tournament in Miami at the FIU Invitational from Oct. 28 to 30.


Men’s tennis entered second competition of the season


USF men’s tennis headed into its second competition of the season, the ITA Regionals, on Oct. 20 at FSU. The team faced all Division I schools in Florida and Georgia for this tournament.


After their performance during their last competition in September, the Bulls were expected to keep that same momentum going into the weekend. During the three-day tournament, South Florida won 10 matches.


Three of those wins were contributed by senior Erik Grevelius. In single’s play, Grevelius was able to place a 3-1 win sending him into the quarterfinals. He fell short after losing to the eventual championship winner Blake Cryoder of Georgia in a 6-3, 6-2 game.


In double’s play, juniors Alvin Tudorica and Bruno Oliveira made it to the quarterfinals. The duo was able to continue through the round of 16 with an 8-4 win against two Stetson opponents but dropped in the quarterfinals 8-4 to Trent Bryde and Philip Henning of Georgia.


Next, the Bulls will go to Gainesville for the Gator Fall Invitational from Nov. 4 to 6.


Women’s soccer break win streak in loss to Cincinnati


After women’s soccer raised its win streak to five in Thursday’s 2-0 win over Temple, the Bulls fell short to the Bearcats on Sunday in a 1-0 loss.


South Florida (8-7, 5-2 AAC) was able to establish dominance early on with 10 shots and held the Owls (1-10-4, 0-7-0 AAC) to two. In the second half, USF had 13 while the Bearcats had zero.


Sophomore Serita Thurton and junior Rosalia Muino Gonzalez were able to place a goal in each half, securing a win for USF.


Despite seeing the Bulls defeat the Owls, they fell short to Cincinnati (7-2-16, 3-1-3 AAC) in an early 1-0 loss.


A goal made at the two-minute mark finalized the turnout for the night as neither team was able to get another on the board.


USF is set to play its final conference game of the season Thursday against UCF. Kickoff will be at 7 p.m. at Corbett Stadium.


Men’s soccer gets first conference loss


Southern Methodist defeated USF 3-1 on Friday in Dallas, sending USF home with its first conference loss of the season.


SMU (9-3-1, 5-2 AAC) scored within the first two minutes of the game, quickly putting the Mustangs in the lead.


Junior midfielder Ajmeer Spengler got the Bulls (3-5-4, 2-1-3 AAC) back on their feet after tying the game at the 27th minute. However, SMU came back with a second goal less than five minutes later.


The Mustangs then scored a final goal in the last 10 minutes of the match to win the game 3-1.


USF has three conference matches left in the season. The Bulls will next travel to play Charlotte on Tuesday at 7 p.m.


Women’s volleyball loses two consecutive matches


Women’s volleyball lost to two competitors, both ending in a 3-0 beat. On Oct. 19, South Florida (7-13, 1-7 AAC) faced its I-4 rivals UCF. The Knights won the first and third set 14-25 and 10-25, then were able to close the win in the second set.


Almost able to secure the second set of the match, USF fell short to UCF by only two points, 26-24.


USF was also unable to place a win against Cincinnati on Sunday. The Cougars (7-2-6, 3-1-3 AAC) shut down the Bulls in all three sets giving them their 3-0 loss of the night.


Women’s volleyball will face its next conference match at Wichita State on Friday at 8 p.m.