Goalkeeper Sydney Martinez had six saves versus FAU, despite allowing two goals past her. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Another rain delay, similar to that of Thursday’s game against American, interrupted the Bulls’ momentum. South Florida (1-2) added another loss to their record in a close 2-1 match against Florida Atlantic (2-1-1) on Sunday.


Even though USF had 60% of ball possession in the second half, coach Denise Schilte-Brown still didn’t think it was enough.


“We just have to think about how we manage those transitional moments from attack to defense so that we’re not so vulnerable in those moments. And protecting the ball a little bit more so that when we do lose the ball, again, we have numbers around the ball,” Schilte-Brown said.


USF opened the scoreboard early when sophomore midfielder Chiara Hahn netted a goal within 15 minutes, making the ball slip through the goalie’s fingers and put USF in the lead. However, with five minutes remaining in the first half, the game was paused due to inclimate weather.


After a two-hour delay, the stakes were high upon the return to the field where FAU fought to catch up with South Florida.


Heading into the second half, the Owl’s had a lucky break at the 68-minute mark when an unfortunate attempt to clear the ball from senior goalkeeper Sydney Martinez gave FAU the tying goal.


With one minute remaining in the match, Martinez let a ball slip by her once again to give the opponents the winning goal.


Frustration was painted on the Bulls’ faces when the final whistle blew shortly after, ending the game with eight shots, three of which were on frame, six saves and five fouls.


Despite this loss, coach Schilte-Brown reminds her players that win or lose, they are in this together.


“I just let them know that we’re in this together,” she said. “It’s not them versus us. We’re a staff that cares about them so much and when they lose, we lose. We just have to go back to analyzing what we’re doing and make sure we’re on the right path. We continue to believe in one another.”


USF is set to play their next match on Thursday against UF at 6 p.m. Broadcasting for that game has yet to be announced.