Sophomore midfielder Chiara Hahn currently leads USF in goals, scoring three so far this season, USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


South Florida women’s soccer overcame Miami 2-0 on Thursday at Corbett Stadium, logging the team’s second straight win after a 2-0 victory against UTSA on Sept. 4.


USF (3-3-0) controlled the first half, posting 10 shots, two of which were on goal. Coach Denise Schilte-Brown felt that her team has risen from its last few challenges, coming back from a three-game losing streak.


“We always needed to be woken up by something shaking us so that was kind of our focus tonight, was to come out and compete right away,” Schilte-Brown said. “We talked about being far more aggressive, once we had them in their half to not let them out.”


A combative play strategy has its consequences. The Bulls racked up 12 fouls and one yellow card, but that wasn’t a concern for Schilte-Brown.


“I think we doubled our foul count, but that’s a positive for us,” she said. “That means that we were more aggressive and not letting them out of their half once we had them in here.”


In the 24th minute, the Bulls dominance resulted in a goal by junior defender Lucy Roberts, assisted by freshman forward Gentiana Fetaj to take a 1-0 lead.


In the second half, USF doubled its lead through midfielder Chiara Hahn.


While getting ahead, the Bulls were still able to keep Miami (3-1-2) in check, only allowing two shots and three corner kicks. Faith in the backline allowed USF to remain in control throughout the game.


“It was like a trust factor. Chiara had to know that she’d jump in defense because we were fine with what was behind us and Lucy jumped in defense,” Schilte-Brown said. “When we lost the ball, they didn’t have that fear of going and trying to keep them pinned in and we just trusted what was behind us.”


Sophomore goalkeeper Arden La-Rose started the game over senior Sydney Martinez as Schilte-Brown begins to hand out opportunities.


“She’s a young talented kid that’s been working extremely hard, but what one of our thoughts was that it was going to be a game where we had to change the point of attack using our goalkeepers feet and she has some very talented feet,” Schilte-Brown said.


”You can place a good ball, and she’s very quick with her feet. Honestly, you got to show some trust in your players.”


The Bulls will hit the road to play Georgia on Sunday at 1 p.m. The game will broadcast on SECN+.