Forward Alfred Perez opened the scoreboard with a bicycle kick into the net at the 67th minute. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


USF men’s soccer got its second win of the week Friday night in its 2-0 victory over Memphis in Corbett Stadium. This was just a few days after the team’s 2-1 win Tuesday against No. 22 Charlotte.


The first half of the game was intense as the Bulls (5-5-4, 4-1-3 AAC) were able to keep up with Tigers’ (7-4-4, 4-3-1 AAC) fast counterattacks on the ball, but neither team was able to get on the board. USF had 11 shots by the end of the first period versus Memphis’ zero.


As time was running out and both teams had yet to score, sophomore winger Jeffrey “JT” Copper was able to cross the ball from the left side of the field into the 18-yard box. Forward Alfred Perez capitalized on the ball and bicycle kicked it into the net in the 67th minute.


Corbett stadium turned to a roar as everyone jumped from their seats after the stellar goal put USF in the lead.


“It was a good ball hit by JT, and I just brought it down and tried to do the best I could with it. I couldn’t have done it without the team,” Perez said. “It was just impulsive and it came to me. I was happy I was able to show up for the fans and give them their money’s worth.”


South Florida’s energy was back for the remaining 20 minutes of the match as the team finished the second half with 59% ball possession and 20 shots on goal.


In the 82nd minute, junior defender Sergio Pineros-Mayorga placed his first career goal after ripping a shot 35 yards away from the net, sending the ball into the top left corner of the frame.


“I just saw the ball coming straight out, I took a touch and looked up, there was space and I saw the goal and took a shot,” Pineros-Mayorga said.


Silencing the Tigers, fans cheered once again celebrating the Bulls’ second goal of the night and their senior night victory.


“It was a great game. A great group effort. I really couldn’t have done it without the guys out there. We’re just in a great momentum right now and we’re looking forward to the next game,” Pineros-Mayorga said.


USF will play its final conference match of the season against UCF in Orlando on Nov. 2 at 7 p.m. The game will be streamed on ESPN+.