Guerra will start on the coaching staff before the fall 2023 season. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


Chris Guerra was named the new assistant volleyball coach on Monday by coach Jolene Shepardson.


Previously at Tampa United Volleyball Academy, he was known for bringing high energy to programs and therefore proving he might be able to spark a fire in the Bulls. When he served as assistant coach on the women’s volleyball team at Chowan University, he helped lead the team to an overall record of 20-12 and a 14-2 CIAA record.


USF volleyball (10-20, AAC 4-14) had a poor season on the court, with an array of close losses littering its campaign. The Bulls lost more games than Guerra did in his three years at Cypress Bay High School. During USF’s last 19 games of the season, the team went 4-15.


Guerra is currently living in Tampa but is originally from Ft. Lauderdale. He spent time playing on the court as a setter and won a full scholarship to Warner University.


On the numerous teams that Guerra has coached, he has shown multiple winning records. His three years of experience at Cypress Bay High School ended with a 65-19 overall record.


The first coach position Guerra held was second assistant for the Nova Southeastern University women’s volleyball team in 2016. Not long after that in 2017, he went to Chowan University and held the title of head coach for the women’s team. Guerra went on to win back-to-back CIAA Northern Division championships.


Guerra moved to St. Leo in 2019 and was heavily active in high school and club teams. He served as the head coach for numerous Tampa United Volleyball women’s teams and as assistant coach at Plant High School.


His TUVA U14 team were champions of the Big South Qualified and earned a bid to USAV nationals, where they finished in the top 10. Guerra also helped the Plant High School team win the 7A state championship.


With four years of experience playing college volleyball and his extensive coaching background, Guerra has the knowledge to make a positive impact on the 2023 season.