USF added four new transfers to its roster for the 2023 season, three of which are from out of state. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


With softball season quickly approaching, South Florida will start its 2023 season with four new transfers added to its roster.


This small yet diverse group of players have played in substantial situations at their previous schools, and will do it again at a larger scale with USF softball.


#27 Gabriella Nori (Pitcher)


Adding experience to the circle after former pitcher Georgina Corrick completed her final year of eligibility is senior pitcher Gabriella Nori from Lehigh.


The former Mountain Hawk began her freshman year with 30 appearances and led her team with a 2.23 ERA. She was limited in playing time during her sophomore year due to injury.


Nori completed her career at Lehigh with 121 strikeouts and 132.2 innings of work while being ranked eighth nationally in strikeout-to-walk ratio.


Within that year, she was also honored with the Patriot League Academic Honor Roll award and the Patriot League Tournament’s Most Valuable Player award.


Nori is expected to fill the shoes of Corrick, adding depth to the bullpen and passing the torch to whoever will be following in her steps.


#46 Marissa Trivelpiece – Utility


Junior utility Marissa Trivelpiece has played many positions in her time at Michigan State, working her way all over the field in 2022.


As a Spartan, she has competed in 78 contests from 2021-22, 55 of which she started. In her experience, she also has only recorded eight errors in two seasons.


Though her career batting average of .167 doesn’t reflect her on-field talents, her diverse abilities prove her to be a reliable asset on the field.


#18 Alyssa Rano – Infielder


Crossing the Sunshine Skyway bridge is junior infielder Alyssa Rano from St. Petersburg College.


Rano began at Florida Gulf Coast, where she appeared in three contests up until she transferred to SPC. However, once she became a Titan, that completely changed.


During her time in JUCO, she recorded a .349 batting average with 44 RBI and nine homeruns in 59 games played.


She might have spent her last two years in the outfield, but this year she is listed as an infielder for the Bulls. With her talented batting abilities and varied parts played on the field, she might sneak her way into the USF lineup.


#9 Rian Eigenmann – Catcher


After three years at Central Connecticut State, redshirt junior catcher Rian Eigenmann will join USF this upcoming season.


Eigenmann participated in 38 games as a Blue Devil in 2021, where she put up a .364 average paired with 14 RBI and 13 doubles.


Unfortunately, she did not see any playing time in 2022 due to unlisted reasons.