Four new staff members were announced to join in Amir Abdur-Rahim’s debut season with the Bulls. USF ATHLETICS PHOTO


After hiring his assistant coaches and chief of staff earlier this week, coach Amir Abdur-Rahim added four new support staff members on Thursday.


Like many hires on Abdur-Rahim’s staff, some held positions at the rookie coach’s previous stops. In contrast, others are notable members with thorough experience in collegiate sports.


Griffin McHone


Continuing the Kennesaw State legacy at South Florida (14-18, 7-11 AAC), Abdur-Rahim declared Griffin McHone as the new director of player development for the upcoming season.


McHone’s lengthy career in basketball will be a boon to USF’s basketball team after its underwhelming performance last year with only 14 regular season wins.


After McHone graduated from Texas A&M with an exercise and sports management degree in 2018, he and Abdur-Rahim both saw the court during their time at Kennesaw State (26-9, 15-3 ASUN), along with current USF assistant coaches Ben Fletcher and William Small.


In their previous season at Kennesaw, the Owls were able to clinch their first NCAA DI tournament appearance in the program’s history, where they fell short to Xavier University In the first round, 67-72.


Trent Patterson


Following the addition of McHone, Abdur-Rahim named Trent Patterson the director of basketball operations. Patterson joins South Florida with a reputable career behind him as well.


Patterson spent seven seasons with Troy University, beginning as a student manager in 2016. He continued to work his way up to become the director of operations in 2021. From 2021-23, he was the Trojans’ (20-13, 11-7 Sun Belt) basketball operations director.


Troy University made it to the second round of the Sun Belt tournament last season, where they fell short 72-75 to No. 4 James Madison University.


Cody Dukquits


The replacement for David Land, Cody Dukquits will fill in the role of strength and conditioning coach for the Bulls.


Dukquits began his career in 2014 interning as a strength and conditioning coach for the men’s basketball program at Texas A&M.


At the start of 2018, he established a five-season career at Stephen F. Austin University. He trained the men’s basketball team and their golf program as the strength and conditioning coach.


Stephen Austin’s (19-13, 11-7 WAC) season ended in the first round of the conference tournament to No. 11 Utah Tech, 76-80.


Riley Crean


Riley Crean has also joined USF as the new director of video and scouting. Crean held a similar position with the NBA’s Dallas Mavericks during the 2022-23 season.


Before his time with the NBA team, he worked at Georgia as a manager from 2019-2022  under his father and head coach Tom Crean.


Crean was a standout baseball player during his time with the Bulldogs. He was drafted to the 35th round by the Chicago White Sox in 2017.