0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 30 We Inform. You Decide.-1
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
About 4,500 attend local Pride Parade
0 EVENT LASTED 8 HOURS.
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
University Avenue was quiet
with only the sound of the sporadic
train of speeding cars breaking the
silence of an unusually warm Octo-
ber afternoon.
Until 1:09 p.m.
Running nine minutes late,
Gainesville Police Department be-
gan to block the eastbound lanes
of University Avenue for the ninth
annual Gainesville Pride Parade Sat-
urday.
As rainbow-infused stars and
stripes were unfurled, and parade
marchers began to move east on
West University Avenue to the Bo
Diddley Community Plaza, the
noise began.
Cars honked in support. March-
ers shouted for equality. The Sister
Sledge song "We are Family," Glo-
ria Gaynor's "I Will Survive" and
"The Nicest Kids in Town" from the
musical "Hairspray" blared from
floats adorned with pastel-colored
balloons and rainbow banners and
streamers.
Two petite elderly women heldhands as they walked in front of a
massive motor home draped with
rainbow streamers, honking itsthunderous horn in support of di-
versity.
The Pride Community Center ofNorth Central Florida led the stream
of paraders, closely followedbyUF's
Pride Student Union, The Univer-
matt Iripp / Aligator btan
Participants in the LBGT Pride Festival parade down University Avenue for the opening of the festival on
Saturday afternoon.sity Club, Buchholz High School's
Gay Straight Alliance and the self-
described only feminist bookstore in
Florida, Wild Iris Market.
At 1:27 p.m., three GPD cars fol-
lowed one of Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church's two parade
cars off University Avenue as the
parade ended at Southeast First
Street.
As quickly as it began, University
Avenue returned to normalcy.
The Bo Diddley Community Pla-
za, however, was alive with pride
and festooned with a vast array
of rainbow balloons, banners and
an estimated 4,500 attendees of all
sexual orientations until 9 p.m. Sat-
urday.
The smells of Gainesville's own
Kickin'Devil Caf's spicy jambalaya
and char-grilled quesadillas mixed
with the sweat of festival attendees
filled the air.
Ben Collins, a member of Trinity
Metropolitan Community Church,
was one of those in attendance.
Collins, who wore a purple T-
shirt with the words "Friends of a
feather flock together" imprinted on
the front spray-painted his hair pink
and added gold and silver glitter for
the event.
SEE PRIDE, PAGE 9
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
SG responds to low turnout
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
There are 14 million reasons why students
should have voted in this fall's Student Govern-
ment elections.
Although all students contribute the funds
that make up SG's $14 million budget, only 17
percent showed up to have their say as to where
the money goes.
Out of the 49,679 students at UF, 8,483 voted.
"They don't think it affects them," said SG
Supervisor of Elections Ariana Alfonso. "They're
very apathetic of the whole situation."
Alfonso said turnout this fall was higher than
expected for a year without a national election.
The hype around last fall's presidential election
brought a turnout of 10,469 students.
Alfonso said she wishes students would use
SG elections as a way to develop good voting
habits so they can participate in elections outside
m Midfielder
Samantha Far-
rell (right) is one
of 24 freshmen
on UF's lacrosse
team, which won
its first two exhi-
bition matches
Saturday.
See Story, Page 17.of UF in the future, when they might care more
about the issues.
Eric LeBlanc, a UF accounting graduate stu-
dent, said he did not vote in the fall elections.
He said students tend not to vote because they
don't know the issues or the candidates.
Progress Party President Dave Schneider said
filling in a ballot often represents the only inter-
action students have with their representatives.
Schneider said students feel alienated from
SG because they see it as an elite clique that hangs
out on the third floor of the Reitz Union and fails
to reach out to them.
When parties do make themselves known
during election week, they come out in full
force.
UF sophomore Philip Osorio said he feels
bombarded by campaigners and confused when
all three parties congregate in the same area.
"It just clusters up in your mind," Osorio said.
SEE VOTING, PAGE 11
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"to make residents more aware of po-
tentially dangerous situations arising
from fires and burns that occur dur-
ing the fall season,
National said Carol Davis,
N ews public information
officer for the De-
partment of Public Safety.
"Our whole goal is to try to pre-
vent fires as we get into the colder
season," Davis said. "People tend to
use more space heaters, fireplaces,
and they tend to turn on heaters after
they have been off for a while. All of
SEE FIRE, PAGE 11
Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12Thunder
CROSSWORD 15 storms
SPORTS 17 89/72
visit www.alligator.orgCity to share tips for
fire prevention week
By RENEE MONTALTO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville's version of National
Fire Prevention Week kicked off Sun-
day as a way to show people how to
keep homes safe and avoid burns.
The Alachua County Department
of Public Safety and Gainesville Fire
Rescue will host activities this week
to urge residents to "Stay Fire Smart!
Don't Get Burned."
The goal of the project, which is
in its third year for Gainesville, aimsele
2, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Young Professionals Meeting
Today, 6:15 to 7 p.m.
Matherly Hall, Room 103
All majors are welcome to learn
aboutprofessionalismandmake
connections. For more informa-
tion contact Christine Shoup at
YoungProfessionalsUF@gmail.
com
TRiP New Leader Information
Session
Today, 7 p.m.
Orange & Brew
Come learn more about the
Travel and Recreation Program
(TRiP) and how to become a
student leader.
Free film screenings
Today, 7 and 9 p.m.
Hippodrome State Theatre
The is the last week of the series
"Migration in Europe" by the
Center for European Studies.
"La Haine" (Hate) is showing at
7 p.m. "Breaking and Entering"
is showing at 9 p.m.
Peace Corps Application
Workshop
Today, 5:30 p.m.
The Hub International Center
Interested in applying to the
Peace Corps this year? Come
listen to the UF Peace Corps
recruiter and current applicants
speak on application informa-
tion, the process and what to
expect. E-mail peacecorps@ufic
ufl.edu for questions.
Mind Mashup
Tuesday, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m.
InfoCommons,
third floor of Library West
Learn how to use open source
software to remix Creative
Commons images, music and
video. Bring your own laptop
to download/bookmark free
resources. Refreshments will be
served.FORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/72TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
90/73
Florida Education Association
meeting
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Terrace Room
Come to FEA's second meet-
ing of the semester. Guest
speaker Kim Anderson
from the National Education
Association will be conduct-
ing an interview and resume
workshop. There will be
food, fun and free giveaways.
For more information contact
Laura Roberts at laura.rob-
erts@ufl.edu
The UF Fall of the Wall
film series
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Auditorium
Free entrance for the screen-
ing of "One, Two, Three"
(1961) by Billy Wilder.
"The Stepfather": Trivia
Challenge
Wednesday, 11 a.m. to noon
Plaza of the Americas
Play movie trivia from the
film "The Stepfather" to win
giveaways.
CORRECTIONS
An article in the Oct. 2 edi-
tion of the Alligator incor-
rectly stated that The Chris
McCarty Band performed
for the Scooter-Helmet
Awareness Campaign. Only
McCarty performed. The ar-
ticle also stated that Eta Sigma
Beta sponsored the event. The
name of the organization is
Eta Sigma Gamma.WEDNESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
92/71THURSDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
92/72FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
91/76
ON CAMPUS
Guild debuts student prints
The girl with the bloodred lips
and blond hair raises her legs se-
ductively into the air.
She is a mystery, she is a fan-
tasy -and Friday, she had an au-
dience.
The pinup girl is one of about
40 art pieces featured in an exhibit
from the UF Alagarto Printmakers
Guild, which hosted its opening
reception from 7 to 9 p.m. Friday
in the UF Focus Gallery.
The exhibit which will run
through Oct. 23, showcases the
work of about 20 members of
Alagarto, a Student Government
sponsored printmaking guild
comprised of undergraduate and
graduate students.
Alagarto, whose name comes
from the Latin and Spanish word
for alligator, was established in
1990 by UF professor Robert Mu-
eller and his former colleague Ken-
neth Kerslake.
Mueller, area coordinator of
the printmaking department in
the School of Art and Art History,
curated the exhibit. He said every
member of the guild who submit-
ted work was guaranteed at least
one piece in the show.
-MOLLY LARMIE
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
kickoff EDITIONS
Reach your Target Market before the game'
15% DISCOUNT 15% DISCOUNTFor any ON ADVERTISMENTS RUN
advertisement IN 5 OUT Or 7 EDIT ONS
that runs prior to DEADLINE FOR SPECIALKickoff Edition and OFFER
is picked up (no WED, NOV 4, 2009changes). 'NO OTHER DISCOUNT MAY
5% DISCOUNT APL
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
olor photos! opponent features!
team rosters! gator features!
and much more!
ye -
October 30 Georgia Deadline: October 28
November 6 Vanderbilt Deadline: November 4
November 13 Men's Basketball Tipoff Deadline: November 10
November 20 Florida International Deadline: November 18
November 25 Florida State Deadline: November 23
December 4 SEC Championship* Deadline: December 2
alligati or to place your ad, call 352-376-4482
*To Be Determineda the independent florida
Not off icill
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 30 ISSN 0889-2423
Notofficiallyassociated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle M aistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith,
Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara lIngebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Brittany Fayne,
Jon Levine, Joaquin Martinez,
Alex Olmetti, Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSI N ESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
EL 'y1"
At Chevron, you can be part of an innovative team working together to find new
ways to keep the world moving. Whether you're utilizing the latest technologies or
discovering them yourself, you'll have the tools and resources to make a difference
every day. Find out how far your skills and talents can take you. For local and global
opportunities, visit us online today.
Chevron
Human Energy
Anak Chuvrppontity epuoyer Prthap Cue di2ersvty C r Cfortersparculture A nc lsrsrd
CHEVRON, tHe CHEVRON HALLMARK and HUMAN ENERGY are rcite trademarksE of Chevron, Itlua l Proerty LLC (c2009 Chevron CopuEat,,, All rihts reserved'A------- -- -----------
4, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
Annexation could
up residents' taxes
By PATRICK ANNESTY
Alligator Writer
City officials addressed the
concerns of people living within a
1,200-acre stretch of land that may
be annexed at a meeting Saturday.
About 15 county residents at-
tended the meeting, and represen-
tatives from Gainesville Regional
Utilities, the police department,
public works, and planning and
development were all on hand to
inform voters.
The land, east of Morningside
Nature Center, is estimated to con-
tain about 3,000 people, according
to Karen Billings, director of strate-
gic planning for the city.
Tax increases were a main con-
cern of residents at the meeting.
Billings presented figures show-ing a property valued at $35,000
would have a tax increase of $41.24
per year. A property worth $80,000
would see a $94.26 annual increase.
However, these increases
would be balanced by a reduction
in surcharges on
Local utility bills, Billings
News said. Currently, GRU
customers outside
the city pay a 25-percent surcharge
on water and wastewater and a
10-percent surcharge on electricity
and gas.
Residents also inquired about
the possible switch from septic
tanks to city waste systems and
the availability of bus routes in the
area.
For more meeting details and
resident concerns, please visit Alliga-
tor.org.LOCAL NEWS
Students race to make films
By BEATRICE DIEHL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twenty-four hours, three
guidelines, six films, one win-
ner.
The Reitz Union Board
kicked off All Around
Gainesville Week with a 24-
Hour Film Rush on Saturday,
when student teams created
films under certain conditions
in just 24 hours.
This year, each film had
to include a local Gainesville
event, a person who represents
Gainesville and the line, "What,
you haven't been to X-Mart be-
fore?"
This year's winning film,
"The Jogger," will be screened
before each of RUB's showings
of "The Hangover," playing
nightly until Thursday.
The winning team, named
the Mustachioed Gentlemen,
made its film about a stabbing."I only slept an hour
and a half. Half of us
were doused in fake
blood this morning in
60-something degree
weather."
Alex McQuiston
participant
The group has worked to-
gether before and has films on
YouTube.
Holding a small trophy,
Alex McQuiston, part of the
winning team, cracked an ex-
hausted smile as he described
the trials and tribulations the
team had gone through.
"I only slept an hour and
a half," he said. "Half of us
were doused in fake blood this
morning in 60-something de-
gree weather."
John Rutherford, another
team member, was cut by glasswhile playing a homeless man
in the movie.
The films were presented
Saturday in the Reitz Union au-
ditorium and were voted on by
the audience.
"The Videotape," a movie
about a man confused with his
life, won second place. Com-
ing in third was "Whistlers of
Men," a movie reminiscent of
"Bill & Ted's Excellent Adven-
ture," depicting two men redis-
covering the art of whistling.
RUB Director Abby Swartz
has taken part in the film rush
for the past two years but
thought that the technical qual-
ity shown in this year's videos
was particularly impressive.
Swartz is excited to show the
film next week as she expects a
decent amount of students will
go see "The Hangover."
For exact dates and times the
movie will be shown, visit www.
union.ufl.edu/rub/index.php.
MAKING STRIDES
5K WALK
Saturday, Oct. 24th
400 NE 16th Avenue
Registration at 7am
Walk begins at 9am
For more information contact
(352) 3/b-6866 xb053 or
sandy.golden@cancer.org
MAKING STRIDES
Against Breast Cancer'
,ACRENTELEAP ovEniiTHE cOMP"TM'N
WTH OUR flIXSLO PKI(' SpECIAS
FALL 2009
CALL YOUR ALLIGATOR
REPRESENTATIVE TODAY AT
Run an ad within 5 publishing 376-4482
days of another and receive the
following discounts:
lst ad: Normal Rate
2nd ad: 15% discount
3rd ad: 20% discount
4th ad: 25% discount
5th ad: 25%disoouttt.i&-,n lrdallig ator
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care" Ga-tne ille
Health & Fitness
Month to Month Memberships
NEWBERRY ROAD 377-4955 -TIOGA 692-2180 -FOR WOMEN 374-4634
GHFC.com
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Fire Rescue gives tips to kids for Halloween safety
Danica Spears/ Alligator
Hannah Sealey, left, and Kierra Hall learn to dial 911 at the Alachua County Fire Rescue booth Saturday
evening in Kiwanis Safety City for a Halloween party promoting safety by Gainesville Fire and Rescue.By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writer
It took Pat Dean about an hour to
get ready Saturday night.
First, she put on a layer of white
foundation, followed by glitzy blue
fake eyelashes and a squishy, ruby
nose. With the snap of her red-
striped suspenders, she became
Tootie the Fire Safety Clown.
A member of Gainesville Fire
Rescue, Dean was one of more than
300 who attended the third annual
Halloween-themed Screaming for
Safety event at Kiwanis Safety City.
"Too many kids end up in the
ER," Dean said. "Halloween is a
very vulnerable time for everyone."
Dean handed out balloons and
painted princess and Gators de-
signs on the faces of children trick-
or-treating at the event. But behind
her smiley clown getup, she had a
message.
While painting, Dean talked
to children about the dangers of
playing with lighters, matches and
candles, throwing in a brief lecture
about the difference between tools
and toys.
About 20 organizations had
tables and representatives at the
event, including the Child Advocacy
Center, Safe Kids and Operation Im-
munization. In trick-or-treat fashion,
children donning costumes went to
each table, scooping up candy and
handouts about safety.
Parents joined in on the fun, trail-
ing behind their respective vampiresand fairies while picking up pam-
phlets containing safety tips.
Debora Regan, Safe Kids out-
reach coordinator, said Halloween
is the deadliest day of the year for
children younger than 14.
Regan also handed out informa-
tion about bicycle safety, reinforcing
the importance of wearing a helmet.
"I tell the kids, 'You can't go to
Wal-Mart and get a new brain,"' she
said. "'No more video games. You
won't be able to
Around drive a car. YourGainesville life will change
forever."'
The event topped off with a
costume contest, turning the south
strip of Kiwanis Safety City into a
catwalk for kids clad in homemade
and store-bought costumes alike.
Prizes included lollipops, T-shirts
and flashlights.
Jan Cheah's son John, 5, won the
3-to 5-year old category. Dressed as
a Tyrannosaurus rex, he growled
down the runway, crawling on his
hands and knees at one point while
making dinosaur-like gestures.
"He thinks he's a T. rex," Cheah
said. John nodded in agreement.
But even T. rex isn't immune to
the accidents that put a child's safety
at stake.
"We used to call things that hap-
pen accidents, but almost all acci-
dents can be prevented. They're in-
cidences," event coordinator Krista
Gonzalez said.
"So really, we want to prevent
incidents from happening."
Florida Best Buddies sees lack of community support
11 teams competed in the third annual scavenger hunt
By KRISTEN BOWE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Stand in a grocery store freezer -140 points.
Steal candy from a child -40 points.
About 50 UF students participated in Flor-
ida Best Buddies third annual Midnight Mad-
ness Scavenger Hunt Saturday at Silver-Q Bil-
liards & Sports bar.
The 11 teams performed tasks at various
spots around Gainesville documenting the
completion of each list item with a photo. Theteams raced around from 11 a.m. to 9:45 p.m.
UF sociology major and Best Buddies
member Bryan Rhodes, 20, said although he
wanted to give up at times, his teammates,
two mentally retarded children, helped keep
him going. He said his buddies had so much
energy that he did not want to let them down.
Rhodes' team won the event with a total of
4,470 points. All the group members and their
buddies received gift cards to Target.
Jessica Dominguez, college programs man-
ager for Best Buddies Florida, said the hunt"We were relying on the Greeks."
Keely McKissack
UFjunior
was scheduled for spring but was postponed
because of a lack of community support.
Dominguez said Florida Best Buddies
hoped to raise $7,000 this year. She said be-
cause of the bad economy it was difficult to
receive sponsorship from the community.
Best Buddies raised about $10,000 at the2008 scavenger hunt and had more partici-
pants.
She said it was difficult because there was
no campus committee for the event.
Instead, UF public relations junior and the
event's recruitment chairwoman Keely McK-
issack was the only student in the Gainesville
area in charge of organizing the event.
McKissack said at the spring 2008 scaven-
ger hunt there were 40 teams and half of the
teams were from Greek organizations.
"We were relying on the Greeks," she said.
However, she said the Greek organizations
were unresponsive this year.
Student Government and The Center for
Leadership a Service present.
I (7)
"Come out and discover the potential
job benefits of volunteering
in your community!"
Wednesday, October 7m 2009
7t t9 pm
. Reitz Union Room 282w h
Godfather's
PIZZAT Iffl[E
6, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
EditorialH appy Monday!
We successfully refrained from completing any
of our class assignments this weekend, despite
there not being a Gators football game to distract us. We
even turned a blind eye to all current events. So, because
we lack any opinions (and an opinions editor), we present
you with an I've-never-seen-this-published-on-a-Monday
edition of.
Darts & Laurels
Don't get used to it.
In case of a zombie apocalypse, the Alligator is a great
place to take shelter. There are enough rats hiding in the
walls to sustain the staff, and no zombie knows the door
code to get in the building. But we doubt many others have
as safe a place to hide. That's why we were disappointed
to hear that UF Web administrators took down a zombie
attack plan PDF form created by e-Learning Support Ser-
vices manager Doug Johnson. For not playing along in
what was obviously a joke, we toss a DART at the "flesh-
eating, life-impaired" e-Learning party poopers.
While on the subject of rotting flesh, a small town in
South Dakota has been faced with cleaning up a 44-ton
pile of liquefied meat. The owner of the factory ditched the
bison meat when he moved his business out of the state.
Locals were stuck cleaning up the maggot-infested muck.
Even the mayor of Bridgewater, who served two tours of
duty in Vietnam, said he could not remember ever smell-
ing something that awful, according to an article by the
Associated Press. For not only wasting the lives of thou-
sands of bison but also making the lives of Bridgewater
locals a stinking hell, we throw a learn-to-clean-up-after-
yourself DART at Ilan Parente, a.k.a. maggot meat man.
In time for Halloween, construction workers have
completed the new and improved campus bat house. The
house can hold 400,000 bats, opposed to the 100,000 the
old house was supposed to sustain. They even built a barn
for baby bats and added a vacancy sign in both English
and Spanish, in case Mexican free-tailed bats decided to
stop by for a siesta. For batting a thousand on the new
house, we give a these-digs-sound-better-than-our-fresh-
man-dorms LAUREL at the bat house builders.
While many celebrities use their Twitter accounts to talk
about absolutely nothing (we don't care how much Spen-
cer loves your lasagna, Heidi), Drew Carey is using his to
raise money to fight cancer. Carey has bid $25,000 for the
@Drew username. The account's current owner, who has
lymphoma, plans to donate all of the money raised during
the auction to the Livestrong foundation.
Carey said he will increase his donation to $100,000
if he gets 100,000 followers by Nov. 9. For actually do-
ing something useful with his Twitter account, we give a
here's-hoping-75,000-more-followers-think-the-price-is-
right LAUREL to Drew Carey.
On Wednesday, President Barack Obama signed an
executive order banning government employees from
texting while driving. We've all seen people swerving be-
tween lanes for the sake of 160 characters that could easily
be said in less than 10 seconds in person. Eighteen states
have banned texting while driving, and many more are
considering similar laws.
For not relying on Darwin's Law to keep roads free of
distracted "drexters," we give a how-can-anyone-drive-
when-they're-not-looking-at-the-road LAUREL to Presi-
dent Obama.
Don't be haters! Go Gators!
0the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
Reader response
Today's question: Are you a
"drexter"?ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
, ,0.
0 &"Copyrighted Material-
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
~~1 V aa
a
Column
Internet users lack
T he Internet is making us rude.
We have become a society that takes to the Inter-
net more and more, not to discover new information
or to collaborate with the information we have, but to vent
our frustrations with our political differences, our stupid
bosses, our inane teachers and our unruly kids. And, damn
it, if it isn't making us all rude.
But, Matt, you ask, where's your evidence? Look no fur-
ther than YouTube. Glance below any video with more than
40,000 views, and I guarantee that after searching through
the posted comments a treasure trove of online refuge will
be found where a few users erupt over something as puer-
ile as whether or not Borat is funny (he is) or if French first
lady, Carla Bruni, puts Keith Richards to shame with her
cover of "You Got the Silver" (she does).
Online message board eruptions can be epic. Three
years ago, when searching online for information about the
prolific Irish author James Joyce, I stumbled upon a mes-
sage board discussion between two factions -those who
thought Joyce was the greatest Irish author of all time, bet-
ter than both William Yeats and Oscar Wilde, and those
who thought Joyce was toking when he wrote "A Portrait
of the Artist as a Young Man" -and by three hours into
this spat, Northern Ireland unionists and nationalists users
were at an ALL CAPS war with each other.
Fortunately, there haven't been any major breaches in
the brokered peace in Northern Ireland in the last three
years.
This doesn't mean that there aren't real life implications
for online feuds that get out of hand. A Texas couple that
was accused of sexual assault but later found not guilty by
a Texas jury was verbally assaulted on the popular forum
Web site Topix.com. There, anonymous users lashed out on
the couple, accusing them of pedophilia and even murder.%m
tact in e-arguments
The couple, though, is getting the
last post on the message forum, fil-
ing a defamation lawsuit against on-
line users who believed they could
hide behind their anonymous ava-
tars. Through tracing IP addresses,
Matthew Christ a handful of people had been issued
letters@a ligator org subpoenas as of early August.
But these are extreme cases. Most
people aren't accused of sexual assault and then harangued
publicly ad nauseam, and most people aren't subjected to
the hate instilled by fervent fans of Joyce (because no one
reads Joyce).
What we all are subjected to, though, is online news Web
sites. Both The New York Times and The Washington Times
allow readers to post their "opinions" of a news story, and
boy, does everyone have an opinion these days. Except you
wouldn't know it because few online "commenters" are
man (or woman) enough to put their names behind their
self-revered profanity-laced thoughts.
There's little harm in posting an outrageous comment
on a message board or media site like YouTube. There's ac-
tually great entertainment value for the average Web visitor
in viewing epic hissy fits lacking in punctuation. But one
has to wonder what the future generations will think when
they search Internet archives and see how their parents and
grandparents treated each other when the norms of society
were suspended with a cloak of online anonymity.
Free speech is a hallmark of our society, but anonymous
vulgar and degrading "comments" found online make me
wonder if we're all suddenly living in one giant bathroom
stall.
Matthew Christ is a political science sophomore. His column
appears on Mondays.
Friday's question: Do you study 30% YES
with a helmet on? 70% NO
210 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
\\ 0 0\\ AWY T 7CJ.~ L{
"' ~
ttT (
VORD
Thanks for your support
Your gift makes a difference.
Please designate
HAVEN HOSPICE #3014
on your UFCC pledge form.
All donations remain in the
community to provide unreimbursed
patient care, family support services
and outreach programs.Letters to the Editor
Friday opinions piece shows insensitivity
Campaign season is nowhere near fun for anybody in-
volved: the parties running, the candidates running and
the Student Body. This year, I got lucky: I had a manage-
rial economics exam on Wednesday night that required a
bit more attention. However, I take deep offense with the
Alligator's Editorial Board comparing campaign season to
a "personal Trail of Tears" in Friday's "Darts & Laurels."
This is incredibly insensitive to the thousands of Native
Americans who were forced to relocate during this dark
period of our country's history. It's annoying to be asked
to support a party every few minutes on your way to class,
but how dare you compare a minor displeasure to a period
of ethnic cleansing? Most of us dislike being bothered on
our way to class, but with barely 17 percent of the Student
Body voting, what do you expect to happen? It makes me
wonder if this paper's editorial staff even understands the
repercussions of its writings, let alone the horrors that ex-
isted on the real Trail of Tears. If anything, it saddens me
that the public school system has failed you so badly.
Sean Johnson
4BA
SG politics not surprising
It was disheartening to read the article "Records reveal
SG criminal charges" in the Sept. 29 issue of the Alliga-
tor. However, given the many shenanigans that have oc-
curred during student elections and the various behaviors
on the part of different party members in the past, it is not
surprising. For a long time I have felt that participation in
Student Government is an interesting training ground forMONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
later activity in local, state, or national elections or offices.
Joyce Dewsbury
Gainesville Resident
U U U
Democrats must compromise with opposition
The latest installment in the Democratic Party's dis-
appointing slew of failures occurred Tuesday when the
public option for health insurance was voted down in the
Senate Finance Committee. Five Democrats joined the Re-
publicans in voting the option into oblivion.
Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., the chairman of the com-
mittee, doesn't believe legislation that includes a public
option will be able to get the 60 votes needed to overcome
a Republican filibuster. Now, it's obvious he seeks to con-
cede certain issues in order to pass the broader aspects of
the plan. But even with his effort to draft a passable piece
of legislation and this most recent conciliation, Baucus
hasn't received confirmation of a single Republican vote.
The only hope for Democrats is Sen. Olympia Snowe,
R-Maine, who may vote in favor of the bill.
According to a CBS News/New York Times poll, 72
percent of Americans support a public option for health
insurance. So even with a 60 percent majority in the Senate
and overwhelming public support, the Democratic Party
is unable to stand its ground. Way to go, gang.
The efforts of Democrats like Baucus to compromise
with the opposition are commendable. It's time for Demo-
crats to buck up and get this legislation passed without
diluting it to the point of impotency.
Tyler Horvath
iLS
S$ OFF
Jiffy Lube
Signature Service'
Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
Seestore for more details Not validwithany otheroffer Restrictions may apply. Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design mark
and Jiffy Lube Signature Service' are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International Inc
02009 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. Al rehtserved.
Score Bi
WITH OUR EXPANDED AUDIENCE!
Advertise in the Alligator's
2009 Souvenir Homecoming Edition!
More than 60,000 people come to
Gainesville during the weekend-long
events. This is the time to promote your
business to readers who need places to
eat, celebrate, shop and sleep. Several
thousand copies are distributed along the
parade route.
Call today to secure your spot!
352-376-4482
Deadline: Friday, October 9
Run date: Friday, October 16 alligator Serving North Florida since 1979. Licensed as a not-for-profit hospice since 1980.BUY UNE, LET UNE FHRE
Regular cup or cone with this ad
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
American
Red Cross
DON'T DRINK & DRIVEVI XO
8, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5,2009
LOCAL
Festival offers free beers
By MARIA PIQUET
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 20-foot inflatable Red Stag bottle
stood out among throngs of blue, white,
gold and green canopies to show new-
comers where to go.
A line of people coiled around the
Magnolia Parke parking lot, bustling with
people eager to get into Saturday's Greater
Gator Beer Festival.
More than 1,000 people attended the
festival, which provided guests with un-
limited samples of food from local res-
taurants and more than 100 beers from
around the world.
Guests drank traditional beers like
Samuel Adams and Budweiser and sam-
pled others from countries around the
world, including Ukraine, Italy, Israel and
Guatemala.
Participating companies hitched up
their canopies on the Magnolia Parke field
and equipped each with a handful of vol-
unteers who constantly poured beer or
served food to hungry guests.
Beer poured from dozens of taps as
guests devoured fried chicken, pizza, pea-
nuts and pulled-pork sandwiches. Vintage
beer T-shirts were also on sale.
Beer culture was everywhere.
Joey Westfield and Rick Stevenson
wore matching 2-foot mug hats and gold-
en beer-mug sunglasses and said they
came for the beer and the women.
"My favorite kind of beer is free beer,"
said Stevenson, a third-year attendee.
"And there's a lot of it here."
Westfield, on the other hand, has gone
to every Beer Festival since it started in
1997 and has the event T-shirts to prove
it.
"This is my favorite time of the year,"Westfield said. "There's nothing else like
this around here."
Tasha Healy attended the event for the
first time. Her friend won tickets on the ra-
dio and invited her to come along.
"I'm a mom of two really little ones, so
I don't get out much," Healy said. "This is
a big change for me."
With a cup of Orange Blossom Pilsner
in her hand, Healy said the beer sampling
was her favorite part of the event.
"I don't buy a whole six pack of some-
thing I've never tried before," Healy said,
"so it's a nice way to see what I like."
"My favorite kind of beer is free
beer. And there's a lot of it here."
Ron Stevenson
third-year attendee of Beerfest
This year was the third time the festi-
val was held in October. It was previously
held in March.
"Something this much fun can't be
done just once a year," said Chuck Fazio,
one of the event coordinators.
Dressed in a faded Marines T-shirt,
shorts and a straw hat, Fazio walked
through the crowds taking pictures, start-
ing conversations with strangers and mak-
ing sure everything went smoothly.
"Everybody comes and enjoys them-
selves," Fazio said.
"You just walk around and see every-
body's got a smile on, and why not? Beer,
food -delicious."
Proceeds from the festival, which cost
$25 in advance and $30 at the gate, went to
the Alachua County Humane Society -a
tradition in its third year.
"It's our way of giving back," Fazio
said.Neighborhood Nuptials
Bryan Lee, 23, and Lashon Lee, 33, are wed Sunday by Prophet George Young
at his house on Northwest Fifth Avenue and Northwest 10th Street.
T~~y,* i Crt ril (f v%
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
352-378-7033
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
Bar & Grill
KARAOKE MON Is
2.4.1 Liquor Drinks
$1 LongnecsjHelp provide local I
students in need
with free
educational materials
and supplies!
Donate items
that youit
no longer
use:
spiral
notebooks,
art supplies,
folders, pencils,
notebook paper,
highlighters, and more!
TOOLSFOR
SCHOC2LS
For more information:
www.toolsforschools.alachua.fl.us
352-374-5213Theptw
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Dove World Outreach Center protests gay
By CJ PRUNER through them minutes before turns signs from the van, the congregants "Go burn some more witches!"
Alligator Writer to solemnity as Jones makes his way begin to make the journey down As they make their way around
to address the crowd. East Third Street. Gainesville Police the plaza, others join to march with
Saturday Oct. 3 "We're looking for a few people Lt. Keith Kameg, who is on detail them -but not for them.
S2Ary fwho want to find a way out of this for the Pride Festival, quietly meets James Davis and Wylie Lenz,12:30 p.m.: Across from Fran In lifestyle," said Jones, who has a with Jones and Sapp and lays out UF English graduate students, tail
gram lies a pile of white signs that movie poster of "Braveheart" hang- the guidelines: Marching on the the church in silent mock devotion,read omo edt H 'a ing in his office as inspiration. sidewalk across the street from the holding up signs with biblical pas-gloves you, bu th abut 25 "It may get nasty; homosexuals plaza is allowed; going through the sages that call for the ban of shellfish
other members of the Dove World can be very aggressive. Now is your gates of the plaza is not. and the cutting off of a woman's
Outreach Center, prepared the signs chance to back out," he said. Respectfully, Jones and Sapp hand should she touch a man's geni-
to hoist while marching alongside But no one moved. After a quick agree and lead their flock around tals during a fight among the men.
GainesvileLGBT marcoani at prayer that has church members the plaza, holding their signs high "They seem to have a lot of mis-Gainesvilles rd Prcommunity at looking toward the sky and speak- up for all to see. Onlookers see the directed energy," said Davis, whoSaturday's Pride Parade. ing in tongues, they pile into a white white shirts and take aim. is gay. "They're marching rightIngram said her favorite sign is van and Sapp's truck and trek down "Make way for God's chosen by where a lot of homeless peopleone that she has used often at past U.S. Route 441, bound for the Bo people!" live, and they're concerned with ro-demonstrations: "Repent." Diddley Community Plaza. "You should be ashamed of mantic partners. That doesn't make"Walk into any bookstore~ and 1:35 n.m.: After pulling their yourselves." sense to me."see how much they dump shit on
Jesus," she said. "I feel so sad that
these people have chosen a life-
style that brings societal and eternal
death."
For Ingram, Saturday was more
than getting recognition; it was
about getting people saved. For the
members of DWOC, it's about pay-
ing the price for redemption.
Ten-year-old Faith Sapp, whose
father, Wayne, is a pastor at the
church, is familiar with paying for
her views. On her second day of fifth
grade, Sapp noticed that nobody
would play with her, she said. When
she confronted her classmates, they
told her that their parents forbade
them from talking to "that girl from
the church."
"It didn't feel right," she said.
"I've known these people for years,
and it was like they just disappeared.
[Friendship] doesn't just grow legs
and walk away."
But Sapp remains convinced they
are preaching is God's message.
"Bible clearly states that a man
shall not lie with another man,"
she said. "It's Adam and Eve -not
Adam and Steve."
According to Ingram, the church
has no choice but to speak out.
"Keeping to ourselves is simply
not an option," she said. "On judg-
ment day, God will hold us account-
able if we choose to be negligent."
1:05 p.m.: The crowd of worship-
ers, adorned in its trademark "Islam
is of the Devil" shirts, stands in a
circle waiting for their leader, the
Rev. Terry Jones, to emerge from the
church's doors. The fervor that ran6
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Martin Boecken, 15, holds a sign during Dove World Outreach Center's protest of the Pride Festival Sat-
urday at the Bo Diddley Community Plaza. The members marched around the plaza during the festival.
This year's parade marks 40th anniversary of gay rights movement
PRIDE, from page 1
Terry Fleming, co-president of the Pride
Community Center of North Central Florida,
spoke about the importance of Saturday's
events.
"We are your family, your friends, your
neighbors. We are just a fabric of today's so-
ciety," Fleming said. "As long as there is dis-
crimination against gay and lesbian people,
there's a need for these events."
This year's Gainesville Pride Parade
marked the 40th anniversary of the Stonewall
riots in New York City, a series of riots against
police officers who frequently raided known
gay establishments and considered to be the
genesis of the modern gay rights movement.
Donnie Fields, vice president of program-
ming for UF's Pride Student Union, spoke
about the adversity that the Lesbian, Gay,
Bisexual, Transgender, Queer/Questioning
community still faces after 40 years.
"Our community has had a very tir-ing year. Proposition 8, Amendment 2 and
Amendment 1 have tried forcing us back into
the closet," said Fields, respectively referring
to the amendment that banned gay marriage
in California and the amendment that de-
fined Florida marriage as the union between
a man and woman, as well as the proposed
amendment to the Gainesville City Charter
that would have removed the words "sexual
orientation" and "gender identity" from the
city's nondiscrimination policy.
Nestled in booths around the commu-
nity plaza were vendors ranging from the
American Automobile Association and the
Gainesville Rabbit Rescue to UF's Pride Stu-
dent Union.
Mayor candidate Craig Lowe, who is a
chairman for the city's Equal Opportunity
Committee, manned a booth, handing out but-
tons and talking to Gainesville residents.
"Today's a day where Gainesville can cel-
ebrate diversity and the contributions of the
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender popu-
lation in Gainesville," Lowe said as he lookedonward at the large rainbow balloon arc that
enshrouded the stage to the community pla-
za.
Those taking the stage at the Gainesville
Pride festival Saturday included Trinity Met-
ropolitan Community Church's choir and
University Club female impersonators Lady
Pearl, Jawanna Jackson and Kelcy Divine.
Divine, dressed in a knee-length black
dress with size 13 silver high heels, held her
poodle-Chihuahua mix, Coco Chanel, in her
arm as she walked.
Local Anthony Kelley and his part-
NewS ner, Charles Kelley, who were
married in California before
Proposition 8 was passed and who also hold
a domestic partnership in Florida, responded
to protesters as they held their dogs, Luna and
Astro, who were dressed in a pink leotard and
a striped polo shirt, respectively.
"There is no but. God loves everyone," An-
thony Kelley said.
"Isn't the saying, 'God loves you no matter
what?' Charles Kelley said.The couple, who have been together for six
years, have their marriage certificate hung on
the west side of their house and their domestic
partnership certificate hung on the east side of
their house.
"I work for a company where my boss is
gay, and I'm gay; and I can't carry [Charles] on
my insurance," Kelley said as he spoke about
the differences granted to domestic partners
and married couples.
Parade organizers from the Pride Commu-
nity Center of North Central Florida were un-
able to give an estimate of the festival's actual
cost, but Bob Woods, communications and
marketing manager for the city of Gainesville,
said that police costs totaled $3,946 last year
and were expected to be about the same this
year.
GPD spokesman Lt. Keith Kameg said the
17 police officers on duty experienced no prob-
lems with any participants or protesters.
"Everybody has peacefully got along,"
Kameg said. "That's what we want to see. It's
a festival. People should have fun."festival
According to Lenz, the protest-
ers' message is one of violence.
"I'm not even gay, and this is
pissing me off," he said.
1:55 p.m.: What started out as a
few people has morphed into a thick
following, as a herd marches along-
side those protesting the protesters.
Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and trans-
genders surround Jones and con-
gregants, hoping to draw response.
"We're used to the heat, Chris-
tians; after all, we're going to hell
anyway," yelled Joel Bryant, who
was voted Miss University Club.
"You know Jesus had two daddies."
According to Bryant, his eternal
fate has already been decided.
"I'm going to hell in a handbas-
ket that is fierce and bedazzled," he
said.
Congregants continue to march.
"It may get nasty;
homosexuals can be very
aggressive."
Rev. Terry Jones
leader of DWOC
2:45 p.m.: The resistance follow-
ing has mostly tapered off. The noise
coming from the plaza, which was
raging with throbbing music when
the Pride Festival began, has settled
down. Drivers in passing cars con-
tinue to shake their heads at the
church and shout from windows.
"It's funny that those who want
us to be 'more tolerant' are the ones
who are yelling," the elder Sapp
said.
The sun is beginning to wear on
the sign-holders. After a few more
walks around the plaza, they decide
to call it a day.
"This isn't about winning and
losing,"Jones toldhis followers. "To-
day is about doing what's right."
Although none of the revelers
renounced their lifestyle, DWOC
members aren't disheartened.
"What we're doing isn't mean,"
said AndyBoecken, 17,whomarched
alongside his family. "What would
really be mean is if we didn't offer
them salvation."
3:20 p.m.: Having offered all the
salvation they could muster, church
members trudge back to their cars,
exhausted but satisfied.
10, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
University of Florida Performing Arts
' * Student Tickets
are on sale now for these performances!
(Student tickets for more performances go on sale December 7!)
In the Heights Experience* WORLD PREMIERE
Sunday, October 25, 2 p.m. Steel Hammer -Bang on a Can All-Stars
SPONSORED BY WNBW-TV NBC9 and Trio Mediaeval
*In The Heights Experience tickets must be purchased by Friday, November 13, 7:30 p.m.
October 15 at the Phillips center Box Office. Final purchase
price with tax for this special event is $10.68. The Sedoctaves
Craig Martin's Classic Albums Live: Thursday, November 19, 7:30 p.m.
Pink Floyd -The Wall Sunday, November 22, 2 p.m.
Wednesday, October 28, 7:30 p.m. Yamato, The Drummers of Japan
SPONSORED BY THE INDEPENDENT FLORIDA ALLIGATOR AND ROCK 104 Wednesday, November 25, 7:30 p.m.
The Ten Tenors SPONSORED BY DHARMA ENDOWMENT FOUNDATION AND HOME MAGAZINE
Tuesday, November 3, 7:30 p.m. Lerner & Loewe's Camelot
SPONSORED BY THE GAINESVILLE SUN AND Friday, November 27, 7:30 p.m.
OAK HAMMOCK AT THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA SPONSORED BY 93.7 K-COUNTRY, THE VILLAGE AND WCJB TV20
Avenue Q Bela Fleck & The Flecktones 
-
Monday, November 9, 7:30 p.m. The Holiday Tour Featuring
Tuesday, November 10, 7:30 p.m. Victor Lemonte Wooten,
SPONSORED BY WGFL-TV CBS4 Future Man and Jeff Coffin
Soledad Barrio & Noche Flamenca Sunday, December 6, 3 p.m.
Thursday, November 12, 7:30 p.m. SPONSORED BY ALTA SYSTEMS, INC., FRESCO NEIGHBORHOOD ITALIAN
SPONSORED BY RESIDENCE INN (13TH ST.), M&S BANK AND COX MEDIA AND FALCON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, INC. JEFF DAVIS, CFP
All performances above are at the
Curtis M. Phillips Center for the
Performing Arts unless otherwise noted.
Bela Fleck & The Flecktones
*Plus applicable sales tax (final purchase price $10.50).
$10 student tickets are available at the Phillips Center Box Office and the University Box Office. Each UF student may buy one student-
priced ticket per event, Students must present their valid ID (must be valid at time of purchase and the time of performance) to be sold
a ticket. Tickets are limited and subject to availability.
SUniversity of Florida Performing Arts is supported in part by University of Florida Student Government.
Events, dates, times and programs are subject to change.
For more information, call the Phillips Center Box Office at 352-392-2787 or visit
www.performingarts.ufl.edu
UF UNIVERSITY of In The HeightsFLORIDA
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Only 17 percent of the Student Body voted in SG elections this fall
VOTING, from page 1 spend more time with students by tablingthroughout the year and improving commu-
It just overwhelms you." nication with SG-funded organizations.
Orange and Blue Party President Kyle Unite Party President Joey Regalado said
Huey said students also tend to get frustrat- students don't realize the impact SG has on
ed with campaigners because they hear little campus. He said SG can increase turnout by
about SG except during elections. making students more aware of the services it
"I think that if students had a better idea of offers and advertising its new projects.
what SG does the other weeks out of the year, .Ben Cavataro, the policy and communica-
they might not just be turned off by the cam- tions director for the Orange and Blue Party,
paigning," Huey said. said the low turnout also emphasizes the need
Huey and Schneider agreed that SG should for online voting.Other voting issues include inconvenient at the polls make it hard for students to vote,
polling locations and the need to fill out a but online voting could boost turnout, Cava-
change of address form. taro said.
Schneider said a Progress Party candidate Alfonso said students use the long lines
spent 40 minutes trying to and change of address forms as excuses. Stu-
Stud ent prove that his address and dents can change their addresses on ISIS or fillGovernment status as a student. out a form at the poll, she said.
"The system has been "People wait in line for McDonald's," she
designed to be so inefficient and so alienating said. "People wait in line for everything. Why
that to me it's no surprise that people don't can't they wait in line to vote?"
come out," he said. To see a graph of student voting trends, visit
The two-day voting window and long lines Alligator.org.
Gainesville Fire Rescue responds to more than 15,000 calls each year
FIR E, from page 1 tion Week, the Alachua County De- as winter and spring, Bond said. Typically, National Fire Preven-
partment of Public Safety will install Fires start more easily then because tion Week focuses on how to keep ,4 Monday, Oct. 5
these are reasons why more things fire alarms in the homes of those grasses are even drier. structures like houses safe. The U 6 -8 p.m.
go wrong in the colder months." who cannot afford them. "Even though humidity levels wildfire agencies also like to take the U Fire Station 21 in the
Davissaid thatinwarmermonths, "It's been a years-long program. have been down lately, we don't opportunity to put out wildfire pre- Cit of Alach host
-w's. saldntssoehv dus1 inds an Cie arf' Aelacmsaesahheedo eyua hsbrush fires are the major cupris.
Although Davis said fires are more
likely in the cooler months, there is
not one group or demographic that
is responsible for the outbreak of the
fires that do start.
"Last fall, there was a fire in a stu-
dent apartment, in a residential area
and in an office for Peaceful Paths.
It is not general to one population,"
Davis said. "Fire is not discrimina-
tory. It doesn't just affect one par-
ticular group."
Davis offered examples of how
anyone can stay safe from fires.
"Be careful while cooking, and
don't let your sleeves hang over
burners," she said.
Davis said the most important tip
is installing smoke alarms.
As a part of National Fire Preven-lyalarms and carbon monoxide detec-
tors once a year," Davis said.
Activities for the week include an
open house today at Fire Station 21
in the City of Alachua, a Fire Safety
Expo in Hawthorne on Tuesday and
a Family Fun Night at the McDon-
ald's at Hunters Crossing, 5110 NW
43rd St., on Thursday. There will
be fire safety information and chil-
dren's activities at all events.
Also joining forces in this year's
National Fire Prevention Week is
the Florida Division of Forestry.
Ludie Bond, wildfire mitigation
specialist for the division, added that
as the fall season begins, there will
be more chances for fires to spread
because of less humidity and rain.
But fall is not as big of a concerndry," Bond said. "It's not time to be
alarmed just yet. We're just starting
to raise awareness with the general
public."
Bond said the most important
tips for staying fire-safe are to be
aware of the weather on the days
that residents are outside and not to
burn anything when it is windy or
humidity levels are low.
According to Bond, it is ille-
gal for an individual to set a fire in
Gainesville. A group of people, for
example, is not allowed to have a
bonfire inside Gainesville's city lim-
its. She said that if residents have
questions about whether burning is
legal, they should contact the local
fire department or the Division of
Forestry to find out.gyear approaches, Bond said.
"We're moving into the time of
the year where people will want to
be outside and start fires with cooler
weather and with that comes the
concern for wildfires," Bond said.
Each year, Gainesville Fire Res-
cue responds to more than 15,000
calls including building fires and
brush fires, according to a depart-
ment report.
According to Smoke Signals,
Gainesville Fire Rescue's newsletter,
in June 2009, 10 percent of all calls
were fire-related. In July 2009, 5 per-
cent of all calls were fire-related.
According to the 2008 Annual
Report, Gainesville Fire Rescue em-
ployed 66 firefighters and 33 driver
operators to help keep the city safe.
A Up c
IrA
0 06. ~(
Transportation provided by: Photography provided by. Promotional Matenal provided by.S GENGL R P UP R E M I E R
LffM OUSINES&MOTORC ACHE S P
GO1 C)esign provided by Caterng provided b
Premieran open house
D Tuesday, Oct.
5:30 -7:30 p.m.
U Fire Safety Expo
Hawthorne
Thursday, Oct.
6 -8 p.m.
t- Family Fun Nigh
the Hunters Cro
McDonald's
A Thursday, Oct. 22D 6-8 p.m.
d Family Fun Night at the
Z E. University McDonald's
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Stat
KXC L IiSCPE6
in
8
t at
ssing
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com *336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
The
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 10-9-20-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
Univ Terr Gville 3921 SW 34th st 1st fIr 4bd
/4ba, cent A/C, cable, W/D, full kitch, Sept
rent free! $300/mo/ea, $25/person finders
fee, owner/manager/gville. Immed occupan-
cy. Non-students welcome. 352-472-9778
10-5-09-10-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils ind $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 10-
7-09-5-1Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-408-
4330 -305-962-2525 -c2000_1@msn.com
10-9-09-7-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 10-15-09-10-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop *Pools *Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3s! madisonpointe.org
Garages Available!
Enormous Screened Patio!
$266-$1092
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rentunfnished unfnished furnished ufurnished ufurnished
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
SPYGLASS*
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0
a.
Cu
0)
C.)0
0
CU)
z
-
E
E0
0
E0L.
.-0ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neigh-
borhood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood
floors, fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $1000/
mo. $30/mo ontime discount. 773-407-
1774. 10-20-09-41-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
7Get Your Fropertj on the Board~
Don't let the competition pass you by!
Student Living Guides'
L----------------------
By advertising in the Alligator, you
will reach over 50,000 readers who
are looking for new apartments,
condos, furniture, appliances,
household items and much more!
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2009
DEADLINE: October 29
RUN DATE: November 4
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 14
RUN DATE: January 20
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 24
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 7E>
C
Call your rep
today
352-376-4482
alligatorSTEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-16-09-56-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $695/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-
09-45-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-
09-45-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-
09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1bth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-331-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA The Oaks Condo by Oaks Mall.
$650, screened-in porch, W/D, community
pool & gym, water & trash included. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 10-26-
09-40-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking,dog walk area,quiet
1.5miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2 I8
14, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent ReEstte Furnis isO F nfurnIshe~d_ unfurnished ]a l unfurnished Ra sae1
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
*@@@$550 2BR Washer/Dryer provided;
upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer
grad student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown NW 10th St
352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
Large 2BR/2BA gated golf community condo
end unit with garage. Enclosed porch/alarm
system/appl/washer/dryer. Lg.TV, queen
beds avail. at no cost. The Greens $800, call
352-262-3746 10-19-09-21-2
AVAILABLE NOW 2BR/1BA CTL heat/Air
W/D Hookups, Fridge, Stove, Dishwasher
and Icemaker $600/mo first and last $300
sec. 1523 NW 7th St. Gainesville, FL Phone
352-376-0071 or 352-494-4598 10-5-09-
10-2
3/2 House $700 per month! Carport, dish-
washer, washer/dryer hookups, lots of living
space, screened porch, lot backs up to Lolby
Park. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals@campusrealtygroup.com 10-12-
09-15-2
New Condo for rent. 2 bedrooms/2.5 baths.
Granite countertops, tile floor, and spacious
garage. Quite/Safe neighborhood minutes
from UF campus. Great location. Luxurious
college living at reasonable price, please call
Bosshardt reality at 352-371-2118 ext 403
10-6-09-10-2
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
10-6-09-5-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA, 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D. Great location -508 NE 4th
Ave. Available now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
10-6-09-10-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 10-9-12-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 10-7-09-20-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Tiled floor in liv area
Carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans All new
bath New Kit w/stainless apple W/D Cent H/A
Internet/cable avail Near bus rte $685/mo
Call 727-423-9463 10-8-09-8-2
Treehouse Village 2/2, new crpt/vinyl, many
amenities, close to UF, 1 mo free! $650/mo.
109-Q301 SE 16th Ave
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Tiffany 2/2, Irg mstr bdrm, w/d, w/in clsts,
scrnd prch, near bus stop on Glen Spgs Rd
3059 NW 28 Circle. $700/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Whispering Pines 2/2, on UF bus routes, wd,
ask about special, 3443 SW 24th St. $800/
mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2Monticello 3/3.5, fresh paint, community
amenities, 3 parking spaces, 1700+ sq ft,
522 NW 50th Blvd, $1100/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
4BR/2BA HOUSE
Great open living area, fenced backyard,
W/D, close to UF & downtown. Pets ok.
$1000/mo. Contact 352-672-1767 10-5-09-
5-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
2 Rooms Available, Wooden Floors, Nice
Windows, Pool and Jacuzzi in Backyard,
Brunswick Pool Table inside. 5 minutes to
campus by bicycle. $415.00 per month NOT
incl util. Near $550 altogether 321-960-7944
10-13-10-2
3/2 house in Gville. Fireplace, firewood,
screened patio, fenced backyard, living/dining
rm, large master BR. All Electric Appliances.
2 car garage. Located in Northwood Oaks.
No pets. $985/mo (772)332-2323 10-6-09-
5-2
2/2.5 beacon hill townhouse 1.5mi from
Shands/UF on williston & 16th ave 1400sqft
built in '06 jet-tub in master bath *must see*
$800/month contact 352-256-0639 or
email gqgator07@yahoo.com
10-9-09-5-2
Updated 3/2 1225 sq. ft. in quiet NW neigh-
borhood. 4 mi. from campus on bus rte. 8.
Private backyard. 1 mile to Publix, Lowes,
Sams and Walmart. Ready now. $1050.
Ryan 850-261-3571
palusak99@yahoo.com 10-7-5-2
Villages @ Santa Fe- 2/1- Across from Santa
Fe College $575/mo. 1 MNTH
FREE!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Cricket Club 11-2/2- upgrd kitchen, w/d. many
amenities. 7180 SW 4 rd.
$900/mo 1 mnth free!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Greenleaf- 2/2.5- new paint/carpeting.w/d
hkps. 4303 SW 69 terr.
$750/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
3/2.5 near off NW 13 St. Walk to UF/midtown.
3 off strt parking. New stove. 626 NW 13th
terr. Reduced rent $850/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Looking for an affordable/spacious place to
live in SW Gville? Renovated 2BR/2BA apt
Archer Rd near UF, Butler Plaza, 1-75. Tile
fir in living/dining rms, kitchen & bath. Carpet
BRs. Short leases avail 352-262-2828 10-
7-09-5-2
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 10-15-09-10-2
2BR/1 BA townhouse -Tower Oaks area. 900
sq ft, pvt fenced backyard, freshly painted, vi-
nyl in BRs, ceramic in living areas. W/D, DW,
$650/mo $600 dep (payable in pmts) 386-
496-1058, 386-266-9810 10-8-09-5-2
SMALL CABIN 2BR/1BA, 20 ACRES.
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in. 330-
329-8834 10-8-5-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA, 1000sq
ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-ups,
pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 10-30-09-20-2
*2BR/1BA condo W/D, all new kitchen &
ceramic bath, carpet. 2nd floor $700/mo in-
cludes water sewer, trash. Low move in cost.
Nice quiet 12 unit complex, 1.5 miles to UF
campus. Phone 772-801-9884 10-9-09-5-2*2BR/1BA condo, W/D, microwave, ice
maker. Walk-out patio, All new kitchen & ce-
ramic bath. hrdwood firs. $750/mo ind water,
sewer, trash. Low move in cost. Nice quiet
12 unit complex, 1.5 mi to UF 772-801-9884
10-9-09-5-2
F subleases
WALK TO UF/DOWNTOWN BARS
Luxury 1BR/1BA Apt. wood Floors & patio
$970 All Inclusive: Cable W/HBO, power/wa-
ter, wireless, fully furnished w/ washer/dryer,
parking decal. Pool, Fitness center. Sw 3rd
ave & Sw 5th st Avail. Now thru Aug '10
904-571-1550
10-8-6-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo ind
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-30-09-47-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male preferred. Share 4BR/4BA Countryside
condo. Own bathroom, W/D, hi-speed in-
ternet, on bus rte. Utils included. $400/mo.
863-634-1893. Available immediately. 10-
8-09-35-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house,
great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
10-7-09-20-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
10-7-09-10-4
Townhome to share. 1BR/pvt BA in
2BR/2.5BA, minutes from UF & Archer shop-
ping. Clean & private. Fenced patio. $350/mo
+ 1/2 utils. Available Oct 1st. Call 850-209-
2783 10-5-09-5-4
Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone. Furn rm
avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo or $100/
wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc avail.
Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to vacate.
Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 10-5-5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
"Copyrighted Material
4 Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 15
F Furnishings Computers For Sale Autos Wanted
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
l Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-712-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting!
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
l Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
B 6 l 0 4 a 0 .0-4D -a 0
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content 'g Is
Available from Commercial News Providers"
r i
i1%'mm
Eu'*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
A Brand New Amazon Kindle 2 (latest
Generation) wireless E-book reader for sale,
$275. Holds over 1,500 books and Over
350,000 books available. More features see
Amazon.com. Call 352-214-4127. John 10-
6-09-6-10
MOtorCyCIes, MopedS
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
.00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
WIIIAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
0Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 10-14-10-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Ell Wantd
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgoldjewelry, scrapgold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 10-9-09-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 10-
9-09-74-13
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
I the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
16, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
I HelpWanted HelpWanted 7 services Services EntertainmEnt
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 10-7-09-2-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Looking for front desk/medical asst. Busy
medical office looking for receptionist &/
or medical asst to help in front desk duties
answering phones & scheduling appts, as-
sist physician w/charting of patient infor. HS
diploma reqd, med terminology in anatomy &
physiology pref. Flex hrs, PT/FT avail. Salary
neg. Fax resume to 352-377-4816 or email
jere.scola@gmail.com 10-9-09-15-14
Mandarin speaking childcare helper needed
for part-time help in private home. Please
contact (352)219-8104. 10-5-09-10-14
PT- Lead generation, work from your loca-
tion, day & evening options. Hourly rate plus
bonuses. Includes paid training. Prefer some
phone experience, but not required.
Call 450-1737- 24 hour info line. 10-6-09-
10-14
SOFTWARE -Hypercube, Inc. (www.hyper.
com) has local part-time jobs for energetic,
capable students interested in making con-
tributions to a well-know international soft-
ware company. Knowledge of Computer
Science, Chemistry, or Business is essential.
Resumes to employment@hyper.com 9-20-
09-5-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
P/T Hotel Front Desk Employee needed.
M,W,F 7AM to 3PM. Cabot Lodge 3726 SW
40th Blvd. 375-2400 10-8-10-14
HIRING EXPERIENCED KITCHEN HELP,
WAIT STAFF & HOSTESSES.
Apply in person 39th Ave by Santa Fe & NW
10th Place off Newberry Rd.
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT 10-
8-09-10-14
Running computer software and office ad-
min support work for ocean wave analy-
sis. Will train. $15/hr 20 to 30 hrs/week.
waves.job@gmail.com 10-5-09-7-14
Five Star Pizza Downtown
is now hiring for managment positions
must have energy must multitask. fun
atmosphere. apply in person only. @
210 sw 2nd ave ask for Matt.
10-6-5-14Looking for door to door sales rep who can
sell our new wireless item that has a Florida
Gator Logo on it- Easy sale and big profits -
www.socketpocket.com email
eric@cfapromo.com 10-7-09-3-14
Need ASAP 30 Typists for Transcription
(65+wpm). Self Scheduling, minimum 16
hours per week. Open M-F, 7am-midnight.
Production based compensation up tp $12
per hour, and quarterly profit sharing. Close
to campus. Ideal for PT and Students.
Email with interest to: gnvjobs@uigfla.com
10-7-09-5-14
Students Needed -full or part
time. Earn $10-$15/hr.
352-505-1322
10-7-5-14
OPS AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN 11
Temporary position, up to forty (40) hours
per week, inspecting citrus nursery stock
and other plant material at retail locations
throughout north Florida for pest of economic
importance. Requirements: High School
diploma. Valid FL Drivers License, satisfac-
tory work history. Experience in plant patho-
gens, insect identification, agriculture and/or
biological science. Salary $10.13/hr. Apply in
person, Florida Department of Agriculture &
Consumer Services, 1911 SW 34th Street,
Gainesville FL. If questions contact Christine
Zamora (352) 372-3505. Deadline to apply:
October 9th, 2009. EOE/AA/ADA 10-5-2-
14
Soccer Referees wanted. Learn to be a ref
and make $$$ every weekend. Ref course
here in Oct. Go to http://www.fsr-inc.com for
more info and to register.
info@gainesvillesoccer.org. 10-9-09-5-14
Home Work Coach wanted for bright young
man w/ ADHD, JR. @ SFCHS. Flexable
hours, strong organizational and study skills
a must. $12.00/hr Email qualifications to:
mazdra@windstream.net 10-9-09-5-14
WAREHOUSE STAFF!!
PT inventory control, flexible hours. Great job
for students! Will work around class sched-
ule. Apply at Concessions Office. South End
Zone Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, next To the
Gator Sport Shop (352) 375-4683 x6500
10-7-09-3-14
Sitter needed part-time in private home with
bright 1st grader after school. Tue/Wed
3-6PM. Excellent pay. Must have car, refer-
ences. Call 352-870-3418. 10-7-3-14
J ServICes
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUESAWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-7-
15-15
FULL HORSE BOARD
Stalls, paddocks, pasture. Reasonable. West
of 175. Alachua. 386-462-3479 10-9-09-15-
15
From BRAZIL and NEW YORK- I have all
new trends for hair-DRY CUTS SAHAG
STYLE- BRAZILIAN KERATIN treat. NO
MORE FRIZZ HAIR-by CONCY STIMAC-
call(352)514-0957-1 0%off with this add
10-19-20-15
For thorough and dependable cleanings for
your home, office, or apartment please call
J & B Cleaning (352) 278-8571
10-15-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
10-6-5-15
TENNIS LESSONS!!
Experienced instructor. Cheap private/
group lessons. No equipment needed. It's
never too late to learn! Call 618.203.2721.
10-8-09-5-15Keep Your Security Deposit! Have your car-
pet cleaned. I have great prices! I charge just
$12.50 a room. 2 bedroom apartments w/LR
Just $39.00. 3 BR w/LR just $49.00. 4 BR
w/LR just $59.00. Call me and save yourself
time and money. PH. # (352) 377-6058. "14
years experience" 10-9-5-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Juke box for sale, 1974 Seeburg (needs
repair) plus 160 classic rock 45 rpm's/
Springsteen, Eagles, Stones, Beatles,
CSN&Y. $150 OBO. 352-317-3866 10-9-
5-21
WJZolTickets
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment VisasBOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 10-14-09-
28-22
Wanted
2 LSU Football Tickets
Call 404-391-6935 10-7-4-22
Buying FL vs GA Tlx
Top Paid- Local Pick-up. 1-877-596-1234
10-30-09-21-22
W ZRides
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
GMG TRANSPORTonneCtions FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Want to make a connection? Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtraWantto ake conecton? charge pay by phone or online- $35 C/W
Place your ad here to look for someone to _ 5 R/T wwwgmgtrans com 352-215-8196share a common interest with or for your true 12-9-74-23
love
Q iEvent NiCes Pets
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Race for Grace 5k Run/Walk Event
Saturday, Oct. 10th
Westside Park (1001 NW 34th St)
Registration 7:30am race begins at 8:00am
http://raceforgrace5k.eventbrite.com/ 10-
6-09-7-20
Gainesville SCUBA Club
Come to our first meeting Wednesday,
October 21 7:00pm at Water World
Go to www.gainesvillescubaclub.com for
more info 10-20-09-16-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. M -R, October 5-8 from
5:00 -7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W;
Math sessions are T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register. 10-5-5-20Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
1 Lost & Found
FOUND:
GLASSES & CONTACTS
Near Soccer Field & FD Precinct #19, SW
20th Ave. first part of Sept. Call to identily
352-404-2419 10-4-3-25
LOST:
LITTLE BLACK CELL PHONE
on campus, possibly behind Academic
Personnel or Stadium. Cal 352-392-0494
10-6-09-2-25
Sports
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF opens lacrosse stadium with pair of exhibition wins
0 THE GATORS FEATURE THE COUNTRY'S TOP
RECRUITING CLASS.
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
Amanda O'Leary and UF's athletic department
had a dream. A dream of what UF's first women's la-
crosse program could be. A dream they sold to more 4N
than 20 young women. On Saturday, they watched
the final piece of the puzzle fall into place.
O'Leary, the women's lacrosse coach, stood on the
sidelines for the inaugural game in the newly con-
structed stadium, located on Hull Road across from
the Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
UF competed in two exhibition games and won
both, defeating Jacksonville 22-4 and topping Rollins
27-6.
"It gave me goose bumps," O'Leary said. "When
you step on the field and you see them in their uni-
forms and you hear the national anthem, to see it all
come to fruition is really exciting."
On the field for UF on Saturday was the country's
No. 1 recruiting class, according to Inside Lacrosse
Magazine. The group consists of 29 women, 24 of
whom are registered freshmen.
With UF's program only a dream during recruit-
ing, O'Leary simply shared that vision with the ath-
letes she wanted to join the program. That, coupled
with each player meeting Athletics Director Jeremy
Foley, did the job. Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
"We decided that we would have this dream. UF midfielder Samantha Farrell makes a goal during the Gators' 27-6 exhibition win against Rollins on Saturday. The
SEE LAX, PAGE 19 Gators played their first-ever lacrosse games on Saturday. Florida also defeated Jacksonville 22-4.
Wildcats hand Gators first regular-
season loss at home since 2004
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
a ch ia ng@a Iligator org
After losing their first regular-season home match
since 2004, the Gators wasted no time starting a new
streak.
No. 5 Florida cruised by Tennessee (10-5, 3-2 South-
eastern Conference) on Sunday 3-0 (25-20,25-19,25-21)
to bounce back from a rare home loss to No. 15 Ken-
tucky on Friday 3-2 (25-9, 19-25, 25-23, 20-25, 11-15).
Despite the win Sunday, the loss against Kentucky
(15-1, 5-0 SEC) has put Florida in an unfamiliar posi-
tion -second place. UF (11-2,5-1 SEC) now finds itself
in danger of not winning the SEC for the first time in
19 seasons despite Kelly Murphy's third triple-double
of the season Friday.
"The attitude has to change. After Friday, we have
no choice but to be on our way back up," junior oppo-site hitter Lauren Bledsoe said. "That was pretty much
rock bottom for us, and the whole rest of the season
we are going to be working our way back up."
The match against Kentucky appeared to have
"The attitude has to change. After Friday,
we have no choice but to be on our way
back up."
Lauren Bledsoe
UFjunior opposite hitter
been a wake-up call for the Gators, as there were no
lingering effects from the loss against the Volunteers.
"We certainly had the players' attention," coach
Mary Wise said. "There was never a lull in terms of
SEE VOLLEY, PAGE 19Loss has long-term value
he Florida volleyball team's Friday night, five-set home loss
to Kentucky is a great sign for Gators fans.
The heartbreaking defeat may have made UF's road to a
19th straight regular-season Southeastern Conference title a little
bit tougher, but it also made the road to UF's first-ever national
championship a little bit easier.
Kyle Maistri
Kyle Points
kmaistri@alligator orgFor years, coach Mary Wise has said the
SEC needs to get better as a whole for the
Gators to be the best team they can possibly
be.
Florida has made a habit of cruising
through a conference schedule against op-
ponents with far inferior talent before bow-
ing out in the middle of the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
The Gators haven't advanced to the Final
Four since 2003, and they have only made
one championship game during the last 18 years despite advanc-
ing to seven Final Fours.
Every year since Wise took over in 1991, Florida has been the
class of its conference but never a national champion.
Those 18 banners certainly look pretty hanging in the team's
practice facility, but they've really been nothing but a giant road
block.
The conference slate has done UF a disservice with its 3-0 wins
SEE KYLE, PAGE 19
E The UF men's golf team tied for
third at the Gary Koch Invitational.
For a recap along with a look at
recent tennis results, check out
alligatorSports.org.POLL RESULTS
Previous question:
Who is the fourth-
best team in college
football?Percent (Votes)
LSU 34% (121)
Va. Tech 23% (80)
Oklahoma 17% (60)
Other 14% (49)
Boise St. 12% (41)
351 TOTAL VOTESTEEING OFF WITH PHIL KEGLER
U Notre Dame receiver Golden Tate had nine catches for 244 yards and a touch-
down Saturday. That's two more yards than any Florida wideout has for the sea-
son. .The SEC ref crew that called the LSU-Georgia game on Saturday needs to
be seriously reprimanded for inserting itself into the outcome. The two excessive
celebration penalties on A.J. Green and Charles Scott were absolutely atrocious.
18, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
Today through i ober 9, Albert will be
taking a tour of te versity of Florida. See
how well you know the UF campus by figuring
out where each photo was taken. Keep track of D
his tour by entering each of the 5 locations into
the location log below. Once completed, deliver
or mail your form to The Alligator. All entries
must be received by 4 pm Monday, October 12,
2009 for the prize drawing.
Grand Prize -over $200 value
Alligator Gift Basket including:
6 Gator Growl tickets
6 Homecoming Alumni BBQ tickets
9 First Place Prizes:
4 Gator Growl tickets 0
Deliver to:
The Alligator
1105 W. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
Mail to:
The Alligator
Where's Albert Contest F
P.O. Box 14257
Gainesville, FL 32604
Submit online at www.alligator.org/albert
2009 -vwal~to~r/l~ ----*
Discovered Locations:
10 winners will be randomly drawn from correct entries on Tuesday, Oct. 13, 2009. Entries must be received by 4 pm Monday, Oct. 12, 2009. Of the 10 winners, one winner will be drawn for the Grand Prize.
Winners will be announced in The Alligator's 2009 Homecoming Souvenir Edition, published Friday, Oct. 16, 2009. Please do not call to inquire concerning the contest or the results. Picture ID required
to collect winnings. Winners will be selected by random drawing, with odds of winning dependent upon the number of correct entries. One entry per person. Officers, directors, employees, their family
members of The Alligator, Homecoming and Gator Growl are not eligible to enter. No purchase necessary. You do not need to be present to win. Prizes will be awarded only to winners and cannot be sold.
Certain restrictions apply. Subject to availability.e2is
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Bledsoe, Jaeckel lead offense against Tennessee
VOLLEY, from page 17
execution or effort."
Wise had the attention of middle blocker
Cassandra Anderson when she called upon
her to start the match as the team's server, a
role she has never had to fill.
"That was my first time serving first, so
I was a little surprised, but I liked doing it,"
Anderson said.
Although it was her first time, it might
not be the last time she is put in that po-
sition. Anderson led a 7-0 run to start the
second set, as she kept putting pressure
on the Volunteers by keeping her serve in
bounds.
"There aren't a lot of middle blockers in
the country that serve," Wise said. "It could
very easily be that we decide to start Cas-
sandra right back to begin with her serve. It
would be a pretty good offensive weapon
right out of the gate."
Leading UF's offensive attack was Bled-
soe, who racked up double-digit kills for
the first time since Sept. 11 against South
Florida.
She finished Sunday's match with 10
kills to go along with a .500 hitting percent-
age. After only combining for six kills in her
last three matches, Wise was happy with
the increased physicality Bledsoe showed
against Tennessee.
Sophomore outside hitter Kristy Jaeckela7 M
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF opposite hitter Lauren Bledsoe celebrates a point during the Gators' 3-0 win
Sunday. Bledsoe had 10 kills to help UF sweep Tennessee in the O'Dome.
also finished the match with 10 kills and "To hit .299 against the best digging and
nine digs, falling just short of a double- blocking team in the league and to outblock
double. the best blocking team in the league (seven
Coming into the match, the Volunteers to five) is the statement of how well we
sat atop of the SEC in digs and blocks, but played today," Wise said.
they could not stop the Gators' attack.
Lacrosse players swayed by Gators' facilities, atmosphere
LAX, from page 17
The dream was that we were
gonna provide them with a
first-class facility, and that
we were gonna have all the
resources available to them
to have them compete at the
highest level," O'Leary said.
"So, they just had to buy into
a dream of what we were
gonna do for them."
The athletes who bought
into the dream were not dis-
appointed, traveling from
states including Maryland
and New York to join a pro-
gram that was being con-
structed from the ground up.
UF's new lacrosse facility
has two fields, one for gamesand the other for practice.
The 1,500-seat stadium
also includes a locker room,
a training room and equip-
ment storage rooms for the
players' comfort.
"The facility is beautiful;
our athletic department, they
spoiled us," freshman Janine
Hillier said.
"We knew that we were
gonna get an outstanding fa-
cility (because of) Jeremy Fo-
ley. We trusted him, and he
came out with probably one
of the best facilities in the
country."
Sophomore Rachael Zim-
merman, who played one
year at North Carolina but
took a year off prior to com-
ing to UF, said when shecame to Gainesville for her
visit, the reputations of UF
and the Southeastern Confer-
ence made her decision easy.
She said she was "in awe"
of how UF's athletic teams
were funded
and sup-
ported, and
she was con-
Lacrosse fident that
"if the Gators
are gonna do
something, they're gonna do
it right."
"For me, I don't know if
I'm a sucker, but it was pret-
ty damn easy," Zimmerman
said.
"We came down here,
there wasn't even a facility
built, but looking at the foot-ball teams and the basketball
teams and just the SEC in
general, we knew that Jer-
emy Foley wouldn't let us
down."
With the roster she has
and the hard work the team
has put in, O'Leary has high
expectations for UF's first-
ever team.
UF will continue its inau-
gural fall schedule with more
exhibitions.
Next up is the Princeton
Tournament on Oct. 17,
when the Gators will face
top teams such as Syracuse,
UNC, Princeton and North-
western -the five-time de-
fending NCAA champions.
The regular season kicks
off February 2010.
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens
Fall Open House & Plant Sale
featuring
Orchids in the Garden
Gainesville Orchid Society's Annual Show
Saturday & Sunday, Oct. 10 & 11, 2009
4700 SW 58th Dr.(entrance on SW Archer Rd.,1 mile west of 1-75, exit #384)
Hours: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. both days
Beautiful, juried displays by professional growers and orchid societies .
Educational seminars on orchid growing both days -Door prizes -Vendors offer
potting supplies, orchids and wide variety of other plants including flowering
shrubs and trees, hummingbird and butterfly attractants, palms, cycads, cacti,
succulents, bamboos, carnivorous plants, herbs, gingers, bonsai, wildflowers,
natives, tropicals, ground covers, accessories AND MORE! Bring a picnic lunch
and spend the day!
Major Sponsors: American Travel Group and Target Copy
Call 352-372-4981 for more information.
-E S SHOW A G RD- SWTZWMdON 't0
Walk in or call to Hours |make an appointment. N S
379-4686 Mon -Fri 8-5
Located on Ground Floor Saturday 9-2
Offering Men's and Women's Services
IN THE
EVERY
THURSDAYKYLE, from page 17
and lack of a true rival.
There hasn't been another school to
push the Gators to the top of the moun-
tain, and that's why fans shouldn't be too
down that Kentucky was able to hand UF
just its second regular-season conference
home loss in the Wise era.
"The level of play makes us a better
team," Wise said after the match. "I hope
our fans will stick with us. They're in new
territory, but they've also been clamor-
ing for the SEC to get better. Well, guess
what? The SEC is, and it's not getting any
easier Sunday."
It did get easier Sunday, as UF rolled to
a 3-0 defeat of Tennessee, but the message
rings true regardless.
The Gators need the Wildcats -or
any other SEC school -to prepare them
for the championship run that has eluded
them to this point.
Sophomore setter/outside hitter/
baller Kelly Murphy is good enough to
lead UF to its first national championship
before she leaves Gainesville, but so were
plenty of other players who have suited
up for Wise.
Matches like the one on Friday night
will teach her and the rest of her team-
mates how to play in -and eventually
win -close matches against quality op-
ponents.
And that's something many of the
great players who have come through the
program never had the opportunity to
learn.
Senior libero Elyse Cusack, for instance,
had never lost in the O'Dome in her entire
career until Friday night.
"The SEC is definitely making a name
for itself now," Cusack said. "Every match,
we know we have to play hard. Kentucky
has definitely picked up the level of the
SEC, and now, we're a conference to be
reckoned with."
So what if the loss keeps the Gators
from their 19th straight SEC title?
I'm sure they would be happy to trade
it for their first national championship,
even if it takes a few more losses like this
one to get there.
PLANT
A
TREE
20, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2009
UF SOCCER
Poor weather plays role in Gators' winless weekend
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@a IIigato r org
Out of the mud and into the rain.
On Friday night in Starkville, Miss., the UF
soccer team (8-4-1, 2-1-1 Southeastern Confer-
ence) battled a muddy field and came away
with a 1-1 tie against Mississippi State (8-2-2,
0-2-2 SEC).
Sunday in Oxford, the teamplayed in a con-
stant downpour that lasted the whole game
and lost to Ole Miss 3-2 in double overtime.
"Is (rain) a factor? Yeah, but that doesn't
mean that's the reason that we lost the game,"
UF coach Becky Burleigh said. "Whenever the
field isn't in good shape, it's problematic for
the way that we play."
Burleigh said her team was able to play
its possession-style game well in the first half
Sunday, but conditions worsened in the sec-
ond half as the rain kept falling.Amid the deluge, Sunday's match played
out like a rollercoaster.
After a scoreless first half in which the
Gators played their style of play as well as the
conditions allowed, the Rebels (8-3-0, 2-1 SEC)
got on the board in the 61st minute when Han-
nah Weatherly took a header by UF's Jessica
Eicken, who was attempting to clear the ball,
and ripped it into the back left of the goal from
9 yards out.
"It's one of those unfortunate things that
happens where you do what you're supposed
to, but it just doesn't work out the way you
planned," Eicken said. "I did everything I
could."
Goalkeeper Katie Fraine said the team felt
confident about responding from a 1-0 deficit.
Less than two minutes later, Brooke Thig-
pen did answer, tying the game off a shot from
the left side from 12 yards out to the far post.
The Gators scored again in the 78th minute
when Tahnai Annis headed in a ball servicedby teammate Tricia Townsend.
"Honestly, when we went 2-1, I thought
that we were going to win," Burleigh said.
Ole Miss roared back to life in the 84th min-
ute when Kelsey Breathitt -off teammate
Taylor Cunningham's serve
-beat Fraine to net one to-
ward the back post.
Eicken said the team
may have been playing too
passive with the lead.
"We were pushing back
instead of going forward
Burleigh and trying to get another
goal," she said.
The Rebels applied pressure all game, tak-
ing 13 shots to the Gators' five in the second
half. Despite the number of opportunities Ole
Miss had, it failed for the most part to capital-
ize on any of them.
With the late tying goal, the Rebels forced
overtime, sending the Gators into extra timefor the second straight match.
It looked like UF might score the golden
goal, with three corner kicks within a three-
minute span in the first overtime period, but
none of the chances were converted.
Ole Miss took advantage in the 102nd min-
ute, when Danielle Johnson took a free kick
from 19 yards out that Abbie Curan headed in
for the Rebels win.
UF's defense was missing senior Lauren
Hyde (fever) and Kathryn Williamson, who
came out after two minutes of play due to her
ankle. Burleigh said UF's depth allowed her to
plug in other people who have played in those
defensive positions before.
The loss drops UF to 1-2-1 in overtime this
season and 1-3-1 on the road. Burleigh said
she isn't worried about any perception that
her team can't win on the road.
"I think our team will be fine in the long
run," she said.
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.
Women finish third behind pair of top-10 runners
0 THE MEN HAD A DISAPPOINTING
17TH-PLACE FINISH.
By JESSICA ETTER
Alligator Writer
Two personal bests were good enough
to crack the top 10 at the Notre Dame Invi-
tational as well as the UF record books.
The No. 15 women's team finished in
third place at the meet thanks to top-10
finishes by Stacey Johnson and Charlotte
Browning.Johnson, who finished sixth, competed
in her first race for the Gators and ran the
5K course in 16:41, the fourth-best time re-
corded by a UF woman. Browning, who
finished ninth, also recorded a new per-
sonal best of 16:59, the eighth-best time in
UF history.
Redshirt sophomore Rebecca Lowe
competed in her first cross country race
since 2007 and finished 22nd with a time of
17:11.
"Everything is coming together," coach
Todd Morgan said after the race Friday."It's great to have Rebecca back, and it was
a great first race for Stacey."
Overall, five of the nine women runners
Cross
Countryrecorded new personal-best
times during the race.
The women's team fin-
ished with 104 points, be-
hind No. 1 Washington (33)
and No. 6 Princeton (68).
The unranked men's team
was far from finishing like the women's
team. The men finished in 17th place with
386 points. No. 22 Washington took first inthe men's race as well.
Anthony Morales was the first Gator to
cross the finish line during the 5-mile race
and finished 38th with a time of 24:30.
Morales was also the first UF runner to
finish during the Mountain Dew Invitation-
al in September, when he finished second
overall.
"It wasn't a great day for the men," Mor-
gan said. "We need to get back together
and get things back on track. We need to
build off of this and get ready to go very
quickly."
YOUR HEALTH IS
OUR PRIORITY
We have medical professionals on-
call to assist you around the clock
whenever you are ill or injured. Just
call us to be in touch with a health
expert at any hour. In case of an
emergency, dial 9-1-1.
Call 352-392-1161
U PStudent Health Care Center
