Sthe independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 33 We Inform. You Decide.-0CY
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
LOCAL NEWS
Restaurant closes doors with little notice
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
The interior of Mellow Mushroom seen through its front door Thursday afternoon. The University Avenue
restaurant closed Tuesday night.By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
Gainesville residents will have
to get their psychedelic fix some-
where else now that local pizza
favorite Mellow Mushroom has
closed up shop.
Mellow Mushroom, 1209 W
University Ave, closed its doors
indefinitely Tuesday night due to
a host of ambiguous reasons.
"We've had a lot of problems
with the equipment and the whole
building in general, really. It's di-
lapidated," said Zach Joiner, 24, a
server and cook who worked at
Mellow Mushroom for more than
2 1/2 years.
Joiner, who last worked as a
cook Monday night, said a man-
ager told him via text message late
Tuesday night that the owner of
the restaurant, Deo Klein, was per-
manently closing the Gainesville
location and the doors would be
locked Wednesday.
Klein could not be reached for
comment.
"There are probably still a few
employees who don't know,"
Joiner said.Mellow Mushroom CEO Rich-
ard Brasch said the Gainesville
location was the only location to
close in "quite some time."
"The condition of the store
would have ultimately required a
substantial amount of infrastruc-
ture investment, and the owner
was hesitant to make that finan-
cial commitment," Brasch said of
the franchised location.
Although Brasch could not
comment further on the exact rea-
sons for the close, he said the econ-
omy might have been a factor.
"The decision by the owner to
close was not shocking," Brasch
said.
Joiner had a different reaction.
"It was definitely very unex-
pected," Joiner said.
Stephanie Rogg, a UF sopho-
more and a frequent Mellow
Mushroom customer, also ex-
pressed shock and disappoint-
ment.
" mean, some restaurant had
to close. I'm just surprised it was
this one," Rogg said, referring to
the economy. "I used to go to Mel-
low Mushroom every day before
SEE RESTAURANT, PAGE 8
HINI vaccine on order
By MARIA PIQUET
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County's first batch of HINI
vaccines is expected to arrive early next
week.
The Alachua County Health Depart-
ment put in an order for about 1,500
HINI vaccines this week, and they are
expected to arrive Monday or Tuesday.
More shipments are expected to arrive
weekly until January, and people can re-
ceive them at ACHD, 224 SE 24th St., for
free.
"Because we're not getting them all
at once, we're going to have to prioritize
who is getting the vaccine first," said Paul
Myers, assistant director of ACHD.
Children will receive the first vaccines
because they are one of the most vulner-
able groups to the virus, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, Myers said.
There are two types of swine flu vac-cines. There's a nasal spray, which con-
tains the alive, attenuated influenza vi-
rus, and there's a shot, which contains the
inactive virus, Myers said. The upcom-
ing shipment will only include the nasal
spray.
Because the nasal spray contains the
live influenza virus, it's not suitable for
people who have underlying health con-
ditions such as asthma or
Local diabetes, he said. They will
News have to wait a couple of
weeks before the flu shot
starts getting included in
the shipments.
The Health Department hopes to
give doses of the vaccine to the UF Stu-
dent Health Care Center within the next
month or so, Myers said.
"It all depends on how much we re-
ceive up front, what type of vaccine we're
getting and what kind of penetration into
the most vulnerable populations we get,"
Myers said. "Then we'll start getting into
SEE VACCINE, PAGE 8Students rush to sell
high-demand tickets
By ANDREW NORRIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Patrick Reynolds walked into Library
West at about 5:45 p.m. Monday. He sat
down, opened his laptop and waited until 6
p.m. Congratulations -ticket found.
Reynolds, a UF sophomore, is one of the
5,000 students whose computers ran the
virtual gauntlet that is Ticketmaster and
emerged with a ticket to the UF-Georgia
game Oct. 31.
"When it got to my place in line, I was re-
ally excited, " Reynolds said. "I knew if I got
a ticket, I'd be able to sell it and make some
extra cash.""I knew if I got a ticket, I'd be
able to sell it and make some
extra cash."
Patrick Reynolds
UF sophomore
A look at Craigslist shows Reynolds
wasn't alone in that thought. Since Monday,
student and alumni tickets have been listed
for sale from $100 to more than $200.
"It's frustrating," said psychology senior
Josh Hernandez. "I feel like people who re-
ally want to watch the game and support the
SEE TICKETS, PAGE 8
Alligator to hold second open house to fill positions
In order to meet its daily demands, the
Independent Florida Alligator will hold its
second open house of the semester today
from 2 to 5 p.m.
Section editors will conduct on-the-spot
interviews to fill open positions, which in-
clude opinions editor, multimedia stringers,
bloggers, copy editors, reporters and photog-
raphers. The open house is open to UF and
Santa Fe College students of all majors.
Students are encouraged to bring anyclips, resumes and story ideas they have.
"Most importantly, we need to hire an
opinions editor," Managing Editor / Print
Brian Kelley said. "I am not witty."
Editors have also had trouble assigning
stories.
"It would really be nice if stringers called
us back," Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta said.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W Univer-
sity Ave.
-CHELSEA KEENANT0day
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
SunnyCR OSSWORD 16 95/73
SPORTS 17
visit www.alligator.org0 Top-ranked
Florida heads
to Baton Rouge
for a primetime
showdown with
No. 4 LSU in Tiger
Stadium (right). The
Tigers have won 32
straight Saturday
night home games.
See Story, Page 17.
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9,2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Everybody Dance Now (Free
lecture)
Friday, 10:40 a.m.
Nadine McGuire Pavilion,
Studio G6
A presentation centered
around 20th century social
dance forms: Charleston, rock
In' roll, lindy hop, hip-hop,
house, crip walk and other
social and club dance forms.
UF Orchestra presents: The Bad
Boys of Music
Friday, 7:30 p.m.
University Auditorium
Conducted by Raymond
Chobaz. Tickets are $10 for
the general public, $8 for
UF faculty, staff and non-
UF students, and free to UF
students. For tickets, call
352-392-ARTS (2787) or visit
www.ticketmaster.com.
Workshop:"ImmigrantCultural
Production in Europe"
Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Dauer Hall, Room 215
Eight scholars will present
their work about forms of
creative expression produced
by members of immigrant
groups, touching on their ex-
perience of exile and disloca-
tion. Sponsored by the Center
for European Studies.
Shabbat with the Machens
Hillel, 2020 W University
Ave.
Today, services at 7 p.m., din-
ner at 8:30 p.m.
UF President Bernie Machen
and his wife, Chris Machen,
will join students at UF Hillel
for this week's Shabbat and
speak about their recent trip
to Iran. Candle lighting and
services will begin as usual
at 7 p.m., followed by dinner
and the Machens' speech at
8:30 p.m. The dinner is free
for UF students and $20 for
community members.
JumpstART II: Going Solo!
A Workshop in Creative
Entrepreneurship
Saturday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The Harn Museum of Art
JumpstART II is a full-day
workshop that engages par-
ticipants with interactive
discussions, lectures and
activities, allowing for the
exchange of ideas and net-
working among aspiring lo-
cal artists and entrepreneurs.
Much of the workshop will
focus on entrepreneurial top-
ics such as business planning,
marketing and fundraising.
The workshop is open to all
visual and performing artists
in the area.
Simchat Torah 1000! at Chabad
Saturday, 8:30 p.m. to 1 a.m.
2021 NW 5th Ave.
Saturday night live: AFORECAST
TODAY
SUN NY
95/73SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
92/71
grand Simchat Torah cel-
ebration; Dance with the
Torah. Evening Service and
Hakafot: Refreshments, a
hot buffet and L'chaim will
be served all night.
Dante Alighieri Society of
Gainesville meeting
Monday, 7:30 p.m.
The Tower Club at The
Village
Interested in Italy and
Italian culture? Come to
the first meeting of the
2009-2010 season. Mary
Watt, associate professor of
Italian at UF, will be talking
about the real Christopher
Columbus. Visit dante-
gainesville.org for more in-
formation.
Close-Knit Gators Meeting
Tuesday, 6 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Close-Knit Gators is a char-
ity knitting organization
on campus. Crocheters and
those with minimal experi-
ence are also welcome to
join. We are making pump-
kin hats for babies at Shands
this month and would be
happy to have your help.
Visit our Facebook page or
e-mail korman33@ufl.edu
for more information.
Black Women's Image
Initiative
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Ustler Hall
Join the group as they take
some time to appreciate
ambitions and dreams in
"The Skin I'm In."
Engineers Without Borders
general body meeting
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Bartram Hall, Room 211
Come to the meeting to
find out how you can help
implement sustainable de-
velopment solutions for
less fortunate communities
locally and globally. All
majors are welcome.
UF Society of Professional
Journalists
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 285
Join SPJ's campus chapter
of the year Tuesday night
as new-media doctoral stu-
dent Jennifer Cox discusses
media convergence. This is
an important meeting for
those interested in the fu-
ture of journalism and mul-
timedia journalism careers.SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
91/71MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
90/70TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
85/64
UF Relay For Life Kickoff Party
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
Little Hall, Room 121
Join UF's Colleges Against
Cancer committee. At the
kickoff party you can regis-
ter your team, get fundrais-
ing ideas, receive informa-
tion about Relay For Life
events and more. For more
information visit www.re-
layforlife.org/uffl or e-mail
UFcollegesagainstcancer@ya-
hoo.com.
Alpha Zeta fundraiser
Thursday, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
The Gelato Company
Come support the coed hon-
ors/service fraternity in the
College of Agriculture and
get a complimentary gelato
with the purchase of an en-
tree and drink.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to
bkelley@alligator.org with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line. Please include a
one- to two-sentence synop-
sis of the event.
"C
C11C>C-1
C-C-U
_UU-
COcc
0Co
E
E
C-,
_C2
cc
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 33 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@a//igator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith,
Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Brittany Fayne,
Jon Levine, Joaquin Martinez,
Alex Olmetti, Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
MaxWeissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Universals
HALL OWE EN
-TORRORNIGflH
FLORIDA RESIDENT TKKETS
AS LOW AS $3999*
(Original Price $69.99)A
~1SAVINGS OF $30 Sun.-Thurs. event nights
SAVINGS OF $20 Fri. event nights
SAVINGS OF $10 Sat. event nights
Save on advance ticket purchase with promo code from specially-marked cans of Coca-Cola",
Diet Coke®, or Coca-Cola Zero or promo code from participating BURGER KING® restaurants.KAftsfYJ
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
REGIONAL
Reitz board
takes first at
conference
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
Showing up with one of the smallest
programming budgets, UF's Reitz Union
Board Entertainment left with the biggest
prize Saturday at the National Associa-
tion for Campus Activities' regional con-
ference in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Kristen Huff, RUB Entertainment
president, attributed UF's first-place fin-
ish Saturday to a dedicated, tight-knit
group of students all working together
to produce better programming for UF's
diverse Student Body.
"It means so much to me," Huff said.
"It's a recognition for all the hard work
we do."
UF beat Eckerd Col-
lege's Palmetto Produc-
tions fromSt. Petersburg
to win the top prize in
the $150,000 and below
budget bracket.
Huff "When she an-
nounced it was us, we
exploded -we were screaming and
shouting," said Amy Casaletto, vice
president of external affairs for RUB En-
tertainment. "People from other schools
were Gator chomping for us."
RUB Entertainment's budget of
$118,000 provides UF with free movie
viewings, comedians, karaoke programs
and a variety of other free nightly pro-
gramming.
"A lot more schools had a lot more
money than we do," Casaletto said. "I re-
ally think that's why we won, because we
do something every night and it's always
quality and it's always free."
Although the award carries no mon-
etary value, Huff hopes the top award
will mean a greater amount of funding in
future years.
"We just want students to have as
much fun as we do," she said.Wall lets students express worries
By NICOLE LYNN GREINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students expressed their concerns over cock-
roach infestations, stress and the national debt at the
Wall of Worries Thursday afternoon.
The event, which was put on by Student Gov-
ernment's Disability Affairs Cabinet, took place on
the Plaza of Americas and was held in honor of UF's
Disability Awareness Month.
Andrea Perez, a women's studies junior, wrote
about her battles with stress on the wall.
"Even though I have tried to stop, I just can't
break the cycle," she wrote.
Perez took some time to put her worry on the
wall, adding she already goes to the UF Counseling
Center on campus. She said events like the Wall of
Worries help students to know they are not alone.
Caroline Robichaux, director of Disability Affairs
Cabinet, said mental disabilities are the second-larg-
est registered disability on campus.
She said the idea behind the Wall
Local of Worries and the other events is to
News raise awareness and inform students
about mental and physical disabili-
ties on campus.
Students who contributed to the wall were given
tea and peppermints to help ease the stress they
were under.
"It's different," said UF sophomore Stephen
Holmgren. "I can't say I have seen anything like
that before."
Holmgren said he is worried about the national
debt. j"v
He said it's a problem that our generation is go-
ing to have to worry about and eventually pay off
in the future.
The campaign will cost SG about $1,500, Ro-
bichaux said.
Accent and SG have also arranged for Louis
"Twitchels" Centanni to speak on Oct. 21. Centanni
was profiled on MTV's "True Life: I have Tourettes."
Centanni's appearance will cost about $2,500.
A Halloween carnival will end the campaign
Oct. 29 from 12:30 p.m. to 2p.m. The carnival will Juliana Jimenez/ Alligator Staff
raise money for 15 students at the Sidney Lanier Religion junior Vickie Machado prepares to write on the Wall of Wor-
School, a school for people ages 3 to 22 who have ries. The SG Disability Affairs Cabinet displayed the wall Thursday on
disabilities the Plaza of the Americas for Disability Awareness Month.
Common, Kid Cudi may come to UF
0 IF SCHEDULED, THE SHOW
WILL TAKE PLACE DEC. 4.
Flavet Field might be getting a double
shot of rap in December with Common
and Kid Cudi, thanks to Student Govern-
ment Productions Music & Entertainment.
The SG-funded organization filed pa-
pers recently seeking funds for a possible
Dec. 4 show.
Common, an established rapper from
Chicago, could get paid $45,000 while Kid
Cudi, an up-and-comer known for his sin-
gle "Day 'N' Nite," is currently slated foran estimated $30,000.
The show would be the second major-event at the new band-shell, which was fin-
ished this summer. It
hosted a concert at the
end of August with
Citizen Cope and The
igs. About 4,000
people showed up.
Common Allen Johnson, a
sports management se-
nior, said he's a big fan of Common and
likes Kid Cudi too."Common isn't like other artists who
use vulgar language in their music," John-
son said. "I think Common is a good rep-
resentative of the African-American com-
munity."
He took issue, however, with the com-
bined price tag of $75,000.
"Hell no," he said. "That is way too
much money."
Instead, he'd like to see the money spent
on saving a program or a professor's job.
"We need to be putting that money
somewhere else," he said.
-THOMAS STEWART
Women's charities receive grants from local organizations
Commission awarded $500 to two groups
By KATHLEEN BIRKHIMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville's Commission on
the Status of Women is meeting
the economic climate with a poli-
cy of generosity.
The group recently doubled
the budget of the mini-grant it
introduced this fall, which aids
women's advocacy projects.
They awarded two $500 grants
this weekend to The Arbor House
and The Displaced HomemakerProgram.
"We were so impressed by
these two applicants that. the
board gave us the funding to
fund a second full grant this
first round," said Megan Silbert,
a member of the GCSW and a
leader in the mini-grant selection
process.
The Displaced Homemaker
Program aims to benefit women
who have primarily been home-
makers throughout their lives but
must now enter the workforce."The experience that we've
gathered over these years
is extremely important."
Nancy Griffin
Program coordinator
The program received a blow
when its funding was cut by 40
percent beginning July 1.
Although the mini-grant can't
come close to covering the orga-
nization's $67,000 cut, coordina-tor Nancy Griffin said the money
will buy workbooks she considers
essential tools for these women.
"The experience that we've
gathered over these years is ex-
tremely important and we want
to be able to give that information
away freely and not be charging
people," Griffin said.
"These women will be able to
go out and have a stronger eco-
nomic situation for them, which
also will benefit our community
in terms of productivity and may
benefit their children if they're
also parenting," Silbert said. "If
we have higher unemployment,then it's even harder to get a job
and they are more needed."
The Arbor House, which de-
clined an interview, provides safe
housing, counseling and career
resources for single and expect-
ant mothers, according to their
Web site.
The GCSW received 13 com-
plete applications, submitted by
for programs ranging from wom-
en's self-defense to religious em-
powerment. The selections were
based on factors such as how well
the applicants could measure
their effectiveness and the sus-
tainability of the programs.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
Environmentalist speaks about history of Fla. activism
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Joe Browder may have talked
about the Florida's history of envi-
ronmental activism, but he warned
his audience not to take history too
seriously.
Browder spoke to a crowd of
about 85 Thursday night at Pugh
Hall.
He said history has a tendency
to make struggles like the environ-
mental movement seem less intense
than they were.
"History has a way of sanitizing
conflicts and making the prevailing
participants appear to have been
safer and more acceptable than they
were at the time," Browder said.
Browder, an environmental ac-
tivist who worked in the Carter ad-
ministration and served as the con-
servation director of Friends of the
Earth, helped preserve the Florida
Everglades and continues to work
as an environmental consultant.
Browder said the environmen-
tal activism of the 1960s and 1970s
was possible because of the public
awakening that occurred across
Florida and the nation.
He said the public's frustra-
tion over the Vietnam War and the
struggle with discrimination led to
an increased openness to the move-
ment on a national level, while
South Florida was open to an op-portunity to end its associations
with land fraud and crime.
"I think we were riding some-
body else's waves," Browder said.
Looking back on his role as an
environmental advocate, Browder
said he encouraged students inter-
ested in protecting the environment
to develop a thick skin and a will-
ingness to engage in conflict.
Ryan Scott, a Gainesville resi-
dent, said Browder's message
emphasized standing up for the
environment even in the face of ad-
versity.
Scott said the speech taught him
how the history of Florida's natu-
ral resources involves
On a connection between
Campus industry, the economy
and politics.
Jack Davis, an associate profes-
sor of history at UF, said he values
Browder for his ability to offer pre-
cise, first-hand memories about his
role and the roles of other figures in
the environmental movement.
Davis interviewed Browder for
his biography of environmentalist
Marjorie Stoneman Douglas, who
worked with Browder.
"He has a steel-trap mind," Da-
vis said.
Browder will be donating letters,
newspaper clippings and photos
to the UF Libraries Special Collec-
tions during a ceremony at Library
East at noon today, Davis said.Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Joe Browder, principal of environmental consulting firm Dunlap & Browder, speaks in Pugh Hall
Thursday night about the Everglades, its history and the work he has done to preserve it.
ON CAMPUS
Smathers Libraries holds Internet search competition
By KRISTEN BOWE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students tested their abilities to
find random historical facts Thurs-
day night.
Forty-eight students assembledin Library West to take the 30-min-
ute, 20-question Digital Literacy
Contest put on by the Smathers
Libraries.
According to the libraries' Web
site, the contest tested students' In-
ternet search knowledge.
Daniel Poynter, a graduate ofPurdue University in Indiana and
co-founder of the event, said the
contest was like Jeopardy in that
students would be penalized for
wrong answers.
During the competition, stu-
dents turned, sighed deeply and
played with their nails and facialhair.
UF political science junior Ben
Cavataro won the event by a large
margin. Poynter said he received
the highest score ever recorded for
the contest.
Cavataro said he "came in on a
lurch," adding he didn't have highhopes when he came in.
"I used Google and LexisNex-
is," he said. "I tried to use a lot of
search engines for better results."
Cavataro, who won $200 cash,
said he was going to use the money
for paying rent and having a little
bit of fun.
Score B!g
WITH OUR EXPANDED AUDIENCE!
Advertise in the Alligator's
2009 Souvenir Homecoming Edition!
More than 60,000 people come to
Gainesville during the weekend-long
events. This is the time to promote your
business to readers who need places to
eat, celebrate, shop and sleep. Several
thousand copies are distributed along the
parade route.
Call today to secure your spot!
352-376-4482
Deadline: TODAY!
Run date: Friday, October 16 alligatorLFitt litU UL/
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Mention this ad and receive special discount
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
e ""an din his Hi itprovided shelter fo h' -'
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.STUDENT LOANS ON ANYTHING!!
e TV's 9 Stereo's 9 Jewelry 9
Musical Instruments e Tools
We buy gold & cash checks
BEST JEWELRY & LOAN523 NW 3rd Ave. (352) 371-4367
pawn brokers
Friends of the Library
Gigantic Book Sale
October 24-28
430 N. Main Street
Books -Manga -Puzzles & Games
DVDs -CDs -Records * Tapes
Comic Books * Magazines
Art Work -Computer Software
Over 350,000 items!
For details contact:
www.folacld.org
352-375-1676
Most prices: 250 -$3.00
Voted a Top Ten Event
In Gainesville!
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9,2009
It's been a pretty stressful week at the Alligator. Not only
do we all have exams coming up, we've also been do-
ing the jobs of several people. It's been so rough that we
might even take our three-day weekend early. On that note,
we present to you a doing-homework-at-home-has-never-
sounded-so-appealing edition of.
Darts & Darts
And Laurel.
First and foremost, we fire a big, fat DART to the 10-day
"sore"-cast on Weather.com. At 3 p.m., it should not feel
like 103 degrees. Did you not get the memo, Mamma Na-
ture? October is here.
In fact, it's so awful hot in this sunny state of ours that a
Tallahassee man has been to stripping down to his skivvies
to keep cool and comfortable during his daily bicycle ride.
But not for long.
Richard Irby, 55, was ordered not to wear a thong in pub-
lic any more and to stay out of trouble by a Leon County
judge Monday. Irby was charged with misdemeanor disor-
derly conduct Aug. 17 for showing too much while donning
his banana hammock in a mobile home park, according to
an article by The Associated Press.
However, the article fails to mention Irby's disability.
Locals call him the Bikini Bicyclist, and in a video on the
St. Petersburg Times Web site, it's made clear that the man
isn't stripping for attention.
Irby had to learn to eat, speak and walk again after he
was hit by a car in high school. He's most comfortable riding
his bike in a Speedo, like your grandpa does at the beach.
Let's launch a haven't-you-ever-seen-skin-before?
DART at the Leon County judge who ruled against Irby,
and hit all hit-and-run drivers with a can't-you-own-up-
to-your-actions? DART, preferably one dipped in salt and
lemon juice.
On a serious note, we launch a don't-drop-the-soap
DART to the 53-year-old former UF employee accused of
sexually violating a 9-year-old girl last year. If what this girl
says is true, then there's a special place in Hell for you, Da-
vid Blankenship.
The "unusual" and "luxury" gift store Brookstone has
come under fire after some say its new Frog-O-Sphere is not
habitable for the amphibians it houses.
Don't get us wrong; we're all about pets. One of our
moms even has a Shrimp-O-Sphere with a snowflake-sized
crustacean named Roscoe residing on her window sill.
However, Roscoe has been alive for a more than a year.
These frogs are reportedly dying within weeks.
We can't understand how these Frog-O-Spheres offer
a "starting point for learning about life in ecosystems," as
Brookstone's Web site claims. According to PetCo's Web
site, African Dwarf frogs -the kind Brookstone sells -
should be kept in a 10-gallon tank at minimum.
So, for keeping its product on the market just to make a
buck, we fling a poison DART frog at Brookstone.
And finally, a LAUREL to all of the bright and shining
faces we'll see tomorrow from 2 to 5 p.m. during the Al-
ligator's second open house of the semester. Remember to
bring clips, resumes and at least half a brain. We know, it's
Friday, and the last thing you probably want to do is look
for work.
Now that you've finished reading this edition of Darts
& Darts (& Laurel), bring a clipping of it today when you
apply for opinions editor. This is a test.
Be sure to wear your seat belts when driving to (and
from) Louisiana this weekend.Gooooo Gators!
a l l e independent fo rida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITORBrian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150words (about one letter-sized page) They must be typed, doubie-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wil be withheld if the writer showsjust cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Call 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.o rg/opinions
USAWNS CV1Lo PLAN MATERIALSES.
IVc
,O ARU W-
U
YOU'LL SEE VA Eh SWA-
UT T44L 13ACKUP
DN) r KN6W
6AE
Media obsessed wi
s you read this, I am hard at work imbibing theA contents of my giant, green Bubba Keg on a bus
to Baton Rogue.
I'm surrounded by more than 100 of my best friends
on this trip, and one thought continues to run through
my mind: Is Tim Tebow dead?
Actually, that question is probably irrelevant in the
ultimate scheme of things because John Brantley's Heis-
man campaign just now seems to be heating up. With-
out fail, every time I turn on ESPN, check Yahoo! Sports
online or pick up the Alligator, I read about the immi-
nent demise of Tebow and the rise of Brantley.
Did you know that his high school numbers were
better than Tebow's? Watch any news source for more
than a passing second, and you soon will.
To be completely honest, I'm flabbergasted that
Brantley hasn't yet jumped to the top of ESPN.com's
Heisman Watch poll. Both his passer rating and touch-
down-to-interception ratio are better than Tebow's.
Let's just go ahead and fly him to New York now and
award him the Heisman Trophy.
Frankly, all this attention focused on the quarter-
back situation here in Gainesville is flat-out ridiculous.
Without a doubt, some press is due when the Heisman-
Trophy-winning quarterback of the No. 1 team in the
nation goes down with a concussion. But the national
media obsession with Tebow and Brantley has spiraled
out of control.
In the end, though, this is just another symptom
of the media's fixation with college athletes such as
Tebow. It is simply unacceptable for the media and na-
tion to feast on the ups and downs of college athletes,
no matter what sport they participate in. At the end ofth college athletes
the day, these student athletes are
just that -student athletes.
Asking them whether they are
virgins (as they did to Tebow during
a press conference) is unethical and
not newsworthy. If you wouldn't
Kyle Robisch ask a college student standing nextletters@alligator org to you on the bus ride to the office
the question, you certainly should
not be putting these twenty-somethings on the spot in
front of the national spotlight.
Taking it a step further, some have even advocated
paying college athletes in the power conferences by not
only giving them free tuition but a flat salary. Aside
from destroying the slight parity that already exists in
college sports, this would completely eliminate the stu-
dent part of the equation.
If you attend a university and are granted a degree,
you damned well better have earned it. The current sys-
tem makes that outcome questionable for thousands of
college athletes, and a change to a salary-based system
in college sports would only make the value of their de-
grees laughable.
Tebow and his backup, Brantley, are just two of the
many examples of media excess and infatuation with
college stars. There should be coverage, without a
doubt. But there should also be respect for the fact that
they are both athletes and scholars.
Otherwise the media should be covering the speed
with which I just downed the full 72 ounces of my Bub-
ba Keg.
Kyle Robisch is a political science and economics junior.
His column appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Do you ride a
bicycle to class?Thursday's question: Should
religious symbols be allowed on
government-owned land?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org56% YES
44% NO
176 TOTAL VOTES
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
-r
Copyrighted Material
@ Syndicated Content
I Available from Commercial News Providers
S
4
Q tA T
ed)BpA
-f.( scooN0
352-378-70331718 W. Univ. Ave.
Bar & Oriff
HUS Saturday
Free Beer
L t D-J,\\I15t
Cartoon by Scott GrieveLetters to the Editor
Philadelphia doesn't hate dogs
I am shocked and extremely insulted from
Tommy Maple's article about my birthplace
and the city in which most of my family re-
sides. I am not going to comment about the
dog fighting subject because I love dogs and
know their value to our society.
Maple, who is a grad student in interna-
tional communications, has managed to ex-
amine the moves of two separate parties and
conclude that 1.4 million people feel the same
way. If he is with international communica-
tions, this is not a good way for him to start
off. Is he going to call other countries bad
names when he grows up to be a real grown
up and has a job?
This article should be about two parties
only: the 3rd District Court in Philadelphia
and the Philadelphia Eagles management.
The courts let Vick play. This has nothing to
do with the city or its residents, yet he calls
them heroin addicts and drug dealers. I have
news for him. There are drug dealers every-
where, even in Gainesville. Most important-
ly, there are thousands of UF students with
relatives from Philly and who are from there.
In a student newspaper, you have insult-
ed an entire nation of good people who hold
our city in the highest regard by printing his
trashy, sensationalized column. Let me be
clear -the city does not hate dogs. That is
my main point.
There are 1.4 million people in that city
and millions of others who love dogs, some
have even given up their season tickets be-
cause the Eagles signed Vick. They chose dogs
over their football team. Let me ask Tommy
this question: If you had season tickets for the
Gators, would you throw them away if Bran-
don Spikes had a dog fighting ring?
I ask that you retract his sixth paragraph
about Philadelphia's people and apologize
to me and all of the students families you
have insulted. I would much rather speak
to Maple personally, but he doesn't have the
face of a brave man. I am very interested to
know where he is from, so I can Google uglyincidents that happened in his hometown as
well. I do not expect him to reply, but would
love to hear from him. Alligator staff: Please,
for the sake of others, do not print garbage
that insults your student community.
Greg Fulginiti
Associate Director of Development
UF College of Engineering
U U U
Thursday column's author misinformed
I'm a Gator, and I read the Alligator ev-
ery day. Tommy Maple's Thursday column
is one of the worst I have read and one of the
most obvious examples of an author not do-
ing his research.
First of all, just because a manager, owner
and coach of a sports team decides to acquire
a specific player does not mean the entire
city is in favor of it. I live in and was in Phila-
delphia this summer when they acquired
Michael Vick. There was an incredible out-
cry from Philadelphia fans. So many people
were disappointed and there were even peo-
ple protesting in front of the stadium. People
have given up season tickets and vowed to
attend no more games because of what the
Eagles decided to do. Don't assume that ev-
eryone is in favor of the idea.
Quite frankly, I am not sure what the point
of this column even is. Are you upset with
the Eagles? Philadelphia? From this article
it's pretty apparent that the author has never
really experienced Philly. Philadelphia is ex-
tremely rich in history and art, and clearly the
author has no appreciation for culture. I don't
think the entire city of Philadelphia should be
looked down on because of one team's deci-
sion to acquire one player. Yes, Philadelphia
has some of the most knowledgeable and
passionate sports fans out there but in no way
does this make them bad people. This makes
Philly a great city to visit and live in.
Go Phillies! Go Eagles! Go Gators!
Fara Cohen
UFsophomore
99 Hairy Rusiness 13c122k .UnIversiHiet Lie RECYCLE S ie.
ody Iue YOUR NEWSPAPER.
*Now Hiring Stylsts* W.Universiyat r352-336-0599 U, 5.99
Your
OPINIONMatters!
Saving lives is not only a
goad thing, it makes you The Alligalor is fe -o
lookim g for a" Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.O p iaims e4 Ior. New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!Applicants should have experience with AP style, Must be 18 years r older, have va
I.D. along with proof of SS# and localediting, and editorial writing. re si e'
Newsroom experience is preferred, Wireless Internet Now Available!
but not required. Walk-ins Welcome.
Submit sample editorials to apply@alligator.org. ABiolest
OPEN HOUSE 1112 N.FMain St.ajjg~aI#I0 r Gainesville, FL 32601FRIDAY ?-s pm 352-378-9431
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9,2009
UF ADMINISTRATION
Nursing dean one of
three finalists for spot
The dean of the College of Nursing is
one of three finalists for the presidency of
Georgia Southern University, officials an-
nounced Thursday.
The university, located in Statesboro,
Ga., announced last month that Kathleen
Long was one of six finalists, but the field
has now been narrowed by half.
The other finalists are Brooks A. Keel,
vice chancellor for research and economic
development and professor of biological
sciences at Louisiana State University, and
David Belcher, provost and vice chancel-
lor for academic affairs at the Universityof Arkansas at Little Rock.
The current president, who has been
in office since 1999, will
resign at the end of De-
cember. Long has been
the dean and a profes-
sor at UF's nursing col-
lege since 1995.
Reached by phone
on Thursday, college
Long spokeswoman Tracy
Wrightdidn'tcomment
on the college's plans if Long departs.
-THOMAS STEWART
HINI takes 4th victim
0 SHE WAS 20 YEARS OLD.
By LEORA ARNOWITZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
The swine flu claimed its fourth victim
in Alachua County with the death of a
20-year-old woman in late September.
The woman, an Alachua County resi-
dent, was not a UF student, according to
Paul Myers, assistant director of the Ala-
chua County Health Department. He said
she had severe, underlying health condi-
tions when she contracted the flu.
"Our deepest sympathies are extend-
ed to family and friends," said ACHD
spokeswoman Jean Munden.
While most cases of the swine flu are
mild, pre-existing health conditions playa large role in determining how someone
will react to the virus, according to an
ACHD press release.
Symptoms of the flu include coughing,
sneezing and a fever of more than 100 de-
grees. People who are infected may expe-
rience a sore throat, runny or stuffy nose,
body aches, headaches, chills, fatigue, di-
arrhea or vomiting.
To prevent the spread of the swine flu,
ACHD encourages those who are feeling
sick to stay home and away from others.
Also, before visiting a medical office or
clinic, ACHD recommends sick individu-
als contact their medical provider for in-
structions.
"We continue to receive and inves-
tigate reports of flu transmission in the
county and urge citizens to exercise pre-
cautions against infection," Munden said.
Slow shifts signaled close
RESTAURANT, from page 1
games. It just sucks."
Joiner said that Monday's
trivia night was one of the slow-
est he's seen in years, whereas
past Mondays at Mellow Mush-
room defied the industry trend
of slow shifts.
"I think Tuesday was one of
the slowest lunches we've had. I
think we only made about $300
for the whole lunch period,"
Joiner said about the restau-
rant's last lunch shift.
Brasch could not confirm ru-
mors that Mellow Mushroom
would open another store in
Gainesville.
"We are going to work dili-
gently to create a plan to resur-
face in [the Gainesville] mar-
ket," he said. "We're going to
do everything we can."
Brasch elaborated, saying
that a reopening of Mellow
Mushroom in Gainesville at a
different location would de-
pend on a number of factors,
including whether to keep the
Gainesville location a franchise
and whether to market the
Gainesville location strictly to
UF or to the entire community.
"It depends, in some respect,
on the interest we get fromGainesville residents that are re-
ally craving Mellow Mushroom
to come back," Brasch said.
Joiner, who has already filed
for unemployment, said there
was some initial confusion as
to whether employees would
receive their final paychecks.
According to Joiner, a manager
distributed paychecks Thurs-
day night.
Joiner directed feelings not
necessarily to UF
Local students such as
News Rogg, who said
she'll miss the
house calzone the most, but to
the Mellow Mushroom regulars
who came in everyday.
"I mean it was good food. I
really enjoyed the food," Joiner
said. "I can't really say that for
all the places I've worked in."
As of Wednesday night, the
restaurant's Twitter and Face-
book accounts were down, but
the company's Web site still
listed the Gainesville location in
operation as of Thursday night.
"It's not like we wanted this
result, but now that we're faced
with this reality, we have to ask
ourselves, 'OK, what's the best
solution?' Brasch said.UF-Georgia tickets sell for $100 to $200
TICKETS, from page 1
team are kind of undercut by people who just want
to make a profit."
Hernandez spent the few minutes before 6 p.m. in
his living room with friends -laptop ready -but
wasn't as lucky. This is the first year since attending
UF that he will have to buy a ticket secondhand.
"I don't mind paying a lot of money for tickets,
but it's tough being a college student and spending
that much money just to see your team play," Her-
nandez said.
Reynolds, who bought his season football tickets
from a graduate student, doesn't see a problem with
buying and reselling tickets.
"He just wanted a few bucks for rent and stuff,
and I just wanted a ticket," he said. "It's the same
with these. If someone wants a ticket badly enough,
they'll be willing to pay up to a certain amount with-in reason. We both get what we want.",
Although there were some complaints last year
about the new system, which switched from the
phone method to online, the University Athletic As-
sociation said the sale ran glitch-free.
"Besides the fact that the tickets went very fast,
everything ran fine with Ticketmaster," said Mike
Masson, student ticket supervisor for the UAA.
"There were no glaring issues that we saw."
Some students say the system still has issues.
"I think the current system isn't working," Her-
nandez said. "Although it's convenient to do every-
thing online, it seems like there's too many things
that can go wrong."
Hernandez said while waiting in line, his screen
froze. He had to sign in again, likely losing his tick-
et.
"I actually prefer the old method of calling on the
phone. Even though it took a long time, you were
rewarded for your persistence," Hernandez said.
Children to take priority for H1N1 vaccine
VACCINE, from page 1
the college and the students."
Dr. Phillip Barkley, director of the Student Health
Care Center, said the clinic is following the ACHD
guide on who receives the vaccinations first. He is
waiting for word on when UF students and staff will
become the next priority.
According to a recent AP poll, only 45 percent of
people ages 18 to 29 will be lining up for the vaccine,
something Barkley expected.
"We've known for years that people who are rec-
commended to be vaccinated sometimes choose not
to be," Barkley said.
Over the years, only about 13 percent of pregnant
women, 40 to 45 percent of healthcare workers and
two-thirds of those over the age of 65 have receivedthe seasonal flu vaccine, even though it's recom-
mended these groups be vaccinated by the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention and the Adviso-
ry Council on Immunization Practices, Barkley said.
"But your primary defense against
getting influenza is to get vaccinated."
Paul Myers
assistant director of ACHD
For those who choose not to be vaccinated, Myers
stands behind the public health messages the ACHD
has been pushing: If you're ill stay home, practice
good cough and sneezing etiquette and continue to
wash your hands.
"But your primary defense against getting influ-
enza is to get vaccinated," Myers said.Stringing
Along
Natalie Chang,
a music junior,
performs on
Turlington
Plaza to
promote the
upcoming UF
Symphony
Orchestra
concert, "The
Bad Boys of
Music." The
concert will
be held at
the University
Auditorium
at 7:30 p.m.
Friday.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Gators to host Tide, defense key
0 THE DEFENSE ALLOWED
THREE GOALS IN A DOUBLE-
OT MATCH WITH OLE MISS.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
The UF soccer team ran this
week.
And ran. And ran.
But the Gators weren't condi-
tioning their bodies; they were ad-
justing their mindsets.
Tonight, when No. 14 Florida (8-
4-1, 2-1-1 Southeastern Conference)
hosts Alabama (5-4-1, 1-1-1 SEC),
the Gators will have a chance to
show how different they are from
the squad that left Oxford, Miss.,
disappointed five days ago.
After a rough weekend in which
the Gators blew a late lead, coach
Becky Burleigh said her defense
needed passion.
Defenders have been giving
opposing forwards too much of a
cushion, they were told during a
team meeting Monday. If the back
line applies more pressure, its pres-
ence will limit the attacking play-
ers' options.
The back line also needs to im-
prove its team defense, which in-
cludes double-teaming the player
with the ball, Burleigh said.
"The biggest issue is the lack of
aggressiveness on our part," she
said. "If you can do it for a half, you
can do it for a whole game."
Coaches tried to rev up the back
line's intensity in practice this week
through competition.
The Gators were divided into
three groups. Two of the groups
scrimmaged while the other ran
with strength and conditioning
coach Karin Werth.
After one scrimmage, the losing
group ran with Werth and the other
two scrimmaged."It's constant. You don't get a
break," defender Kathryn William-
son said.
After rallying to a 2-1 lead in the
78th minute Sunday against Missis-
sippi, Florida appeared to have the
match wrapped up.Burleigh even admitted she
thought it was over.
But the Gators succumbed to
pressure from the Rebels, allowing
a tying goal in the 84th minute and
a golden goal in the second over-
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 10
Strength and conditioning coach Karin Werth ran UF's players extra
hard in preparation for Alabama after a poor defensive weekend.
LEAP OVER TliE COMPE St
Val"I ouRt ILI"L3.,1IP 1pCIL$
FALL 2009
CALL YOUR ALLIGATOR
REPRESENTATIVE TODAY AT
Run an ad within 5 publishing 37r-4482
iays of another and receive the
following discounts:
lot ad: Normal Rate
2nd ad: 15% discount
3rd ad: 20% discount
4th ad: 25% discount
5th ad: 25%d IcoUtit th. i.&p-conunVrori&alligatorkickoff EDZTZONS.
Reach your Target Market before the game!
15% DISCOUNT 15% DISCOUNTFo an ON ADVERTSMENTS RUNadvert sement IN 5 OUT OF 7 EDITIONSthat runs prior to DEADLINE FOR SPEC ALKikf dton and OFFER:specked up) (no WED, NOV4, 2009changes N OTHER SCO NT Y
5% DISCOUNT APPLY
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
color photos! opponent features!
team rosters! gator features!
and much more!
October 30
November 6
November 13
November 20
November 25
December 4
alligatorGeorgia
Vanderbilt
Men's Basketball Tipoff
Florida International
Florida State
SEC Championship*Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
Deadline: November 10
Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
to place your ad, call 352-376-4482Pledge 5 Foundation, Inc.
During the past year,
Gator Stom pin' raised
over 13,000 public
service hours and
donated over 500
toys to Toys for Tots.
www.gatorstompin.comUF looks to keep
up strong blocking
effort against LSU
By ANTHONYCHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@a IIigator org
During Florida's recent blocking drought, senior libero
Elyse Cusack wrote a quote on the whiteboard before prac-
tice that the team will play by for the rest of the season.
"Offense wins games, but defense wins champion-
ships."
If No. 6 UF (12-2, 6-1 Southeastern Conference) has plans
of winning its 19th consecutive SEC title, it will have to con-
tinue its recent high level of defensive play.
"I think the extra attention we've been putting
into blocking is finally paying off in the match-
es."
Elyse Cusack
UF senior libero
After failing to outblock an opponent in the first 10
matches of the season, the Gators have now done so in three
out of their last four matches. They will look to keep it up
as they travel to Baton Rouge, La., to take on LSU (11-4, 5-1
SEC) at 7 p.m. on Sunday in a match televised on ESPNU.
"In practice, we have been doing so much blocking, and
players have been going in early and getting in extra reps,"
Cusack said. "I think the extra attention we've been putting
into blocking is finally paying off in the matches."
In the last couple of seasons, blocking has been a key
statistic for UF. The team is undefeated in its last 20 regular-
season matches when it outblocks an opponent, dating back
to 2008.
Sophomore middle blocker Cassandra Anderson has led
the charge for the Gators, as she has averaged 1.23 blocks
per set this season. She had 10 block assists in the team's
win Wednesday against South Carolina.
SEE VOLLEYBALL, PAGE 10
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
CROSS COUNTRY
Young runners will get chance to earn spots at FSU
By JESSICA ETTER Coach Todd Morgan said the meet will participating in Tallahassee on Saturday. Alison Babb, Callie Cooper, Sydney Dev
Alligator Writer
A few UF runners are hoping to secure
spots later in the season with strong perfor-
mances at the FSU Invitational on Saturday
morning.give the younger runners a chance to step up
and get another race under their belts before
the Southeastern Conference Championship
on Oct. 31.
Junior Ali Crabb, who finished fifth at the
SEC meet in 2008, will be one of six women"I know some of the girls (who will be run-
ning) haven't had a chance to race in a while,
and they are ready," she said. "They have been
training well, and it should be a great race for
them. I'm excited to get a chance to run again
and prepare for SECs."ore, Mandy Perkins and Erica Taltos will also
be running in the 5K race with Crabb.
Morgan can run 10 women at the SEC meet.
He said there are three spots up for grabs and
anticipates the women who run well at this in-
vitational to be considered for those positions.
UF suffered first winless
weekend since 2007
SOCCER, from page 9
time.
The loss, coupled with a 1-1 tie at Mississippi State on Oct.
2, gave UF its first winless weekend of SEC matches since the
beginning of the 2007 season.
"To score two goals on the road at Ole Miss, the disap-
pointing part isn't our offense," Burleigh said. "It's giving up
three goals."
Burleigh said the team's objective after a weekend of SEC
play is to walk off the pitch two wins -and six
points -closer to finishing first in the confer-
ence for the fourth straight year.
"We're complacent," freshman Kayla BalaSoccer said. "We've won the SEC so many times, when
it comes to teams like Mississippi State and Ole
Miss, we're like, 'Oh, we're going to beat them.' We have the
state of mind that we're going to crush those teams, but we
have to go in there thinking that anything can happen."
While the team failed to live up to Burleigh's expectations
last weekend, Florida will have a chance at redemption with a
two-match homestand that ends Sunday against Auburn.
Unlike the two teams the Gators couldn't beat last week,
the Tigers, who reached the NCAA Tournament last season,
come to Gainesville respected by Florida.
But playing a tougher opponent might be just what UF
needs.
"When we were playing FSU, the defense was on point,
and everyone was really sharp because we knew their for-
wards were really good," Bala said. "But when you're play-
ing teams that you don't think are as good, you become pas-
sive."
Get Your Property on the Boards
Don't let the competition pass you by!
LStudent Living Guides
By advertising in the Alligator, you
will reach over 50,000 readers who
are looking for new apartments,
condos, furniture, appliances,
household items and much more!
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2009
DEADLINE: October 29
RUN DATE: November 4
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 14
RUN DATE: January 20
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 24
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 7I
El.
U.
B
0
Call your rep
today!
352-376-4482
allgatorWise sees blocks,
VOLLEYBALL, from page 9
But she wasn't the only one who thrived
on the defensive end that night. Sophomore
setter Kelly Murphy finished the match with
17 digs, while Cusack racked up 18.
"We always say there are two stats that re-
ally scream effort," UF coach Mary Wise said.
"One is block assists, the other is digs."
Though the outside hitters are not known
for their defense, even they are getting in on
the action. In their last four matches, Kristy
Jaeckel, Colleen Ward and Callie Rivers have
combined to dig up an average of 18.25 balls
per match.
Jaeckel has quietly improved her defen-
sive play this season. After averaging just 1.17
digs per match last year, she has the second
highest dig average this season after raising
that number to 2.23 per set.
But the leading force behind the team's
improved defensive effort has been Cusack,
a player who takes pride in her defense and
leads the team in digs.
"I think that, especially for me -defense
being my position, great teams are great de-
fenders," Cusack said. "That's blocking and
digging balls, and if you do that, you are go-
ing to beat your opponent."
Despite the abrupt defensive turnaround,
Wise does not believe UF has reached its full
defensive potential yet.
"There have been some years that I can say,
'This is as good as we are going to get,' and
that's just not the case this season, not with as
many sophomores as we play," Wise said. "I
really like the potential of this team."digs as effort statistics
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF libero Elyse Cusack led the team with 18 digs in a 3-1
win over South Carolina on Wednesday.
DOWNTOWN
Uam~ [ainesvillecIufl amol '~Delicious !09d Md
CYa Snacks and Beer \ $28W90NTU WV
Cuban Sandiches, Plates, Pasesnfe, and more!BARBER"SHOPjDowntown Acronn from 8 secB BERS O
371-2000 next to rty Nely e 15 W. University Ave. (352) 373-4841
H IN1 -F .1)al -6 I'm I
WWW.DTBarbershop.com
Where Food & Love Meet!
Downtown at 1 2 SE 211c Avenue U
352-378-6307 C
tiamogainesvile.com
Late Night Dining T
UF University Ave.I 2 .s I-
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Today is the ert's tour of the M
University of Flord Se how well you know
the UF campus by figuring out where each photo
was taken. Keep track of his tour by entering
each of the 5 locations into the location log
below. Once completed, deliver or mail your
form to The Alligator. All entries must be
received by 4 pm Monday, October 12, 2009 for
the prize drawing.
Grand Prize -over $200 value
Alligator Gift Basket including:
6 Gator Growl tickets
6 Homecoming Alumni BBQ tickets
9 First Place Prizes:
4 Gator Growl tickets
Deliver to:
The Alligator
1105 W. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
Mail to:
The Alligator
Where's Albert Contest
P.O. Box 14257
Gainesville, FL 32604 P
Submit online at www.alligator.org/albert *.
10 winners will be randomly drawn from correct entries on Tuesday, Oct. 13, 2009. Entries must be received by 4 pmn Monday, Oct. 12, 2009. Of the 10 winners, one winner will be drawn for the Grand Prize.
Winners will be announced in The Alligator's 2009 Homecoming Souvenir Edition, published Friday, Oct. 16, 2009. Please do not call to inquire concerning the contest or the results. Picture ID required
to collect winnings. Winners will be selected by random drawing, with odds of winning dependent upon the number of correct entries. One entry per person. Officers, directors, employees, their family
members of The Alligator, Homecoming and Gator Growl are not eligible to enter. No purchase necessary. You do not need to be present to win. Prizes will be awarded only to winners and cannot be sold.
Certain restrictions apply. Subject to availability.7re 1lb
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
& The
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 10-23-30-12BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-408-
4330 -305-962-2525 -c2000_l@msn.com
10-9-09-7-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 10-15-09-10-1
Looking for clean + respectful FEMALE
roommate; 1 room available in 3 br/3ba apt
@ Windsor Park, 3705 SW 27th St. $550/mo
all inclusive, bus routes 9,34,35,36. Contact:
(352)642-6442, aptinfo4u@yahoo.com 10-
12-5-1
ROOM FOR RENT
Lg master suite in new home; 15 min to VA,
Shands & UF. NS, professional only. Util,
cable TV & wireless internet incl. $425/mo.
219-3410 10-13-5-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
Madison Pointe NW 23rd Blvd
1/1 $659, 2/2 $699, 3/2 $799
W/D*Screened Patio*Tanning
Fitness Center*Full size bball court
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
12-9-75-2
P OLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-21's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
/is- $659 3/2s -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!?
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neigh-
borhood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood
floors, fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $1000/
mo. $30/mo ontime discount. 773-407-
1774. 10-20-09-41-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st month free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentF nfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished 1nished
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-16-09-56-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $695/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-09-
45-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-
09-45-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-
09-45-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-9-
09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1lbth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-331-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA The Oaks Condo by Oaks Mall.
$650, screened-in porch, W/D, community
pool & gym, water & trash included. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 10-26-
09-40-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
000$550 2BR Washer/Dryer provided;
upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer
grad student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown NW 10th St
352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2Large 2BR/2BA gated golf community condo
end unit with garage. Enclosed porch/alarm
system/appl/washer/dryer. Lg.TV, queen
beds avail. at no cost. The Greens $800, call
352-262-3746 10-19-09-21-2
AVAILABLE NOW 2BR/1BA CTL heat/Air
W/D Hookups, Fridge, Stove, Dishwasher
and Icemaker $600/mo first and last $300
sec. 1523 NW 7th St. Gainesville, FL Phone
352-376-0071 or 352-494-4598 10-19-09-
20-2
3/2 House $700 per month! Carport, dish-
washer, washer/dryer hookups, lots of living
space, screened porch, lot backs up to Lolby
Park. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals@campusrealtygroup.com 10-12-
09-15-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 10-9-12-2
Treehouse Village 2/2, new crpt/vinyl, many
amenities, close to UF, 1 mo free! $650/mo.
109-Q301 SE 16th Ave
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Tiffany 2/2, Irg mstr bdrm, w/d, w/in clsts,
scrnd prch, near bus stop on Glen Spgs Rd
3059 NW 28 Circle. $700/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Whispering Pines 2/2, on UF bus routes, wd,
ask about special, 3443 SW 24th St. $800/
mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Monticello 3/3.5, fresh paint, community
amenities, 3 parking spaces, 1700+ sq ft,
522 NW 50th Blvd, $1100/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
2 Rooms Available, Wooden Floors, Nice
Windows, Pool and Jacuzzi in Backyard,
Brunswick Pool Table inside. 5 minutes to
campus by bicycle. $415.00 per month NOT
incl util. Near $550 altogether 321-960-7944
10-13-10-2
2/2.5 beacon hill townhouse 1.5mi from
Shands/UF on williston & 16th ave 1400sqft
built in '06 jet-tub in master bath *must see*
$800/month contact 352-256-0639 or
email gqgator07@yahoo.com
10-9-09-5-2
Villages @ Santa Fe- 2/1- Across from Santa
Fe College $575/mo. 1 MNTH
FREE!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Cricket Club 11-2/2- upgrd kitchen, w/d. many
amenities. 7180 SW 4 rd.
$900/mo 1 mnth free!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Greenleaf- 2/2.5- new paint/carpeting.w/d
hkps. 4303 SW 69 terr.
$750/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
3/2.5 near off NW 13 St. Walk to UF/midtown.
3 off strt parking. New stove. 626 NW 13th
terr. Reduced rent $850/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 10-15-09-10-22BR/1 BA townhouse -Tower Oaks area. 900
sq ft, pvt fenced backyard, freshly painted,
vinyl in BRs, ceramic in living areas. W/D,
DW, $630/mo $300 dep (payable by Jan
2010) 386-496-1058, 386-266-9810 10-
12-09-7-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA,
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 11-2-09-20-2
*2BR/1BA condo W/D, all new kitchen &
ceramic bath, carpet. 2nd floor $700/mo in-
cludes water sewer, trash. Low move in cost.
Nice quiet 12 unit complex, 1.5 miles to UF
campus. Phone 772-801-9884 10-9-09-5-2
*2BR/1BA condo, W/D, microwave, ice
maker. Walk-out patio, All new kitchen & ce-
ramic bath. hrdwood firs. $750/mo ind water,
sewer, trash. Low move in cost. Nice quiet
12 unit complex, 1.5 mi to UF 772-801-9884
10-9-09-5-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
3/1 HOUSE FOR RENT GARAGE MADE
TO LARGE ROOM.FENCED YARD,PET
FRIENDLY.WAHSIER/DRYER HOOK
UP.OFF ARCHER ROAD $900.00 MONTH
2555 SW 31ST ST CALL 352-377-8777 10-
27-15-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Tiled floor in liv area
Carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans All new
bath New Kit w/stainless appl W/D Cent H/A
Internet/cable avail Manager pays water pest
contrl lawn main security lites Near bus rte
Sorry no pets $685/mo Call 727-423-9463
10-16-09-8-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 $1007, 3/3 Townhome $1092
Vaulted Ceilings-Screened Patio
Garage-W/D-Microwave
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
12-9-48-2
1BR/1BA MOBILE HOME ON WOODED
HALF-ACRE IN MELROSE, 15 minutes to
Gville. $325/mo $150 deposit 352-213-1341
10-13-09-5-2
HOUSE avail now. 4BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1000/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 10-30-09-18-2
Studio Condo Utilities INCLUDED!
$575 month $600 security Prairiewood
Condominiums 2490 Sw 14th Drive #20 386-
527-6923 10-26-09-12-2
2 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
1 BR/1 BA available now. $495/mo.
Call 335-4790 or 352-214-3369 10-14-09-
5-2
1Bdrm 1 bath apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd
Street. Each unit has a private gated court
yard. On bus routes & within 2 miles of
Shands, VA & College of Vet Med. 352 377-
2550 or e-mail paloverde3320@yahoo.com
10-28-09-15-2
Homes available for immediate occupancy!!
Lowpayments!
$49 Deposit!
Call today! 352-378-4411 10-30-09-17-2
Creekside Villas! Off NW 13th by Lowes 1/1
laminate floors, new paint, new vinyl floor in
kitchen, remodeled bathroom $580/mo ind
water, sewer, trash, $350 dep 352-318-9403
10-16-09-6-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
11-5-09-20-21 BR/1 BA apt off Tower Rd.
$385. Best price around. Call 352-356-2563
or email snapjacksboss@yahoo.com 10-
15-09-5-2
Subleases
Sublease available now. No deposit.
2BR/1 BA, washer & dryer incl. Off SW 34th
St & 41st Pl. 3 month sublease. $595/mo.
352-505-0123. 10-13-09-5-3
Room for rent, with private bath, at The Polos.
All inclusive at $421 mo. If interested please
call Keri 352-538-4808. 10-13-09-5-3
tRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo ind
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-30-09-47-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house,
great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
10-14-09-25-4
Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone. Furn rm
avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo or $100/
wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc avail.
Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to vacate.
Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 10-12-10-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 10-
12-09-5-4
Female roommate needed for 4/2.5 town-
house, all utilities included, no pets/no smok-
ing, nice environment, Newberry & 1-75,
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769 10-
27-09-15-4
1BR/1BA or2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 10-
20-09-9-4
5Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
Real Estate Furnishings For Sale Motorcycles, Mopeds Aut
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
Still time to get $8,000 for buying this 2br/2ba
tnhs Woodside Villas. Scm porch,wd flrs,new
stove,d/w, ktchn flooring. Owner occupied,in
beautiful cond. $89,000 &worth a look. Hurry!
Irene Larsson RE Svcs 352-373-2605. 10-
19-09-10-5
Spacious 2br/2.5b condo close to UF/
Shands for only $95,000. Unit is clean and
ready for immediate occupancy. Call Jennifer
McIntosh, agent ERA Trend Realty 352-262-
1808. 10-15-09-5-5
Great 2br/1 b home close to UF for $114,900.
Well-maintained with updated kitchen and
gorgeous wood floors, call Jennifer McIntosh,
agent ERA Trend Realty at 352-262-1808.
10-15-09-5-5
4bdr 3ba $217/mo! HUD HOMES! 3 bdrm
only $199/mo! Stop Renting! 5% dw, 15 yrs
@ 8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext
5669 10-9-1-5
A Bank Repo! 5Br 4Ba $317/mo! 3BR
Foreclosure! $199/mo!! 5% down, 15 years
@ 8% apr. For Listings (800)366-9783 ext
5853 10-9-1-5
Owner Must Sell. 4+ acres- $57,300 Nice
oak trees, private access to lake. All utilities
in. Ready to build when you are! Financing
avail. Call now (866)352-2249. www.fllandof-
fer.com 10-9-1-5
7998+/-Ac Tennessee Land Auctions
Oct 24th 10AM, Large Tracts. Small
Tracts 5Ac-2699+/-Ac. Waterfront,
Pasture, Hunting, Lake, Homesites. www.
CertifiedRealEstateAuctions.com; (800)711-
9175 David Hudgins TNAULIC 5232 10-9-
1-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
W-computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
r z Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10RALLY TOWEL:
JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE YOU?
$9.99 TheRallyTowel.com
10-19-09-10-10
AUCTION 1000?SOF ITEMSWILL BE SOLD
TO HIGH BIDDER! Firearms, Antiques, Fine
Jewelry, Coins & Estate Items. Sat. Oct. 24th
@ 10AM 250oApalachee Pkwy., Tallahassee
www.AffiliatedAuctions.com (850)656-5486
AB2286 13%BP 10-9-1-10
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warranty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 col-
ors in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
10-9-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 10-9-1-10
MAKE A MINT IN TEETH WHITENING
300% industry growth this year! Distribute
WhiteScience?s patented products and teeth
whitening services. Low start up. Exclusive
territories. Marketing plan and training pro-
vided. Best kept beauty secret of the stars!
www.whiteningonwheels.com (877)909-
1080 10-9-1-10
Real Prosperity. 5 Star International
System.?No products to buy or sell. Training
and support provided.?Serious & motivated
individuals only. (888)300-5744, www.cash-
toyou12.com 10-9-1-10
"STEEL BUILDING SALE!".PRICED TO
SELL! Quick delivery. FINAL CLEARANCE
25x40 $5,990. 30x40 $6,900. 35x50 $9,750.
40x60 $11,600. 48x90 $23,400. Ends op-
tional. OTHERS! Pioneer (800)668-5422.
10-9-1-102 ITALIAN MOTOR SCOOTERS
@2006 Aprilia Scarabeo, 500cc, hard saddle-
bags, windshield & faring.
@2007 Piaggio MP3, 250cc, front faring.
Low miles on both $5000each 352-563-2037
10-12-09-5-11
W3 Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 10-14-10-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
lMotrcycIes, Mopeds JlLId iwaw
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
**Www.B~uyMyScooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11WI I Im m IN we IVICpyrigte MatriaI
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Autos Autos Wanted Wanted Help Wanted
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Police Impounds! Honda 2001 Accord $600!
Nissan 1999 Altima $500! Ford 2000 Taurus
$500! For listings call (800)366-9813 ext
9275 10-9-1-12
CF Wanted
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 10-23-09-74-13
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
W4y \0 d
,,g~~~~ G le
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
TUhl @1Ibod
New Life Community
Chapel
International Day: Celebrating
Our Uniqueness
Sunday Oct. 18 : 10:30 AM to
NOON
International Dinner, guest speak-
ers and music
All are welcome, but space is
limited.
RSVP by Oct 15
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of IncarnationChabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship
Imagine a religion embracing
many different beliefs. including
yours.
Join us on Sunday at 11 AM
4225 NW 34th St.
Info: 377-1669 or www.uufg.org
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube
Gator
Sunday
Presbyt
Christ St
Univ. Av
follow. T
tering/B
located
For full
gatorwe
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services, South
lovely garden, sweet fellowship, Metho
holy fun! 352-372-8506 Open a
from ho
Classes
Creekside Community planned
Church Sunday
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm 2400 S
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm 352-37
Worship Service, Sun 10:30am
For more info email Mary at Trinity
madmadamoo@gmail.com Comm
Offerin
inclusive
Sunday
11604Wesley Foundation
worship 11am at the
erian and Disciples of
udent Center 1402 W.
e. with FREE lunch to
hursday evening the Ga-
ible Study 8pm. Office
104 NW 14th Street.
chedule of events visit
sley.com
west United
dist Church
nd inclusive, Family away
me, Informal Worship,
and activities will be
using student input.
worship 10:45am
W Williston Rd
8-4931
Metropolitan
unity Church
truely open and GLBTS?
Christian worship.
Worship, 10:15a.m.
SW Archer RoadIFor info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
1Oam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www. 1stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-1 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meeting at R.K. Yonge school
1080 SW I Ith Street
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-8127,LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 10-
23-09-74-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
g round an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Looking for front desk/medical asst. Busy
medical office looking for receptionist &/
or medical asst to help in front desk duties
answering phones & scheduling appts, as-
sist physician w/charting of patient infor. HS
diploma reqd, med terminology in anatomy &
physiology pref. Flex hrs, PT/FT avail. Salary
neg. Fax resume to 352-377-4816 or email
jere.scola@gmail.com 10-9-09-15-14
SOFTWARE -Hypercube, Inc. (www.hyper.
com) has local part-time jobs for energetic,
capable students interested in making con-
tributions to a well-know international soft-
ware company. Knowledge of Computer
Science, Chemistry, or Business is essential.
Resumes to employment@hyper.com 9-20-
09-5-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Soccer Referees wanted. Learn to be a ref
and make $$$ every weekend. Ref course
here in Oct. Go to http://www.fsr-inc.com for
more info and to register.
info@gainesvillesoccer.org. 10-9-09-5-14
Home Work Coach wanted for bright young
man w/ ADHD, JR. @ SFCHS. Flexable
hours, strong organizational and study skills
a must. $12.00/hr Email qualifications to:
mazdra@windstream.net 10-9-09-5-14
Gainesville based travel agency now hiring
Sales Agents. Qualified candidates
are hard working, fast learners, and must
have excellent communication skills.
Great Student Job! Great Pay! Please
email your resume and availability to
BestonTraveNet@gmail.com.
10-16-9-14
The Honey Baked Ham Co & Cafe is now
hiring for sandwich prep. Approx 20 hrs, Tu,
Thu, Sat. $7.50/hr starting pay. Apply in per-
son 618 NW 60tyh St (behind McDonalds on
NEwberry Rd) Call 331-1253 10-12-09-5-
14
www.imagechurch.tv
New Multi-Cultural Church Plant
Volunteers needed to help w/internet
campus
Multiple opportunities
Creativity & Innovative Thinkers a must 10-
13-09-5-14
Wanted !!! Computer programer.
Contact; golden dome@bellsouth.net for
details 10-13-09-5-14
Bartender Openings.
Earn $250/day. No Exp req! Will train
PT/FT Call 305-929-8559 x850 11-3-09-
20-14
MAMA MIA
Pizza maker wanted. New York-style pizza.
Call 631-834-5048 or 352-262-7777
REAL PIZZA -REALLY ITALIAN
10-13-09-5-14
Babysitter Needed, weekly T/Th afternoons
(12-6 pm) for two kids near campus. Must
have experience, references, own car and
be non-smoker. Submit resume and brief
letter of interest to erowefl@cox.net. 10-
15-09-5-14
16, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
FHelp Wanted Services Health Services Entertainment RidE Z
Driver-BYNUM TRANSPORT- needs quali-
fied drivers for National OTR positions. Food
grade tanker, no hazmat, no pumps, great
benefits, competitive pay & late-model equip-
ment. (866)GO-BYNUM. Need 2 years expe-
rience. 10-9-1-14
PTL OTR Drivers. New Pay Package! Great
Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months experience
required. No felony or DUI past 5 years.
(877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 10-9-1-
14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Looking for pre-med student. Evenings &
weekends. Fax resume to 373-2230 10-22-
09-10-14
Need someone dependable, computer sav-
vy, attention to detail, 1-2 hours per day near
UF, some from your location, flexible hours,
good pay, 352-356-2563 or email
snapjacksboss@yahoo.com 10-19-09-7-14
Wlservices
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS * *
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-28-
30-15
FULL HORSE BOARD
Stalls, paddocks, pasture. Reasonable. West
of 175. Alachua. 386-462-3479 10-9-09-15-
15
From BRAZIL and NEW YORK- I have all
new trends for hair-DRY CUTS SAHAG
STYLE- BRAZILIAN KERATIN treat. NO
MORE FRIZZ HAIR-by CONCY STIMAC-
call(352)514-0957-1 0%off with this add
10-19-20-15
For thorough and dependable cleanings for
your home, office, or apartment please call
J & B Cleaning (352) 278-8571
10-15-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
10-20-15-15
Keep Your Security Deposit! Have your car-
pet cleaned. I have great prices! I charge just
$12.50 a room. 2 bedroom apartments w/LR
Just $39.00. 3 BR w/LR just $49.00. 4 BR
w/LR just $59.00. Call me and save yourself
time and money. PH. # (352) 377-6058. "14
years experience" 10-9-5-15
STUDIO SENSUALE NOW OPEN!! Lessons:
Pole Dance, Burlesque, Jazz, Lap Dance,
Blues Dance, Aerial Dance. Bachelorette
or birthday parties you'll never forget! Enroll
today! 818 W Univ Av 373-6628 10-14-09-
5-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout
Florida or choose from any state nationwide.
Put Us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.
national-classifieds.com, info@national-clas-
sifieds.com 10-9-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 10-9-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 10-9-1-15
W Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Q Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
iEvent Nices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Gainesville SCUBA Club
Come to our first meeting Wednesday,
October 21 7:00pm at Water World
Go to www.gainesvillescubaclub.com for
more info 10-20-09-16-20
GATORNATION "2009 GATOR CHOMP
DANCE VIDEO CONTEST"! Best choreo-
graphed routines will be chosen for "Gator
Chomp" Video For complete details visit
www.dothegatorchomp.com 10-9-1-20
Fibromuscular Dysplasia Society of America,
Grass Roots Fundraiser
Midwest Feed Store 17010 W. Newberry Rd
October 17 -1Oam -2pm
RAFFLE DRAWINGS for DONATED ITEMS
For more information, call 352-222-8715
10-16-09-5-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21Juke box for sale, 1974 Seeburg (needs
repair) plus 160 classic rock 45 rpm's/ ln I
Springsteen, Eagles, Stones, Beatles,
CSN&Y. $150 OBO. 352-317-3866 10-9-
5-21 GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30W JL i cets Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
include hotel and tickets for LSU MS State 12-9-74-23
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 10-14-09-
28-22
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
Buying FL vs GA TIx
Top $$ Paid- Local Pick-up. 1-877-596-1234
10-30-09-21-22
GATOR ALUMNI NEEDS LSU
TICKETS, CASH PAID,
1-800-229-8699, LOCAL PICKUP. 10-9-2-
22Lost & Found
FOUND:
GLASSES & CONTACTS
Near Soccer Field & FD Precinct #19, SW
20th Ave. first part of Sept. Call to identily
352-404-2419 10-4-3-25
LOST:
LITTLE BLACK CELL PHONE
on campus, possibly behind Academic
Personnel/Dauer or Stadium. Call 352-392-
0494 10-9-09-2-25
Enroll by 10/31/091!A P L A N w& ad get
L ACAT Science
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/mcat Review
* r 6 o' 111-w0040 4 0 0
S.I
CopyrightedMateriale
Syndicated Contents
Available from Commercial News Providers
SmI
I
o1fpI
Sports
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.a II igator.org/sports
Florida looks to end Tiger Stadium streak
LSU has won 32 straight Sat. night games
By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator org
It doesn't matter if it's John
Brantley or Tim Tebow who
gets the start at quarterback, No.
1 Florida (4-0, 2-0 Southeastern
Conference) will face its tough-
est test of the season Saturday
night as it heads to Death Valley
to take on No. 4 LSU.
UF coach Urban Meyer said
Tebow will likely be a game-
time decision.
If he is unable to go, backup
John Brantley will get his first
career start under the lights.
S "(John has) al-
ways been a guy
who could throw
the ball. It's likeFootball a running back
that just can run.
Now, he seems to be a quarter-
back who has command of the
game, command of the huddle,"
Meyer said.
Brantley has completed 22
of 30 passes for 232 yards, four
touchdowns and no intercep-
tions this season.
"He's getting the full (play-
book). When he's in that game,
there's no baby steps. He's go-
ing to go play," Meyer said.
The Tigers (5-0, 3-0 SEC) have
been dominant when playing at
home on Saturday nights, win-
ning their last 32 games, includ-
ing 21 straight under Les Miles.Since 1960, LSU is 211-59-4 all
time at night in Tiger Stadium.
Its last Saturday night home loss
came against Alabama in 2002.
"It's the toughest place I've
played at since I've been here,"
cornerback Joe Haden said.
Two years ago, Tim Tebow
received death threats on hiscell phone the week before the
game. This year, LSU fans were
able to get a hold of Brantley's
and wide receiver Riley Coo-
per's phone numbers.
Saturday's game against
Florida is the highest-ranked
matchup to be played in Baton
Rouge since No. 1 LSU beat No.3 Ole Miss 7-3 in 1959.
That day, Billy Cannon took
a fourth-quarter punt back 89
yards for the game's only touch-
down. The play would become
the highlight of the Heisman
Trophy winner's career.
Cannon's distant successor,
sophomore Jordan Jefferson,
SEE FOOT, PAGE 19
In this Oct. 7, 2007, file photo, LSU's Tiger Stadium is shown from the air during second half of the
LSU-Florida game in Baton Rouge. LSU has won 32 straight Saturday night home games.
Who wants to be the one to te// Tebow he's not paying?
T's 15 minutes from kickoff, deep in the bowels
of Tiger Stadium.
Urban Meyer and John Brantley are hud-
dled together in a dimly lit hallvay, just outside
the Florida Gators' locker room.
They speak in hushed but passionate voices.
Brantley: "You said this was my chance!
You said even if the doctors clear him to
play, you still had to make a decision. You
told me yesterday I was going to be the start-
er. My family drove all the way out here,
and the receivers even promised they'd try
this week. You have to go in there and tell
him!"
Meyer: "How am I supposed to do that?Mike McCall
McCall-in' It
Like I See It
rnmcca l@alligator orgI've got kids, man."
A loud thump comes
from inside the locker
room, and the twvo jump
back, startled.
Brantley: "Look,
the offense can still be
great with me play-
ing. Demps and Rainey
are fast as lightning,
and Deonte is bound
to catch one out of every three deep balls.
Then we can bring in Moody to grind out
the tough yards."
Meyer: "Who?"They are interrupted again by the sound of
crashing and growling on the other side of the
door.
Meyer: "Well, I guess I better go get this
over with."
Meyer enters the locker room and is shocked
at the scene before him.
A single, naked light bulb savings from the
ceiling.
The room is empty, save for three tigers
whimpering in the corner.
Tim Tebowv is seated in front of a mirror,
calmly crushing Nalgene bottles vith one hand
and writing vith the other.
SEE MCCALL, PAGE 19Picks
Column
SITE: Tiger Stadium, Baton Rouge,
La., (cap. 93,000)
KICKOFF: Saturday 8 p.m.
TV/RADIO: ESPN/WRUF AM850
It's amazing this guy still has a job.
Sure, years ago he used to win a
bunch of games when he still had his
faculties about him.
He's got a national championship
under his belt, and he's great with
members of the media.
But his fans are getting unruly, crav-
ing -nay, demanding -a change.
His southern charm makes him
an affable personality, and he has ac-
complished a lot during his time at his
Florida school. Yet the recent run of
reprehensible results seems to warrant
a firing. Disgruntled boosters are call-
ing for his head. His bosses, however,
seem unwilling to pull the trigger due
to all the good will he has accumulated
in previous years.
He is, of course, Palm Beach Post
beat writer -and dear friend of the Al-
ligator -Ben Volin.
The last time out, our panel of ex-
perts here at the alligatorSports Brand
Picks Column logged a banner week.
Volin? He managed a pathetic 3-7
mark. His reaction? Bliss.
Those three wins were a 300 percent
increase from his previous two weeks
combined.
Without further ado, here's our Bos-
ton College-Virginia Tech debate:
BC WILL UNQUESTIONABLY CRAP ALL
OVER THE +13.5-POINT SPREAD BE-
CAUSE .The Eagles own a three-game
regular-season winning streak against
the Hokies. So BC may have lost the
last two ACC Championship games.
Big deal. The last time I checked, it
was still October. More importantly,
Boston College has covered in eight
of its last 11 games against Virginia
Tech, including six of the last eight in
Blacksburg. If you need one more rea-
son to agree with me, just consult the
picks column standings.
-MIKE DiFERDINANDO
SEE PICKS, PAGE 20
U Florida's soccer, volleyball and cross coun-
try teams are all in action this weekend. Vol-
leyball and cross country both hit the road
while soccer is set to host Alabama and
Auburn. See Pages 9 and 10 for stories.POLL RESULTS
Previous questions:
Who will start at QB
for UF this Saturday?
Who should start at
QB this Saturday?Percent (Votes)
Brantley 55% (137)
Tebow 45% (111)
248 TOTAL VOTES
Brantley 66% (174)
Tebow 34% (89)
263 TOTAL VOTESTEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
E There's a new trend in luxury living among college coaches and ADs.
Newly hired Marshall AD Mike Hamrick was given temporary housing in
a dorm room on an all-girls floor. Score! .If you watched Hard Knocks,
you know any play that starts with DeDe ends in TD. That was true for
DeDe Dorsey last night -playing for the UFL's Las Vegas Locomotives.
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
UF SWIMMING
Florida kicks off season at UVA
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
When UF travels to Virginia
for its season opener this week-
end, the Gators will have two
experienced seniors leading the
way.
On the women's side, senior
Gemma Spofforth will head a
strong squad into Virginia when
competition gets underway Fri-
day.
"We're probably returning one
of the best women's teams in the
country," coach Gregg Troy said.
"We don't have any weaknesses
that are obvious at the moment."
Last season, Spofforth broke
UF records in the 100- and 200-
yard backstrokes, and the 200 in-
dividual medley.
She also defended her NCAA
and Southeastern Conference
titles in both the 100 and 200
back, and she was named the SEC
Swimmer of the Year.
"She's got a lot of leadership, a
lot of background and certainly alot of experience," Troy said.
She also represented Great
Britain in the 2008 Olympics and
finished fourth in the 100-meter
backstroke.
Spofforth said the experience
she gained in the Olympics will
help push her to do better this
season.
"Coming fourth in the Olym-
pics, although a lot of people said
it was really great, it's something
that has made me hungry for
more," she said. "Every disap-
pointment I've had in the past
year just gives me a little bit more
hunger to swim faster every time
I get in the pool."
Spofforth said she is accus-
tomed to the expectations placed
on her because of the success she
has had, so she just focuses on
her performance in the pool.
"I've had a while to get used
to the pressure," Spofforth said.
"I've already had pressure from
world competitions and the
NCAA, so I don't really think
about it. I just use each match as astepping stone for the next one."
On the men's side, UF is with-
out two of last season's top three
performers -Bradley Ally and
Rex Tullius graduated last year.
The third, Shaune Fraser, returns
as the senior pace setter for UF
this season.
Fraser will enter this week-
end's meet at Virginia with a
great deal of experience.
Last season, he had six All-
America honors at the NCAA
Championships, capturing the
200-yard freestyle and the 200
butterfly.
He also broke four individual
UF records -the 50, 100 and 200
free and the 200 fly.
Troy said that after the sum-
mer Fraser had, he expects the se-
nior to take on some of the lead-
ership responsibilities.
Fraser said he would use his
performance to lead the younger
swimmers.
"I try to just lead by example
and just do the best that I can,"
he said.
Tonight vs. Alabama
Sunday vs. Auburn *Senior Day
-Come to the match early for
a pre-match ceremony to
recognize the 6 Gator seniors!
-First 500 fans at the match
will receive Senior Class
Trading Cards!
-Art in the Park! Poster-
making station, facepainting,
free caricature artist and more!
M N 0 r o I K 3 W.7 FM
S .a.a. FollowtheGatorsonFacebook&Twitter -visitGatorZone com/social
James G. Pressiv Stadium
Admssonis FREE!~~~ouralism?
Photography? Advertising? Editing?
Reporting? Graphic Design?
Web Development?
Thousands of Alligator alumni have gone on to work in
these fields and more. Most of them credit the largest
share of their success to their experiences, what they
learned and the friends they made at the Alligator.
The Advertising department is looking for sales interns
and sales representatives for the spring semester.0,I
Open House
Please join us at our offices for an open house with refreshments
You'll get to know our editors, see your future work space and learn more of what
you can do and what you can gain by working at the Alligator. Interviews will be
held on-site, so please bring your resume, clips and portfolio if you have one.
Located at 1105 W. University Ave, two blocks east of UF campus,
across the street from the Bank of America.--.---. ---. -. -. -. -. .- -. .- .------.- -.UF advances four
at ITA All-American
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Writer
Despite having to face three ranked opponents in the pre-
vious two days, UF freshmen Allie Will and Lauren Embree
looked as strong as ever in first-round wins at the ITA All-
American Championships. Also recording first-round victories
were Marrit Boonstra on the women's side and Alex Lacroix on
the men's side.
Embree's 6-2, 6-2 win over Marta Lesniak of
SMIU brings her to 6-0, while Will improved to
11-1 with her 6-3, 6-3 victory over Boise State'sTenn iS Pichittra Thongdach. The freshmen comple-
mented their singles victories with a 8-3 win on
the doubles court. over Jennifer Stevens and Emily Fraser of
Virginia.
Boonstra also advanced with a 6-2, 6-3 win over qualifier
Natasha Marks of Arizona.
"Those three were extremely resilient today and didn't let
anything phase them," UF women's associate head coach Dave
Balogh said. "It was probably one of the best days I've seen
from a Gator team in many many years."
41 $1-** 12 oz. Draft Beer
Noon-6 p.m.
7 Days a Week
In shop only
with purchase of memr mvtree
We 2124 SW 34th St
Deliver Sun-Wed. Thurs.-Sat.
672-6111 11AM-3AM 11AM-4AM
-- ---2 m -.,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Staunch UF defense could give Jefferson trouble -___
FOOT, from page 17 nationally) and 212.75 yards (first "It's when those guys wear- coming there with Colorado State,
in the nation). and we beat them and their team
has played well this year for the LSU's offensive line has al- ing the jerseys are really wasn't very good. It was pretty N U M B
Tigers, throwing for 920 yards, lowed 13 sacks through five good that it gets loud. I re- quiet that day."
seven touchdowns and just two games, including six against member coming there with The game Meyer was referring Consecutive Saturdayinterceptions -a marked im- Georgia. to was a 17-14 Colorado State nsetive Saturday
provement from the 18 intercep- Assuming the offensive line Colorado State, and we victory in 1992 when he was the night home wins for
tions LSU quarterbacks threw in can keep Jefferson standing and beat them and their team Rams' wide receivers coach. The
2008.
Jefferson is also coming off the
biggest win of his young career
on the road against Georgia last
week.
He led LSU on a game-winning
13-play, 88-yard drive.
He could struggle, though,
against a Florida defense which is
giving up just 7.25 points (secondthe defense can keep the Gators
out of the end zone, Tiger Sta-
dium will show why it's thought
of as one of the toughest places to
play.
The school has issued an ad-
visory for fans, and an overflow
crowd is expected to top the
93,000 capacity.
But Meyer said he's seen thewasn't very good. It was
pretty quiet that day."
Urban Meyer
UF football coach
softer side of Death Valley.
"It's when those guys wearing
the jerseys are really good that it
gets loud," he said. "I rememberTigers finished 2-9 that season
and 1-7 in the SEC.
Since 1939, a total of 11 No. 1
teams have gone into Tiger Stadi-
um. LSU has won just one of the
11, a 1997 victory vs. Florida.
The winner of the last three
Florida-LSU games has gone on
to win the national title (UF in
2006 and 2008, LSU in 2007).Consecutive wins
for UF the nation's
longest streak
321.6Yards of total
offense per
game for
LSU
MCCALL, from page 17
"Uh, hey Tim," Meyer says nervously.
"Hi, coach," Tebow responds, carefully us-
ing a Sharpie to write on an eye black strip.
Meyer: "What Bible verse are you going
with this week?"
Tebow: "Oh, it's one of my favorites. It's
from Isaiah, chapter 33, verse 1. 'Woe to you, 0
destroyer, you who have not been destroyed!
Woe to you, 0 traitor, you who have not been
betrayed! When you stop destroying, you will
be destroyed; when you stop betraying, you
will be betrayed.' I think it's really important
not to betray people, don't you, coach?"
Meyer shudders and tugs on his collar.Meyer: "Listen, Tim. You know I'd love to
see you play tonight, but."
Tebow: "But what?"
Meyer: "But I can't risk you getting hurt
again. If you go down on my watch, I'm done
for. I promise, just sit out tonight and I'll let
you run on every play against Arkansas."
Tebowv pauses, then gives a lighthearted chuck-
le.
Tebow: "Coach, were you nervous about
telling me this? Don't worry about it. I'm fine
taking the night off. I know Johnny has it cov-
ered."
Meyer is visibly relieved. As he walks back out
into the hallway to tell Brantley the good news,
a hooded figure approaches and sneaks up behindBrantley.
Meyer: "Dan? Is that you? What are you
doing here?"
The hood slips off, revealing Mississippi State
coach Dan Mullen. He pulls out a club, smacks
Brantley's knee and runs off down the hallway,
where he high-fives Tebow.
Tebowv glares at Meyer for a moment, then
slips his helmet on and leads his teammates onto
thefield.
Meyer: "Well, at least I don't have to give
Moody any carries now."
Editor's Note: The above exchange is purely
fictional and meantfor comedic purposes.
To the best of our knowledge, Dan Mullen has
not been contracted for a hit on John Brantley.321.6 Yards of total
offense per
game for LSU's opponents
Touchdown passes
thrown by LSU start-
ing quarterback
Jordan Jefferson in 201 career
attempts
7 Touchdown passes thrown
by UF backup quarterback
John Brantley in 58 career
attempts
UF-LSU Gameday Preview
REPORT statistical breakdownREOTUF LSUOUT 45.5 Points Per Game 27
WR Carl Moore (back) 7.2 Points Allowed Per Game 14.8
S Dorian Munroe (knee) 218.8 Passing Yards Per Game 186.2
DOUBTFUL 307.9 Rushing Yards Per Game 135.4
120 Passing Yards Allowed Per Game 204.8
FB Steven Wilks (knee) 92.8 Rushing Yards Allowed Per Game 116.8QUESTIONABLE 29/49(59%) 3rd Down Conversions 28/66(42%)
QB Tim Tebow (concussion)
DT Brandon Antwine (shoulder) 18/64 (28%) 3rd Down Defense 36/86 (42%)
PROBABLE 19/21 (67%) Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %) 14/18 (44%)
5/7 (29%) Red Zone Defense (TD%) 10/14 (50%)
WR Deonte Thompson (hamstring) +2 Turnover Margin +7INJURRTLUREPORT
PROBABLE
G Lyle Hitt (concussion-like symptoms)
DE Chance Aghayere (undisclosed),
DT Josh Downs (knee)
UF offense vs. LSU defense
Deonte
Thompson
IS CPatrick
Peterson000000@ * *
Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Carl David Riley Cooper
Hernandez Gilbert James Pouncey Mike Johnson
Wilson Pouncey Nelson
Lazarius Charles Al Rahim
Levingston Alexander Woods Alem
Harry Jacob Perry
Coleman Cutrera Riley
B o J
Brandon Taylor Chad JonesChris
HawkinsIUF defense vs. LSU offense
6Major Wright0Ahmad Black
Ryan Brandon A J
Stamper Spikes Jones
Jaye I C
Jermaine Howard Omar D
Cunningham Hunter
ron I T-Bob I
ack Josh Hebert Lyle Hit
Dworaczyk 
.Q
Jordan JeffersonCarlos
unlapJoe
Haden
Joseph RichardBarksdale Dickso Brandon LaFellDicksonIS
Janoris
Jenkins
Terrance
ToliverC
BI
Chris
0 Mitchell
Charles
Scottf D 0
Jeff Demps John Brantley
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2009
Copyrighted Material ,
S -0 0 syndicated Contents
Available from Commercial News ProvidersLSU FOOTBALL
Scott moves back to RB
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Fullback isn't where senior Charles Scott
was supposed to be lining up four games
into LSU's season.
Yet the preseason All-Southeastern
Conference first-team running back selec-
tion found himself laying blocks for senior
Keiland Williams before being moved back
to his natural position against Georgia last
week.
Scott responded with 95 yards on 19 car-
ries and scored two touchdowns in the final
three minutes of the Tigers' 20-13 win against
the Bulldogs.
"He has a very strong game with or with-
out the ball," LSU coach Les Miles said.
"When the game is on the line, you can put
the ball in his hands. He runs with passion,
and he refused to go down on the last play."
The last play was a 33-yard bruising run
in which Scott ran through two defenders in
the hole at the line of scrimmage and broke
another tackle before getting into the endzone for the game-winning score.
Last season, Scott rushed for over 1,000
yards and an SEC-high 18 touchdowns.
Florida defensive coordinator Charlie
Strong said Scott's running style isn't any-
thing the Gators haven't seen already.
"I don't think he really does anything dif-
ferent," Strong said. "He's similar to (Ten-
nessee running back Montario) Hardesty."
Hardesty gashed UF for 96 yards and a
touchdown on 20 carries in Week 3, though
Scott didn't enjoy similar success the last
time he faced the Gators.
UF's defense held Scott to 35 yards on 12
carries in a 51-21 win in The Swamp in 2008.
The last time the Gators went to Death
Valley, however, then-LSU running back Ja-
cob Hester had his way with UF's defense,
going off for 106 yards on 23 carries includ-
ing two fourth-and-i conversions on the
game's final drive.
He would later cap off that drive by scor-
ing the go-ahead touchdown with just more
than one minute remaining to seal the Ti-
gers' 28-24 victory.
PICKS, from page 17
VT WILL WITHOUT A SHADOW OF A DOUBT COVER THE -13.5-POINT SPREAD BECAUSE .BC
is about as untested as Derrick Rose. Unless you count the Golden Eagles' win against a
Volin-led .I mean, Bobby Bowden-led FSU team. BC is yet to even play a ranked opponent,
nevermind beat one. VT, on the other hand, has won two out of three games against ranked
opponents, with its lone loss coming against No. 3 Alabama. Plus, Volin picked BC.
-KYLE MAISTRI
Now, on to the picks!
Leading the pack of journalists with a 28-21 record is Mike "I feel too connected" DiFerdinan-
do, who recently made the switch to an iPhone and decided to read the Alligator on his phone's
Web browser rather than the print copy less than a foot away.
In second place with a 24-25 record is Mike "How many different kinds of alcohol did you say
are in a hand grenade?" McCall, who wants no part of our plans to bomb out on New Orleans'
most famous drink. If he can't handle a grenade, imagine what a Hurricane might do to him .
Locked in a three-way tie for third at 23-26 is Ed "The youth of a nation" Aschoff, who di-
rectly contridicted our implications that golf doesn't exactly reach out to America's "hip-hop"
culture. To be fair, Ed also scored 120 out of 129 on the "Stuff White People Like" list, including
scarves, having gay friends and Juno.
In the middle of the manwich is Bobby "Enough with the short jokes" Callovi, who will be
buckled up in the back seat as per law on our trip to Baton Rouge. Luckily, his girlfriend is com-
ing along so we don't have to worry about keeping his bottle filled this weekend.
Moving into the top half of the table for the first time is Kyle "I meant to bubble 'F' Maistri,
who forgot to answer a multiple-choice exam question despite no penalties for wrong answers.
In sixth place with a 22-27 record is Phil "I got stuff to do" Kegler, who should have cured
cancer, discovered new planets and won a Nobel Peace Prize considering how many times he
turns down social interactions. We suspect he's actually sitting around the apartment feeding hisknitting, pottery and quilting addictions.
First in a line of poor-performing "real" journalists with a 21-28 record is Jeremy "I wish I
were back at the Alligator" Fowler, whose life is so boring that he literally waits on this picks
column e-mail in the middle of the week. I guess having a wife and a job at a major newspaper
just isn't enough for some people.
Nipping at his heels with a 20-29 record is Mike "How do I reach these keeeds" DiRocco, who
thought it would be funny to flip off a couple of us while waiting at a stop light. He's no longer
our favorite grandpa.
After an epic fall from grace, in second-to-last place and also with a 20-29 record is Joe "Gator
Clause" Goodman, whose blog name makes him sound like a red-and-green-clad Albert.
And rounding out our collection of hard-working wordsmiths is Ben "Is being compared to
Bobby Bowden that bad?" Volin, who requested we leave out other similarities like involuntary
bowel movements, balding and a creepy old man affinity for co-eds.
BC (+13 5) @ VT
BAMA (-55) @ MISS
UGA (+1) @ UT
GT (+2 5) @ FSU
OU (-35) @ UCLA
AUB (-2 5) @ ARK
UM (+7) @ IOWA
HOU (+1) @ MSU
SU(PICK) @ OSU
UF (-7 5) @ LSU
BC (+13 5) @ VT
BAMA (-5 5) @ MISS
UGA (+1) @ UT
GT (+2 5) @ FSU
OU (-3 5) @ UCLA
AUB (-2 5) @ ARK
UM (+7) @ IOWA
HOU (+1) @ MSU
SU(PICK) @ OSUMDF
3C
BAMA
UGA
FSU
OU
AUB
UM
HOU
SU
UF
PK
VT
BAMA
UGA
GT
OU
AUB
UM
HOU
SUMM
VT
BAMA
UGA
FSU
UCLA
AUB
UM
HOU
SU
UF
JF
BC
BAMA
UGA
FSU
OU
AUB
UM
HOU
SUEA
BC
MiSS
UGA
GT
OU
ARK
UM
HOU
OSU
UF
MDR
VT
BAMA
UGA
GT
UCLA
AUB
IOWA
HOU
SUBC
VT
BAMA
UGA
FSU
OU
ARK
UM
HOU
SU
UF
JG
BC
MiSS
UGA
FSU
OU
AUB
UM
MSU
SUKM
VT
MiSS
UGA
FSU
OU
AUB
UM
HOU
OSU
UF
BV
BC
BAMA
UT
FSU
OU
AUB
IOWA
HOU
OSU
I Oto reserve your 2009-2010 Women's Basketbal season tickets!IYou don't look
so good.
On-site physicians. No appointments. Online Registration.
Come on over.
solantic I Shands
walk-in urgent care
solantic.com
Ayers Medical Plaza e 720 S.W 2nd Avenue, Suite 160A 9 352-240-8000-ALL FOOD
11am-7om Fridays
and 4PM-7PM MondaV -TnlurSdaV
Gr7 nk specials too!
ft
