the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 7 We Inform. You Decide.S ThcYet
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
Fees to generate
$800M for state
By DALIA SABBAGH
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the first time in about 20
years, Florida Department of Trans-
portation fees are increasing -more
than doubling in many cases.
The fee increases, which go into
effect today, will increase state
revenue, said David Westberry,
spokesman for the Florida Depart-
ment of Highway Safety and Motor
Vehicles.
The fees are projected to contrib-
ute $799.6 million to the budget, ac-
cording to an FDOT report.
Fees for motor vehicle titles, reg-
istrations and driver's licenses have
not changed in 20 years or more,
Westberry said.
Although the DHSMV has tried
Available from Commerkeeping costs low, the increase is
necessary to combat budget trou-
bles, Westberry said.
"Our legislators had some very
difficult decisions to make," he said.
"But it was important that Florida
have a balanced budget without
having tax increases in other areas."
Westberry said theState DHSMV has seen anNews increase in visits to its
offices leading up to
today's fee increases.
On average, the department
serves 15,000 to 20,000 people per
day. On Friday, the number in-
creased by about 50 percent.
The new fees were established
by the Florida Legislature as part
of the state's budget development
SEE FEES, PAGE 8
d Material
Content
cial News Providers"
esi a
Jessica warsnaver / Alligator blarT
LOCAL
Bats find new home in campus psychology building
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
As UF moves forward with plans to fix
and replace its crippled bat house, hundreds
-perhaps thousands -of displaced bats
have found new homes in buildings on cam-
pus.A day or two after the roosting fins fell to
the ground and crushed about 80 bats last
month, people in the psychology depart-
ment noticed they weren't the only ones
using the building, located on Center Drive
north of Shands at UF.
One night, a graduate student leaving the
building around midnight decided to take
the elevator and was dive-bombed by bats,said Neil Rowland, chairman of the psychol-
ogy department.
The next day, a number of people in the
building reported seeing bats, Rowland
said.
"The ones I saw were all basically lying
down on surfaces, like they were pooped
out," he said.
"[It's] hard to see them if they're on adesk," he said, noting their brown color.
"It's like, 'Hmmm, I wonder what this is on
a desk. Oh, it's a bat!'
So they placed a call to UF's Physical
Plant Division, which determined that be-
tween 1,000 and 2,000 bats were living in the
elevator shaft.
They likely had entered through an inch-
SEE BATS, PAGE 8
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Scooter Spill
Gainesville
Fire Rescue
paramedics
tend to Zanib
Somji, 18,
after she lost
control of her
scooter and hit
the curb along
Northwest 12th
Avenue Monday
afternoon.
Witnesses said
there were no
cars involved
and police said
she had cuts
on her face and
other possible
injuries. Somji
was taken
to Shands
for further
treatment.
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
* Senior forward
Ashlee Elliott (right)
tore her ACL in Sun-
day's game against
USF, and coach
Becky Burleigh
announced Monday
that Elliott will miss
the remainder of
the season.
See Story, Page 15.Today
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
10
13
15Thunder
storms
83/71
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Alternative Transportation Fair
Today, 9 a.m. -2 p.m.
Reitz Union North Lawn
The fair will feature local or-
ganizations and campus clubs
providing information and
demonstrations about alterna-
tive transportation.
Get Involved, Get Connected
Today, 6:30 -8:30 p.m.
Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.
Come meet all of the student
groups at Hillel and find out
how to get involved.
Amnesty International meeting
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Physics Building Room 1011
Come and learn about upcom-
ing events and share your ideas
about global humanitarian is-
sues.
UF Society of Professional
Journalists
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Weimer Hall Room 3032
Learn how to become involved
in SPJ's national campus chap-
ter of the year at its first meeting
of the semester. Master Lecturer
Mike Foley will be speaking.
Refreshments will be served.
Florida Educator Association
meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
College of Education
Terrace Room
Education majors who are inter-
ested in getting involved with
political action, community ser-
vice and attending professional
development workshops are
welcome to attend. There will
be free food and giveaways.
Library Showcase
Wednesday, 11 a.m. -1 p.m.
Library West InfoCommons,
Third floor
See what the UF and Alachua
County libraries have to offer.
Library technologies, services
and resources will be featured.
There will be demos, giveaways
and free food.
FACES Modeling Troupe
meeting
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
Pugh Hall
Positions for fashion team, pub-
lic relations staff and runway
models are open.
UF National Society of Black
Engineers Meet and Greet
Wednesday, 6:15 -7:15 p.m.
Weil Hall Room 270
Come learn about UF's NSBE,
the benefits available to mem-
bers and hear from a panel of
previous and current NSBE
leaders. Free food will be
served. For more information,
go to www.ufnsbe.org.
Green Drinks
Wednesday, 6 -8 p.m.
Wild Iris Books
802 W University Ave.
Water scientist Ron Chandler
and Robert Pearce, presi-
dent of the Stephen Foster
Neighborhood Association,
will speak. The GoGreenNation
Conservation Challenge, an ef-
fort to reduce our energy, waterFORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
83/71WEDNESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
84/70
and waste usage, will also be
introduced.
Political Science Honor Society
meeting
Wednesday, 7p.m.
Anderson Hall 034
Come learn about Pi Sigma
Alpha, UF's largest Political
Science Honor Society. First
general meeting, everyone is
welcome, and free food and
refreshments will be served.
Fellowship of ChristianAthletes
meeting
Wednesday, 8:30 p.m.
O'Connell Center (Gate 4)
Bob Tebow will be speaking.
For more information, go to
www.uffca.org.
UF American Solar Energy
Society meeting
Thursday, 7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Rinker Hall Room 235
Interested in clean, green and
sustainable energy? Learn
more about the American
Solar Energy Society's
UF chapter at ufases.org.
Upcoming events include
National Solar Tour, One Less
Car, our solar powered vehi-
cle project, and our annual na-
tional conference in Phoenix
during Summer 2010.
Multicultural Greek Council
Showcase: Evolution
Friday, 6-10 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Sponsored by Weeks of
Welcome and Gator Nights,
each organization from MGC
will be showcasing their val-
ues, traditions and history
through live performances
and skits. Afterwards, attend-
ees can meet every fraternity
and sorority in MGC and
learn about recruitment.
African Student Union meeting
Friday, 6:30 p.m.
CSE E222
Join ASU for the first general
body meeting of the year. Free
food will be served. Check it
out at www.ASUatUF.com.
28th Annual Dog Days Run
Sept. 12, 8- 10a.m.
The UF Student Chapter of
the American Veterinary
Medical Association is host-
ing a 5K and 1-mile fun run
for owners and their dogs to
benefit the Alliance for Rabies
Control. There will be free
food, a raffle, goodie bags,
awards for both runs and a
free T-shirt for all those regis-
tered by Sept. 5. Registration
is on active.com or the day of
the race.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to
bkelley@alligator.org with
"What's Happening" in theTHURSDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
84/69FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
85/70SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/70
subject line. Please include a
one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event.
ON CAMPUS
Group to air weekly sitcom
This fall, on-campus residents
will have something new to watch
on Friday nights.
Theatre Strike Force, inconjunc-
tion with the Inter-Residence Hall
Association, will present "Oppie's
Friend Gene," a weekly half-hour
sitcom that will air Friday at 8:30
p.m.
The show, which began filming
this past summer, chronicles the
adventures of Oppie Oppenheim-
er, a socially awkward yet well-
intentioned freshman and Gene
Schwartz, a carefree, flamboyant
prankster, who's trying to regain
his once-godly social status after
an unfortunate event.
Filup Molina, the show's head
writer and director, said TSF is
in the process of finalizing all re-
maining shooting, and the show is
projected to run for nine episodes.
Spencer Hamilton, who works
as head of the production crew,
said he hopes the sitcom can in-
spire students to get out of their
dorms and embark on crazy ad-
ventures of their own.
"This is something special that
we've been working on for a long
time," he said. "It's been hard
work, but when you have a talent-
ed cast and phenomenal writers
such as [Molina], it makes the job
fun and worthwhile."
-C.J. PRUNER
LOCAL
Restaurant owner arrested
The owner of Shooting Star Jap-
anese Grill and Sushi was arrested
Monday on charges of domestic
battery.
According to a Gainesville Po-
lice report, Doo Yong Cho and his
wife, Hye Chong, got into an argu-
ment at their apartment at about
3:15 p.m.
According to the report, Cho
became increasingly angry and
grabbed Chong by the throat,
threatening her.
Cho continued to hit his wife
on the side of the head, and threat-
ened to beat her up, according to
the report.
When GPD arrived, the left side
of Chong's head was swollen.
Cho was arrested at 5:01 p.m.
and charged with a misdemeanor,
according to the report. He was re-
leased without bond.
-KATHERINE BEIN
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 7 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
Jenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara lIngebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Helen Callis, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Brittany Fayne,
Jon Levine, Joaquin Martinez,
MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
smckearnan@alligator.org
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Welcome to the new
school year!
We had a busy,
productive summer,
and all signs point
to a fruitful year
ahead.
Within the past
couple of months
we announced a
$26 million grant
from the National
Institutes of Health \
and a new $13 J. Bernard Machen
million initiative to
open a second biotechnology incu-
bator. We broke ground on a major
new office building on our Eastside
Campus. And our astronomers helped
inaugurate the world's largest telescope,
located in the Canary Islands.
Workers will complete the Biomedi-
cal Sciences Building, the Pathogens
Research Facility and the Shands Can-
cer Hospital at UF within the next few
months. Our latest incoming class is
the most accomplished ever, with stu-
dents arriving with an average GPA of
4.24 and 29.6 on the ACT. The John
D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foun-
dation not long ago awarded UF nearly
$1 million for a new master's program,
one of several recent indicators we
remain highly regarded nationally.
There is no denying the difficulties
we have faced as a result of three years of
budget cuts. But UF scholars, scientists,
staff and students have continued to
excel, even amid what was probably the
university's most difficult era in decades.
Some economic indicators suggest
the economy is stabilizing. If UF can
achieve such notable gains in tough
times, we will surely make even longer
strides in better ones.
Have a terrific fall, and Go Gators!
J BernardMachen, President
Kratzer is 'officer and a
gentleman'
Dave Kratzer, as-
sociate vice president
of Student Affairs and
a retired Army Reserve
major general, has
been appointed as a
U.S. Army Reserve
ambassador.
Ambassador
responsibilities include Dave Kratzer
attending a variety of
regional military events and ceremonies,
as well as assisting returning soldiers in
adjusting to civilian life.
Kratzer's own overseas military experi-
ence makes him well-qualified for the
ambassador position. After Sept. 11, 2001,
he was deployed to Afghanistan for six
months, and then later deployed to Iraq
and Kuwait for a year.
"The University of Florida has been
wonderful in their support of me," Kratzer
said. "I left twice and came back, and my
job was still here."
Kratzer now helps returning Flor-
ida reservists who may face financial
troubles, job loss, post-traumatic stress
or family issues. At UF, Kratzer works
closely with the UF Veteran's Affairs Of-
fice and he interacts with more than 440
student veterans through coordination
with the Collegiate Veterans Society.
By Sara Gaylord
To read mare of this story, visit&Y2285~i
a
34k
This image by photographer David Taylor shows the scarring caused by a heavy backpack used to
cross the desert. Taylor will speak at UF on Sept. 16 about his photo/video project.
Book, photography capture
'border' reality
"Five men stumbled out of the mountain pass so sunstruck they didn't
know their own names. .They were drunk from having their brains baked in
the pan, they were seeing God and devils, and they were dizzy from drinking
their own urine, the poisons clogging their systems.
These are the words of author Luis Alberto Urrea in "The Devil's Highway."
The book is based on the true story of 26 men who attempt to cross the U.S.-Mex-
ico border into Arizona through the dangerous desert region known as the Devil's Highway. While a
dozen men manage to survive, 14 others pay the ultimate price, succumbing to the unforgiving desert.
"The Devil's Highway" is this year's Common Reading Program selection.
To help kick off the program, Urrea joined President Bernie Machen in addressing the freshman
class at the university's first New Student Convocation on Aug. 21 at the O'Connell Center. Small-
group discussions, led by faculty, followed the convocation.
Upcoming campus events include a presentation by photographer David Taylor at 7 p.m. on Sept.
16 at the Harm Museum of Art. Taylor's lecture, "Working the Line: Photographs of the U.S.-Mexico
Border," will discuss his photographic and video work that takes place on the border.
"The opportunity to share my work with the University of Florida community is very fortuitous
as Luis Urrea is writing an essay for a forthcoming book of my photographs," Taylor said.
"As Luis so profoundly illustrates in 'Devil's Highway,' the space that separates our romantic vi-
sion of the desert southwest and the experience crossing that same territory as a migrant is complex
and fraught," Taylor said.
J' To read more of this story, visit www.insideuf.ufl.eduBy Susan Stewart and Sara Gaylord
Note This
Student Alumni,
Cicerones receive awards
The University of Florida recently received two
national awards. The Student Alumni Association
(SAA) received "Most Outstanding SAA" by the
Council for Advancement and Support of Educa-
tion (CASE)/Affiliated Student Advancement
Programs (ASAP), and
the Florida Cicero-
nes were awarded
"Most Outstand-
ing Internal
Program for
their recruit-
The fall 2009 incoming ment process.
freshman class has a With more
4.2 average GPA, an than 9,500
average SAT score of members,
UF's SAA is the1963 and average A CT largest studentscore of 29.6. alumni association
club in the country.Tobacco-free, inside
and out -UF, Shands
Patients, visitors and employees at
the University of Florida Health Science
Center (HSC) campus and Shands
HealthCare facilities throughout North
Central Florida are going "Tobacco-Free
Together," officials recently announced.
As of Nov. 1, the use of cigarettes
and other tobacco products in any of the
HSC, Shands or UF Physicians buildings
and parking lots, or in vehicles in these
areas, will not be permitted.
UF plans to implement the policy on
its main campus in July 2010.
U NIVE R SI TY fUF iifOR Aii
The Foundation for The Gator NationYour
campus
news
source
C
Produced by the University
Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
September 1, 2009
UF Calendar
Sept. 4
Fall fee-payment deadline
Sept. 7
Labor Day holiday (no classes)
Sept. 11
Fall S-U grade option deadline
Recurring Events
Amazing Butterflies, Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History, everyday
through Sept. 7, 10 a.m. -5 p.m.
Docent-Led Tours, Harn Museum
of Art, every Saturday and Sun-
day, 2 p.m.
Weekend Tours, Harn Museum of
Art, every Saturday, 11 a.m.
This is a sampling of events from
the electronic UFcalendar For
more event details, or to submit an
event to the calendar click
"UF Calendar"at
www.insideufufl.edu.
-4 View these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
LOCAL
Student arrested, banned
from campus after fight
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
A UF student was arrested for domes-
tic battery by strangulation, suspended by
UF and banned from campus after his ex-
girlfriend, also a student, accused him of
trying to suffocate her after she prevented
him from committing suicide.
Husang David Lee, 19, and his girl-
friend of two months broke up after a fight
around 1 a.m. August 21, according to po-
lice records filed by his now ex-girlfriend,
20.
About four hours after the breakup,
when she thought Lee was gone, Lee al-
legedly entered her apartment bedroom
after she finished talking on the phone.
She refused to take him back, so he left
and returned minutes later, she said.
"Can you at least do me a favor? I want
you to hold on to something for me, " he
said when he returned, according to his
ex-girlfriend. Then he put a knife in her
hand and lunged toward it, she stated.
She kicked him against the bathroom
door and hid the knife under her bed, she
said. After struggling unsuccessfully to get
the knife from under the bed, Lee left the
apartment and attempted to jump from
the second floor, but she grabbed him and
pulled him to safety before he went overthe railing, according to his ex-girlfriend's
statement to police.
After trying to climb to the third story
of the apartment, she convinced him to re-
turn to the apartment, where he went to
kitchen to get another knife.
She screamed while pulling and shov-
ing him. He grabbed her mouth and
shushed her, saying, "[I1f you don't shut
up I'm going to choke you until you pass
out," she told police.
After another struggle for a knife, he
covered her mouth and pinched her nose
Leeshut until she was light-
headed, she stated.
Then she heard
a knock at the door,
which turned out to be
the police.
Lee was charged
with domestic battery
by strangulation, a felo-
ny, and was suspended
from UF and banned from campus. He
was arrested again Thursday after tres-
passing at the Reitz Union Colonnade.
Lee, a health education and behavior
major, was listed as president of the Kore-
an Undergraduate Students Association.
His ex-girlfriend is listed as an officer.
Lee, who could not be reached by e-
mail for comment, has entered a plea of
not guilty.UF professor earns award
.HE STUDIES PARASITE-INDUCED
DISEASES IN HORSES.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ellis Greiner just added a new plaque
to his wall.
Greiner, who has won numerous
awards throughout more than 30 years
teaching at UF, recently received the
Distinguished Veterinary Parasitologist
Award, a national award given annually
to parasitologists who have made signifi-
cant achievements in the field.
Greiner studied neurological diseases
in horses caused by parasites.
Despite his achievements, Greiner said
the most important work he's done has
been with his students.
Alexa McDermott, president of the
class of 2010 in the College of Veterinary
Medicine, said students are taught by
Greiner at opposing ends of their doc-
torate degree, first as freshmen and then
again in upper level classes.
"He frequently helps with things out-
side of the classroom as well, such as be-
ing a research adviser for some students,"McDermott said. "And he serves as an
academic adviser to many."
McDermott said when she was a fresh-
man, Greiner went out of his way to get
to know the incoming class by organizing
freshman orientation and spending time
with students.
"Dr. Greiner is a professor who is con-
cerned that his students do well," she
said.
Greiner, who received his doctorate
degree in Parasitology from the Univer-
sity of Nebraska, has worked
O n with parasites in dogs, cats,Campus horses, cows, sheep, goats
and a variety of wildlife.
"The first course I ever took in parasi-
tology made me realize how unique and
distinct parasites were from all the other
forms of life," he said. "They're very in-
triguing."
Greiner said he teaches his students
that parasites are the highest evolved
form of life on earth, higher even than hu-
mans.
"No matter what people have done, no
matter how smart we are, as soon as we
design something to control parasites, like
a new drug, the parasite evolves around
it," he said.
IEYER I
SEXPRESL (nd3427 56nd 3 -pters
NW1t e Corner of NW 13th St.
1 -a & 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EXPRIesS
(352)3'75-6133
Free In-House Lunch Special:
Bring a friend and get a free gyro with purchase of'
any one gyro and two beverages!
customerr must present this coupon to redeem speciaL
Available 11:30 am -3:30 pm M-F)
expires 20th September
'352-378-5179 1120 W University Ave.'I
SMOKERS
Ages 18 through 21
If you smoke a minimum of I cigarette per week, you can earn
$4 for less than 2 hours of your time by helping with a Duke
University and University of Florida at Gainesville study on
evaluating a booklet of information on genetic testing. Tasks involve
completing a short survey, participating in an interview about
genetic testing and smoking, and reading a booklet about genetic
testing and smoking. No classes, medications, or counseling involved.
If interested, and to see if you qualify, please call 352-273-2165
or go to http://www.psych.ufl.edu/-shepperd/surveys/gstmsurveyl.html
Pro5950 ,Some things you don't
mind waiting by the
mailbox for.
Books are another matter.
At the UF Bookstore,
"in-stock" means in-store,
in your kands today.
*
\WjW BOOKSTORES
www.ufl bkstr.com
Museum Road & RMtz Unimon Drft
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
Find us on Facebook: UF BookstoreSpeech-Language
and OT Services
Assessment
Treatment
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 I 593OSWArcher Rd
info@morriscenters.com
DON'T DRINK & DRIVE
r
4CafskribeeTextbooksI111111100 I
I
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Bad blow kills 3
sic kens dozens
"Copyrighted Materiel0
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial Mews Providers"
Marcela Suter / Alligator Staff
Toting His Tuba
Valmer Huhn, a music performance sophomore, practices near the Music Building on Monday.
Bud Light 'Fan Cans' won't come in orange and blue
UF asks not to be included in promotion coi"
By JENNIFER TORMO
Alligator Contributing Writer
While thousands of fans will be
sporting orange and blue this Satur-
day, a matching beer won't be part
of the attire.
The Anheuser-Busch InBev's
"Fan Cans" promotion was started
to sell cans of Bud Light in universi-
ties' colors this football season.
According to Anheuser-Busch's
Web site, fans can choose from 26
different color combinations in
packs of 24 or 30 cans.But orange and blue beer cans
won't be part of the line-up this
college football season because An-
heuser-Busch is dropping the cam-
paign in several communities that
have objected to it including UF.
"We were among the 25 or so
schools that asked Anheuser-Busch
not to conduct this program," said
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
The University of Georgia, the
University of Michigan and the
Southeastern Conference president
were among those who wrote let-
ters to Anheuser-Busch objecting to
the campaign, she said.the
campaign's influenc
drinkers at the Univ
da,
sei
ha
/ al
inc
,the
su
Sikes no
maintain that they
legal right to use the
she said.We were very Though the cans would not have
erned about a UF logo, the use of orange and
advertising blue would be an infringement of
e on underage UF's trademark, she said.
ersity of Flori- Brett Fuller, a transportation en-
" she said. gineering graduate student, said he
Sikes said thinks underage students will drink
veral students regardless of what's on the beer
ve died in can.
cohol-related "Though it would be fun to
idents, and throw an orange and blue beer can
bulk of UF's at opposing fans," he said.
dent body is Will Lisska, an urban and re-
t 21. gional planning graduate student,
"We also said the orange and blue cans prob-
don't have the ably wouldn't have affected his de-
school colors," cision to purchase Bud Light over a
different brand of beer."I guess for things like game day
it would be nice, but it's still Bud
Light," he said.
Lisska went to Vanderbilt Uni-
versity for his undergraduate de-
gree and said the school's view
on underage drinking was similar
there.
"One of the deans came in to my
general chemistry class to talk about
how dangerous we were being with
our bodies, and how 20 shots in one
night was not acceptable," he said.
He said he understands the ad-
ministration's standpoint but thinks
underage drinking at UF will per-
sist.
"It's really just a part of college."
Machen supports Sen. pick
Venturing into political waters again,
UF President Bernie Machen announced
his support Friday for George LeMieux,
Gov. Charlie Crist's pick to replace Mel
Martinez in the U.S. Senate.
"George's experience in public service
and his work as deputy attorney general
for Florida brings new perspectives and
enthusiasm to the position," Machen's
statement reads. "George has already dem-
onstrated his strong support for Florida's
higher education system as well."
Unlike his endorsement of presiden-
tial candidate John McCain in January of
2008, Machen wrote in an e-mail that this
endorsement was not political.
"I would have congratulated any one
of the finalists for this position," he wrote.
"My comment was based on the impor-tance of U.S. Senators to the federal legisla-
tive agenda of UF."
Kenneth Wald, a UF political science
professor, said while Machen's support
for McCain seemed inappropriate to many
because it seemed to give
McCain UF's stamp of ap-State proval, this situation wasNews much different.
"In the presidential elec-
tion, the Pres. Machen endorsed a candi-
date in a partisan race, something that
university presidents have wisely avoided
doing in the past," Wald wrote in an e-
mail.
"This was appropriate because the fate
of legislation of interest to UF depends in
part on the Senator."
-THOMAS STEWARTSTATE
Frito Lay sued for '07 wreck
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Staff Writer
ckeenan@alligator org
Monday marked the first day of a trial
for a lawsuit over an accident between a
Frito Lay Company truck and two other
vehicles.
The crash caused the death of the truck
driver and the injury of nine passengers in
a van that was hit by the truck.
The trial, in which one of the injured
passengers is suing the Frito Lay Compa-
ny, took place in the Alachua County Civil
Courthouse from about 1:30 p.m. to about
4 p.m.
Bob Spohrer, who represented the
plaintiffs, and defense attorneys Dennis
Schutt and Penny Schmidt gave opening
statements and questioned the plaintiff's
first three witnesses.
The accident, which occurred October
12, 2007, took place on Interstate 75 at 7a.m.
Stephen Bogue, a truck driver for Frito
Lay Transportation, was driving to Orlan-
do when he crashed into a Davis Express
truck driven by Michael Storch.
Storch, who was unhurt by the accident,
was sitting at a complete stop due to an ear-
lier accident that closed southbound lanes.
Drivers were detoured off exit 399, the Ala-
chua-High Springs exit.
After Storch was hit, he rear-ended a
van transporting 11 employees commuting
from Lake City to Shands at UF and Vet-
eran's Affairs hospitals.
To avoid further danger, the van's driv-
er, Montgomery Stephens, swerved off the
side of the road.
Bogue's truck caught fire and he was
killed. Nine out of the 11 van passengers
were injured.
The trial's purpose is to determine the
fault of the accident and will continue to-
morrow at 9 a.m.
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
Tax, Man
Vehicle fees will help
fund schools, prisonsMotor vehicle fees will go up today, and many feel
it's inappropriate timing, given the current eco-
nomic climate.
Every Democrat in the Florida House of Representa-
tives except one voted against the fee increases. House
Democratic Leader Franklin Sands even went so far as to
say that Republican support for the increases showed a
disregard for the middle class and working families.
What these Democrats fail to see, apparently, is that the
increase in fees will raise more than $800 million for the
next fiscal year and close to $1 billion the following year.
This revenue will go directly into everyday things
funded by the general revenue budget. Apparently those
complaining about the fee increases are also opposed to
schools, prisons and health care. Anarchy is a fun thing to
talk about after a few pints of Guinness, but it's not fun in
practice if you actually want the government to provide
services for you.
People are cheap, and people tend to act in their own ra-
tional self-interest. However, people are also short-sighted
when it comes to realizing that paying an extra $30 every
couple of years in vehicle fees will help maintain society
as they know it.
If only these people could be wrangled up and forced
onto a reality TV show that placed them in a mock-feudal
society, maybe they'd get the picture.
Florida's motor vehicle fees have not increased in 20
years. Dropping a 50-percent-increase bomb on Florida
drivers may reflect poor planning on the part of the Flori-
da Legislature, but keeping the fees so low at a time when
Florida's budget is in crisis mode would just be more bad
planning.
The same goes for the sin tax on cigarettes. It may be
a bummer, but knowing that civilization will still exist
after you finish your Camel is better than having a extra
couple of bucks in your pocket every time you buy a pack.
If Florida cut any more spending on education, the largest
part of its budget, they would lose federal funding. Point
blank: Something had to be done to raise revenue.
There is no doubt that this is a tax increase. But, instead
of developing a better solution, all the Democrats came
up with were other tax increases. Some of the proposed
taxes had a definite progressive slant and were aimed at
wealthier Floridians and businesses.
Others, however, such as a proposed increase of the
sales tax, seemed like they would hurt struggling fami-
lies more than an increase in vehicle fees. The people who
stand to lose the most from tax increases are probably
those who can't afford to drive a car.
Everyone would be affected by an increase in the sales
tax, regardless of whether or not they can afford to own
and maintain a motor vehicle. The Democrats who voted
almost uniformly against this increase are just being silly.
And if this is the best example they can find of Republicans
"not caring about the middle class," they are blind, too.
Florida's House Democrats need to stop complaining
that the increase signifies an attack against the middle
class because that simply isn't the case. And "working
class" Floridians need to stop agreeing with them simply
because they want to save a paltry amount of cash.
01 the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257Cooiumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Oaii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIligator.org/opinions
If UF Gators were actual 'gatorsc5$
Fd
Frozen turkey would be the drink of choice. Girls tanning by the dorms would not be so appealing.
U' r k
V n%r~~ i C:?-
IThe football team would have its share of problems
Doubt should be component of faith
have a problem with the Bible. Specifically, I have a prob-
lem with a particular verse in the Bible. Even more spe-
cifically, a particular translation of a particular verse in
the Bible.
Hebrews 11:1 provides the most direct, straightforward
definition of faith in the book. Faith is discussed frequently
throughout the Old and New testaments, but this is one of
the few verses that begins with a simple, "Now faith is."
The King James Version of the Bible renders the verse by
saying that "faith is the substance of things hoped for, the
evidence of things not seen." The more contemporary New
Living Translation describes faith as "the confidence that
what we hope for will actually happen" and says it "gives
us assurance about things we cannot see." Both are entirely
reasonable, and both are pretty accurate descriptions of what
it means to be a person of faith -any faith. But the New
International Version, which has been among the most con-
sistently bestselling translations of the Bible for decades, uses
different and subtly stronger language: "Now faith is being
sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see."
And that's awful.
This definition of faith insinuates that certitude is neces-
sary (at best) or sufficient (at worst) for faith, and doubt has
no place in the heart of a faithful person. And I believe that
couldn't be further from the truth. The relationship between
faith and doubt is a lot like that of courage and fear. Fear,
after all, isn't the opposite of courage, but a necessary com-
ponent of it. Being a courageous person means acknowledg-
ing you're sometimes afraid, just as being a faithful person
means acknowledging you sometimes have doubts.
This doesn't really seem to be a popular sentiment among
some ardent proselytizers of many religions. Some who are
eager to share a part of their beliefs with others may feel com-
pelled to present a front of unflinching sureness -faith, for
many, is supposed to provide a source of comfort about what
we don't know, and in that sense, "I'm positive this is true"
can be more comforting than, "Well, I'm not sure, either."Joe Dellosa It's even reflected in the secular
letters@alligator org parts of our culture. For instance,
CNBC talking heads speak with re-
markable, unequivocal certainty, even in the midst of an eco-
nomic crisis that economists in general and CNBC in particu-
lar have failed to reliably predict. But that's understandable
-people turn to CNBC to feel better about a situation they
don't really get, and hearing a commentator speak, free of
doubt, helps provide the sense that somebody has a handle
on what's going on.
But the truth is, on the big questions for which we turn to
faith, nobody really has much of a handle. Real faith is sup-
posed to be humbling. Not humbling in the sense of, "I feel
humble compared to my God," but humbling in the sense
that we become more patient and understanding with each
other when we realize that none of us knows anything for
sure, but we're doing our best with what we've got.
Wondering where we came from, why we're here and
where we're going is a natural part of the human experience.
And it's everybody's right to take a stab at trying to figure it
out -whether that means your heart is moved by your God
or you decide that this stuff is unknowable and you'd rather
play some Star Fox 64. But whatever anyone decides, no one
knows for sure. That's plenty scary, but it's a beautiful sort of
scary that binds otherwise disparate people together.
Our world, after all, is one that's becoming increasingly
stratified, and marketers are more than happy to segment us
into astonishingly picayune divisions. Our feelings of some-
times being a little lost, a little confused and a little terrified
because we don't know the answers to the big questions of
life and death are universal, and it occasionally feels like it's
one of the few things that's still universal. And I'm resentful
of anything that tries to take that away from us, even if it is
just a dozen and a half words in one particular translation of
one particular verse in the Bible.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His column appears
weekly.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Did you renew your Monday's question: Should the
tag or license early in anticipation of campus bookstore sell alcohol
fee increases? paraphernalia?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org59% YES
41% NO
175 TOTAL VOTES
Letters to the Editor
Matt Christ full of 'craziness,' too
I am writing to respond to Monday's column
by Matthew Christ. I must be one of the crazies he
railed about because I'm having trouble finding
any merit or truth in what was written.
First, Mr. Christ, if you are going to attack
Sarah Palin, find something she was wrong about.
Why would the Democrats in Congress deny the
existence of "death commissions" for weeks, only
to later claim they've removed them from the bill?
Apparently they were in there. You make a fine
point about Medicare; it's a government-run pro-
gram with trillions in unfunded liabilities. It's bro-
ken. Furthermore, using the figure of 45 million
uninsured is a gross misrepresentation, as shown
in the U.S. census, because it includes illegal aliens
and those who choose not to purchase health in-
surance. Wake up, sir, and stop behaving like a
drone armed with Statist talking points.
James Troxler
5FSHN
Anti-Islam shirts send bad messages to kids
I would like to express my disappointment in
the argument put forth by Robert Harringer in his
letter in Monday's Alligator. It is unfortunate that
it is not easier to find consensus in condemning the
wearing of hateful religious messages in schools.
As a multi-ethnic, diversely religious and re-
spectful country, we have the right to demand
respect for others' beliefs in public space. Public
schools and other government buildings are the
property of the entire community and everyone
has the right to feel comfortable in those places.
Not an enumerated right in the Constitution but
a right that we, as a community, can and should
extend to each other. Believe it or not, we can still
strive for these goals, no matter how politically or
religiously divided we become.
The possibility of a young Muslim-American
student being confronted in school with anti-Islam
messages should be repugnant to all. As a society,
we go to great lengths to teach children manners
and then we set a terrible example by not flatlycondemning meanness and intolerance simply be-
cause we are paralyzed by the topic of religion.
Furthermore, we see the devastation caused
by religious intolerance across the world and
throughout history. Where do you think those
seeds are sown? At what age do you think these
hatreds are embedded?
Dave Gallo
3LS
Gainesville trails unclean, unsafe
Like many students living in Gainesville, I love
biking. Over the summer I went on a road trip
across the country and got to do some great moun-
tain biking. My favorite location from the trip was
a small town in Colorado called Durango. If you
ever get a chance to go biking there, you will go on
some great trails. What you won't experience is a
homeless population living in tents on the trails.
I believe that Gainesville trails are no longer
safe. Going for a nice ride after the first week of
classes on some of these trails, I discovered that
the residents from tent city have now inhabited
the beautiful mountain biking trails. Garbage is
everywhere. Trash piles, stolen items, rotting bags
of who knows what. It's all there and it's disgust-
ing. Guess where these homeless people are going
to shower and use the bathroom? In the streams
and creeks that flow through Gainesville.
I also wrote this article because, while on my
bike ride beside one of the groups of tents, I got
chased by two very large dogs. Luckily I was on
a bike and I can ride fast. If not, these dogs surely
would have attacked me. As I was riding away
as fast as I could, I glanced back to see one of the
dog's teeth about a foot from my left leg.
Gainesville is going to shit and I want UF to re-
alize this. Other college towns in the United States
don't have this problem and Gainesville shouldn't
either. I hope the Gainesville Police Department
realizes what is really becoming of Gainesville be-
fore someone gets sick from human waste in the
stream water or gets attacked and killed by dogs.
Scott Paterson
4JMTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
SG responds to outcry
twas once said that "abasic tenet
of a healthy democracy is open
dialogue and transparency."
I can say that democracy must
be alive and well, because I have
had one of the most engaging dia-
logues with the Student Body in
the past week than I have had in a
while.
It has been a talk about the im-
portance of budgets and circulation
sizes and it has been between stu-
dents, administrators and faculty.
This is how the process is supposed
to work, and I'm glad to see it does.
Based on the concerns of the student
body, I have a better idea of what is
important to them and what should
be better funded in the 2010-2011
proposed Student Government Ac-
tivity and Service Fee Budget. This
will include the continued funding
of the Collegiate Readership Pro-
gram that brings The New York
Times to our campus.
It has been made clear to me that
initiatives like the Collegiate Read-
ership Program are a valued source
of information that affects many
students' daily lives. As was stated
in yesterday's article on the issue,
there have been no formal cuts to
the program, and there should be
issues of the Times sitting in their
respective boxes all across cam-
pus. The current budget proposal
includes a decrease in the funding
to the program. Because of the feed-
back from students, I pledge to pro-Maryam pose chang-
Laguna es to the
budget that
Speaking Out will include
$60,000 of
funding for
the Collegiate Readership Program.
This money will come from SG op-
erating costs such as phones, sup-
plies and other everyday expenses.
I would like to thank all of the
students and senators who voiced
their concerns to me. Without your
opinions, we would not have been
aware of these concerns. I feel that
we could have dealt with this issue
even sooner if people like student
Sen. Jonathan Ossip had voiced
their concerns at our first round
of budget hearings back in July. It
seems that instead he would prefer
to make political hay out of the is-
sue instead of engaging in the cor-
dial dialogue that I have had with
senators from the Unite, Gator and
Progress parties over the last week.
The second part of the quote I
mentioned is transparency. This
process can only continue if stu-
dents remain involved, so please
attend Senate meetings and voice
your concerns.
If you have something to say
about the proposed budget feel free
to e-mail me or come to meetings
and speak out so we can continue
to make SG work for you.
Maryam Laguna is the Student
Body treasurer.
fl@ WT Gainesville
Health & Fitness"
Month to Month Memberships
NEWBERRY ROAD 377-4955 e TIOGA 692-2180 -FOR WOMEN 374-4634GHFC.comBring in this ad to get 20 fre I sided,
blac< & white full service copies
Located on the Ground Floor of the Re tz Us onC, Fre opacross the hall from Wachovia Bank
r. ody 9~-
Expi-El. 9f30ise Phone: 2p.o~ -FAX
Phone: 352-3924226 3 AX
Fax: 352-392-6702 5PACK
Formerly known as Do t Retz wwwuiion.iIiedu/emnpusco
rAm e oBring in this ad for
Free Game of Bowling or Free Hour of Pool
One coupon per person per visit
hr f Not valid when hourly rate is in effect
Expiration date 93009
eBowling *Video Arcade Fall Hours:eBilliards eLarge Screen Moo-Thursday ttam-11 30pm
eFoosball TVs Friday ttam-ao*
Saturday Noon-1am
Reitz Union Game Room Sunday Nooo--tpm
*open until 2arn on Gator Nights roomGroiisd Floor of the Fetz Usion Bring in old friends or come in and meet new ones inp .o.e: 352-392-1637 afun,stress free environment right on campus.
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
The new fees were approved by the House to combat budget issues
FEES, from page 1
process.
As of this spring, Florida faced
a $6 billion deficit. After receiv-
ing stimulus funding, the number
dropped to about $3 billion.
As part of a constitutional man-
date, there must be a meeting every
year to produce a balanced budget,according to Jaryn Emhof, spokes-
woman for the Florida Senate.
After a conference with the
House, Florida's budget -includ-
ing DHSMV fee increases -was
passed May 8, Emhof said.
Residents will be notified of the
fees through reminders in the mail
and at their local offices, according
to the Florida DHSMV Web site.
Regina Topolinskaya, a UF ju-nior, said the increases will put an
unfair burden on Floridians.
"I don't think the state of Florida
should compensateState for the state budget
News deficit by charging us
tag and vehicle fees,"
she said. "By charging these fees,
you are basically targeting every
segment of society because in Flor-
ida driving is a necessity, and that'snot fair."
The fee for a first-time Class E
license -used for non-commercial
vehicles -increases from $27 to
$48. Renewals increase from $20 to
$48, and replacements increase from
$10 to $25. The fee for non-driver ID
cards increases from $10 to $25.
The original and replacement li-
cense plate fee increases from $10 to
$28. The original and duplicate titlefee increases from $24 to $70, and
the initial vehicle registration fee in-
creases from $100 to $225.
Driver's licenses will be valid
for eight years instead of six to help
soften the blow of the increases,
Westberry said.
"This lowers the percent of the
increase and saves drivers the hassle
of having to go in [to renew]," Em-
hof said.
A new bat house could cost $60K I
BATS, from page 1
and-a-half hole in the roof, said Ken Glov-
er, UF's pest management coordinator.
"We called 'em the psycho bats," Glover
joked, speculating as to why they chose the
psychology building. "We gave them the
proper counseling and now they're OK."
He said hundreds of the bats were re-
moved by placing them in boxes and re-
leasing them into the wild.
The rest flew out through a one-way
tube that ran from inside the shaft out
through the roof.
Other buildings that likely saw influxes
of bats include Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
and one of the Veterinary Medicine build-
ings, Glover said.
He said UF's bat house should be fixed
in about a month. The repairs could cost
about $10,000. Plans are being drawn up
for a new bat house, he said, which might
GENERAL NUTRITION CE
25% OFF anv one GNC Product
Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer
3914 SW Archer Rd U
only 3vailable a t er Paza o ationDaIx Seca 77-5020 Exp 9/30/09
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or elder, have valid
ID. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome,
ABiotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431cost about $60,000.
UF is seeking donations and looking
at other possible funding options, like the
University Athletic Association and the
UF Foundation, which handles donations
to UF.
"We called 'em the psycho bats.
We gave them the proper coun-
seling and now they're OK."
Ken Glover
UF pest management coordinator
Lubee Bat Conservancy, a nonprofit
organization, has raised about $1,500 for a
new house and has received another pledge
of $1,000, said director Allyson Walsh. Do-
nations can be made at lubee.org.
The organization also plans to hold
a fundraiser at its annual Bat Festival on
Oct. 10.Roosting fins from the UF bat house are piled on the ground after they fell from the struc-
ture Aug. 16, killing nearly 100 bats and forcing another 100,000 to relocate.
IT~
www.cox.com/gators * 1-866-463-6714 O~4
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
LOCAL
Health department prepares vaccines for flu season
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Starting today, the Alachua
County Health Department will of-
fer influenza vaccines for $25.
The offer will last throughout
the fall or until the vaccines run out.
The vaccination will not prevent the
HINI strain, known as swine flu.
"I wish and hope [people] take
advantage of this," said Sherry
Windham, director of immuniza-
tions for the Alachua County Health
Department. "It's not too early. At
least try to do something to prevent
[yourself from getting the flu]."
The vaccine can help prevent the
flu for up to a year. This is the earli-
est flu vaccines have been offered in
Alachua County, Windham said.
The UF Student Health Care Cen-
ter will not offer flu shots until later
in the semester, around late Sep-
tember or early October, according
to the SHCC office. SHCC flu shotswill cost $5 for students and $25 for
faculty and staff.
Windham said it's never too ear-
ly to get a flu shot, adding that some
may hesitate to get the shot because
they feel they should wait until Oc-
tober, the official start of flu season.
"We wanted to go ahead and
start giving it," she said. "It can
make a huge difference."
The health department will offer
flu shots at its walk-in clinic from
7:30 a.m. to 4p.m.
In addition to the Alachua Coun-
ty Health Department and SHCC,
locals will also be able to get flu
shots from private doctors or at Pub-
lix, Windham added.
Publix usually offers flu shots for
$25, administered by pharmacists
at certain times and on certain days
throughout October.
A spokesman for Publix did not
have any additional information on
the flu shots, but said information
will be available later in September.Flu Shot Locatieoms
Alachua County
Health Department
224 S.E. 24th St.
Gainesville, FL 32641Alachua Clinic
15530 NW. US Hwy 441
Ste 10010 and 10030
Alachua, FL 3261 5
Every Publix in Gainesville
Local Planned Parenthood drops prices on birth control
0 PRICES FELL BY 50 PERCENT
FOR SOME PRODUCTS.
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Planned Parenthood of North Florida re-
duced the price of birth control last week in an
attempt to meet women's needs as they face
economic recession.
The prices dropped by 50 percent for someproducts, said Natalie Muniz, director of edu-
cation and communication for Planned Par-
enthood of North Florida, which has clinics in
Gainesville, Jacksonville and Tallahassee.
The price of birth control pills dropped
from $25 to $20, the price of NuvaRings
dropped from $60 to $30, Depo-Provera birth
control shots are $65 and the Ortho-Evra birth
control patch is $30, Muniz said.
"With this economy, women have to make
choices," Muniz said. "An unintended preg-
nancy brings a whole other set of economicchallenges."
Muniz, who teaches sex education classes
for the North Florida chapter, said the price
drop came when the Northeast Florida and
Central Florida Planned Parent-Local hood chapters merged.News The merge, which went into
effect in June, will help provide
more services for the surrounding areas, ex-
tending their reach to 25 counties, she said.
The larger coverage will help people in
rural areas take advantage of the services theclinics offer, including sex education, STD test-
ing and men's and women's health care.
"It's expensive," said psychology junior Ju-
lie Julien, referring to the cost of birth control.
"But if you want it that badly, you should be
[able to find a way to get it]."
But Muniz said Planned Parenthood pro-
vides birth control to millions of women a year
and is glad the prices have been lowered, even
if women were willing to pay the high prices.
"We're really, really happy we can do this,"
she said. "The need never changes."
Add a strong resume builder.
Begin to build your
business experience
To compete in today's job market, you need
experience. The Alligator offers students just
like you that opportunity. As a sales intern
or representative, you will gain valuable sales
experience through personal contact with clients.
-You will learn the media business from a hands-
on perspective.
If.you can work fall and spring semesters, come
see what makes us a reflection of your college
market. You must be enrolled in classes. Let the
Alligator be your first step toward a successful
future.
Applications are available at The Alligator
Application deadline:
Pl j eASeT u ra QQn I (S .
Please use trash cans and clean up spills in libraries that allow food.UF Student Health
Care Center
UF Infirmary, Fletcher Dr.
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
American
Red CrossGet Involved
Qualifyingfor a Student Senate Seat
September 3, 4, and 8 in room 284 of the Reitz
Union from 9 AM to 5 PM each day. Have a
picture ID. An informational meeting will be
held September 1 in room 361 of the Reitz
Union at 6:30 PM.
Applications for open positions are avail-
able on our website at www.sg.ufl.edu. Look
under Start Here on the front page or click on
Apply Here.
Student Body Elections
Vote for your Student Senators on September
29 or 30 between 8 AM and 8 PM. Find more
information at www.sg.ufl.edu/elections.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 9-10-12-1
lbr/lba in 4/4 luxury condo $410/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
& The ki
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
Three bedroom out of four are available for
rent, furnished with utilities included. Near
UF and Shands, $400.00 a month. Call 352-
795-1870 or 352-266-4114. 9-3-09-30-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25!
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-4-09-27-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
PROF/GRAD STUDENT. All Amenities.
Studious & quiet. Safe & secure. $350/mo.
Leave message 333-8300. 9-4-09-14-1
LIVE IN LUXURY @ Windsor Park! A MUST
SEE APT! 3Bd/3Private BTH All Inclusive:
water,light,cable, and h-s internet plus more!
ONLY $470 no security deposit! Call for more
details 305-984-4245 9-1-09-7-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Aptfor rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three blks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1
DUCKPOND
Prof/grad student. fully furn large room in qui-
et house. Bike to campus. $350/mo. Leave
message 872-8388 9-4-09-10-1
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
9-4-09-10-1
$300/mo.each 4 bdrm/2bath, washer &
dryer with utility pkg. CLEAN! @ University
Commons. 352-266-4114. 9-8-09-10-1
-Furnished. 1 br/1 ba, Windsor Park. Room. 2
mi from UF, $ 420/mo. Avail Right now. Elec,
cab.tv, internet,gym, pool, washer/dryer,
closet. Basketball, .soccer & tennis courts.
305-408-4330,305-962-2525 or
c2000_1@msn.com 9-2-09-7-1
Beautifully Furnished 2/2 condo at Creeks
Edge, Ground floor, pool, 24hr gym, tennis
court, on RTS route 8, less than 2 miles to
campus, $1100 call 904-501-1990
9-8-09-10-1
Live in Luxury @ Windsor Park! Fully fur-
nished 3bed/3private bath poll view. Rent
includes: utilities, cable, high-speed inter-
net, washer/dryer, plus all amenities. ONLY
$399 CALL 305-984-4245 FOR MORE INFO
9-14-09-10-1
2 BR/ 2 pvt Bth Available in Rockwood Villas
3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of utilities.
FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit. On
bus route close to Oaks Mall. Call 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-16-09-12-1$290/rm. University Commons Archer Rd &
23rd St. 4BR/2BA, fully furn, W/D, free cable
TV w/HBO, all utils including internet. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 9-28-
09-20-1
For FRent
unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $90W 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
OLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillias.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Ind Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 9-14-
09-68-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-8-09-
59-2
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentO F nfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service Ind,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
43-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
3BR $99 Moves you in! $750/mo
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-4-09-35-2
4/2 $99 Moves you in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-4-09-35-2
2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total.
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-4-09-35-2Room $299. $99 first month.
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-4-09-35-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
POOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-4-09-27-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
29-2Nantucket Walk Luxury 1 BR/1 BA Condo
1460 NW 3rd Place, 640 sq ft, stainless ap-
pliances, black granite countertops, tiled,
covered balcony, reserved parking, H/AC,
DW, W/D $1000/mo 813-766-4003 9-1-09-
21-2
3BR/1BA House Available August 1st. Cent
H/AC, ceiling fans, carport. $900/mo. 217
NW 36th Terrace. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-
6968 9-4-09-24-2
611 NW 34th Dr. Available August 1st.
3BR/2BA house. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans.
$950/mo. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968
9-4-09-24-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-8-23-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
25-2
Prime location Beautiful extra large 2BR/1 BA
unit M-21 Summit House 1700 SW 16th
Ave. Near UFNA/Vet/Shands. $600/mo.
Pool, parking. Private lease. 480-390-4528.
Deposit. 9-4-09-19-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $1095/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-18-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
1st month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
nu
Still need housing this Fall?
Ask about our Last Minute Move-In Special!
352.338.7467 1 3 SIR1[U
Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!
II 1 LL iS I I .! [ W aI mm1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*I
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
Available Aug: Cute & Clean Vintage 4bd/
2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1350/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
9-8-09-17-2
HOUSE avail 1st wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1200/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-11-09-15-2
ROOM FOR RENT in 2/1 apt., 2nd fl, clean,
light, walk to UF, rts 13, 16 & 17. $330/mo
Ind. water & tv. students only. 407-922-0029
9-1-5-2
OWNER
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, FL
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low taxes.
$269K
Call Gigi Tajall
@ 352-281-0001
Watson Realty Corp.
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
For Rent For Rent For RenteRoommates Roommatesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
I I I A \% A
(., i, \ N I >
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
GET A FREE BEACH VACATION!
Large 2 BR 1.5 BA Townhomes
Close to UF & On 2 Bus Routes
Open House Everyday 359-6386
www.gopinnaclepoint.com
9-4-09-13-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 3 bed/3 bath $1,100.
Each room has a private bath. End unit in
quiet neighborhood. 2 pools, sand vball court,
tennis courts. Close to the mall, UF, and
SFCC. On bus route. Call 352.514.3424.
9-9-09-15-2
1 BR/1 BA available now. Near Shands. Large
screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. Pets ok.
$525/mo, $575 sec dep. 3300 SW 23rd St.
Apt #2. Call 352-371-3473, please leave
message. 9-4-09-12-2
2BR + small bonus room/1 BA. Near Shands.
Availalbe now. Large screened-in porch. W/D
hook-ups. $685/mo, $700 sec dep. 3300 SW
23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 please
leave message. 9-4-09-12-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2 Bedroom-2 Full Bath Modern Condo. One
Car Garage plus reserved parking. Tiffany
Condos -NW 23rd Blvd. $850 mo + $500 dep
tiffany@NFMLLC.com, 352-514-1800. Pics
at tinyurl.com/tiffany4 9-8-09-12-2
Beautiful 3/2 house nice NW area.
Options:washer,dryer,cable tv. Includes:dish
washercentral AC,garage,nice above ground
pool,1500 sq/ft, sun room,great yard. $1100
month Call:352-283-8366. 9-2-8-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 *106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
DUCK POND 1ST MONTH FREE!
$1085 MO 3 OR 4 BR/2BA.
LR/DR. LGE YARD. QUIET.
CLOSE TO UF. NEW PAINT.
904/415-0370 kbskiis@yahoo.com 9-1-09-
7-2
*3BR/1 BA House
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
*2BR/1.5BA Townhouse
7130 SW 45th PI $600/mo.
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 9-4-09-
10-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-2
Townhouse 4/2/1/2 covered parking, swim-
ming, exercise room, screened porches,
laundry hook ups,clean updated unit, pets
less than 40 lbs okay. $900 rent + deposit
Susan 352-262-4617. 9-4-09-9-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-22-BR apartment in historic home, Duck Pond
Area, bike to campus, washer/dryer, quiet
and private, 905 NE Third Ave., $550 month-
ly, 352-494-7837,
chriseversolel@gmail.com. 9-1-09-6-2
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesvile. 2 miles from campus
and close to shops and restaurants. Apt in-
cludes washer, dryer, balcony, pool, and
alarm system. Available now. Call (561) 827
5358 9-8-09-10-2
$650. Washer/Dryer provided;upstairs; 2
br; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer grad
student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown. 1822 NW
10th St. 352 376 0080 9-8-09-10-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 3Bd/2Ba
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addl dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
Corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft Rent reduced to
$1400 + $1400/OBO dep. Motivated to rent!
Avail now. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956 9-9-09-10-2
* 1BR condo, 2nd fIr. $625/mo;
' 2BR condo, lstflrw/ patio $750/mo
Both newly remodeled. New appliances $5m
built-in microwaves & W/D. 1 mi from UF.
772-801-9884 9-1-09-5-2
1 room available in AWESOME 4/2 near Law
School. Perfect for student or young profes-
sional. Rent is 485 + utilities. Looking for fun
respectful roommate. (321) 303-2214. Avail.
immediately 9-1-09-4-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
3/1 within 5 miles of UF and downtown. tile,
wood,w/d, newer appl & ac, fncd yd. Walk to
NE Park to enjoy playground,dog park, ten-
nis, baseball, racquetball & soccer. Some
pets okay. Avail 9/1. $875/mo. 338-1452.
9-2-09-5-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
2br/1ba House $795/mo walk to UF!
Located behind Norman Hall. Includes 2
parking spots, high speed internet, shared
washer/dryer. Renovated '09 -tile, paint,
appliances. Private owner 352-375-5975.
9-11-09-10-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-4-09-5-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
Looking for an affordable/spacious place to
live in SW Gville? Renovated 2BR/2BA apt
Archer Rd near UF, Butler Plaza, 1-75. Tile
fir in living/dining rms, kitchen & bath. Carpet
BRs. Short leases avail 352-262-2828 9-4-
09-5-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
2BR/1BA House on Large Wooded Lot.
Archer Rd/l-75 area, $800/mo. and one
FREE month with lease. Safe family neigh-
borhood. New tile and carpet. Washer/
Dryer. E-mail MH575@Cox.net for more
info. 9-4-09-4-2
4BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-22/1 Available in NE Gville for $700/mo
Fenced yard, garage, house all redone inside
with new appliances, paint, fixtures, carpet/
tile. $1000 security, lease length negotiable.
Call 352-284-3961 9-8-09-5-2
t-subleases
FEMALE wanted, $550 furnished, all-inclu-
sive sublease 1/1 in a 2/2 at JEFFERSON!
352-895-6346 or neha63@ufl.edu
9-8-09-10-3
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Female for upstairs 4/bed 4/bath Countryside
@ UF Condo fully furnished, $435 incl utilities
cable/internet W/D pool work-out fac. semes-
ter renter ok, great bus route. 904-612-3944
9-8-09-15-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-41st MO FREE RENT. Countryside Share
4BR/4BA upgraded furn condo w/ 2 other
students. 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool,
W/D, cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-
672-6969 or 386-295-7929. Avail Aug 1st.
9-4-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 9-8-
09-21-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$430/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-10-09-15-4
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
9-4-09-10-4
Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site. 505-9264 or 870-0904 9-4-09-14-
4
Roommate wanted to share 3br/2ba house
w/pool near UF campus. No pets, No smok-
ing.
$395/month +1/3 utilities.
Call 321-537-6212 for more info 9-8-09-15-
4GREAT PRICE!
$380 & all utils incl. 1/1 avail in fully furn 4/4
apt. New carpet & paint, cable, wireless in-
ternet, pool, W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus
rts. Bus stop on site. 954-593-3063 9-4-09-
13-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4
1 BR in 3BR/2BA GREENLEAF
Furnished condo. W/D, free TV cable. $350/
mo + 1/3 utils. Call 352-260-3359 9-10-09-
15-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
9-4-09-5-4
Female roommate needed, beautifully
renovated, furnished condo mile
from UF, $399/MO includes cable,
internet, utilities, pool + fitness room
and on bus routes, 352 262-2871
9-4-09-10-4
$375 + divide utilities. 2 spacious rooms
avail. in 4/2 furnished house. Female college
student pref. 10 min from UF. Bus stop in
front of house & goes straight to UF. W/D in
house. Avail. immed. No pets 954-667-7290
9-9-2-4
FIRST MONTH FREE
Share 3br/2.5ba townhouse on SW 35th
PI with one roommate! $399/mo+1/2 utils,
cable, internet. Close to campus, great bus
route. Call Lee 239-353-9010(day) or 239-
353-5340 (evenings). 9-9-09-10-4
kickoff EDITIONS
Reach your Target Market before the ae
Call today! 352-376-4482
ali"gatur
September 4
September 11
September 18
October 30
November 6
November 20
November 25
December 4C
Charleston Southern
Troy
Tennessee
Georgia
Vanderbilt
Florida International
Florida State
SEC Championship*Deadline: SFIptember 2
Deadline: September 9
Deadline: September 16
Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
'To Be DeterminecW
* 010
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
JRoommates Real Estate Furnishings For Sale Autos
Share furn T/H w/UF U/G. 3BR/2.5Ba M-M
lease. 1st & Last moves you in. $325 up-
stairs,$250 ground. No dogs. Screened patio
& pool. 786.514.5319/786.299.8626/
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-8-09-7-4
My roomate and I have two rooms avail-
able in a nice house. The house is only 3
miles from school and walking distance to
a busstop. We are looking for 2 female roo-
mates.rent is $400 for the bigger room and
$375 for the smaller. The house has a fenced
in back yard and is located in a great neigh-
borhood. Call Christina if you are interested
my number is 847 452 9874. 9-4-09-5-2
F Real Estate
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
2001 2BR/2BA Mobile Home
in Oak Park Village. Includes appliances,
10x10 shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687
9-8-09-20-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846.12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
05 PC Bedroom set -$275
ODining table w/ four chairs -$125
*Queen & Full mattress sets -$90/setSyndicated Content 3Call Billy 215-3403 9-9-09-14-6
Available from Commercial News Providers F computers
a CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
*IsParts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
11 K lI'F,
C OMII PUT ER S
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
%I B bicycles
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PARKING SPACES
FOR RENT $60/mo.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968 9-4-09-24-
10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Call for se-
mester rates: 352-538-2454. 9-4-09-14-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
OSOOJET BOATOOO
'97 14' SeaDoo, 4-5 seater, perfect for lakes,
rivers, intercoastal. Runs great, looks great!
Must sell, moving. Comes w/ wakeboard, ski
rope & skis. $6500/OBO Call 352-316-1637
9-4-09-10-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $1 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-11-09-8-10
MtorCycIes Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
*www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one si te! Check the website or call
336- 1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2006 49cc Venus Scooter: runs great, de-
pendable, 90 miles per gallon, fully serviced,
and has a metropolitan look. Bought it for
$1,400 and selling it for $850 352-328-6122
9-4-6-11OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
2003 VW PASSAT
55 k miles, sunroof, beige. Very nice. $5995.
472-3441 9-3-09-5-12
'02 NISSAN MAXIMA
142K miles. 1 owner. $6000. Call 352-475-
2063 or 352-215-1399 9-4-09-5-12
WJWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-11-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-11-09-74-13
Volunteers Wanted -Horses Helping People
is seeking volunteers for therapy and horse-
back riding program. Please email awalnes@
gmail.com or view our webpage at www.
horseshelpingpeople.org. 9-8-5-14
WJHelpWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14'PnvninhtAd MAtAI
14, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
UF HepWanted HelpWanted f Help Wanted Services personal
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
Consultants wanted at the Center for
Instructional Technology and Training at the
University of Florida to assist in Faculty lab.
Applicants must be familiar with Windows
and MS Office, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver.
A friendly and cheerful attitude is essential
for this customer service position. Pay
starts at $8.00/hour. Contact Jennifer Smith
jksmith@ufl.edu, online application at:
http://www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php.
9-4-10-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Executive Assistant- Crime Prevention
Security experiencing huge growth, great
career opportunity! Experience preferred.'
Background check, drug test & valid FL
Drivers License required. Great benefits! Fax
resume to Jessica @ 376-9236
9-9-09-14-14
S--in'Notes
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2009
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-4-09-11-14
Brand new start-up company is looking
for Reps in ALL areas. We train & support
at no cost. Be your own boss. Make the
fortune you've dreamed of. No $ to start.
http://stokton.org/vacancies.html 9-10-
09-14-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
MOSES MEDIA INC. has 18 immedi-
ate openings for National Internet Sales
Reps for our downtown office. Will train.
Commission based. Applicants must have
great communication skills, be self motivated
and computer literate. Telemarketing exp. a
plus. Please call Mr. Williams 352-337-2800
9-4-09-10-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
Long hair models needed Work in a easy
going beautiful outdoor setting. Hip length
and longer only. No exp. ness. earn $80-300
while enjoying the day. 352 792-1824
9-4-09-10-14
Sell Gators Merchandise On Campus!
Earn pay and commission selling Gators
handbags, memo boards and more.
Email resume to andy@tessuta.com
9-2-09-5-14einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
WEB GRAPHIC ARTISTS wanted at the
UF Center for Instructional Technology and
Training. Develop your portfolio! Please visit
our website for more information. Schedule
is flexible; pay starts at $10.00 per hour. Call
392-7249 ext 230, online application at http:ii
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php
9-4-10-14
MOTHERS HELPER
2:30-6 weekdays for 13 and 11 y/o kids.
References and reliable car
required. 352-379-1017.
9-4-09-10-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotes@gmail.com 9-10-09-3-
14
Responsible, loving, fun and smart part-time
after school nanny for two children, one in
elementary school and one in middle school.
Older child has Asperger's.
Pick-up from school. Transport to activities.
Help with homework. Act as role-model.
Required: OT, Speech, Psych or Special
Ed background, or other experience with
Asperger's children
Hours: 3:00p until the end of the day (be-
tween 5:00p and 7:00p, depending on the
day), M-F
Rate: $12 per hour
Send resume to: pflugg@bellsouth.net
9-4-09-5-14
BARTENDERS, WAITSTAFF & COOKS
Scores Bar & Grill
1 W University Ave. Apply in person 2-5pm.
9-8-09-5-14
Receptionist/fileclerk/runnerfor busy lawfirm.
Must be organized, motivated, teamplayer w
positive attitude, reliable transportation. pit
or f/t Resume: mel@millerbrasington.com.
9-4-09-5-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-9-09-10-14
Homework Tutor Needed
for an 8th grade student at Oak Hall
Middle School.1-2 Hours after school
Monday thur Thursday Call 352-318-0447
9-2-09-5-14
Cellular Sales / Customer Service Gator
Paging & Cellular is hiring pt/ft for outgoing
personable fun energetic personalities Sales/
Customer Ser Exp a must 2108 SW 13th St
we're a Metro PCS Dealer 9-2-09-5-14
Gatorfood is looking for drivers for the fall.
Get paid quick- collect all tips and delivery
fees in cash each night! Must be 21 and have
a clean driving record. Please call (352) 379-
3663 for more information. 9-4-6-14
Publication Designer Wanted
Design printed program flyers and online
sports-theme magazine for Easton-Newberry
Sports Complex in Newberry. PT to start w/
FT possible. Exp with Mac software desired.
Resume: dougengh@teacharchery.org
9-8-7-14PT Nanny for 3.5 yr old boy. Mon/Wed/Thurs
7-8:30 am & Tues 5-6:30 pm. Minimum 1 yr
commitment. Background check & referenc-
es required; CPR & experience preferred.
Must be nonsmoker with car & cell phone.
Excellent salary. 225-3349. 9-4-09-5-14
be part of $7trillion industry!
spring break on a budget!
away football games on a budget!
pay for tuition!
visit-www.trips-net.net/bdazzled 9-4-09-5-
14
Campus Marketing Position
Want to work for HP but haven't got a degree
yet? Be a campus ambassador and get paid
to promote the brand on your campus.
Apply at: www.repnation.com/hp 9-10-09-
8-14
BOOKKEEPER/RECEPTIONIST/ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
SHIPPING TECH
Full or part time. Must be dependable. Prior
experience a plus. Please send resume to
hr@gleim.com or apply online at www.gleim.
com 9-15-09-10-14
** MARTIAL ARTS INSTR. WANTED **
For growing TKD/MMA school
in Gville. Friendly, energetic
person. Experience preferred.
Leave msg at (352) 375-0700
9-8-09-5-14
THE RED ONION
Now accepting applications for server &
kitchen positions; experience necessary.
Apply in person only, before 11am or after
2pm. Located in the Uptown Village Apts on
NW 39th Ave. & 24th Blvd 9-4-4-14
W L Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
PRESSURE WASHING & PAINTING
Serving FIL for more than 10 yrs!Unbeatable
Prices!lCall today@ (352)219-4944 for
your free estimate. We offer wall papper
hanging,Concrete Staining,Dry Wall,Tile &
Cleaning as well. 9-4-4-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 H A I /A /H b ISAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
LAPTOP BACKPACKS!
All Jansport backpacks on sale. Many styles
with padded laptop compartments. All have
lifetime warranties. 1 mile N. of UF on 13th
St. Lloyd Clarke Sports 352-372-7836 9-3-
10-18
SHOE SALE
Over 200 styles are on sale 10-50% off.
Great selection of running shoes, sandals
and cleats too! Let us help you find the right
shoe. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.
9-3-10-18
NEED A RUNNING BUDDY?
Come join our running group Sunday nights
at 6:00pm. Meet at Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St (1 mile N. of UF) 3-6 mile loops -
Great company. www.lloydclarkesports.com
9-3-10-18
NEED TEAM UNIFORMS?
From super-technical to ultra-basic, we make
any type of jerseys you may need. Our team
department is fast, competitive and profes-
sional. Call Palmer @ 372-7836 for all of
your team needs. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St. 9-3-10-18
CHACOS
Great sandal for walking all over campus.
Adjustable straps for a custom fit & they last a
long time. Flip flops too! Lloyd Clarke Sports
1504 NW 13th St. 352-372-7836 9-4-10-18
BOARDSHORT SALE!
Awesome colors & prints all on sale.
Billabong, Quiksilver, Element, Fox, Hurley &
Oakley. Check it out. Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1
mile N. on 13th St. 9-4-10-18
MODELS NEEDED
Hair and Fashion. No exp.
Editorial and photo. 331-4340.
EINSTEINS 600 NW 75th St. "C" 9-8-10-18
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
WJZRides
our cupunc ure cupressure er a
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session ugg
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16 GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
THE TRUE YOU! Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Only $119! Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
Gain muscle while you lose fat charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
Groups forming now. 339-2199 -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-16 12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTALPersonals LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING wvwreliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) F Pt
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18Tri-County Bird Hospital
Recept/Tech PT for more info call 352-318-
1247. Apply in person Mon thru Fri. 9-4-
09-10-24
Sports
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF forward Ashlee Elliott sprints to control a wild pass during the Gators' 3-0 win against FIU on Friday. Elliott tore her
ACL on Sunday against USF and will miss the remainder of the season.
What's your Red Bull and cereal?
ed Bull and Lee Corso: Oddlyenough, these are the two things
that I have come to associate with
the Saturday mornings of my youth.
Long before I was aware that consum-
ing unhealthy amounts of caffeine prior to
working out was a bad idea, my weekend
would start with an 8 a.m. wake up and a
couple of cans of liquid speed.
Then it was off for a run, followed by
weightlifting with Dad. All of which was
painstakingly calculated so that by the
time I had showered and sat down for
breakfast at exactly 10 a.m. I would be just
in time for my rendezvous with the ESPN
College GameDay crew.
Then it was a bowl of cereal and two
hours of pre-game talk before whatever
sub-par Big Ten game happened to be on
the schedule that week.
College football Saturdays have al-Mike
DiFerdinando
Beg to DiFer
mdiferdinando@alligator orgways been more of
a marathon than a
sprint.
It's a test of both
mental and physi-
cal fortitude. Move-
ment is kept to a
minimum. Only the
occasional bathroom
break and trip to the
refrigerator are ac-
ceptable journeys.
You suffer through the monotony of
the first few games, and then your pa-
tience is rewarded with the crescendo of
primetime.
By 8 p.m., I had usually worn a sizeable
indentation in my mother's couch. But I've
never had so much fun doing nothing.
From the time I was about 14 until my
SEE DIFER, PAGE 16Elliott tears ACL,
outforseason
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
The UF soccer team suffered a setback Sunday when team
doctors told senior forward Ashlee Elliott she has a torn ACL
in her left knee and will miss the rest of the season.
Elliott has started the past 46 games for the No. 7 Gators
(3-0-0), dating back to her sophomore year in 2007. Her play
earned her a spot on the First-Team All-Southeastern Con-
ference squad the past two seasons, and she was named to
the preseason team this year.
"That's a big loss for us," coach Becky
Burleigh said at a press conference Monday.
"Obviously, she is somebody that we really
rely on, and she is a captain of this team."
Soccer The injury occurred in the 16th minute of
Sunday's game against South Florida, when
Elliott tried to muscle her way through the
defense. She lost the ball during the sequence and fell to the
ground.
The game stopped as she was helped off the field to the
training table, covering her face with her hands, clearly in
pain. A few minutes later, she was driven to the team's lock-
er room, where she stayed for the remainder of the game.
Burleigh said in addition to being one of the team's most
accomplished players, Elliott keeps the team loose.
"Ashlee's a really big personality on our team," Burleigh
said. "She's very energetic. She really fires our team up. She's
one of the more inspirational leaders."
Elliott is eligible for a medical redshirt if she wants to play
next year.
UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators edge 'Noles in five
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
For the first time this season, the
Gators found themselves with their
backs to the wall.
After sweeping its first two matches
this weekend, No. 5 Florida (3-0) needed
five sets to take down Florida State 3-2
(25-19, 23-25, 25-20, 22-25, 17-15) in the
O'Connell Center on Monday night.
Up 16-15 and serving for the match,
junior setter Brynja Rodgers took her
usual serving spot near the bleachers
and sent the ball just over the top of the
net, and it rolled off the edge and fell
onto the court for a match-winning ace.
Rodgers, who transferred to UF from
New Mexico State in early August, ad-
mitted to not grasping the importance
of the Florida-Florida State rivalry until
the team began watching film to pre-
pare for the match. But she stepped up
even without fully understanding howinvested the fans were in seeing the
Gators win the in-state rivalry for the
18th straight time.
"I really rose to the occasion, as did
the team," Rodgers said. "Once the ace
went down, I was overwhelmed, the
crowd went wild and my teammates
were jumping all over
me."
Rodgers subbed
into the match right
before the serve as
part of UF's usual[S1rotation, and coach
Wise Mary Wise saw all she
needed to from her
newest player to feel comfortable using
Rodgers in clutch situations throughout
the season.
"After just three weeks of working
with Brynja, I feel very confident that if
the match is on the line, I'd like to see
her back there serving," Wise said.
SEE VOLLEY, PAGE 16
UF SOCCER NEWS
E Senior midfielder Lauren Hyde
was named to the TopDrawerSoccer
National Team of the Week. Hyde had
a goal and an assist in the Gators' 2-1
win over USF on Sunday.UF CROSS COUNTRY NEWS
U The women's team was voted the
preseason pick to win the SEC by the
league's coaches. The Gators received
eight of 12 votes. The men were predicted
to finish fourth in the conference.TEEING OFF WITH KYLE MAISTRI
U Michael Crabtree, the NFL's 10th overall pick, won't report to 49ers camp un-
less he is paid like No. 7 overall pick Darrius Heyward-Bey -looks like Al Davis
ruined two teams' drafts. .Erin Andrews will appear on Oprah on Sept. 11 to
discuss the nude tape that was leaked on the Internet. Looks like Oprah finally
found a way to tap into the 18-to-25-year-old male demographic and my DVR.
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2009
UF FOOTBALL
Meyer, Debose meet with doctor to consider surgery
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
Andre Debose is finding out that
time does not heal all wounds.
Sometimes wounds require sur-
gery.Although no official decision had
been made Monday afternoon, De-
bose and coach Urban Meyer were
considering surgery.
Debose and Meyer planned to
consult head team physician Dr.
Pete Indelicato on Monday and talk
with his parents about what theyneeded to do to fix his hamstring.
"It certainly isn't a career-ending
injury, but it's just do you fix it or
give it time?" Meyer said. "He has
had a lot of time. A decision is going
to be made in the next 24 hours."
Meyer said the injury resembles
the one suffered by Oklahoma run-ning back DeMarco Murray, who
needed surgery to repair a partially
torn tendon in his hamstring before
the 2009 BCS Championship Game.
"I know that injury is tough to
recover from," said running back
Jeff Demps, who suffered from
a strained hamstring during thespring track season but did not need
surgery. "I heard he might have to
have surgery. If he can do that and
get healthy, then I'd tell him to do it.
But other than that, just keep getting
treatment and just try and prepare
that hamstring."
DIFER, from page 15
sophomore year at UF, this was my routine. Wake up, down
enough eight-ounce cans to risk a heart murmur and then
take the trip down the rabbit hole.
My circumstances have changed since then. I've traded in
a couch for a press pass. But the excitement is still there.
When I roll over and smack the snooze button on my
alarm clock Saturday morning, it will be a little less painful
then it was today.
I'll fumble around in the dark for a minute, flick on the TV
and for the first time in what has come to feel like an eternity,
college football will flash across the screen.
And as I stumble down the hall to the shower in an at-
tempt to scrub off the last remnants of Friday night, I suspect
the air will taste just a touch sweeter than it did the day be-
fore.
My long summer in sports purgatory will finally come to
an end.
Lee Corso will be saying good morning from somewhere
I've probably never been but wish I could visit. The street
outside my house will be littered with tailgaters, coolers and
red plastic cups. And the cereal and Red Bull that were the
staples of my formative years will probably be replaced by
leftover pizza and a beer.
But at least for me, it will be a feeling of familiarity. And I
think it's safe to say I'm not the only one.
Whatever crazy, convoluted or bordering on satanic ritu-
als you might go through during you're game-day prepara-
tions, enjoy it.
Football is finally back, and at least for the next few
months, you're not alone.UF overcomes block deficit, Murphy's poor hitting
VOLLEYBALL, from page 15
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF junior Brynja Rodgers sets the ball during the Gators,
3-2 win against FSU in the O'Connell Center on Monday.Before the match, Wise said the Seminoles
could be the Gators' toughest home oppo-
nent all year, and her prediction has prov-
en to be on point so far. Florida breezed by
UNLV and Colorado this weekend, but FSU
exploited several of the Gators' weaknesses.
The Seminoles' physical front-row play
gave them an 11.5-9 blocking advantage and
forced the Gators, who hit .378 in the first
two matches combined, to hit .255.
Sophomore setter Kelly Murphy wasn't
as productive as usual at the net with only
eight kills and a .167 hitting percentage, but
she racked up 34 assists on the night.
Junior right-side hitter Lauren Bledsoe
and sophomore outside hitter Colleen Ward
benefited from the passing of Murphy and
Rodgers (23 assists), recording 15 kills each.
After getting her first career double-double
on Saturday, Ward matched that feat Mon-
day by adding 13 digs.
Florida recorded a paltry .083 hitting
percentage in the second set -the first the
team has dropped this year. Despite the poor
showing, Wise was encouraged by the fact
that her team remained close until the final
points.
"As poorly as we played (in the second
set), we only lost by two points," Wise said.
"We really gave away some points, and our
offense was so anemic. I felt like, if we could
get our offense back on track, we're going to
win this game."
