TodayWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 92 FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
visit www.alligator.orgRecycle
Sunny
57/31FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
A statue of UF quarterback Tim Tebow carved out of a dead tree stands outside of 
Ballyhoo Grill on University Avenue on Thursday. The statue includes such details as a Bible verse on the eye black, a Heisman Trophy and a cape.
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
Tim Tebow is not made of steel. He’s 
made of wood.
At least one version of him is.
Sam Knowles finished his wood-
en 7-1/2-foot-tall carving of the 
Heisman Trophy winner at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday.
Complete with a Superman cape and 
the Bible verse John 3:16 written on his face, Knowles said it took him five days to carve the sculpture with a chainsaw and paint the tribute to the Gator leg-end.
“I feel like I know him,” he said. 
“I’ve been staring at him for so long.”
Knowles said he doesn’t do many 
sculptures of specific people.
“When I first found out that I was 
going to be carving this tree, I drew up 
a lighthouse and seagulls, things that 
would go really well with the restau-rant,” he said. “But Chris wanted Tim Tebow.”
Chris Fragale, Ballyhoo Grill’s own-
er, said he picked Tebow mainly for the 
children who eat at his restaurant.
“I couldn’t think of a better role 
model for the kids,” Fragale said. “Tim 
Tebow is a part of Gator Nation for 
life.”
Fragale said that Tebow frequents 
Ballyhoo Grill.
“When he comes here, all of the kids’ 
faces light up,” he said. “I thought the sculpture would be something fun for 
kids to get their picture with and run around on.”
While having lunch with a client, 
Gainesville resident Pat Gleason said  Tebow and his sculpture are attributes to the community.
She said that as a parent, she thinks 
Tebow is a wonderful mentor for chil-
dren.
“My daughter attends Kanapaha 
Middle School, and Tim Tebow goes there weekly and interacts with the stu-
dents,” Gleason said.Artist reveals ‘Treebow’ carving
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
TALLAHASSEE — An esti-
mated 22,000 undergraduates in 
Florida’s 11 public universities passed up at least $24 million in 
Pell Grants in 2005 because they 
didn’t apply, according to a report 
presented to Florida’s Board of Governors Thursday.
The report found that about 23 
percent of eligible students failed to file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, form.
“All they have to do is fill out 
the paperwork,” said Bill Edmonds, 
board spokesman.
Pell Grants are 
a type of federal need-based aid. The 
maximum award for 2009-2010 is scheduled to be $4,850, but the eco-nomic stimulus package passed by the U.S. House of Representatives 
Wednesday would increase that to 
$5,350.
The board’s study counted 
any student whose family made 
$40,000 or less per year as eligible 
for a grant.
The report noted these students 
were probably eligible for millions 
of dollars in other aid as well.
With an average family income 
of about $105,000, most students are not eligible for Pell Grants, UF’s Director of Student Financial Affairs Karen Fooks said.
Though the board didn’t vote on 
the matter, its staff of about 50 will begin reaching out to high school guidance counselors, financial aid directors at universities and the media so they can spread the word, Edmonds said.$24M in  
aid not 
claimed
SEE BOG, PAGE 11
“I feel like I know him, I’ve been 
staring at him for so long.”
Sam Knowles
Chainsaw artist
n UF forward Dan 
Werner (right) and 
the men’s basket-
ball team are look -
ing to avenge last 
season’s losses to 
Tennessee when 
the teams meet 
in Knoxville on 
Saturday night.
See Story, Page 18.Gov. Rod Blagojevich thrown out of office
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Gov. Rod Blagojevich was thrown 
out of office Thursday without a single lawmaker coming to his de-
fense, brought down by a government-for-sale scandal that turned the foul-mouthed politician into a national punchline.
Blagojevich, accused of trying to sell Barack Obama’s vacant 
Senate seat, became the first U.S. governor in more than 20 years to be removed by impeachment.
After a four-day trial, the Illinois Senate voted 59-0 to convict him 
of abuse of power, automatically ousting the second-term Democrat. In a second, identical vote, lawmakers further barred Blagojevich from ever holding public office in the state again.n A UF student 
created a Web 
site that pro -
vides listings of 
local volunteer 
opportunities. 
See story at 
alligator.org.NewsStateSubscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 92 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker, nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen, 
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy, rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker, lbaker@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, eblake@alligator.org
  Christina McGinley, 
  cmcginley@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
  hdiamond@alligator.org
  Sarah Hsu, shsu@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, lnieset@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 General Manager C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerFORECAST2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
News Today
school students were arrested 
after a fight broke out in the school cafeteria.
Hollywood police say 
the fight occurred during Wednesday’s first lunch pe-riod when an argument be-
tween several South Broward 
High students escalated into a physical fight. The school resource officer attempted to break up the fight and called 
for backup from other offi-
cers.
No injuries were reported, 
and no guns or knives were 
found on any student.
Police arrested 17 male stu-
dents and one female student 
after the fight. They were all charged with disrupting a 
school function and disorder-
ly conduct. The students were later released to their parents.
Seven more students were 
arrested after the school day ended.
Teen takes plea deal in 
videotaped beating case 
BARTOW, Fla. (AP) — 
Another central Florida teen-
ager involved in the notorious 
videotaped beating of a class-
mate has pleaded guilty, and she may go to jail.
As part of a plea deal, 
18-year-old Brittini Hardcastle pleaded guilty Thursday to false imprisonment and bat-tery.
She could get up to five 
months in jail and five years of probation when she is sentenced March 20 in Polk County.
Prosecutors agreed to drop 
a felony charge of tampering with a witness.
Hardcastle was among a 
group of teens arrested last 
year and accused of attacking 
a 16-year-old girl. The attack was recorded on video and was seen around the world 
via the Internet and TV news-
casts.
Two other teens already ac-
cepted plea deals.
Judge: Casey Anthony 
must attend hearings 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — A 
judge has ruled that a Florida 
mother charged with killing 
her toddler must attend her 
pretrial hearings.
The Orlando judge ruled 
Thursday that Casey Anthony 
must be at all hearings ex-
cept scheduling and trial sta-tus hearings. The next one is scheduled for Friday morn-ing.
Her defense attorney had 
objected, citing the media fren-
zy it causes each time Casey 
Anthony is in a courtroom. The attorney says Anthony signed a form waiving the requirement 
that she be in court during the 
hearings.
Anthony is charged with kill-
ing her daughter, Caylee, who was 2 when she disappeared 
last summer.
Boys arrested for throwing 
oranges at police car
BELLEVIEW, Fla. (AP) — 
Two Marion County boys are 
facing felony charges after re-
portedly throwing oranges at a 
patrol car.
The boys, ages 15 and 17, 
were charged with throwing 
deadly missiles after Tuesday’s 
incident and were taken to a ju-venile facility.
Deputies said one boy told 
authorities that they decided 
to throw the oranges at cars be-
cause they were bored. The boy said the stopped sheriff’s office patrol car was the only vehicle 
that they hit with the fruit.
Man posing as deputy 
strikes again in Panhandle
PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — A 
man posing as a sheriff’s deputy 
has surfaced again in the Florida 
Panhandle, and this time is sus-
pected in a sexual assault.
The Escambia County 
Sheriff’s Office said a woman 
was sexually assaulted Tuesday 
night near Interstate 110 in north Florida.
It was the third time in two 
weeks that a man has imper-
sonated an officer in Escambia 
County.
On Jan. 20, a man imperson-
ating an officer pulled over a 
17-year-old girl, who escaped 
unharmed. Authorities believe that case is linked to Tuesday’s incident.
On Saturday, a University of 
West Florida student told uni-versity police that a man pulled up behind her car and turned on flashing blue lights. It is un-
clear if that case is connected 
with the others.
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Critical Mass Rock ‘n Ride Benefit
Today, 5:30 p.m.Show at 7 p.m.The bicycle ride begins in Plaza of the Americas and 
ends at the Kickstand, 722 S. 
Main St. Entry to the show costs $5, which will benefit the Kickstand and Gainesville Books to Prisoners. Performers 
include Umoja Orchestra, Rio 
de la Muerte, The Damsels, Sea Grapes and Giuseppe.
Black History Month 2009 Opening Ceremonies
Sunday, Feb. 1, 4 p.m.J. Wayne Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Opening Ceremonies is the 
official commencement of “Dreaming in Color,” Black History Month 2009. Special 
guests and speakers include 
President Machen and Pamela Bingham, UF’s first and only black female Student Body President. The event will also 
feature performances from 
campus organizations. Food will be served. Attire is semi-formal. Visit ufblackhistory-
month.com for more informa-
tion.
Center for European Studies presents: Migration in the 
Neoliberal Age
Jan. 30 - 31 at 10 a.m. Dauer 215  
This workshop, hosted by the 
Center for European Studies, is 
part of a series of academic and 
cultural events this year focus-ing on a broad range of issues related to Migration in Europe.  
For more information, visit 
www.ces.ufl.edu/jmcemig. 
Gator Sport Management Club 
presents: Jeremy Foley
Monday, Feb. 2, 4 p.m.Florida Gym Room 210GSMC proudly presents the 2006 Street & Smith’s SportsBusiness Journal 
National Athletic Director of 
the Year award winner and UF Athletics Director Jeremy Foley. Under his supervision, 
the Florida athletic program 
has ranked among the na-tion’s top 10 for 25 consecutive years. Foley will be discussing leadership, his rise to the top, 
what keeps him there and his 
advice on how all UF students can achieve success in the field of collegiate athletics.
Got something going on?
And want to post it in this space? Send an e-mail to kbjornsen@alligator.org with 
“What’s Happening” in the 
subject line.
STATE
25 students arrested
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (AP) — 
Authorities say 25 Broward high TODAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
64/27PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/43PARTLY
CLOUDY
67/48SUNNY
60/31SUNNY
57/31
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
By LAUREN BAKER 
Alligator Staff Writer
lbaker@alligator.org 
In a meeting Thursday night, 
student senators debated and de-
cided not to impeach Student Body President and Gator Party member Kevin Reilly. 
The Impeachment Body, made 
of student senators elected last fall, met after a resolution was filed by five members of the Orange and Blue Party on Jan. 22, calling for Reilly’s impeachment. 
The resolution listed six alle-
gations against Reilly, citing in-volvement in fall’s e-mail scandal 
and failure to meet Student Body 
Statutes. 
At the meeting, senators voted 
on each accusation to determine if it was factual. If so, a second vote was taken to determine if it was an impeachable offense. 
Each charge needed to be ap-
proved by  a two-thirds majority 
for both votes in order to be heard 
by a trial body which would have decided whether or not Reilly re-mained in office. 
One charge was voted to be true but not grounds for impeachment. Reilly took about six months to ap-point a chairman for an SG agency that Student Body Statues requires be filled within 14 days of assuming the presidency. 
 “That is absolutely factually 
true, but I did so, in my opinion, for the betterment of the student body,” 
Reilly said, adding  he waited to re-
ceive a satisfactory applicants.                                                            
Before voting, senators played 
tug-of-war over the meaning of Student Body Statutes and Florida’s  Sunshine Law to prop up or tear 
down each point brought against Reilly. 
Many spoke 
on the three ac-
cusations concerning the e-mail scandal. In the private e-mails, Reilly selected 12 students in a list of Senate seat applicants. Ten later became senators. 
Many Gator Party senators said 
the selections were simply sugges-
tions made by Reilly, who has been 
involved with SG for three years. 
Gator Party Sen. Aaron Ginsberg 
said the  evidence of Reilly’s inno-cence is in the numbers, since only 10 of the 12 names recommended were selected. 
But others said the action broke 
SG’s separation of powers. 
Orange and Blue Sen. Dave 
Schneider, who represents Rawlings Hall, said Reilly should not be in-fluencing the legislative branch.
“‘Go’ is an imperative,” 
Schneider said. “This is a very ac-tive word that is being used.” 
At one point during the meeting, 
Reilly sat in the back of the room at UF Hillel, typing on his phone.
“I wasn’t really too concerned,” 
he said in an interview after the meeting, adding that this was be-cause most of the charges were false.4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
Katie Tschopp / Alligator
Members of the UF Student Senate attempt to persuade listeners to vote for the impeachment of Stu-
dent Body President Kevin Reilly in a hearing Thursday evening at UF Hillel on West University Avenue.
Senators vote to
not impeach Reilly
StudentGovernment
LOCAL
By EMILY FUGGETTA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bram Fiebelkorn spent the 2006-2007 aca-
demic year in Panama teaching children to 
speak English and helping impoverished 
Panamanians receive free medical care.
Fiebelkorn, who is now in charge of mar-
keting and sales for an international distribu-
tion firm, said that his trip was made possible by the Rotary Ambassadorial Scholarship Program, which provides funding for students who wish to study abroad.
Gainesville’s Rotary clubs are looking for 
applicants to compete for part of the $15 mil-
lion awarded around the world by the Rotary 
Foundation each year.District 6970, which includes Alachua and 
12 other counties, is comprised of four lo-cal clubs — Gainesville, Greater Gainesville, Downtown Gainesville and Gainesville Sunrise — each of which will help prepare stu-dents who wish to apply for the awards.
The scholarship is neither strictly need-
based nor merit-based, according to the Rotary International Web site. Fiebelkorn said that he was chosen because of his well-rounded edu-
cation and background in service.
“Rotary doesn’t expect you to save the 
world,” he said, “but they do want you to have 
an idea of how your strengths and talents can help you be successful abroad in furthering world peace and bridging the cultural gap.”
Student applicants can compete for either the academic year 2010-2011 Ambassadorial Scholarship, which grants up to $25,000 for a year of study abroad, or the cultural Ambassadorial Scholarship, which allots up to $17,000 for six months of intensive language study and cultural immersion.
According to Jean Casagrande, chair of 
the program’s selection committee for District 6970, the ideal applicant exhibits articulation, 
maturity, a record of public service and pro-
ficiency in his or her chosen country’s lan-guage.
Applications will be given only after the 
applicant meets with his or sponsor, which can be arranged through the local clubs.
From there, Casagrande said, the local club 
will choose who to send to the regional level, and then the finalists will be judged at the dis-trict level.
Applications will be accepted through late 
February depending on the sponsoring club.
Teachers may also apply for the 
Ambassadorial program’s counterpart, the Rotary Grants for University Teachers pro-gram, which awards either a $12,500 award for three to five months or a $22,500 award for six to 10 months of teaching in a low-income or developing country. 
Rotary Foundation offers study-abroad scholarships
“Rotary doesn’t expect you to save 
the world.”
Bram Fiebelkorn
Scholarship recipientFRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Staff Writer
kemmets@alligator.org
A Gainesville woman was ar-
rested late Tuesday night after being 
accused of driving her car over an-other woman’s foot a week earlier.Anginita Jones, 22, was arrested 
and charged with aggravated bat-tery, failure to stop at the scene of a crash involving personal injury and driving with a suspended or revoked license, according to a Gainesville Police Department report.
On Jan. 21, GPD broke up mul-tiple fights between Jones and a woman at Club Decadence, 12 S.W. 2nd St., said GPD spokesman Keith Kameg.
Jones followed the woman after 
she allegedly stole Jones’ jewelry, Kameg said. Jones then drove to-ward the woman, and while Jones was making a U-turn, she hit the woman’s car.
Jones then proceeded to inten-
tionally drive toward the woman, running over her left foot, the report stated.  
According to the report, Jones 
left the scene and made no attempt to help the woman after hitting her.
Jones was previously arrested at 
Club Decadence on Nov. 18 when police determined that her g-string bared too much skin, breaking a Gainesville law that prohibits nu-dity in any bars or clubs that serve alcohol, Kameg said.
Club Decadence scuffle leads to hit-and-run arrest
 THE TWO-PHASE PLAN WOULD 
COST ABOUT $242 MILLION.
By YVONNE AYALA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Commission drafted 
a letter officially opposing the construction of 
a proposed state prison for East Gainesville at their Tuesday meeting, although the state has not submitted formal land use changes.
The potential site would house one of 19 
correctional facilities that the state hopes to construct over the next five years, if Florida’s 
population continues to grow, said Gretl 
Plessinger, spokeswoman for the Florida Department of Corrections.
Several correctional facilities, including the 
Alachua County Jail and the Alachua Regional Juvenile Detention Center, already exist near 
the proposed site at Northeast 39th Avenue.
Because of limited funding, the state could 
take as long as five years to start building the 
prison, said Jerry Brewington, a senior plan-ner in Alachua County’s growth management department.  
If approved, the new facilities could bring 
more released inmates and limit business de-velopment in East Gainesville, Commissioner 
Rodney Long said at the meeting.
“I’m aware that there may be an economic 
benefit to our community with the jobs in this 
arena,” Long said. “However, I think the long-term impact will be much greater … the sit-ing of such a facility is in total conflict with the city’s and the county’s comprehensive plan amendments to foster economic development 
through mixed uses in the area.”
Because the construction of a new jail 
would go against the city’s and 
county’s plans,  the state will have to apply for a change in land use. The state doesn’t have 
the authority to build a prison there without communicating with the county and city, Brewington said.
The correctional facility would be built in 
two phases, costing an estimated $242 million. It would bring more than 800 jobs to the area, Plessinger said.The first half of construction would include 
1,335 beds for prisoners, dog kennels, a shoot-ing range, 25 houses for officers and officer apartments. The second half of construction 
would provide a 1,475-bed mental health fa-
cility. Both phases would include inmates un-der security levels ranging from minimum to close-custody.
The potential site is under evaluation to de-
termine whether it is a suitable location for a prison. There are nearby areas, including wet-lands, that need to be avoided on the potential 50-to-60-acre site, Brewington said.
“We’re at the beginning of this process. It’s 
far from a done deal,” Plessinger said. “This isn’t something that’s unique to Alachua County.”
Alachua Commissioners oppose new prison proposal
NewsLocalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgGuest columnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR6, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
Today’s question: Are Super 
Bowl commercials better than the actual game?Monday’s question: Would you want to party with Sean “Diddy” Combs?31% YES69% NO
167 TOTAL VOTES‘South Park’ transcends toilet humor
I have a question for anyone who has ever watched tele-
vision: What the hell is wrong with us?
Our waning collective intelligence has yielded a 
drop in quality TV programming as steep as the stock 
market’s Black Tuesday collapse.
Because of this, the most important show on television, 
whether you like it or not, is “South Park.” Before you roll 
your eyes clean out of their sockets, hear me out.
Creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker have never shied 
away from a topic. They tackle the most pressing political and social issues with a pissed-off vigor that is anything but apathetic. They punch viewers in the face with obvi-
ous insensitivities, but the episodes are never restricted to 
the shock value. That shock value is there for a reason.
In addition to the idiosyncrasies of everyday American 
life, the show tackles racism, religion and politics.
When “South Park” first aired, Parker and Stone were 
at the helm of a program punctuated by bleeped-out words and ridiculous plots. That was 12 years ago.
Since then, the show has evolved. It still has its hat-
ers, but people who attribute their distaste to the show’s 
content haven’t seen an episode in a while or simply take 
themselves too seriously.
In 2004, the Colorado-based cartoon explained presi-
dential elections better than any political analyst ever 
could. In the episode titled “Douche and Turd,” the boys offer their suggestions for a new elementary school mas-
cot. Kyle recommends they name themselves the South 
Park Giant Douches, and Cartman vies for the Turd Sandwiches.
OK, the toilet humor is ever-present, but there’s a rea-
son behind it once again.
The school’s new mascot is being selected through a 
student-body vote, and Kyle and Cartman lobby fellow students with hope their respective candidate comes out on top. Meanwhile, their buddy Stan says he doesn’t see the point in voting for a gi-ant douche or a turd sandwich, 
which is a perfectly honest re-
sponse.
This episode aired eight 
days before the 2004 presiden-
tial election. At the time, I could 
not have cared less about either of the candidates. After talking 
with some of my friends, I caught the apathy bug and I 
didn’t vote. A brilliant decision on my part.
At the end of the episode, a member of PETA explains 
to Stan that he should vote anyway because elections al-
ways come down to a douche and a turd, because they’re the “only people who suck up enough to make it that far 
in politics.” 
Parker and Stone use about 22 minutes to make sense 
of scenarios that Hannity and Colmes spend years yell-
ing about. I didn’t listen to them then, but the show has started to make more sense.
I don’t advocate basing your life choices on those made 
by a foursome of fourth-graders, but I insist that these cartoons speak more truth than the sum of the staffs of MSNBC and FOX News.
If you’ve inundated yourself with presidential cover-
age and America’s foreign policy blunders, you’re prob-ably a little high-strung and in need of a good laugh.
Watch some “South Park.” It’s a nice break from Rush 
Limbaugh’s “I-hope-he-fails” ranting and the liberal bas-tards’ ‘round-the-clock, on-Obama’s-nuts coverage.
Adam Wynn is a journalism senior. His column appears on 
Fridays.As an oh-so-slow news week draws to a close, the 
Department of Darts & Laurels can only hope for ridiculous-
ness to ensue this Sunday. 
We all know the Super Bowl provides a whole laundry list 
of different angles to take with possible stories. From commer-cials to wardrobe malfunctions, more often than not the least “super” part of the game is what actually takes place on the field. What we are trying to say is we wouldn’t mind some-thing along the lines of a “Nipplegate” redux.
Without further ado, we proudly present this week’s chug-
a-beer-for-us-come-Sunday-since-we-won’t-be-partying edi-tion of... 
Darts & Laurels
Everywhere we turn, we can’t help but hear the word 
“budget” being thrown around with complete disregard. The Department of Darts & Laurels launches a I’m-so-sick-of-seeing-you-everywhere DART at the word “budget.”  
We know that times are hard. The economy is in crisis. 
Stock prices are falling, unemployment is up, people are get-ting fired left and right. This is the reality of this moment in history. But that doesn’t stop us from cringing every single 
time we write it.
Please, we beg you to stop.
From helping pass the economic stimulus package through 
the House to even cracking jokes about the weather, President Obama has the Department giddy about the prospects for 
America’s future. But what we really like is the fact that Obama 
hasn’t forgotten about the “little guy” — the average American 
worker — male or female. For signing the Lilly Ledbetter Pay Equity Bill into law, we present a thanks-for-helping-end-pay-discrimination-at-work LAUREL to President Barack Obama. 
Once invited by the Super Bowl to perform during the 
halftime show on Sunday, the UF marching band will not be headed to Tampa this weekend. Thanks to poor planning on 
the part of the officials running the entertainment, monetary 
concerns forced them to drop the “Pride of the Sunshine” from the list of talent set to take the field. The Department chucks a you’re-missing-out-on-a-great-performance DART at the 
Super Bowl for nothing short of snubbing the UF marching band. 
Sure, we will still be watching come Sunday, but we can tell 
you right now the show won’t be nearly as good.
While most schools commemorate the feats of their super-
stars by retiring their jerseys, Gainesville can now proudly boast a dead oak tree carved in “Superman’s” likeness. For honoring with his Tim Treebow creation our gridiron hero in a truly unique fashion, the Department extends a dude-can-you-make-one-of-us? LAUREL to chainsaw artist Sam Knowles.
There’s no denying the fact we all enjoy kicking loose, but 
that’s certainly no excuse for getting behind the wheel of a car when you’ve had a bit too much to drink. 
For crashing into innocent people and causing the price of 
auto insurance to skyrocket, we throw a let’s-grow-up DART 
at drunken drivers for their dimwitted decision-making skills. 
The Deparment won’t apologize for sounding like a broken re-cord — not until drunks like UF baseball player Stephen Locke Jr. stop going for joyrides after an evening of heavy boozing.
What sets Lionel Rodia apart from the average fan is the 
fact that he not only managed to secure a seat at the final game of the World Series, but he also maneuvered his way onto the field to celebrate with the Phillies. The Department awards Lionel Rodia a we-can’t-believe-you-poured-champagne-on-Ryan-Howard LAUREL for pretending to be a part of the team 
moments after reaching the mecca of the baseball world.
Not too shabby for a guy collecting unemployment.That’s all for this week. Enjoy the Super Bowl.
Adam Wynn
letters@alligator.org
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 7
Column an example of extremist ideology
If Dean Early, the writer of Wednesday’s guest 
column, were to replace “Christianity” in the title 
with “extreme Christianity,” then his assertion might be true. 
Early failed to realize that most of the UF student 
body is not anti-Christian, only anti-extreme-Chris-tian, or against any other religious view that insults one’s civil liberties. 
The response was right: If you preach hate, then 
hate you will receive. 
Thus, I am grateful the image appeared on the 
front page of the paper, as it captured the very es-sence of our annoyance with these extreme preach-ers.  
Doing nothing but spreading hate and insult 
leads to these individuals making a laughing stock out of themselves. 
Early mentions that, “Just because The Lord God 
calls homosexuality an abomination does not mean he hates the person, just the perversion. He still loves the person and that person’s soul and has a better plan and life for them.” 
What’s the plan? Hell. 
Like George Carlin once said, “The Lord sends 
you to Hell, but he loves you.” 
And to argue that one’s religion is right and some-
one else’s beliefs are wrong is no better than saying 
my pants are better than your pants because they are mine.
If that is the case, then we should all just keep our 
pants on.
Fisnik Berisha
4LSLetter to the Editor
George W. Bush, the ill-starred 
decider, the failed uniter, the presidential cowboy, left a 
trail of dust as he galloped out of Washington, D.C. 
And, believe it or not, I was already 
beginning to feel a void in our national politics. 
Where would I go for that swagger-
ing machismo and gunslinging tough-ness I crave in a politician? Most im-portantly, which of our nation’s most eminent figures would I be able to have a beer with? 
Luckily, my concern was prema-
ture. At this, the high noon of the showdown between the blue-hats and the red-hats, a lone figure has strode forward, hands dangling, ready to draw. I’m speaking, of course, of “Big John” Cornyn, the junior senator from Texas and the last cowboy of American politics.
“Big, Bad John,” as his own cam-
paign commercial calls him, bills him-self as a senator who (unlike his ef-fete, wussy, non-cowboy colleagues) “shoots straight and talks straight and enjoys a good brew.” Big John enjoyed a fairly uneventful first term but was recently appointed to head the National Republican Senatorial 
Committee. Now, his job is to help the 
red-hats outdraw the blue-hats in the gunfight of 2010 and try to retake the Senate. Big John 
has clearly de-cided that the best way to ac-complish this 
aim is to grandstand against the new Obama administration. 
Seems there’s a new sheriff in 
town.
Unfortunately for Republicans, 
who have been getting their cattle rustled out from under them by the Democrats lately, their new champion is only half cowboy — the other half 
being buffoon. So far, Big John has 
cynically attempted to excite his base through a series of self-aggrandizing maneuvers as the new thorn in the ad-ministration’s side. It was this sort of bad politics that sunk the red-hats the last time around. 
Big John is clearly willing to fight 
to the death at the Alamo — and with 
his methods, that’s exactly what’s go-
ing to happen. What exactly are the highlights of Big John’s line-in-the-sand-style opposition? Well, he de-layed Hillary Clinton’s confirmation as Secretary of State — by a whole day! This wasn’t done based on her quali-fications, of which he says he is con-vinced, but instead because of a need 
for transparency regarding the donors 
to Slick Willy Clinton’s foundation. Big John held the line for a day before cutting and running. His most notable accomplishment 
so far has been to delay Al Franken’s seating as Minnesota’s newest senator until the legal disputes are resolved — but senators are seated on a depress-
ingly regular basis amid such disputes. 
The state currently has only one sena-tor which, if it isn’t illegal, surely can’t be in the best interests of democracy. But, like his campaign commercial says, Big John is the man to “make lesser states squirm.”
Cowboy Cornyn, for all his gun-
slinger grit, is a man without a coun-
try. Big John is ready to go a-rustlin’, 
but he can’t seem to find himself a posse. The new president is currently enjoying record approval ratings and, if things continue running according to Big John’s plan, the red-hats are going to find themselves outdrawn again.
You’ll notice I’ve made repeated 
references to Big John’s campaign 
commercial — I can only justify this 
by saying it’s the funniest thing I’ve ever seen. Next time you’re supposed to be paying attention in lecture, head to YouTube and search for “John Cornyn.” You’ll be very glad you did. 
If it’s really that easy to get elected 
as a senator, then please expect my own campaign commercial in a few 
years’ time. I’m taking suggestions for 
nicknames.
Eric Chianese is an English junior. 
His column appears weekly.
Texas senator channels cowboy imageColumn
Eric Chianese
Speaking Outn IT WOULD HAVE COST THE 
BAND AROUND $20K.
By NATALIE ARRIETA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The “Pride of the Sunshine” 
Fightin’ Gator Marching Band is in 
demand, but high travel fees have prevented it from performing in two high-profile events this month.
False rumors had circulated that 
the band declined to perform at Barack Obama’s Jan. 20 inaugura-tion in Washington, D.C., and this weekend’s Super Bowl in Tampa. 
Band Director David Waybright 
said the band was never invited to play at the inauguration, adding they looked into it, but never for-
mally applied. 
The band did, however, receive 
an invitation to perform at the Super 
Bowl. After some negotiations, the officials decided to rescind the invi-tation.
It was possible that covering the 
band’s transportation and perfor-mance at the game would have been 
too expensive, Waybright said.
Playing at an event like the Super 
Bowl costs about $20,000. Providing 
transportation for nine buses at $1,000 each, feeding and lodging all 325 members and other extraneous expenses add up, Waybright said.
Not to mention the time and ef-
fort of the staff that accompany the 
band, he added.
But there were other concerns 
with the conditions of performing, 
Waybright said.“The way the Super Bowl pre-
sented it to us, I’m not sure we would have been able to go any-
way,” he explained.
Unlike in the past, the band 
members would not have seats to 
watch the game after their perfor-mance. The last time they played in the Super Bowl in 1984, also in Tampa, students were given those 
seats. 
 “It wasn’t going to be an accept-
able situation for our students,” he 
explained. “It would have been a negative for all of us. We wouldn’t use the students in that capacity.”
Also, Waybright said Super 
Bowl officials approached the band 
about performing only a month 
ago. According to Waybright, they plan their season about a year in advance. 
The normal marching band sea-
son went two weeks longer due to the Gators’ appearance in the BCS National Championship Game in Miami. Once spring semester starts 
the marching band is not active, he 
said. 
Band members are disappointed 
about not playing at the Super Bowl but understand the circumstances and costs.
Trumpet section leader Joe 
Scannella was looking forward to putting such a great accomplish-
ment on his resume. But he said 
he understood watching the game wouldn’t be a possibility. 
“I went to the Super Bowl in 
2005, and the face value of my tick-et was $600,” he said. “I just multi-plied that by 350 people in my head and thought there is no way the NFL has got that many tickets.”
Scannella said although the sea-
son has been long and draining, no one in his section would have a problem giving up one more Sunday for The Gator Nation.Super Bowl officials nix UF marching band performance8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
The “Pride of the Sunshine” Fightin’ Gator Marching Band performs before the start of the 2009 FedEx 
BCS National Championship Game at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens, Fla., on Thursday, Jan. 8.
STATE
By TATIANA GONZALEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer 
An unassuming beetle carrying a fungus 
on its back has the potential to devastate 
Florida’s avocado industry, according to a 
study done by UF experts. 
When the redbay ambrosia beetle bores 
into a tree, it carries laurel wilt disease, a fun-
gus that grows and blocks necessary water and tissue and eventually kills its host, ac-cording to Jonathan Crane, professor at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, who co-authored the study.
“This can do dramatic damage very 
quickly,” Crane said, stating that the total economic impact of the disease — including 
crop, jobs and materials — could be as high 
as $54 million within a year. 
For now, Crane says he and his team 
are working on ways to prevent the spread of the disease from reaching Miami-Dade County, where 7,500 acres are dedicated to growing avocados commercially.
Craig Smouse, produce manager at 
Ward’s Supermarket in Gainesville, said the 
store imports its avocados from Homestead 
and that they sell 50 to 60 cases of Florida av-ocados every week. The fruit, used to make guacamole, is especially popular on the days leading up to the Super Bowl. 
“It’s even more popular than on Cinco de Mayo,” Smouse said.
If the disease did cause a shortage, 
Smouse said, Ward’s would be forced to raise the price on the relatively cheap Florida 
avocado, although they would still carry the 
other varieties from Mexico and California. 
“But people in Gainesville prefer to buy 
locally grown, fresh Florida avocados,” Smouse said. Laurel wilt could also affect the nearly 
60,000 Florida residents who have at least one avocado tree in their yards, like Melissa Espino, a biology major who has a tree at home in Miami.
“We probably won’t eat as many now,” 
Espino said. “My family really likes their avocados, too.”
The disease has reached as far south 
as Okeechobee County and as far west as 
Columbia County, according to a press re-
lease. 
“I hope when this thing shows up it’s not 
a big deal,” Crane said. “But that’s not look-ing like the case. It’s not a matter of if but a matter of when.” Beetle fungus threatens South Florida’s avocado crops
 “My family really likes their         
avocados, too.”
Melissa Espino
Biology majorFRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 9
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
Frisbee Frenzy
UF Ultimate Club Team member Travis Catron jumps over a fellow 
member to catch a Frisbee during a practice game on Flavet Field on Thursday night.
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
Sounds of a singing crowd could 
be heard ringing through the first 
floor of the UF Bookstore Thursday 
afternoon, when alternative rock 
band Hoobastank took a break from its national tour to perform a free concert as a favor to a local radio sta-tion.
“It’s few and far between that 
we’ve performed in a bookstore,” lead vocalist Doug Robb said to a crowd of about 150 students stand-ing on both the ground floor and staircase of the bookstore. 
The band’s four members 
lounged on stools on top of the makeshift stage near the bookstore’s entrance. An acoustic guitar, a bass, 
a drum set and a pear-shaped shak-
er held by the lead singer comprised the band’s sound.
Customers trying to wrap up 
their shopping had to squeeze by the crowd of concert attendees, which sang and danced to the music.
One student even brought out a 
virtual lighter via his iPhone, which he swayed in time with the music. 
The band performed six songs, 
a mix of old favorites requested by audience members and  songs off its 
newest album.
UF freshman 
James Guerry said he was excited to see 
Hoobastank perform. 
“You can’t beat getting to see a 
band you like live and for free,” he said. After the concert, which lasted 
about 45 minutes, the band held a meet-and-greet to take pictures with fans and sign autographs.
The band’s stage manager, Brian 
Kutzman, said Hoobastank always enjoys performing on college cam-puses. 
“We love the energy and the 
vibe,” Robb said. “It’s a mellow, more relaxed mood.”
Hoobastank throws free concert at UF bookstore
NAtioNAL 12-YEAR-OLD WAS LEFT 
INTOXICATED AT A BBQ.
By KA tiE EMMEt S
Alligator Writer
A Gainesville woman was ar-
rested Wednesday and charged 
with child neglect after failing to get professional medical help for a 12-year-old girl who was drunk 
at her house. 
On Jan. 2, Helen Sullivan-
Napier, 38, was having a barbe-
cue at her house in northwest Gainesville when her daughter’s 12-year-old friend got extremely drunk, according to a Gainesville Police Department arrest report.U.S. Marine Felipe Garibay, 
a friend of Napier’s daughter’s boyfriend, provided the minors with alcohol, the report stated.
Instead of calling for help 
when she was made aware of the girl’s condition, Sullivan-Napier 
tried to sober her up by keeping her 
awake, giving her 
liquids and cover-
ing her with blankets, the report stated.
According to the report, 
Sullivan-Napier gave the 12-year-old CPR twice when she thought the girl had stopped breathing.
“The defendant didn’t call 911 
or the child’s parents at any point in the night,” said GPD spokes-man Keith Kameg. “We were contacted at 3 a.m., five hours later, by one of the children.”
GPD and EMS arrived at 
Sullivan-Napier’s house and transferred the child to Shands at UF for medical treatment.
According to the report, five 
hours after Sullivan-Napier was 
made aware of her extreme intox-
ication, the child’s blood-alcohol content level was .076 but exami-nations showed that it was prob-ably .135 earlier in the night.
Garibay, 27,  was charged 
with lewd or lascivious molesta-tion of a person under 16 years of age, four counts of contributing 
to delinquency of a child and five 
counts of child abuse. Woman charged with neglect FEWER WILL GO TO ISRAEL.
By t YLER RUS tEiN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Bernard Madoff scandal, a Ponzi 
scheme allegedly costing investors around $50 billion, is keeping Jewish UF students from taking the trip of a lifetime.
Taglit-Birthright Israel plans to send 5,000 
Jewish students to Israel this summer com-pared to 25,000 last year. For UF Hillel, that means they will not be doing any recruiting for the summer 2009 trip, according to Keith Dvorchik, executive director of Hillel.
Birthright Israel is a twice-yearly free trip 
to Israel for Jewish students and young adults that relies heavily on donors. Many of these donors had money invested with Madoff and 
are no longer able to make contributions.
Madoff, chairman of Madoff Investment Securities, was charged by federal authori-ties in December 2008 for possibly one of the 
largest Ponzi schemes ever. In a Ponzi scheme, money from new investors is used to pay off early investors, giving the appearance of returns. Several Jewish nonprofits of Palm Beach, Fla., invested their endowments with Madoff.  
“Many foundations no longer exist because 
he basically stole their money,” Dvorchik said. 
“We’re expecting decreases in our federation 
allocations next year because a third of the major donors from South Florida had money invested with Madoff.”  
Hillel is also being forced to cut back on 
its day-to-day operations. Students may be charged for the Passover Seder meal this year for the first time in seven years, Dvorchik said.  
“Things are definitely at risk. We may not 
be able to provide at the same level if we don’t have the donors that continue to step up and help us pay for everything,” Dvorchik said.  
The combination of a spiraling economy 
and financial losses from the scandal make donors hard to come by, regardless of Madoff-related losses. The financial setbacks from the 
scandal will continue to linger for Hillel. 
For the winter Israel trip, Dvorchik said 
they would be lucky if they could send 40 
people, a significant difference compared to the 100 they usually send.  
Some Jewish UF students are concerned 
they may not get to go to Israel. Mike Eisen, a UF sophomore, had been planning to go on the summer trip.
“I don’t know what I’m going to do this 
summer,” Eisen said. “All of my friends have gone and told me they had such an awesome time. I just hope I still get that opportunity.”
Rabbi Yoni Kaiser-Blueth, associate direc-
tor of Jewish Student Life at Hillel, said he has been preparing himself for fewer Birthright trips. 
“Without Birthright, I highly doubt any-
thing else we are doing will attract the imagi-nation and attention of students to really come and get involved,” Kaiser-Blueth said.   
Kaiser-Blueth credits the Birthright trip as 
one of the cornerstones of their engagement with students.
“The opportunity for students to go to 
Israel for free is unparalleled,” he said. “It, probably more than anything else that we do, 
has the quickest potential to bring students 
onto our radar screen and to create real and serious relationships.”
Madoff scandal affects Hillel, Birthright Israel trips
tHE ASSoCiA tED PRESS
WASHINGTON (AP) — Declaring that end-
ing pay disparity is not just a women’s issue, 
President Barack Obama signed legislation 
Thursday that gives workers more time to take 
their pay discrimination cases to court.
Lilly Ledbetter, the Alabama woman whose 
story was the impetus behind the new law, stood 
alongside Obama as he signed the first bill of his 
presidency. Also in the East Room of the White House were labor, women’s, civil rights advo-cates and members of Congress for whom the bill was a priority.
“Equal pay is by no means just a women’s 
issue, it’s a family issue,” Obama said. “And in this economy, when so many folks are already working harder for less and struggling to get by, the last thing they can afford is losing part 
of each month’s paycheck to simple and plain 
discrimination.”
The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act effectively 
nullifies a 2007 Supreme Court decision that de-
nied Ledbetter an opportunity for redress.
Obama cited Census Bureau figures that 
show women still earn about 78 cents for every 
dollar men get for doing equivalent jobs, and it’s even less for women of color. He said Ledbetter 
lost more than $200,000 in salary, and even more 
in pension and Social Security benefits.
The bill, which amends the 1964 Civil Rights 
Act, also applies to discrimination based on fac-
tors such as race, religion, national origin, dis-
ability or age.Obama approves equal pay actConcert was a favor to a local radio station
OnCampu s
“Many foundations no longer exist 
because he basically stole their 
money.”
Keith Dvorchik
executive director of Hillel
NewsLocal10, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
With Student Government elections 
less than a month away, parties will be-
gin interviewing potential student sena-tors today.
There are five registered parties: 
Progress, Gator, Unite, Keg and Orange and Blue. They will interview and meet interested students from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
in room 284 of the Reitz Union.
Interviewing will also continue on 
Monday and Tuesday. Students must 
bring their Gator 1 Cards to qualify. 
The Swamp Party, the LAN Party 
and the Gator Party could not be reached for comment. The Change Party will not participate, said Patrick Duffey, party president.
Each party can register 50 candidates 
to fill the Senate seats that represent col-leges of UF, according to Supervisor of Elections Dan Siegel.
He said students can interview with as many parties as they would like.                       
Despite differing names, most party 
presidents spoke of searching for candi-dates that bring unity and change.                                              
Orange and Blue Party President 
Donte Hargrove said applicants should bring ideas and suggestions to improve 
SG and UF. 
“We’re interested 
in students that want 
to make the school 
better than when they got here,” he said.
Meanwhile, Progress Party President 
Josh Simmons said students should 
dress to impress when coming to an in-terview. 
“Dressing nice never hurts,” he said, 
adding it can give the candidate a leg up.  
Unite Party President Will Harrell said 
students should bring their resumes.  
“We’re looking for qualified and ca-
pable students,” he said. “And I think we will be able to find that in the next few days.”Parties begin interviews
“We’re gonna tell ‘em, ‘Look, this is so 
easy for these people to do,’” he said.
Edmonds said staff will also advocate a 
simpler application process.
Even so, Fooks said she thinks students 
who are eligible for aid know to apply.
“I don’t think you’re going to school 
here if you don’t have any money and you 
haven’t applied for financial aid,” she said.
In the 2007-2008 school year, about 7,800 
UF students received Pell Grants, she said.
She said she’s concerned that some stu-
dents in high school may decide to opt out of college because they’re not aware of fi-
nancial aid options like Pell Grants.
The grants could also help students 
struggling to balance work and school, al-
lowing them to drop their jobs or cut back 
on hours and focus on their studies, said 
Dan Cohen-Vogel, assistant vice chancellor 
at the Board of Governors.
Cohen-Vogel said the reasons students 
aren’t applying for aid are mainly that they 
don’t know it exists or that the application 
process is too confusing.
In addition to financial aid, the board discussed a textbook adoption regulation 
that closely mirrors a state law passed last year requiring textbooks to be posted on a university’s Web site at least 30 days before the start of classes. 
The regulation will be voted on at the 
February board meeting.
UF has a few issues with the proposed 
regulation, said UF Provost Joe Glover, who filled in at the meeting for UF President 
Bernie Machen. 
Machen was in 
Washington discussing the economic stimulus package with lawmak-ers.
Glover said UF will 
try to amend a provision 
that requires professors to determine the value of 
switching to a newer version of a textbook.
He said he wants to make sure faculty 
maintain their academic freedom to choose the best books.
“Sometimes old versions are better than 
new versions. Sometimes new versions are better than old versions,” he said. “So I think there are a number of concerns that we have about that.”Board discusses textbook regulation
BOG , from page 1
Glover
StudentGovernmentAvailable Today!
$0 Move In Fees! 
1/1-from $649*2/2-from $769*3/2-from $899
(352) 377-7401 * www.theboardwalkapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED!
At the price you want
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY!
1, 1 w/den & 2 BRs - Reduced Rates!FREE UF parking * FREE GymPets Welcome * 352-332-7401
4-22-72-2
PARKING
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-2
YOUR MOM...
...wants you to live here!
AMAZING DEALS!
1, 2, & 3 bdrms, W/D
Gated, Pet friendly, 
Immediate Move-in Specials
(352)372-0400
4-22-72-2
Three Pools!  Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis!  Business Center!
Billards Room!  Fitness Center w/ Free 
weights!  Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts!  Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, I-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!  
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$779 2/2-$930 3/3-$1115 
Washer/Dryer in ALL UNITS!
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-22-72-2FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13
Affordable, Quiet, Comfortable
1’s from $539 * 2’s from $375/person
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
4-22-08-72-2
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc.
FREE UF Parking*FREE Gym
Call for specials 332-7401      4-22-72-2
Great Pet Place!
Waived Move-in Fees!
Free Cable w/HBO & Internet
W/D in Unit*Free Tanning!
Huge 1,2,3 Beds: 372-8100!
4-22-08-72-2
LOVE GOING OUT?
Luxury 3/3TH Perfectly Located Downtown!
1 month free for fall &
no move-in fees from $500/person!
W/D*Free Parking*Pets Welcome
Live where you play!! 338-0002
www.arlingtonsquare.org
4-22-72-2
MUSEUM WALK
Gainesville’s Best Kept Secret
Leasing for Fall & NOW!
Luxury 2/2 THs and 3/3 Flats
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Alarms
Walk to UF *379-WALK
4-22-72-2
THREE BLOCKS TO UF!
2br/1ba from $700
No Move-in Fees! Water included
Wood floors avail! Pets loved!
FREE Parking! 372-7111
4-22-08-72-2
LAKEWOOD 
VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
4-22-08-72-2
 SPYGLASS 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages,
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 11-2, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
4-22-08-72-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved.
Studios - $549, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
372-7111 Collegemanor.org
4-22-08-72-2
* Where in the world is Hidden Lake?
You may want to find these luxury apts!
3/3’s start at $425 person for Immediate
2/2’s are $490 person, Includes Cable & Internet
Call Now 352-374-3866
4-22-08-72-2
3 and 4 BRs STEPS TO UF
From $450/person
Pets loved! W/D avail
Pool, Open late
CollegeParkUF.com 371-7777
4-22-08-72-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $599 - 150 ft from UF!
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today!
FREE parking! Pets Welcome!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
4-22-08-72-2
GREAT ODIN’S RAVEN:
Our 4/4’s are classy!!
SIGN TODAY and get $720 off your lease!!
Rates starting at $509!!
CALL: 352.271.3131
GainesvillePlace.com
4-22-72-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-22-08-72-2
Gator Championship 
Special
Sign a lease and get up to $1,800 cash
Visit our models and sign for Fall 09
Huge, luxury 1br-4brs with TVs in kitchen
Beach-entry pool*free tanning*pet friendly
*352.376.0696 * www.EnclaveUF.com*
4-22-08-72-2
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
super quiet construction. $1600/mo.
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-
ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-
acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2
WOODLAND VILLAS
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   2-3-08-50-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo2BR/2.5BA $1499/moGore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
WALK 2 BLOCKS TO UF
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown * 2 Car 
Decals, WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer. Sm pet ok. Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 317 4408   1-30-08-18-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
Spacious 1 & 2 & 3 bedrooms.starting at 
$525. $625 & $795. Different floor plans some with enclosed patios or balconies. Italian Tile, bedrooms carpeted, D/W, W/D hookups, verticals Central Heat & air. Lots of storage space. Near bus route .332-7700   
1-30-38-2
SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office1BR $515, 2BR $580Call for daily specials352-335-0420      1-30-08-48-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office.2BR $535Call for daily specials352-335-0420   1-30-08-48-2
Available TODAY!
1/1: 620 sq ft--$6292/2: 975 sq ft--$705
3/2 : 1096 sq ft - $866
Pinetreegardens.com * 376-4002
4-22-08-72-2PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.ForRentNearUF.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $689+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly $1200/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2
BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BALuxury Suites near Shands,
Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row
1240 SW 9th Road
Please visit us at the model1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pmUnion Properties 352-373-7578
www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student Housing
Near UF, Norman & Shands
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR PropertiesList Avail Jan 20th!!
Please call or email us to
Receive a list before they
Are all gone!!!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
info@rentgainesville.com
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BA
Luxury Dual Suites
1185 SW 9th RD $1000/mo
Close to UF, Norman Hall
& Sorority Row.
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.Many have been drastically reducedFor immediate occupancy!Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown AptsParking/laundry hkupsWalk to UF $850/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to runbehind Hilton on SW 34th STUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
Available NOW
1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
$995/MO 3BR/2BA
NEAR UF!! w/d incl.2041 NW 7th PlaceLarge family room w/fireplaceHardwood floors & nice yardUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS EDGE CONDO
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-6149, 239-992-2449   1-30-08-19-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE
Block from law school, biking distance from 
UF.  W/D incl. Pets ok. Huge yard. $1600/mo. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
 2BR/2.5BA - $725/mo.
 2BR/1.5BA - $625/mo.Off SW 34th St. Close to UF, Shands, shopping & dining. Fenced yard, util room. private parking, pets ok. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/mo
Lease through July 2009
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
WALK TO SANTA FE
2bd/2ba $750/mo
1 car garage. dw, mw. wd incl
Fenced yard. Avail Now!Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com       4-22-72-2
Mallorca Unit near Royal Park
2BD/2.5BA Avail Now!!Beautiful, luxury townhousew/ garage. $950/mo
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
for available units or call
352-284-0316 / 352-281-0733
Houses, Duplexes, Condo, Townhouses. 
Walk/Bike/Bus to UF. Neat, clean, quality1-30-08-18-2
2BR/2BA Townhouse, small pets ok! private 
courtyard, icemaker, dishwasher, washer/
dryer hookup. walk to restraunts/ grocery. 
$799. mo. quiet neighbors. 318-0089   2-4-09-21-2
2bd/2.5ba townhouse. Pet friendly. Close 
to I-75 and bus route to main campus. New 
paint and 2 parking spaces. Rent is $750 a 
month plus $10 per pet. January free!! Call 
Rhonda at (727)-243-4688.    2-3-09-20-2
Rocky Point Apartments
3/2 W/D hkps Pets welcome!
$899.00 call now 352-376-1619  2-3-09-20-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in 
small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d 
St. Single, mature applicants only. New car-
pet. $575.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   2-4-09-20-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-327-2931  2-12-09-25-2
2BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. 2 
Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 to share. Wired for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appli-ances, comm pool, 1st & sec dep req. $1000/mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  2-4-09-20-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy effi-cient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, de-cal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   2-27-09-36-2
Immaculate and newly renovated historic 
home. New hardwood flrs, appliances, paint. Walk to campus. 3/1. $800/mo for two occu-pants through July 31st. 911 NW 10th Ave. 215-7199   2-6-09-20-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, fenced yard, washer/dryer provided, 3413 NW 8th Ave. $1625/mo. Screened back porch, other houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  1-30-09-14-2
2/1 Funky Upstairs Apt
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly, Outdoor Kennel
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF 
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
H2/1 Apt, 1000 SF H
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/3BA large house with large bedrooms. House only 4 yrs old. Fireplace, washer/dry-er provided, vaulted ceilings. 2108 NW 8th 
Court. $1575/mo. 339-2342 for directions.   
1-30-09-12-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA, nice modern house on large pri-
vate lot. Fireplace, washer/dry provided. 
$1425/mo. 2606 NW 34th St. Pets ok. Deck, 
lots of trees. Call 339-2342   1-30-09-12-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
Large house 4BR/2BA, large bedrooms and 
large living room, privacy fence, pets ok. 
Washer/dryer provided. $1400/mo 2100 NW 
8th Ct. Call 339-2342  1-30-09-11-2
NO FEES and One Month 
Free!
On Bivens Arm Nature 
Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE Townhomes!
W/D and Jumbo Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Water, Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 
2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, 
carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced 
backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-
09-20-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$650 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
4BR/2BA house. 10 blocks from campus. washer/dryer provided, hardwood floors, dishwasher, large backyard & big storage. $1575/Mo 1105 NW 10th Ave.  339-2342  1-30-09-7-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1.
Studio with separate kitchen, fireplace, washer/dryer provided, wd floors. 1 blk from campus, attached to house with separate en-trance. 106 SW 12th St. $525/mo 339-2342  1-30-09-7-2
*Huge 1BR Loft w/Skylight*
3 Blocks to Mid-Town/Univ Ave*Walk to UF
Cathedral Ceilings*Only $799 at Arbor Lofts
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-22-59-2
BRAND NEW Cricket Club
Phase II, 2BR/2BA Condogated,pool,fitness center,W/D$1100/mo,call mario 352-219-4426or jmacmaster@e-techservices.com   2-4-10-2
2BR WALK TO CLASS!
As low as $380/person!
Pets welcome, wood floor avail
Pool, Open late and weekends
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-09-59-2
WALK TO SANTA FE COLLEGE
2BR/2BA $750/mo til 7/31/093108 NW 79th Court 1 car garageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
LARGE HOME NEAR UF
Nice home w/many upgradesReady now! 1789 SF GarageUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-59-2
5 BEDROOM HOUSE
Walk to Class, Across from UF
hardwood floors, washer/dryer, A/C
Available August 1, 2009
call John @ 561-866-8234
1-30-09-6-22BR/1BA upstairs, hardwood floors, freshly 
painted, new kitchen floor, free month.  
1 block from O’Connell Center, just off 
University Ave. $590/mo 727-697-3110 .  
1-30-09-6-2
HISTORIC HOMES
1-3BR apts + 2 houses 923 SE 4th St, 18 NE 10th St. High ceilings, porch, wood floors. $500-$1100/mo. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. Call 378-3704, sallygville@aol.com   2-19-20-2
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS OF GREEEN SPACE. 
2BR/1BA house. $650/mo.
Call 352-378-9220 or mobile 213-3901   2-5-
09-10-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft for $1800 + $1800 
deposit. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956   2-19-09-20-2
Summit House 1BR/1BA Available 
Now$605 per mouth $250 security Walk to VA or Shands Call 352-672-1482   3-6-09-30-2
** Across From UF ** 
$1150/mo Special!
2br/2ba Limited Time Offer  for Fall Luxury Apts w/ Internet & Parking Incl.www.LookingGlassApartments.com111 NW 16th St. -- Call 376-1111
4-22-09-59-2
2BR/2BA apartment available on 2nd floor. 
Located in SpyGlass off of 62nd blvd near 
the mall! Bus route 20 to campus! Features 
fireplace, washer/dryer, quiet backyard view 
of the woods. Pet Friendly. Rent is $1100. 
Call 239-980-9448.   1-30-5-2
2BR/1BA Spacious. 7209 SW 45th Lane, 
Gainesville. Cent H/AC, W/D hk-up. $600/
mo. $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-
0994   2-2-09-5-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR single-story villas starting from $529Move in costs starting at $139Close to Oaks Mall and Archer Road.Pine Rush Villas 375-1519          4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE!
1 & 2 BR flats starting from $599Move in costs starting at $139Two blocks south of Archer Rd. & 34th StHomestead Apts. 376-0828     4-22-09-59-2
One month FREE! $189 Moves you 
in!HUGE 2 & 3 BR single story villasstarting from $759Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.Ashton Square Villas 333-1120    4-22-09-59-23BR/1BA apts. 1 Blk to UF - August 1st. 
Renovated historic building. 1227 SW 4th Ave. Wood flrs, cent H/AC, parking, some utils pd. $1475/mo. Call 352-514-5060 cell.   2-9-10-2
WOODSIDE VILLAS off Tower Rd. 7200 SW 
8th Ave. 2BR/1BA + bonus rm & dining area. 
1072 sq ft. Vaulted ceiling, W/D, DW, fans, 
pool, newer carpet/tile, bus rte, smoke-free, 
no pets. $800/mo. Quiet area 352-339-6502  
2-6-09-8-2
LARGE 2BR DUPLEX NEAR UF. Fenced 
backyard, lots of privacy, W/D, screened 
porch & extra large utility room. Only $500 
deposit & $725/mo. Call 352-372-3131. Location: 1710 SW 38th Terr.    4-22-09-58-2
UNREAL LOCATION ON UNIVERSITY 
AVE/LAW SCHOOL2360 W University Ave4 bed/ 2 bth, w/d, Large Yard, Fireplace. Walking distance to UF, 1 block from law school. Call Bill at 615-400-5178$1000.00 a month through July. $1400.00 Starting Aug 1.  2-10-09-10-2
HHHHOUSE 4BR/2BAHHH
Avail 8/1. Lovely remodeled. W/D. Bike to UF. 
No pets. Details at 3532 NW 7th Ave. $1400/
month. 373-1558 or 246-8645 2-4-09-5-2
FIRST MONTH FREE OR $300 CASH! $650/
mo, 1/1, quiet friendly complex,2 miles from reitz union.Grad student, moved up north, I need to rent my place! lreiden@hotmail.com, 973-534-3788 for more details.    2-6-09-7-2
Huge 5/3 MH on 5ac 12 min to UF, w/d, no 
pet fee. $1600 mth. 352-213-3943   2-17-14-2
Spacious POOL home in Keystone Heights
3BR 2Bath, 35 min from G.ville, quiet cul du sac, lots of extras, PET FRIENDLY Call Trevor Water Realty 352-473-7777    2-4-5-2
$445-4/4 University Terrace condo; includes 
cable, internet, and utilities. On routes 12 and 35. Immediate occupancy. 352.514.3398   2-12-10-2
1BR/1BA Next to UF Campus
W/D incl in unit. Small pet ok. Pool/exercise 
room. $800/mo 352-378-5801 x 5   2-12-09-5-2
HURRY HORSE PROPERTY!
Cabin, 20 acres, 7 mi south of Newberry. Paddocks, riding trails. $575/mo + $100 per horse, u-feed. Dogs welcome 330-329-8834 writer777@att.net   2-5-09-5-2Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/
mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 
12/18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to take over existing lease. Security dep free. Contact se-an6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
ONE BLOCK TO UF/LIBRARY WEST! 
Looking Glass Apts. 1BR/1BA IN 2/2. Free in-
ternet, W/D Tile kitchen/bath. MUST LEASE 
NOW! PRICE GREATLY REDUCED. WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER!! (850) 525-4532   1-30-9-3
Will pay $500 to take over my room in a 
4bed/4bath apartment from January 2009-
August 2009 needs sublease and it comes 
fully furnished with everything included $499/
mo call Fredrick Williams (813)849-8125:   
2-2-10-3
First month’s rent FREE!
Fully furnished premium apt. at Gateway at 
Glades. $455/mo., all utilities included.
jbreland@ufl.edu   2-11-15-3
3Br/2Ba apt $900/mo. Rent includes water. 
Jan free. Move in now. @Corner of Archer Rd and 34th St, close to Butler Plaza. Lease from Now to Aug. Call Chen at 352-871-6722 or shupin@ufl.edu.   1-30-3-3
1 BR/BTH 1/2 mile from UF. Near Oaks Mall 
& other attractions. On bus 20 & 21 route. $549 
a mth. Pet-friendly. Call Vicki at 865-363-7044.   
2-9-09-7-3$400/MONTH SUBLEASE THRU AUGUST
Apt less than a mile from campus & down-
town. Amenities include W/D, dishwasher, 
oven w/ stovetop, & refrigerator For more 
info call 863-370-9602 or 863-581-4928.   
2-4-09-5-3
1
13121110987654324Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-22-72-4
H1br w/pvt entrance available in 2BR condo 
Central air and heat. 2 pools in complex. Walking 
distance to UF. Rent 375/mo
H1BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW house close to UF $395/mo 352-316-3930.    
1-30-09-20-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ 
UT cable and internet included.(for sale or 
rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space pvt 
BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, wood-
deck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    2-10-25-414, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
2 BRs AVAIL FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $450/mo/room. All in-
cluded: internet, cable, electric, etc. 754-204-1624   2-13-09-27-4
2 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. $475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-30-4
NEED ROOMMATE! 1 MONTH FREE! 1 year old 3 
bdrm townhouse located near UF and Sante Fe. Students preferred. wsh/dry,cable,gym, pool. $500/month + 1/3 util.Flexible lease.Call Alex 954-663-8255    2-2-14-4
1BD/1BA avail NOW in 2/2.5 condo near UF. 
Furnished, W/D, pool, open parking, on 4 
bus rts. $400/mo + 1/2 utils. Call Chris 561-
445-9034   2-6-09-17-4
Share 2/2 MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/
mo; $100/wk incl util.  2wk adv. laun/cook svc 
avail N/S, N/A, N/D. Discount for handyman. 
Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops 
Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   2-2-8-4
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-09-
62-4Master bed w/private bath in 4BR/3BA house 
off NW 16th Ave. DW, W/D, Cox cable w/
networked inernet, new carpet & ceiling fans. 
No cats or dogs. $425/mo incl utils. 328-
4995   2-5-10-4
Graduate student or young professional 
roommate wanted to share 2/2.5 Female preferred Pets allowed Lease until 6/30/09 Email jaclnb@yahoo.com for info   1-30-5-4
TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES needed for a 
nice 4/2 house to live with two other gradu-
ate professional women. ONLY $350 & $375. 
Includes util and swimming pool. Great loca-
tion, quiet neighborhood. Call Mr. Kristoff 
352-332-5030    2-10-09-10-4
1/2 OFF 1st MONTH Rent if in by March!
Seeking 2 roommates-1.5 miles to UF
easy ride2 SFCC off-NW 16th-HUGE house,
PoolTable,65”TV Large rooms!sayNo2apts$525/MONTH per room 561-756-5368   2-3-5-4
ROOMMATE wanted.Share 3BR/2.5 Bath 
Furnished TH,CasaBlanca West w/2 UF UG. M or F OK. $275/mo + 1/3 utility.Smoking patio. No lease/No Sec. Avail now. 786-
299-8626 (Gus) or 786-514-5319 (Max). 
BARGAIN!   1-30-09-2-4
Looking for male college student (preferred) to 
share 4BR/4BA condo with same. Own bath-room. W/D, high speed internet. Includes utilities 
$430/mo (available immediately) 863-634-1893   
2-4-5-41BR/1BA avail march 1st in 2Br/2BA for re-
sponsible mature individual. $425-$450/mo 
+ utils. Barandywine on Archer Rd. yttek@
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566   2-6-
6-09-6-4
1
13121110987654325 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and 
much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! 
Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard 
and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email 
or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD 
ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or 
please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-
3551   4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, 
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, steel 
& concrete construction, alarm system. Call Eric 
Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW 
CONSTRUC-TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, 
LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + 
Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus 
Realty 352-281-3551
4-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt 
Realty
(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  
2-17-60-5
Condos for sale near UF/Shands!!
Many affordable units available.
Call Carolyn/Maureen at:
(352)284-4428 or (386)365-8590
@ Matchmaker Realty.    1-30-09-21-5
$7800 - 2BR/1BA Gainesville mobile home. 
Very nice neighborhood. Furnished living room & kitchen. Attached shed, cent H/AC, W/D incl. Covered porch. Aaron 352-871-0792   2-2-09-5-5
HUGE 4bd/3.5ba NW home in Walnut Creek 
off 39th Ave! Great location to UF or SantaFe! Tons of upgrades, huge porch off 2nd story, 2 car garage & more. $229,900! Please call Dana Fults @ 352.318.0686!    2-18-15-5
Bank Foreclosures! 4 Br $25,000! Only $225/
Mo! 3 Br $12,500! Only $199/Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr. for listings (800)366-9783 ext 5669.    1-30-1-5
3BR/2BA Foreclosure! $11,000! Only $199/
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr.  Buy, 4/BR $259/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 Ext 5798.   1-30-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION FLORIDA 
STATEWIDE Auction starts Feb 7th 1000 Homes MUST BE SOLD! Free Brochure (800)678-0517 USHomeAuction.com REDC.   1-30-1-5
6BR/3BA Foreclosure! $29,900! Only $238/
Mo! 5% down 20 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 4/BR $326/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext 5760   1-30-1-5
BIG LOT - SMALLEST PRICE 12 acres just 
$99,900. Best neighborhood in Tallahassee area! Rare spacious country living close to everything! Great for kids w/horse privi-leges. Best Price EVER, A Must See. Great Financing (866)938-1521   1-30-1-5
Florida Land Bargain of the Century! 2 acre 
waterfront homesite only $69,900. (appraised at $169,900). Private, gated community with 2 recreational lakes.  Municipal water & sewer. Low taxes.  Just 90 minutes Orlando! Excellent financing. Call now (866)352-2249, x 2184. FLlandbargains.com   1-30-1-5
South Carolina Bargain Golf Access Lot! 
NOW $39,900 (was $139,900). Rare op-portunity to own beautiful view homesite in area’s finest golf community- NOW for frac-tion of it’s value. Paved roads, water, sewer, all infrastructure complete! Golf front lots available at comparable savings! Low rate financing. Call now (866)334-3253, x 2155   1-30-1-5
NOW is the time to buy your TENNESSEE 
lake property. Four seasons & no state in-come tax. Call Lakeside Realty (888)291-5253 or visit www.lakesiderealty-tn.com   1-30-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION FLORIDA 
STATEWIDE Auction starts Feb 7th 1000 Homes MUST BE SOLD! Free Brochure (800)491-8064 USHomeAuction.com REDC.   1-30-1-5
VIRGINIA MTN CABIN, Ready to move 
in! Great views! Near large stocked trout stream, private, 2 acres, only $159,500 own-er. (866)275-0442   1-30-1-5
1
13121110987654326Furnishings
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name 
brand, new, never been used, in plastic with war-
ranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost $1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516___________________________________Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-75164-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, 
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. 
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-
72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 
1
13121110987654327Computers
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 15
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9
1
131211109876543210 For Sale
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-0370
4-22-08-72-10
METAL ROOFING. 40yr Warranty-Buy di-
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock, 
w/all accessories. Quick turn around. 
Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg, (888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com   1-30-1-10
100% RECESSION PROOF! Do you earn 
$800 in a day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995. (888)629-9968 BO2000033 CALL US: We will not be undersold!   1-30-1-10
1
131211109876543211 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties includ-ed. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-22-08-72-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com
4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11
2008 Redstreak SuperSport 49cc Blue 
Scooter:approx. 750 miles, great condition, paid $1800, asking for $1050 Please call 352-672-0328    2-4-5-11
2008 Redstreak MetroRetro 49cc Scooter:
approx. 442 miles, great condition, white with teal accents $900 Call 352-514-1116   2-4-5-11UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-
08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS 
NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. Flexible 
schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. Please 
call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and for 
walks and shopping as needed. We’ll have 
lots of fun! And you will make a new friend!  
Contact 219-6948    2-12-09-74-13
1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be 
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  4-22-08-72-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Tired of Working Retail?
Local real estate co. hiring part-time Sales 
& Leasing Associates. Need previous 
sales or retail exp & outgoing personality.  No 
real estate exp req (training provided). Bonuses 
& benefits. Send resume, cover letter & avail 
schedule to hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-22-72-14
*IT/Programming Internship.  Local invest-
ment firm seeks individual to work PT/FT with SQL, HTML, ASP, databases, servers, and networks.  2+ yrs exp pref.  $15-20 per hour + bonuses, long term capability.  Fax resume to 352-378-4156.*   1-30-08-21-14
WEB DEVELOPERS & COMPUTER 
CONSTULTANTS: UF Center for Instructional 
Technology and Training. Web developers must 
be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS, XHTML and 
Photoshop. Portfolio links must be included 
with application. Consultant position requires 
expert skills with Windows and Microsoft Office 
applications. Excellent communication skills 
required. Pay starts at $7.50 per hour. jksmith@
ufl.edu, online application at http://www.citt.
ufl.edu/employment.php.
1-30-17-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PTSales & Customer service exp.EOE, DFWPApply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-
per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-
4791   4-22-09-65-14
Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an 
absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-
ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, 
email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-
22-14
Busy doctors office seeks helper for clerical 
work. 10-20 hrs/wk $7-9 based on experi-
ence. Will consider all applicants References 
required Email resume to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-2-12-14
Are you tired of working more for less and less?
Break the cycle & get what you really want: 
1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14
Full-Time Office Administrator
Permanent full-time administrator needed to manage a very busy evangelical ministry office in Gainesville, Fla. Schedule must be 
flexible. Typing and organizational skills are 
a must. Email resume to: youthnow@aol.
com or fax resume to 352-335-0080.   1-30-09-7-14
Web Designer/Programmer to maintain and 
build web applications. Experienced with 
PHP, ASP, MySQL, Dreamweaver, etc. hr@
alesys.com   2-5-09-11-14
Immediate opening for a
Professional Leasing Agent!Part Time or Full TimeExperience Preferred, Great Pay!
Fax resume to 352-372-0708   4-22-59-14
NO JOBS AVAILABLE,
BUT WE OFFER CASH AND TRADE for 
CDs and DVDs (and we sell them too).
HEAR AGAIN CDs & DVDs
818 W University Ave 32601  2-17-09-20-14
Entry-level position open for Production 
Assistant Responsible for gathering and organizing elements of educational books and related materials. Must have the ability to work independently, handle multiple proj-ects, and be flexible with changing priorities. Must be highly organized with eye for detail, able to meet multiple deadlines. Proficient in Microsoft Office, familiar with Quark. Post secondary degree required. Fax cover letter & resume to 352-334-0935 or e-mail at re-sume@nccer.org.DFW EOE Great benefits   1-30-09-7-14.
Paralegal/Legal Assistant; Legal office expe-
rience preferred. Energetic, High work ethic, 
good people skills and attention to detail a 
must! Full time, non-smoker. Fax resume with cover letter to Law Office of Carl Carrillo 
(352)371-7127.    2-11-09-14-14
Local Webpreneur sold portfolio of 
companys, looking to do it again with a new 
local team. Exciting Oppty --Contract to perm 
pos. MUST know PHP, MYsql, CSS, Flash, 
Web/Ad Creatives. Resume, portfolio and rates 
to resume@gvilleholdings.com
2-5-09-10-14
Progressive Family Medicine Practice is 
seeking an energetic Certified Medical Assistant. If you want a challenging position and an excellent opportunity please submit your resume to gvilleprimarycare@gmail.com  1-30-09-5-14
400+ Counselors/Instructors Jobs!
3 Coed summer camps in PA.Travel Paid, Top Salary.Cool Nights & Warm Days!1-800-488-4321, www.lohikan.com    4-22-09-59-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-22-09-59-14
PT webmaster proficient in PHP. Hourly rate 
commensurate w/ experience. Fax resume to 352.505.0555 or email to Katie@cornellre.com   1-30-09-5-14
Homework Coach needed for bright disorganized 
9th grader. Daily Sun � Thurs. (2 hours). Hours can be flexible. $9.00/hour with .445/mile. Fax or email qualifications, letter(s) of recommenda-tion, and contact info. to Judith Wishin - email wishin@cox.net Fax 846-1287.   2-4-09-7-14Medical Office Assistant PT. Afternoons & 
evenings, Mon-Fri, 4-6pm. Duties incl: medi-cal billing, dictation & scheduling. Some pa-tient interaction. Mail resume to TRC 6400 
Newberr Rd, Ste 301, Gville 32605   2-9-10-
14
PEACH VALLEY CAFE
NOW HIRING
Experienced line cooks & prep personnel. 
Apply in person, Mon thru Thurs from 2-4pm. 352-376-1834. 3275 SW 34th St.   2-3-09-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
Approx 25 hr/wk, afternoons and some Sat 
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student. Please 
send resume and cover ltr to Gore-Rabell 
Real Estate, 909 NW 6th St, Gvl 32601. Email rabell@atlantic.net or fax to 378-2411. 
No phone calls please.  4-22-09-58-14
SELF-MOTIVATED start today and receive 
$500-$3500 per week. Asolutely no selling. 800-242-0363 ext 8852; www.mygoldplan.com/gmgreen (serious inquiries only)   2-4-09-5-14
Toddler Teacher Needed. Imagine Learning 
Center info@imaginelearningcenter.
com 371-5450. Taking applications from reliable,creative individuals who enjoy work-
ing with children.    2-18-09-15-14
Models needed for photo and film 
shoots.  18 to 25, excellent shape (toned, de-
fined, muscular), attractive - no experience nec-essary. Great cash opportunity. Apply at www.asftalent.com/alligator    2-2-09-2-14
Models needed for photo and film shoots. 18 
to 25, excellent shape (toned, defined, mus-cular), attractive - no experience necessary. Great cash opportunity. Apply at www.asftal-ent.com/alligator    2-6-6-14
Rep/Model wanted to promote local 
Motocross Track. Some local travel
involved, looking for outgoing,
personable, some computer skills,dependable transportation. Salary
 Negotiable. Email photo and re-
sume to 
Terri at admin@lcmg.info    2-12-09-10-14
Baby Photographer / Sales Rep
Our365 is currently seeking a sales and customer 
service-oriented individual to take photos of 
newborns at North Florida Regional Medical 
Center. Part-time.
Must be 18. EOE. Apply online at
www.our365.com/opportunities.
2-4-09-4-14
13 DRIVERS NEEDED Sign-On Bonus 35-
41 cpm Earn over $1000 weekly Excellent Benefits Need CDL- A & 3 most recent OTR (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com   1-30-1-14
Help Wanted. Join Wil-Trans Lease or 
Company Driver Program. Enjoy our Strong Freight Network. Must be 23. (866)906-2982   1-30-1-14
$600 Weekly Potential$$$ Helping the gov-
ernment PT. No Experience. No Selling. Call: (888)213-5225 Ad Code: M   1-30-1-14
EARN Extra Income Mailing Brochures. Weekly 
pay check! Free 24 hour information. (877)220-
4470.   1-30-1-1416, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not!
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
Over 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE 
IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 
4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 97654-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-
72-12
ATTENTION
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!
300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      
4-22-08-72-12
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special
60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles
(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the PublicIncluding Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVsSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?File Your Taxes Here andDrive Off in Your VehicleSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Sun City Auto
No Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 Down
Buy Here – Pay Here
352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12
 2003 Saab 93, 60,000 miles fully loaded in ex-
cellent condition! $10,000.
2002 Mitsubishi Eclipse RS, manual transmis-sion, $85,000 miles. $4,800. Call (352) 284-8478 or e-mail jessiesawka@gmail.com   2-18-20-12
2003 Silver Honda Civic, excellent condition, 
97500 miles, $7995. All required mainten-ace completed; recent maintenance records available. One owner, non smoker. Call 352-359-6049.    2-2-09-5-12
$$ CASH TODAY! $$
For Your Unwanted Cars
Junk!! Trucks, RVs, & Wrecks!!!
TOP DOLLAR PAID!
386-234-0072 & 386-234-0075
2-2-09-5-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE 
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible, Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.   1-30-1-12
1
131211109876543213 Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings  ETC  
Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-72-13
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. 
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls 
available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 
4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve memory 
& concentration. Elminate bad habits. Past life 
regression. Learn self hypnosis. Low Student 
Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15         MOVING? 
         FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM707
4-22-72-15
Absolute Value Automotive
Major/minor auto repairs ASE cert. Free pickup & delivery of your car. UF grad owned. Lowest price guar-anteed. All makes/models. 9420 NW 13th St 379-31301-30-08-23-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
MATH & PHYSICS TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   
1-30-15-15
Perfect Valentines Day Gift!
Turn favorite photos into unique artwork.
Canvas printing, custom framing available.
www.popartworkshop.com   2-6-12-15
Buying Gold!!!!
Have unwanted gold chains, bracelets, ear
rings, watches? Call Matt at 352-260-7143
Buying Gold giving the best prices in town!
1-30-09-5-15
Free $10.00 gift Card
coolgiftsbuy.com
Get your Valentines Gift
coolgiftsbuy@comcast.net    2-6-09-9-15
Ivy-League Educated Editors!
Use us to help you produce a pow-
erful, well-written and outstanding 
academic paper or personal state-
ment! Find us at www.onyxwriting.
com.   2-10-09-10-15
HORSE BOARDING
Stalls, pasture available. Turn out or full 
board. For information & directions call 352-591-1850, if no answer leave message.  2-12-09-10-15
Rent a Projector for your Super Bowl 
Party!!!
Call 352.377.2269 for video projec-
tor rentals from $35/day. Screens and other equipment also available.   
1-30-09-1-15
Run your ad STATEWIDE and SAVE $$$! 
Run your classified ad in over 100 Florida newspapers reaching over 4 MILLION read-ers for $475 - that is less than $4 per news-paper.  Call this newspaper or (866)742-1373 for more details or visit: www.florida-classi-fieds.com.   1-30-1-15
Post Office Now Hiring! Avg Pay $20/hr or 
$57K/yr Including Federal Benefits and OT. Placed by adSource not affiliated w/USPS who hires.  Call (866)713-4492.   1-30-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high pay-
ing Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (888)349-5387.   1-30-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Computers, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (866)858-2121, www.CenturaOnline.com.   1-30-1-15
NOW AVAILABLE! 2009 POST OFFICE 
JOBS. $18-$20/HR. NO EXPERIENCE, PAID TRAINING, FED BENEFITS, VACATIONS. CALL (800)910-9941 TODAY! REF #FL08   1-30-1-15
1
131211109876543216 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY 
TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16
Clinical Hypnotherapy for:
Accelerated Learning, Weight Loss,
Quit Smoking, Fears/Phobias
Student Discounts Free ConsultationsCALL NOW 352-283-0175    1-30-5-16
Postpartum Doula Care
Avoid Colic and Depression
Rejuvenation for Mother and Baby
Call 352-219-1444Free Evaluation with this ad        2-2-5-16
Are you Pregnant??Considering adoption??A 
single woman seeks to adopt and needs your help! Financial security.?Expenses paid.?Call BECKY or Adam.? (800)790-5260. FL Bar# 
0150789.   1-30-1-16
1
131211109876543218 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY 
TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Family Chiropractic
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18
1
131211109876543219 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Kelly,
Thanks for the help with my essay. You’re so smart. I would have bombed lit class without you. How about dinner tonight?  I’d really like that. I’ll call you.  Jack               1-30-09-1-19
DANCE PARTNER WANTED
If you are a male and like to dance, I’m look-
ing for you to dance salsa merengue and 
bachata. Must be at leaset 6’2”. No experi-ence necessary 904-238-5603   2-3-3-19
1
131211109876543220 Event Notices
“MARGARITA” Feb.2, 7 pm, Hippodrome
original dance theater performance Sign up for a free ticketwww.BlackCProduction.com   2-2-09-10-20
Personal Trainer Certification Class
February 21st and 22ndenrollment is $329 includes book and examCall 1-877-215-9765 for more info   2-3-09-3-20HVAC Tech Training! GET TO WORK! Avg. 
Tech earns $40K/yr. No Exp. Needed. EPA & OSHA Certified 3-5wks.  Local Job Placement and Financing available. (877)994-9904   1-30-1-14
Driver- Join PTL today! Company drivers 
earn up to 38 cpm. 1/2cpm increase every 
60K miles. Average 2,800 miles/week. CDL-A 
required. www.ptl-inc.com Call (877)740-
6262.   1-30-1-14
NEED PIANO, GUITAR, VOICE, VIOLIN 
TEACHERS Immediate openings for music 
teachers to drive to clients’ homes to teach. Best pay of any studio in town. Refs, Exp., Music Degree/pending important. Email 
through website: www.kaleymusic.com.   
2-6-6-14
1
131211109876543215 Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. Customer 
lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. Lessons. 30 
acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 separate paddocks. 24-
hr security, 352-591-3175 everglade-equestrian.
com   4-22-74-15FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 17
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All 
prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise 
with
food. Accommodations on the 
island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
GRADUATION HOTEL HOTLINE
Graduating this May? We
have rooms! 352-278-1595
FL. Seller of  Travel Reg No #12618   2-5-
15-21
Need performance credit?
sign up for a free ticketwww.BlackCProduction.com
“Margarita” Feb.2 Hippodrome theatre   2-2-
09-10-21
Spring Break
Caribbean Tour & Cruise
http://caribtourcruise.com/springbreak.html
(800) 955-5594
FL Seller of Travel Reg#10098   2-4-10-21
1
131211109876543222 Tickets
Free ticket to ‘MARGARITA’
dance theater at the HIPPODROMEFeb. 2, 7 pm. sign up at www.BlackCProduction.com   2-2-09-10-22
1
131211109876543223 Rides
WiFi on buses – New Departures 
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1, 3 & 4:30 
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm – Mon 2 pm -Also 
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra 
charge pay by phone or in person- $35 O/W 
- $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your roommate...
pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the pet section of the Alligator
1
131211109876543225 Lost & Found
$100.00 CASH REWARD 
Lost cat last seen Casa Blanca West. Large 4 yr-old white marbled male, blue eyes, big head. Gentle. Answers to “Ra-Ra”. 786.299.8626 (Gus) or 786.514.5319 (Max).   1-30-09-2-25
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can 
place a FREE  FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Sports
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ON TELEVISION ONLINEJeremiah Stanley / Alligator 
UF forward Dan Werner is held back by Tennessee’s JaJuan Smith during the 
Gators’ 89-86 home loss to the Volunteers on Mar. 5, 2008.
By MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator.org
Dan Werner sat in the locker room at Thompson-
Boling Arena, the haze of allowing 100 points to rival 
Tennessee still in the air.
Werner watched quietly last year as UF coach 
Billy Donovan berated a team that had just turned a 
48-44 halftime lead into a 104-82 loss.
“He was furious,” Werner said. “Any time you 
give up 100 points, coach isn’t going to be happy.”
The Gators shot 54 percent from the field that 
night in Knoxville, Tenn., but were still blown out by a Volunteers team that had two players, JaJuan Smith 
and Chris Lofton, each knock down six 3-pointers.
“We went there last year and got embarrassed,” 
sophomore forward Chandler Parsons said. “They 
just killed us. We didn’t play defense.”
The Gators went on a 16-3 run to start the game 
against the then-No. 7 Volunteers but failed to keep 
the same intensity in the second half.
“We got a little tired and their depth wore us 
down,” Donovan said.
UF will try to return the favor Saturday night at 9 
in front of a national-television audience.
Tennessee (12-7, 3-2 Southeastern Conference) 
has won five of the last six meetings between the two 
schools, including both last season.
The Gators (18-3, 5-1 SEC) lost an 89-86 heart-
breaker to the Vols at home later in the year when 
Werner picked up an offensive foul that effectively ended the game with the Gators trailing by 3 and only eight seconds left.
Tennessee has racked up seven losses this season, 
but don’t be fooled by the large number. Donovan isn’t.
Of their losses this year, two came against 
Gonzaga, and the Volunteers also dropped games to Kentucky, Temple, LSU, in-state rival Memphis and UF to seek redemption at Tennessee
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
UF has not been giving teams 
a chance to breathe early in games 
lately, and it wasn’t about to let Kentucky take a gasp of air on Thursday night.
The No. 12 Gators (19-2, 5-1 
Southeastern Conference) jumped out to a 13-2 lead in the first four minutes of the game —  the team’s ongoing theme — and set the tone for their 74-59 win over the 
Wildcats (12-9, 2-4 SEC).
K e n t u c k y 
spent the entire night trying to recover from UF’s hot start, which got up to 22-4 with 11 minutes left in 
the first half. But in the end, the Gators outlasted the Wildcats.
“That is an indication of us try-
ing to do what we do well and be-ing more focused on how we play at our best,” UF coach Amanda Butler said.
The Wildcats tried to scrap and 
claw their way back into the game and did so, cutting the lead to 5 with 8:44 remaining.
That’s when Sha Brooks seized 
control.
Brooks responded with an as-
sist to Marshae Dotson for a fast-break layup and followed that with a layup of her own with sev-en minutes to go, pushing the lead to 59-50. 
Brooks, who finished with a 
game-high 17 points and tied a ca-reer best with nine assists, added two more free throws to increase the lead to 12 with just under six minutes left.
“In tough situations like that, 
you’ve got to bear down and play hard for the rest of the minutes and try to get a win,” the senior 
guard said. “You’ve got to. It’s the Brooks 
holds off 
Wildcats
UF GYMNASTICS
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
Pink is the new orange and blue.
At least for tonight’s gymnastics meet, 
when No. 5 UF (2-1, 1-1 Southeastern Conference) hosts Kentucky (1-2, 0-2 SEC) in the O’Connell Center at 7, that is. The meet, the Third Annual Gators Link to Pink competition, is aimed at raising awareness 
for breast cancer.
“We always go out there and support 
the cause for those who do have (breast 
cancer), no matter whether or not we know 
the person,” junior Melanie Sinclair said. 
“We’re just willing to help out in any way that we can.”
School colors will be set aside and both 
teams will be wearing pink, albeit different shades.
“It is nice for our athletes, once a year, 
to showcase the pink color to make every-thing stand out later,” UF coach Rhonda Faehn said.
Fans are encouraged to wear pink in 
support of the fight against breast cancer.
Faehn said the meet provides an oppor-
tunity for fans to learn about breast cancer, be it getting women to get checked out or just raising general awareness.
“I’ve had friends that have had (breast 
cancer),” Faehn said. “And I’ve seen the toll that it has taken.”
The Gators will not only be competing 
to raise breast cancer awareness, but also to avoid their second consecutive loss for the first time since 2006, when they lost back-
to-back meets to Alabama and Georgia.
Last week, UF dropped its first meet of 
the season to then-No. 8 Arkansas because 
of three falls on balance beam.
Faehn said the loss spurred the team to 
train harder than ever.
“It’s a matter of intensity and focus,” 
Faehn said. “They weren’t distracted.”
Sinclair called the loss a “wake-up call.”
“It was good to see the other side of the Gators to don pink for cancer awarenessBrooks
SEE KENTUCKY, p AGE 20SEE VOLS, p AGE 20
SEE GYM, p AGE 20
pOLL QUESTION
Today’s question: Who was more important to 
the Gators offense: Percy Harvin or Tim Tebow?
Previous question:  Will UF make the NCAA Tournament with Alex Tyus as its only post pres -
ence? (see right for results) Percent (Votes)
Yes 84% (47)
No 16% (9)
56 TOTAL VOTES NBA: Boston vs. Detroit
ESPN, 7 p.m.
 NBA: Golden State vs. New Orleans
ESPN, 9:30 p.m. The UF track and field teams will join other 
schools from the Southeastern Conference in 
an interleague duel with the Big 12 Confer-
ence in College Station, Texas, this weekend. 
For more, check out alligatorSports.org.FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 19
Jumpball
I know my opinion isn’t a popular one, 
but hear me out. From a schematic stand-point, if I was forced to choose between 
Percy Harvin and Tim Tebow to play in UF’s offense, I’d take Harvin.
Maybe it’s because I’ve seen too much of 
Tebow and I’m desensitized to all his clutch plays, but I think the loss of Harvin will be harder to absorb in the Gators’ game plan.
There was a time when I wouldn’t hesi-
tate to choose Tebow in this discussion, but as he becomes more and more aware of how his style of play will have to change before he hits the NFL, the things that make him so 
dangerous are tempered a little.
When Tebow is running all over the field, 
he causes all kinds of trouble for a defense. 
Once in high school, I saw a team tell its defensive lineman not to cross the line of scrimmage or try to pressure Tebow. They just stood up, fanned out and shuffled their feet in an attempt to keep him from running. Naturally, that trick failed.
As Tebow stays in the pocket more, he 
stops being Tebow and starts being just a really good quarterback, and defenses don’t have to babysit him as much. I don’t see any reason why John Brantley wouldn’t be able to succeed in an offense where he has a full complement of playmakers and needs to make 15 throws per game.
M e a n w h i l e , 
Harvin demands tons of attention. He’s always in mo-tion, and it leaves defenses uneasy. His mere presence on the field gives 
other receivers single coverage and opens up running lanes for other running backs.
So not only is Harvin a threat to score on 
every touch, he gives another two or three guys that same ability just by being there. Demps & Co. didn’t look quite the same against Alabama without Harvin around.
Harvin makes more plays that I don’t 
think anyone else could make. Neither can be replaced, but I think another quarterback could function better than another receiver/
running back could fill Harvin’s role.
I understand if you don’t agree. But at the 
very least, understand how important Harvin 
was to UF, and consider the impact his exit will have before you expect the 2009 team to be the best in college football history. Harvin or Tebow: Who was more important to the Gators offense?
When Percy Harvin walks on the field, defenses are scared.
When Tim Tebow walks on the 
field, defenses have to go back to the draw-ing board.
Simply put, no Gator does more to screw 
with opponents than Tim Tebow.
Sure, Mike McCall over to the left might 
say Harvin requires double coverage con-stantly, and Harvin can burn past corner-backs without a problem.
But Harvin isn’t special in that regard, 
Mike-Mike. The same can be said — and will be said — about players like Jeff Demps 
and Chris Rainey next season.
Only Tebow is a threat to run and pass at 
any given time. When the ball is snapped, 
defenses genuinely have no clue what Tebow will do, and he has the focus of at least eight of the 11 defenders on him im-mediately. That’s four times the amount of Harvin’s typical double coverage.
Take the now-famous jump pass as an 
example. 
Tebow starts the play by doing his sig-
nature rocker step — a play action to him-self — and that makes all the other teams’ linebackers think “run.” Has there ever been a play action as effective as that one? As the defenders creep up, having to try to stop Tebow from plowing them over, he stops moving, leaps into 
the air, and finds a re-
ceiver in single or no coverage.
A play like that can-
not be defended, and it’s all because Tebow 
is the most unique player in football.
Urban Meyer and Dan Mullen spent 
the last three years dreaming up plays for 
Tebow that would utilize his steamroller 
abilities as a runner, his talents as a passer and his innate aptitude to read defenses. 
They came up with some great stuff and 
have two national championships to show for it.
Harvin could certainly do what he does 
without Tebow, but Tebow’s presence in the backfield makes him that much more effec-
tive. 
When every player on the field has to 
worry about a 240-pound linebacker at quar-
terback running up the gut, they’re not go-ing to be able to give the 195-pound seeker missile the attention he deserves.
Harrison Diamond / alligator Staff
UF’s Anastasia Revzina serves during the singles competition against Stetson 
on Tuesday afternoon.
 THE UF MEN WILL HOST ARIZONA IN 
THEIR SIDE OF THE TOURNAMENT.
by JOSEpH R. HOlZER
Alligator Writer
It’s often said the opponent you don’t know is 
the most dangerous.
The No. 7 UF women’s tennis team wants to 
change that proverb into an urban legend as they 
take on Oklahoma State at Linder Stadium at 10 a.m. 
on Saturday.
The Cowboys (0-0) bring three freshmen and 
two sophomores — all foreign — to Gainesville for 
the regional rounds of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Indoor Championship.
Gators coach Roland Thornqvist said there are 
no statistics available for all but three of Oklahoma State’s returners. That includes two of the doubles teams and three of its singles players.
“They’re obviously very young like we are,” he 
said. “We’ll see them in practice on Thursday, and it’ll be our first exposure to that team at all.”
Going in to a match partially blind doesn’t bother 
Thornqvist. UF (2-0) will have to rely on its talent and adjustments to advance to the second round.
No. 99 Anastasia Revzina said she has no concerns 
entering her first ITA Indoor. The junior is actually anticipating the challenge.
“I’m looking forward to it,” she said. “I haven’t 
had a chance to play regional indoors yet because I didn’t play my freshman or sophomore year, so I’m really excited about that.”
On Sunday, the Gators will play either South 
Alabama at 10 a.m. or Western Michigan at 2 p.m., depending on Saturday’s results.
Thornqvist said he has no preference for the sec-
ond-round opposition. The two teams, he said, are 
not significantly different from each other.
“We’re learning ourselves, and that’s pretty much 
the approach we’re going to take here,” he said.
MEN PREPARE FOR TOURNAMENT: The UF men (2-0) also open their side of the ITA Indoor, hosting Arizona today at 10 a.m. The No. 7 Gators moved 
up three spots in the NCAA rankings after sweeping 
a top-10 Baylor squad Sunday. 
“We’re going to be severely challenged against a 
Pac-10 team,” coach Andy Jackson said. “If we get through, Texas A&M is talking national-champion-ship contender this year.”
The No. 15 Aggies will be waiting at 10 a.m. 
Saturday pending each team’s results.UF to face unknown in Oklahoma State
by mERCEDES ma CHaDO
Alligator Writer
Senior diver Whitney Stern 
knows that saying goodbye to four years in the pool will be difficult.
In her final stretch, she will strive 
for her best, hoping to leave a mark 
on UF’s swim program. 
The Gators swimming and div-
ing teams will face three oppo-
nents this Friday and Saturday at the O’Connell Center in their final home meets this season. 
“I’m excited, but I’m really sad 
at the same time,” Stern said. “This has been the best experience of my 
life, and I wouldn’t trade it for any-
thing.”
On Saturday, the seniors will be 
honored at a pre-meet ceremony be-fore swimming against Indian River Community College and Florida Gulf Coast at 1 p.m. At night, the seniors and their parents will enjoy a celebration dinner. 
Stern will compete in the 1-me-
ter and 3-meter dives on Saturday.
The No. 8 UF men (6-2, 3-1 
Southeastern Conference) will face No. 10 Tennessee on Friday at 2 p.m., and the women will face the No. 7 Volunteers at 7 p.m. The  Volunteers have bested the Gators men in 20 out of 35 tries. The No. 5 
women (7-2, 3-1 SEC) have made 
a habit of snatching victory from Tennessee: They have never lost to the Volunteers.
“Tennessee is a real good oppo-
nent, and there will be close races the whole way through,” coach Gregg Troy said. “We are racing the top of the conference and seeing 
how the younger people respond in 
pressure situations.”.Seniors get 
last swim
Evan Drexler
The Drex Factor
edrexler@alligator.org
mike mcCall
McCallin’ It Like I 
See It
mmcall@alligator.org20, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2009
defending national champion Kansas.
“When you play the kind of sched-
ule they have, and you play tough 
teams, I think their record can be to-tally deceiving in many respects,” Donovan said.
Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl has 
called Saturday’s showdown on Rocky Top a “must-win game” for the Volunteers and has planed to welcome the Gators to town with a white-out.
“We’d like to think the SEC cham-
pionship runs through Florida and Tennessee,” Pearl said.  “At least that’s how it’s been the last couple of years.”Tennessee’s strength this season 
plays right into UF’s weakness.
The Volunteers frontcourt, led 
by All-SEC forward Tyler Smith (17 points per game), should give the 
Gators all they can handle.
“The one main-
stay for them has been their front 
line,” Donovan said. 
“(Wayne) Chism, 
Smith and (J.P.) 
Prince have all been 
there before.
The place Tennessee has struggled 
this season is in the backcourt, where 
JaJuan Smith and All-SEC guard 
Chris Lofton have been replaced by junior Josh Tabb and freshman Scotty Hopson.
Neither Tabb nor Hopson are aver-
aging double figures. 
“Inexperience isn’t much of an ex-
cuse anymore,” Pearl said.BULLDOGS’ COACH FIRED: Georgia 
coach Dennis Felton was fired Thursday morning following Georgia’s 83-57 loss to UF on Wednesday night.
It was the Bulldogs’ seventh con-
secutive loss. Felton was 84-91 overall 
in six seasons at Georgia and 26-59 in 
SEC play.
“There was a time, 20-25 years ago, 
when any school making a coaching change was a surprise,” Donovan said. 
“I don’t think that’s the case anymore. 
It’s just kind of the way it is.”Pearl calls Saturday’s contest ‘must-win game’
SEC. You can’t hold back anything.”
Added Butler on Brooks’ effort: “Sha plays very confi-
dently, and our team has so much confidence in Sha that 
they know what she’s going to do. We expect in that situ-ation Sha is going to get the ball in her hands and make 
something happen for us.”
Butler said when the lead was cut to 5, there was a feel-
ing of frustration on the UF bench. So she called timeout 
and went to work in the huddle.
“One of the things that makes this team so special is that 
I can challenge them,” Butler said. “I can call timeout and get in some people’s faces or say, ‘Hey, we need you to do this or do that,’ in maybe not my friendliest voice. And they respond to that, and it’s because they’re winners.”
Trumae Lucas was another thorn in Kentucky’s side 
down the stretch. The freshman guard hit shot after shot, stealing the Wildcats’ momentum seemingly every time they cut into the lead. She tallied a career-high 14 points.
The Gators’ uptempo style and aggressive defense gave 
the Wildcats fits like it has to almost every team they’ve 
played this season. UF forced Kentucky into 23 turnovers 
and scored 25 points off them.
The Gators are now tied atop the SEC standings with 
Auburn, which lost at Georgia on Thursday night, and Vanderbilt.
UF will travel to Arkansas to face the Razorbacks (12-8, 
1-4 SEC) on Sunday at 3 p.m., and Butler doesn’t want to hear about any first-place talk.
“All that matters is we play Arkansas next,” Butler said. 
“We’ve got to go on the road and play in a very tough place against a team that has a lot of youth and is playing very, very well. That’s all that really matters.”Gators now tied with Auburn, Vandy atop SECspectrum and know that we can’t always expect to 
win,” she said. “The positive for us is definitely that we came back in and we’ve been working hard, and 
we realized that we experienced the worst. Losing 
is the worst.”
If the Gators are to avoid their second straight 
loss, Faehn said the team would have to once again 
start strong on the team’s first exercise, vault, and 
carry the momentum throughout the meet.
“It’s our fourth meet of the year, so we really 
should start to show some im-provements as far as consistency,” 
Faehn said.
The team will also look to have 
a better beam showing, with a re-
vised lineup including freshman 
Kailey Tissue for her first competitive home meet.
“I’ve been competing for a really long time — of 
course I have some butterflies, but I think it’s going to be fun,”  Tissue said.
A win against Kentucky would certainly help the 
psyche of a Gators team coming off a loss.
“We don’t ever want to lose,” Faehn said. “At 
the same time, we do understand that it’s about the score and making sure we’re prepared closer to the 
middle-to-end of the season.”
If the team does win tonight, don’t look for the 
team to get complacent — something it appeared to 
be heading into the Arkansas meet.
“You can’t base how you’re going to perform the 
next week and further weeks just because you won a competition,” Sinclair said.UF hopes to bounce 
back on balance beam
Pearl
VOLS , from page 18
GYM , from page 18
KENTUCKY , from page 18Gymnastics
“One of the things that makes this team so 
special is that I can challenge them.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach