tV eh V en u
VOLUME 103 ISSUE:the independent florida
aitigato Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
17 We Inform. You Decide.10
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
Police hunt for
2 in rape cases
Gainesville Police Depart-
ment officials are asking locals
to be on the lookout for two
men suspected of raping two
women.
Both women said they were
robbed and attacked after they
accepted rides home from a
stranger, said Keith Kameg,
GPD spokesman.
The first woman was assault-
ed on Aug. 30 when she accept-
ed a ride home from a man, who
then took her to the T.B. McPher-
son Center saying he needed to
use the restroom, Kameg said.
A second man arrived carry-
ing a handgun, robbed the wom-
an of $5 and raped her.
Kameg said the second wom-
an's case is similar, except that
the gunman was armed with ashotgun and robbed her of $15
before raping her and beating
her with the shotgun. She was
attacked on Saturday.
The driver is described as
an 18- to 20-year-old black man
about 5 feet 5 inches tall with
short hair.
The gunman is described as a
black man about 5
Local feet 10 inches tall
News with short hair.
The car in both
cases was described as a mid-
to early-'90s white Grand Prix
without tinting and a blue cloth
interior.
GPD asks that anyone with
information about either man or
the vehicle call Detective Victo-
ria Harris at 352-334-2470.
-KATHERINE BEIN
SG cabinet secretary arrested on DUI charges
He failed sobriety tests, refused to give breath sample
By KATIE KILOSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF Student Government cabinet
secretary was arrested early Wednesday
morning after police say he was driving
under the influence of alcohol.
William Stewart Sedgwick IV, 19, was
pulled over near Northwest 13th Streetand Northwest 10th Avenue near Ap-
plebee's after he turned into an area that
was closed for construction, according to
a police report.
The Florida Highway Patrol officer who
made the initial stop reported that he had
to physically remove Sedgwick from his
vehicle.
The officer also stated that Sedgwick'sbreath smelled strongly of alcohol.
Sedgwick failed several field sobriety
tests, including following a pen without
moving his head and standing on one leg,
according to the report.
He was pulled over at about 2:40 a.m.
and booked into the Alachua County Jail
at about 4:40 a.m.
After arriving at the jail, he refused togive a breath sample three times and was
charged with DUI, according to the re-
port.
Sedgwick, a UF marketing junior, is the
Finance and Fees cabinet secretary, an un-
elected position appointed by the Student
Body president.
E-mails seeking comment from Sedg-
wick and Student Body President Jordan
Johnson, who appointed him, were not re-
turned Wednesday.
ON CAMPUSState reps criticize radio show for lack of morals
"Lex & Terry," a syndicated radio show broadcast on
UF-owned Rock 104, drew some heat from state lawmakers
Wednesday.
State representatives Joseph Abruzzo and Erik Fresen
co-signed a letter to UF President Bernie Machen criticizing
some of the show's segments, like "Happy Birthday Bitch,"
"The Running of the Bums" and "Homeless Idol."
The letter was also sent to Gov. Charlie Crist, dean of the
College of Journalism and Communications John Wright
and UF's Board of Trustees.
"It is not our intention to censor positions," the letter
reads, "or views however; subject matter which is dehu-manizing and/or degrading to the physically disabled or
offensive to a specific gender or race is un-
acceptable."
The lawmakers note that the station
claims to be funded solely through adver-
tising revenue but argue that its relation-
ship with UF requires it to represent UF's
ethics and moral standards.
Machen and Wright were out of the of-Machen fice Wednesday and couldn't be reached
for comment. UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes declined to
comment until they returned.This isn't the first time the show has come under fire at
UF, though. In 2005, UF stopped airing a segment of the
show called "Drunk Bitch Friday" because of issues with
binge and underage drinking.
Sue Yelton, coordinator of the community group that has
protested changes to UF's other radio station, WUFT-FM,
said she agrees with the lawmakers.
"The content of the Lex & Terry show, a lot of it goes
directly against the aim and mission of the university," she
said. "We're trying to improve our image with being No. 1
or No. 2 party school," she said.
-THOMAS STEWART
0 Tennessee safety
Eric Berry (left) put
himself on the map
in 2007, becom-
ing the only player
to intercept a Tim
Tebow pass and
return it for a touch-
down, taking it 96
yards in 2007.
See Story, Page 18.! K- "Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"T today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13 Thunder
CROSSWORD 15 storms
SPORTS 20 89/72
visit www.alligator.organuirev axaniiii/ aiiiatur axatt
About 100 UF students took part in a flashmob pillow fight on Turlington Plaza Wednesday morn-
ing. The fight was planned via Facebook. See Story, Page 12 and video at www.alligator.org.tye
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Student Government Image
agency applications
Image is accepting applications
for directors and vice chairmen.
Applications are due Friday at 4
p.m. in Reitz Union Room 305.
Students can also apply online
at www.sg.ufl.edu.
Audition to host new TV show
Today, 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Digital Worlds Institute REVE,
Old Norman Gym
First-round Auditions for on-
camera host of the UF College
of Fine Arts' "LIVE Vibe TV"
will be held. Candidates must
be able to commit to hosting a
series of four live special mu-
sic events between Oct. 29 and
April. Auditions are by appoint-
ment, and no prepared scripts
are necessary. Call 352-294-2020
for information or to schedule
an appointment.
Beyond Boards meeting
Today, 6:15 p.m.
Florida Gym, Room 230
Skateboarders of all levels of ex-
perience are welcome to come
out to the first meeting of the
semester to meet new people
and discuss plans for the rest of
the year.
History Honors Fraternity Phi
Alpha Theta meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
Keene-Flint Hall, Room 105.
History department chair Dr.
Joseph Spillane will discuss the
state of the history department
and will be open to questions at
the first Phi Alpha Theta meet-
ing of the year. Learn more
about the department and meet
fellow history majors. Food and
drinks will be provided.
"A Streetcar Named Desire"
Friday, 7:30 p.m.
Constans Theatre
Written by legendary play-
wright Tennessee Williams.
The play will run from Sept.
18 though 27 and is presented
by the School of Theatre and
Dance. Tickets for students, fac-
ulty, staff and senior citizens are
$13. Tickets for the general pub-
lic are $17. Call the University
Box Office at 352-392-1653 for
more information. Tickets may
also be purchased online at
www.ticketmaster.com.
Rosh Hashanah
(Jewish New Year)
Hillel
2020 W University Ave.
Friday, 7p.m., Saturday, 10 a.m.
and Sunday, 10 a.m.
Rosh Hashanah begins with
services (Conservative and
Reform) on Friday at 7 p.m.,
followed by dinner at 8:30 p.m.
Both services continue Saturday
at 10 a.m., followed by lunch at
2 p.m. Only Conservative ser-
vices will be held on Saturday
at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 10 a.m.
Students can register for meals
ASAP at www.ufhillel.org.
Gainesville Area Humorous
Speech and Evaluation Contest
Sunday, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
Room 1031 in the Entomology
and Nematology DepartmentFORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/72FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
90/72SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/71SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/71MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/71
If you are in need of a good
laugh, come see Gainesville's
top humorous speakers com-
pete for No. 1. There will be
refreshments and a raffle.
Florida Alternative Breaks
Student Panel Discussion
Sept. 24, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
At this panel discussion, FAB
students will share experienc-
es they had during their trips.
Learn to Row event
Sept. 25, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Newnan's Lake Boathouse,
7300 E University Ave.
The Gainesville Area Rowing
Club is hosting a Learn to
Row event from Sept. 25 to
Sept. 27. The club, a local non-
profit organization, invites
adult rowers to participate
in this three-day workshop.
The Learn to Row course is
designed as an introduction
to the sport of rowing and
includes an introduction to
indoor rowing machines,
sweep rowing and sculling.
Participants should expect
individual attention and time
rowing on the water.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to
bkelley@alligator.org with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line and a synopsis of
the event.
"Copyrigh ted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
Not fficall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 17 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
NATIONAL
Playboy survey reveals students' sexy side College
By JARED MISNER had sexted in their lifetime. "I thik that Wagers observation points to an inter- Sex Po
Alligator Writer number isn't realistic or maybe we're just re- esting technological trend in Playboy's data.
ally naive." More respondents than ever, according to Ra-
The secret is out: College kids like a lot of 'Sexting' is the act of sending sexually ex- kovic, seem to be participating in new techno- Percent ofsex. According to Playboy's most recent col- plicit text or picture messages via cell phone. logically enhanced sex methods.
lege sex poll, that is. "I couldn't name anyone that's 'sexted' be- The magazine's poll reported 25 percent students who:
For two weeks this summer, Playboy sur- fore," said freshman Kim Demkovich. "I think met a sex partner online and 26 percent ad-
ve ed mre than 5 000 male and female col- that number's a little high." mitted to using a webcam for sex. Perhaps
lege students from across the country on its
Web site for the magazine's October issue on
topics ranging from number of sexual part-
ners to masturbation habits.
"I think the media has portrayed this gen-
eration as a wild, rampant, orgy-style society,"
said Playboy associate editor Rocky Rakovic.
Although some of the poll's results seemed
to shock some UF students, including the
Playboy statistic that revealed 41 percent of
those surveyed knew a person who slept with
a professor or teacher's assistant, other results
were met with little concern.
"I'm overall not surprised by the statistics,"
said freshman Tyler McCann. "I don't know, I
expect people to do these things."
McCann was particularly surprised to hear
that nearly half of those who took the poll ad-
mitted to having anal sex at least once.
"I think it would have been interesting if
more of the questions had been separated by
sex," he said.
Other students agreed with McCann's con-
cerns with the sampling methods.
"You're sampling the people who are al-
ready on Playboy to begin with, so it's not as
random as it could be," said freshman Court-
ney Enright, pointing to the magazine's sta-
tistic that recorded 49 percent of respondentsRakovic, a 2004 graduate of Seton Hall Uni-
versity, agreed with poll readers who ques-
tioned the validity of the survey's results.
"There is a bit of an honor system going
on for sure," he said. "But there's no reason to
taint the results."
According to Rakovic, only 20 percent of
respondents were female and no qualifying
questions based on race, sexual orientation or
religion were asked.
Some questions were strictly directed to a
specific gender, however.
Women respondents to the poll were asked
to answer if they had ever taken a "walk of
shame," which refers to a woman walking
past a group of strangers after having partici-
pated in some form of sexual activity.
Forty-seven percent of female respondents
admitted they had.
Even if they didn't believe all of the results,
the poll provided a few laughs for readers.
"Yeah, well, 9 percent of people lied,"
Brett Wager, 22, said as he laughed about the
magazine's statistic that reported 9 percent
of respondents did not masturbate. "I think
some people are trying to be cooler than they
really are. I mean, almost 30 percent of people
looking at porn in class? I have never seen
that," Wager said.more shocking to poll readers was the statistic
that reported more than one-third admitted
to being naked in a picture on someone's cell
phone.
"Technology and sex seem to go hand in
hand," Rakovic said. "It's a human need that
drives us. [People] will find a way to make sex
more exciting. It used to be having sex in the
back of your car, but soon it will be in the back
of your hovercraft."
Rakovic added that the poll's results didn't
totally signify a sexually driven generation.
Nearly one-fifth of respondents recorded they
were virgins, for example.
"One of the results I was most happy to see
was with 73 percent saying they've been on a
traditional 1950s movie-and-dinner date," he
said.
Some results stood out to Rakovic as a vali-
dation of the poll's authenticity.
"The results are true. Twenty-six percent
of guys don't care how a girl is groomed.
Well, that's probably true. Most guys when
they see a girl's vagina, whether it's groomed,
dyed yellow or a full bush, most guys are just
happy to see a vagina," Rakovic said.
The complete results of Playboy's 2009 col-
lege sex survey are in the magazine's October
edition, which is available now.have sex daily
have sex weekly
are virgins
have done a "walk of shame"
have used a webcam for sex
have faked orgasms
have sexted
49c%-
have had anal sex
Source: Playboy's 2009 College Sex Poll
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
$4
at the Hub located on UF Campus
I
$ OF an animal priced
$5 0 F$10 or more
Coupon expires December 31, 2009. Valid on make-your-own stuffed animals only. Coupons may not be combined and cannot he bought, sold or exchanged for cash
or coupons. Not valid on prior purchases, a Build-A-Party* celebration, Bear Buck$ cards, in Build-A-Beur Workshop* within Rainforest (ffe or in Build-A-Dino"
within I-REX (afeT". Not valid with any other offer. Local and state taxes, as applicable, are payable by bearer. Must present original coupon oflime of purchase or
enter 5-digit code an web purchase. Photocopies prohibited. Valid in the U.S. and Puerto Rico only. Valid for coupon recipient only. Limit one coupon per person, per
visit. Nontransferable. Offer good while supplies lost. Void where prohibited or restricted. Where required cash value 1/100 of I cent.
o - ..- .-1,145,171-A A- S 4 AR V C S ,'K4
y cpon #94249
HIPPCinema
Tickets andIN THE LOOP
"Hands down the funniest movie I have seen all year, and also
the smartest." -Christian Science Monitor / 6:30 and 8:45pm
Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Parties collect cash
as elections near
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Even a dismal economy can't
stop money from flowing into Stu-
dent Government party campaigns.
As of Sept. 14, the Unite Party
has received $2,395, the most con-
tributions of any party. The Orange
and Blue Party has received $616.77
and the Progress Party has received
$585, according to campaign ex-
pense reports.
Unite Party Treasurer Ryan Mills
thinks the Unite Party's budget will
near $5,000. The party plans to spend
most of its money on T-shirts, which
will cost about $3,000, Mills said.
The party also spent a pretty pen-
ny on stickers, which cost $712.50,
according to expense reports.
Mills said the party has a large
support base, including former sen-
ators and campaign volunteers who
aren't members of Student Senate.
Reports show Student Body
President Jordan Johnson also do-
nated to the cause, giving $125 to the
Unite Party.
Orange and Blue Party treasurer
Taylor Cinalli said the party also re-
ceived donations from students and
hopes to raise about $3,000.Orange and Blue Party President
Kyle Huey gave $400, the largest in-
dividual donation as of Sept. 14.
Most of the Orange and Blue Par-
ty's money has been spent on fliers.
According to the expense report, the
party spent about $155 on fliers so
far. The party also plans to buy ban-
ners and T-shirts, Cinalli said.
"We're trying to encourage our
senators to get our
message out there
so that everyone
can be more in-
volved," she said.
Progress Party
Treasurer Guiller-
mo Lopez said
Johnson his party is more
concerned with
spreading its ideas than spending
its money. It does not have a specific
spending goal, he said.
The Progress Party spent $507.07
on T-shirts and about $63 on fliers,
according to the Sept. 14 report.
Lopez said party received dona-
tions from party officials, candidates
and volunteers but doesn't require
candidates to donate.
"We do try to let the message be
known that campaigning doesn't
come free," he said.
Co eepeine a FRE had-n1 e ia
Saturday, September 26 GAINESVILLE TARGET RANGE
8:00 a.m., 12:00 p.m., 3:30 p.m. 1610 NW 65th Place
www.gainesvilletargetrange.com
Preregistration required:
352-359-2864
7wwwfnrstshots.org A;|
First Shots is a program of The National Shooting Sports Foundation
Career Showcase
September 29 & 30 1 9a.m. -3p.m. I Stephen C. O' Connell Center
Attend these events in the CRC, create a Gator CareerLink
account to sign up for interviews and start your internship
or job search at Career ShowcE
September 18
Showcase Summit
September 24
Showcase Essentials Workshop
September 21-25 & 28
Extreme Resume Makeover .(Reitz Union 361-363)
1 -3:45 p.m.
(CRC)
.3:30-5 p.m .
(CRC)
10 a.m. -3 p.m.
Check out positions employers are hiring for and
get preparation tips at www.crc.ufl.edu/showcase
Career Showcase is for UF students and alumni only
Spnsored By
UFaerR"ure"er nielsen
First FloorJ.Wayne Reitz Union Iwww.crc.ufledu|1392-1601| Division ofStudent Affairs IEducating Leaders for a Global Community& Robin
rs"Take the one testyou can't flunk.
-Chris
Founded
Our way beats their way. If you don't agree, it's Free.
Toasted artisan bread stuffed way over code with hot, juicy,
smoked turkey breast, sweet honey ham, and monterey jack cheese.
If the first bite doesn't blow you away, you get your money back.
Buy the Medium Hook & Ladder Sub
Get Chips and a Medium
Fountain Drink on the House.
Visit our nearest Gainesville location at 1412 W. University Ave., Suite I -Mo
S2009 Firehouse Subs. This offervaid with coupon at participating restaurants. Prices and participation may vary, I
see restaurantfor details. Limit one per customer, per visit. Not valid with anyother offers Exp. 10/31/09. FoUNDED By FIREMVEN'"Fast Food
Ceerak Haider, center, a UF graduate student in health education and behavior and member
of Islam on Campus, brought her cousin, Sana Hassan, 21, right, to the organization's Fast-
a-Thon to commemorate the final day of fasting for the Muslim holy month of Ramadan at
the O'Connell Center Wednesday night. Visit www.alligator.org for the story.
ONLY
$5019sIa
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
6am GAiNESViLLE
By ELIZABETH BEHRIMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Batman has the Batmobile. Su-
perman has a cape. Hammock
Man has his hammock.
"Anywhere my backpack goes,
my hammock goes with," Santa Fe
College student Martin Kipp said.
Kipp, 19, bought his ham-
mock at an art festival in down-
town Gainesville last winter and
started using it regularly in the
warmer spring weather. He hangs
it between the trees on the Santa
Fe campus when he is waiting be-
tween classes.
"A hammock is portable, easy
to set up and you're always in the
shade," he said. "It conforms to
your body, so it's the perfect mat-
tress. "
Kipp likes that he can either lie
down in it or just have a seat.
"The only time it's uncomfort-
able is when it's cold and there's a
really biting breeze," he said.
Where Kipp hangs his ham-
mock depends on the time of day
-he follows the shade.
"There's this one spot that in
the mornings it's in full sunlight,
but in the afternoon it's perfect be-cause it's in complete shade," said
Kipp, who plans to study land-
scape architecture at UF.He said that he especially loves
spending time in his hammock be-
cause he loves trees."I hate driving through this ur-
ban sprawl and seeing almost no
trees," he said.
I -A
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Martin Kipp, a 19-year-old Santa Fe College student, lounges in his parachute hammock between class-
es on the SFC campus. Kipp carries his hammock in his book bag with him at all times.
EYEEXAMS
(by Independent Optomeirivi)Z Corner ofI NW 13th St.I
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EYECRE '
I EXPRESS ,
(352)375-6133 a L Ell.
SAFETY BELTS.
SMART FROM THE STARTAlthough the UF campus is
peppered with hammock-dwell-
ers, Kipp appears to be the only
one of his kind at Santa Fe.
John Zupantic, who went to
high school with Kipp, said he was
not surprised when Kipp started
setting up his hammock on cam-
pus.
my~ kaw4& 9w~ wuut
-Martin Kipp
SFC student
"He's not afraid to be differ-
ent, and I think that's what people
think when they walk by him,"
Zupantic said.
He said he's even thinking of
getting a hammock for himself.
Kipp said that he is surprised
that no one has ever has the idea
to set up a hammock and relax be-
tween classes at Santa Fe before.
"They never had the imagina-
tion to actually act on that," he
said.
Kipp said that he's sorry he
didn't start this tradition earlier.
"I'm just surprised at myself
that I didn't think of it sooner and
start back in high school," he said.
113 N. Main Downtown372.8446
C The Wine & Cheese Gallery
M Friday Flights of Wine
$5 Flight of Three 5-8pm I
1 $5 OFF Happy Hour wine
with this coupon, expires 9/26
..
.
This paper is
etdayss RECYCLE
tomorrow's YOUR NEWSPAPER.
nie. O R
GET YOUR BEAT T-SHIRT
FOR THE SWAMP!
Sponsored by
wwHERFFJONES
*Fwww.herffjones com/ufGet yours tomorrow at
Emerson Alumni Hall
10AM until gone!
FREE for the first 1500
SAA members with
membership card.
352-392-9533 -www.ufalumni.ufl.edu
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
Editorial
Oh, Nuts
Government should
continue to fund ACORN
rTlhe Senate should not have voted to deny funds to ACORN
-the Association of Community Organizations for Re-
form Now -on account of transgressions perpetrated by
a handful of employees.
The group came under fire after two activist filmmakers,
posing as a young prostitute and pimp, caught ACORN em-
ployees explaining how to run a brothel of underage "women
of the night" while evading the federal government.
These actions are inexcusable. However, the answer is not to
deprive the agency of federal funding.
The filmmakers visited ACORN branches in San Diego, Los
Angeles, Miami and Philadelphia before finding employees
who would react in a way that furthered their anti-ACORN
agenda. If conservative activists consider this an appropriate
formula for fact finding, they might as well pursue the disband-
ing of their own political party.
A more appropriate response from the Senate would be to
sanction the employees involved in the scandal and to conduct
an investigation into their branches.
We wonder why the Senate voted 83-7 to deny ACORN
funding based on an amateur display of "gotcha" journalism
by a 20-year-old college student.
We also wonder why they succumbed to Republicans who
are so intent on vilifying the agency. ACORN gets most of its
funding through state and local governments, but this vote is at
least a symbolic surrender to the GOP's ongoing attacks.
In the age of YouTube, it's hard to avoid letting fringe groups
make their videos viral. It's a sad day, though, when the Senate
decides to stop funding a group dedicated to the needy work-
ing class due to a distorted video.
Liquor Cabinet
WAile Student Body
President Jordan
JJohnson canprovide
Fabulous Rides for those who
have imbibed too much, he
can't prevent his fellow SGers
from driving his agenda into
the ground.
Cabinet Secretary William
Sedgwick was pulled over for
drunken driving near the Ap-
plebee's on Northwest 13th
Street Tuesday night.
Perhaps he needs a crash
course in civic responsibil-
ity to keep him from plowing
into people who are just try-
ing to eat good in the neigh-
borhood.
We recognize that no-
body's perfect, but when
you're involved with govern-
ment, your demeanor should
be pretty close to it.
We're sure that Sedgwick
is a nice guy. His escapades,
however, are a slap in the face
to Johnson.
First off, drinking anddriving produces a danger-
ous cocktail of consequences.
It puts everybody at risk
when someone is intoxicated
behind the wheel.
Secondly, Sedgwick's ac-
tions undermine Johnson's
crusade against drunken driv-
ing by making it seem like he
can't even keep his coterie of
compatriots in line.
Third, Sedgwick failed
several sobriety tests, includ-
ing following a pen light and
standing on one leg. Who gets
that drunk on a Tuesday?
Johnson has made positive
steps in reducing the number
of DUIs among UF students.
It's unfortunate that his own
cabinet members can't follow
his good example.
Sedgwick will learn his
lesson, as he's bound to face
some serious consequences.
Let his fabulous ride into the
sunset serve as a reminder of
the consequences of drinking
and driving.
0 the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ae , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257Co liumns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
Pe, i r7Sicea4 Ihrnsori
/7
Column
Kanye promotes meritocratic system
anye West and his enduring propensity to go off- himself who knows a thing or
script at inopportune television moments seems about misspeaking, should pr
to have forced the entire mainstream media into a ably just keep riding his wave
state of apoplexy. public opinion until it crashes
Revved up to full hysteric mode, journalists are waxing against the rocks of actual legi
poetic about the good old days and lamenting the death of tive process. Undeserving Oba
civility in American public culture. Tommy Maple has never forced Beyonc6 to do
Instead of linking West to inveterate yellers like Rep. letters@alligator org "Mike Myers face" and proba
Joe Wilson (R-SC) and Serena Williams, maybe some in never will.
professional media need to do a little research and right- Rising up from a devastating car wreck and slo
fully place "Yeezy" among thinkers like Plato and Con- climbing the ladder of success, K-nye W-st is a spec
fucius. Maybe Plato, too, was a gay fish lost in a sea of ular, phoenix-like figure born amongst us mere mort
haters and sharks with his meritocratic Republic. K-nye stormed the stage at the traditionally staid and c
Taylor Swift is merely a vessel representing all that is nified MTV Video Music Awards and took it upon him
wrong in this society, according to a more subtle reading to remind the Western media of the inescapable conc
of West's flagrant outburst. Her status as a country music of meritocracy.
superstar only amplifies the need for more sensitive mark- Beneath these ironclad details lies another searing tr
ers of cultural significance than pure popularity contests. -that K-nye is correct. Having personally spent m
Numbers, you see, not only lie, but often do so in an egre- than 200 hours breaking down each frame of the "Sin
gious manner. Ladies" dance, I am proud to announce that it is the sin
Who among us is fit to criticize West for rightfully finest video ever made. If North Korea forces its people
pointing out aspects of our society that are worthy of sus- do this dance at their next Mass Games, the awe-inspir
picion? In fact, I feel utterly unworthy to even type his power of the dance itself would cause the geopolit
name out, lest it be tarnished by our grubby attempts at axis to shift almost instantaneously. Some theorists h
conceptualization. opined that this hypothetical spectacle may in fact be
K_nye W-st it is, then. actual triggering mechanism of the Mayan curse of 201
Perhaps those outside the realm of media who have Though K-nye W-st himself flirts with the non-mer
come forward with criticisms of K-nye also need examina- cratic ideology of race-based distinctions and often ti
tion for signs of possible counterfeit prestige. President Ba- challenges the very bounds of rational thought, his righ
rack Obama jumped into the fray with his own off-the-cuff place in the meritocracy is incontrovertible fact. Confuc
remark about K nye being a "jackass." Perhaps Obama, would surely recognize a true gentleman in the form
like his predecessor, George Bush, simply doesn't care K-nye, especially since he got that new leopard haircut
about black people. Tommy Maple is a graduate student in international com-
Obama, a winner of a nationwide popularity contest munications. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Are you selling The results of Wednesday's poll
your football ticket for over $100? question are unavailable due to
technical error.
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgwo
ob-
of
up
sla-
ma
the
bly
wly
ac-
als.
ig-
self
ept
uth
ore
gle
gle
e to
ing
ical
ave
the
2.
ito-
nes
tful
ius
of
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Pedestrians lowest on totem pole
Somebody needs write down the hierarchy
of the sidewalk, and I figure that person might
as well be me.
People on bicycles (who should be in the
bike lane anyway) don't have to yield to any-
body. People on skateboards have to yield to
cyclists.
Finally, people walking have to yield to
skaters. By just standing there, you're increas-
ing your chances of getting hit by a cyclist or
skater who can't get out of the way as easily as
you can. So kindly, get out of the way.
Greg Ramos
2LS
Vaccination should be personal choice
Reading the editorial about Gardasil now
being required for female immigrants com-
pletelyblew my mind. I don't understand how
the government can do this and even begin to
think it's acceptable.
Gardasil is a non-essential vaccine, and
whether or not a woman gets inocculated
should be personal choice. I am one of those
people who personally decided, after research-
ing the topic, that I won't get the vaccination. I
can't even imagine the government telling me
I had to get it.
How can a country that supposedly re-veres personal liberties and choice possibly
view this as acceptable? What's next? Not just
immigrants are required to have it, but every-
one?
Human papillomavirus is not a mass, dead-
ly epidemic. It's not even the swine flu -it's
an STD. Additionally, the forms that Gardasil
prevents are all exclusively sexually transmit-
ted (i.e. can't be contracted through blood like
I-fV/AIDS). Ta-da, prevention is easy.
Also, the vaccine is being required for girls
11 to 26. Eleven year olds? Really? As wrong
as it is, imposing the vaccine on women 18 to
26 is one thing. Imposing it on an 11-year-old
girl is something entirely different and a whole
new level of wrong.
Caitlin O'Conner
3JM
University money wasted internally
The Robin Hood cartoon depicting Presi-
dent Bernie Machen is one of the best I have
ever seen in this newspaper. It's a rather hu-
morous way to touch on something so delicate
as the budget cuts.
In my opinion, the university should walk
away from reducing the number of faculty
and staff members and concentrate on spend-
ing its money more wisely.
There is a lot of money being wasted in-
ternally. I work with the university, and I seemany office supplies being wasted. There is a
recycling program, but I seriously believe that
we need to make use of other free resources,
like PDF files instead of using so much paper.
There are a lot of people who fear electronic
media, and this can be changed by providing
training for them.
Also, there is a lot of money being wasted
on long-distance phone calls, which are un-
necessary. Why doesn't the university use
something like VoIP in some offices?
I know these seem like minor changes, but
I was always taught that small things make
huge differences.
Sebastian Ramirez
2EG
Protestors held inaccurate signs
As I was driving to the movies past The
Oaks Mall on Sept. 11, I saw a group of anti-
Islam protesters complete with "Islam is of the
Devil" T-shirts. The scene was appalling, and
the only consolation I found was that no one
honked for them or showed support.
Among the signs, I spotted two that seemed
out of place (even more out of place than the
idiotic anger of the intolerant). One said "Je-
sus Was Not a Liberal," and the other touted
"Forgiveness."
I'd like to point out that Jesus was, in fact, a
liberal, a socialist and arguably, a communist.The Bible Belters who hate President Obama
and his "socialist" ideals fail to realize that
their hero was one of the original socialists.
Check out the "Sermon on the Mount" for
evidence.
I don't understand why at every religious
protest, politics has to get dragged into the
equation. Not only did these protesters have
an intolerant message of hatred, they were
completely wrong in what they were protest-
ing.
And about the "Forgiveness" sign: If you
want to send the message of forgiveness,
which is a great message, try not to have the
sign right next to an anti-Islam rally that is cen-
tered on not forgiving a culture of people for
what 19 individual extremists did.
Paul Murty
2LS
Student scalpers disgrace Gator Nation
To everyone selling their ticket for more
than $100: Stop ripping off your fellow stu-
dents. Stop entering the lottery just to sell your
tickets. Fellow students should not be paying
your rent to see the Gators play. You're worse
for Florida football than if Urban Meyer left
for Notre Dame. I hope something extremely
inconvenient happens to you this week.
Kyle Krutek
4EG
Gatne vlle
Health & Fitness
Month to Month Memberships
NEWBERRY ROAD 377-4955 -TIOGA 692-2180 -FOR WOMEN 374-4634
GHFC.comCA CER
yt ARGUARANTEE
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335 1232 332-3937
Apresmption with side effects'ou wont.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
.insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
B4'eB ela BlueShield 373-0775
F iN b 859SU3669S.W. 2nd AvenueForm Number: 18533-599SU 36S.2dAeuRAMADAN
FAST-A-THON
September 16, 2009
6:30 pm
the O'Connell Center
For more info, visit:
www.IslamOnCampus.com
4-session
Self Defense
Course for Women
Beginning September 20th
Classes are held on Sundays
from 4:30 -6:00 p.m.at
Renshinkan
Martial Arts Academy
4000 W. Newberry Rd.
For more information,
contact Jason Dodd at 371-1007Trouble paying attention?
-Trouble focusing in class?
-Diffictuly finishing tasks?
-Frequently losing things?
We can help!
Ifxr f&tntvtrCf 7
ADHD assessment
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 15930SWArcher Rd
info@morriscenters.com
theAvenue thursday, september 17, 2009
Fashion Week goes out with a bang
A model shows off a
French Connection dre
Wolfgang fashion sh
ing Gainesville Fashio
The week included six
shows, an art show a
tion, and a scaveng
across Gainesville dur
ion's Night Out. The f
the week was the Da
Bobby K shows on a c
rooftop at Skyy. Gai
Fashion Week brou
gether restaurants, ni
boutiques, salons and
ers for a memorable
-Ashley McCred
.pacolorful
ss at the
ow dur-
n Week.
fashion
nd auc-
er hunt
ng Fash-
nale of
hlia and
rowded
nesville
ght to-
ghtclubs,
design-
week.
ie
~e9THIS WEEK:
PG 9: Get the inside scoop and photos
from Gainesville Fashion Week
PG 11: Greenland is Melting will play a
CD release show at the Orange & Brew
ONLINE: Check out our video with local
boutiques during Fashion's Night Out
www.alligator.org/avenue
www.twitter.com/gatorave
REGULA RS:
SEX: The benefits of getting tested,
online
MOVIES: A review of the latest Derrick
Comedy film "Mystery Team," page 11
COMING UP:
Next week, we'll review the new Mexi-
can restaurant 101 Cantina. Also, take
a look at our blogs for more sex and
fashion advice.
Looking for a little culture? The UF School
of Theatre and Dance is performing "A
Streetcar Named Desire" beginning Fri-
day at the Constans Theatre. The play is
a classic that shows the issues and drama
in life.
Warped Tour movie shows
By RICHARD IWANIK-MARQUES
avenue writer
The Vans Warped Tour has spent the better
part of the past two decades bringing summer
mosh pits, mohawks and mayhem.
North America's longest-running music fes-
tival, Warped, will be celebrating its 15th anni-
versaryat8 p.m. in theform of a two-hour movie
playingtonight atthe Regal Gainesville Cinema
14 on Archer Road. Tickets are $12.50.
The film, titled "Warped Tour 15th Anni-
versary Celebration," will take a look into the
tour's history and life, and will feature live per-
formances from 30H!3, Underoath, NOFX, The
All-American Rejects, The Aggrolites, Bad Re-
ligion, Ice-T, Katy Perry, Ozomatli, Pennywise,
The Decaydance All Stars, Rise Against and a
surprise appearance from blink-182.
The live portion of the film consists of per-
formances filmed at a charity event at Club
Nokia in Los Angeles on Sept. 6.
The footage from the concert was edited in
about seven days, Warped Tour founder KevinLyman said.
The historical content of the film will feature
members of some of the most influential acts.
"I wanted to have a taste of the historyfrom
bands like Bad Religion and Pennywise but still
cover that middle ground too with artists like
Underoath and Rise Against," he said.
Warped Tour, which began as a traveling
summer showcase of 16 punk bands, now fea-
tures more than 100 acts that range anywhere
from grind-core to gangster-rap.
"A lot of people think of Warped as a punk
rock tour, but if you dig through the lineups,
you'll see it is actually pretty eclectic," Lyman
said.
Lyman's tour, which started in 1995 as cel-
ebration of Southern California's skate culture,
has helped launch the careers of some of the
biggest names in music in the past 15 years,
presenting the then up-and-comers with their
first taste of a large-scale national touring ex-
perience.
"It's something that, through the years,
bands have played atthe beginning of their ca-festival's history, influence
reers," Lyman said.
"People usually think Bad Religion, NOFX
and Fall Out Boy are the types of success sto-
ries we have," he said.
"A lot of people think of warped as a
punk-rock tour, but if you dig though the
lineups, you'll see it is actually przttg
gel et j e."
KEVIN LYMAN
warped tour founder
Although there are numerous punk bands
that managed to use Warped as a catapult to
successful careers, other notable acts that
hit it big following Warped include No Doubt,
Eminem, The Black Eyed Peas and most re-
cently, Paramore and Katy Perry.
Most of the bands on this year's Warped
Tour were in middle school listening to bands
like Bad Religion and NOFX when the tour be-
gan 15 years ago."It's definitely become second generation-
al," Lyman said.
He said they are startingto see parents who
went to Warped when they were younger come
back with their children.
"It's a great way to find a common ground
with their kids for some people. We never ex-
pected that, but if we can do it, it's kind of a
really cool bonus," Lyman said.
This film has essentially been in production
for the past 15 years but didn't really come to
fruition until recently.
Lyman said they started having serious dis-
cussions about doing a movie more than four
years ago.
With less than two weeks to film, edit and
distribute a full-length movie to more than 400
theaters around the country, this one-night
event is unlike anything Warped has done be-
fore, he said.
"It's pretty ambitious what we are trying to
do with this one, but even 15 years later, we're
still trying to push the envelope with Warped
and see what we can do," Lyman said.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 *ALLIGATOR, 9
Fashion week brings big city feel
By ASHLEY McCREDIE
avenue writer
For the second time, Gainesville
Fashion Week has brought together
art, fashion, music, cocktails and food
for an unforgettable week.
GFW kicked off on Sept. 8 and
wrapped with a partySaturdayatSpan-
nk. Four local boutiques, Calzatura,
Wolfgang, Etc. and Dahlia sent looks
from their stores down the runway,
and designers Natalie Kim and Bobby
K showcased their latest collections.
Boutique owners, designers and
the organizers were pleased with the
event and its 440 attendees.
"Turnout for the whole week was
great," said Kyle Cummings of (PRN-
THS), who works with Sharab Lounge.
"We packed Sharab out that first Tues-
day night, and it was the motivation for
the rest of the week."
The Calzatura Boutique's show was
full of mini dresses, chic casuals and
flowing hair. The show was topped off
with an '80s-inspired peacock jump-
suit.
The Wolfgang Boutique's show
mixed classic styles with the latest
trends like floral dresses, lace tights
and ruffled tops. They also had chic
menswear for the fall, including skinny
jeans and bomber jackets.
Etc. Boutique's models came out
wearingcasual dresseswith ruffles and
designer denim paired with fashiontops and scarves. The show consisted
of many cute daytime looks but ended
with the perfect little black dress that
should be in everyone's closet.
Natalie Kim's show was sponsored
by Allure and showed off her '50s-
inspired Game-Day dresses. Models
strutted down the runway with Britney
Spears playing in the background.
Each dress was made to be unique,
whether it was by adding a tutu of tulle,
giant polka dots, ruffles or a sassy bow
in the back. The models also posed on
the runway with custom Gators cock-
tail glasses in hand.
"I think the bulk of the hgp a went
towards Dobbg', Thow."
MATTHEW TURNER
Wolfgang owner
The looks were sassyand combined
knee-high boots and messy updos with
girly frocks to add a little edge. The fi-
nale piece was a green dress with a
train, resembling an alligator.
Dahlia's show had somethingfor ev-
eryone: ripped jeans with plaid shirts,
sexy black dresses and even a bright
blue Loeffler Randall swimsuit.
Bobby K wowed the crowd with
his "I'm In Love With a Robot" collec-
tion. The show began with a model
seductively dancing in a cage above
the crowd. Models sported everythingfrom hot pink and purple mini dresses
to black leotards with embellishments
around the shoulder, and a few men's
pieces were added in.
"I think the bulk of the hype went
towards Bobby's show," Wolfgang own-
er Matthew Turner said.
While clothes were the main at-
traction in the shows, it was hard to
miss the bold makeup and hairstyles.
Makeup came in all styles from '50s
cat eyes and red lipstick to electrify-
ing blue eyeliner, depending on the
show's inspiration. Some featured
hairstyles were sleek straight with
bows constructed of hair, tousled curls
and poufs. Sephora painted the faces,
and a different salon styled hair for
each show.
Besides the fashion shows, there
were art auctions, cocktail hours and
Gainesville participated in the global
event called Fashion's Night Out.
The art show/auction was orga-
nized by Society Promotions and all
benefits went toward the Eden Project,
an organization to help burdened pros-
titutes in China.
Many of the boutiques saw new
customers come in after the shows.
Overall, the week was a suc-
cess, and according to Cummings,
Gainesville can expect more weeks
like this one in the future.
"Fashion Week brought a big city
atmosphere to a small town like
Gainesville," he said.
During Fashion's
Night Out, Persona's
live mannequins
entertain shoppers
(left)
A model shows off
a Ben Sherman
shirt, Nudie Jeans
and a Diesel belt
during Wolfgang's
show (right)
Models strut down the runway in original looks by
Bobby K (top and middle)
The Wolfgang team, Rebekah Geier, Natalie Bei-
gel, Carly Acquaviva, Matthew Turner and Jordan
Waldorff, celebrate the end of the show (bottom)e:i
Matthew Turner
and Rebekah Geier
punch cards for
giveaways during
Fashion's Night Out
at Wolfgang (left)
For the finale,
Wolfgang presents
an edgy look with
an Audrey corset
top, Audrey blazer,
and Wax boy-
friend jeans (right)
10, ALLIGATOR *THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
Cafe Gardens
Cafe Gardens has been just
across from campus since
1976. This quaint landmark
establishment with award
winning courtyard dining
is perfect for any date or
gathering. Open 7 days. For live
musicschedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 1lam-lopm,
Thurs -Sat llam-llpm Sun
Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
Check us out. We have over
20 styles of hot dogs to choose
from. Chicago style, a frito dog,
a Columbia dog,etc. And we
come up with new ones all the
time. Our burgers are prepared
fresh dailyand cooked to order.
Our deli sandwiches come with
over a /pd of meat and your
choice of toppings. We serve
beer too. For delivery or to see
our full menu- Check us out
at GatorDawgs.com. We are
located at 1023 W University
Ave. 378-4353. Call ahead for
pickup.
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft
and Red Stripe beers! We
deliver! Open late to serve
your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed:1lam-3am. Thurs-
Sat: Ilam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located at
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown) Offering Asian
Fusion Cuisine in a relaxing
atmosphere. Wed and Thurs
night $5 martinis. Open for
lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-2:30 Sun
12-5 and dinner Sun-Thurs
5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm.
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents! Biggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday lam-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super\i
lunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
, 
@ (A9 0 .Made's Classic
Coffee
Maude's Dollar Days
$1.00 Let's Go Study Sundays
(Black coffee for a dollar)
$2.00 Iced Mocha Mondays
(Half price iced mocha need we
say anything else)
$3.00dTreat Yourself Tuesdays
(good for one de-stressing
dessert per person)
$4.00 Wine Wednesdays
(any glass of wine)
$5.00 Thirsty Thursdays
(two imported beers)
$6.00 Finger Food Fridays
(any appetizer)
$7.00 Sweetheart Saturdays
(includes one dessert and two
regular coffees)
A limited time offer
Not valid with any other offer
Located downtown next to the
Hippodrome
101 SE 2nd Place 336-9646
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkins, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specialsmake shopping at D'Lites a
special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
(next to the Hollywood Video)
or at the Shoppes of Williston at
S.W. 34th Street and Williston
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, and
beer, with lots of vegan options.
Now open 24 hours. Free WiFi!
Located 2 blocks east of campus
at 1025 W. University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yogurt
has 0% fat and contains live
and active cultures. Choose
any combination of 8 different
flavors and over 30 toppings.
Everything for just 45 cents an
ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd (next
to Bento Red) Open from noon
to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real frozen
yogurt products. Our low calorie
and low-fat soft serve is your
healthiest choice in Gainesville,
and it tastes great too. Waffle
Cone Wednesday from 5-8p.m.
and half-off smoothies from
5-6p.m. every day! Locations
at 34th Street next to Crispers,
Thornebrook Village at 43rd
Street and Town of Tioga. Find
us one Facebook and follow us
on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.othe independent florida[1hgatora
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
Ristorante Deneno
With new ownership at the
helm, Deneno is presenting
great Italian food in nearby
Alachua. Worth the drive! Open
for lunch Mon-Fri 11:30-2.
Dinner 7 nights a week from
5pm. Happy Hour Tues-Fri 5-7.
Every Tuesday is 1/2 off bottles
of wine. 14960 Main Street,
Alachua. 386-418-1066
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs 11am-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
1lam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
great locations with outside
eating. Open every day for carry-
out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Open for Lunch & Dinner
$6.99 Daily Lunch Specials
Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/
$12.50 Buckets of ANY beer
Check Out Our New & Exciting
Menu & Expanded
Sunday Brunch Menu
$4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
$4 Mojito Menu Thursdays
$5 off next $25 purchase
With This Ad
352-377-3278
www.cabanacove.net
2410 NW 43rd St.
Gainesville, Fl. 32606
Located Behind Garden
Gate NurseryU
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
(mflDgtlocal music he
Album shows band's experiences
I I r
.jTi Amo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices &
terrific service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.
com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
Mellow Mushroom
Shroomin'DStudent Specials
DOLLAR DRAFTS
14" Pizza $9.99
$3 Jager Meister
Happy Hour 3-7
All Apps Price
All Mixed Drinks 2-4-1
Order Online @
mellowmushroom.com
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave. 377-2542
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian
Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho, Banh-Cuon,
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Big new room! Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn
Downtown. Dine in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934 1228 W Univ AveBy MARY MANCHESS
avenue writer
The members of Greenland is Melting do not want
people to think they're a couple of esoteric guys sitting
around, thinking deep thoughts all day long.
They aren't trying to convey a deep, dark message
with the use of metaphors or themes. If anything, they
just want to be honest and straightforward.
But for a couple of guys who weren't trying to be poet-
ic, they somehow managed to be in every aspect of their
new album, "Our Hearts are Gold, Our Grass is Blue."
The band will be releasingthe album tonight at 8 p.m.
at the Orange & Brew. The show is free, and CDs will be
sold for $2. The Quadrophones and The Damn Wrights
will also be performing.
From the title and artwork to the lyrics and song
names, it seems like the band worked on it for a couple
of years. But, impressively enough, it only took the band
a little more than a year to put everything together.
"It's the good starting ground for what we actually
want it to sound like," said vocalist and banjo player
Karl Seltzer. "I think as far as musically, we have accom-
plished where we wanted to go because I think, and I
think everyone else in the band thinks, it's the best thing
we have done as a group. That is the least we could have
asked for in the CD."
While there isn't a central theme, the album is based
off of the band's experience on the road.
Bassist and vocalist Will Dueease describes it as "an
autobiography of a start-up band driving around, meet-
ing fantastic people and having a good time in different
cities and different states."
And the song ideas were not the only thing they got
from the road.
Seltzer and Dueease said the band had been on the
road for a couple of days and Shaun Pereira, who plays
guitar, trumpet and vocals, was doodling on a pair of
shoes to pass the time. While sketching, Pereira came
up with the saying "Our Hearts are Gold, Our Grass is
Blue."
"He said that and we all sat in silence for 30 sec-Green Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink+ Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-l0pm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
THE JONES
Gainesville's own indepen-
dently owned community
restaurant dedicated to bring-
ing sustainable, local, and
organic food to the table. Oh,
and it's really yummy. Herbi-
vores, carnivores, & omnivores
welcome! *Breakfast & Lunch:
8am to 3pm every day. Dinner:
Friday thru Monday nights
5pm to IOpm.* Check out our
Facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue
352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This l2oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm
Fri-Sat. lam-llpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred'sBy JON SILMAN
avenue writer
"Mystery Team" is the story of
three high school virgins stuck
as their 7-year-old Encyclopedia
Brown-type personalities. Kind of
like my life, but with actual cases
to solve and not just wishful think-
ing. The three friends ride match-
ing bikes and harass 6-year-olds.
In fact, they get in trouble for force-
fully removing a kid from the play-
ground and teaching him a lesson
about putting his fingers in things.
The mystery team has three mem-
bers. Donald Glover plays Jason. His
disguises usually include anvaria-
tion of fake mustaches, and they
don't fool anyone, ever. D.C. Pierson
plays Duncan, the boy genius whose
knowledge is limited to what he
learned from reading "1001 Wacky
Facts." And Dominic Dierkes plays
Charlie, the world's strongest boy.
He's the dim-witted one who likes
to take his clothes off for no rea-
son and proclaim, "You smell like
my dad," when he smells alcohol.
The movie's shtick is the boys' in-
nocence against the cynicism of
a cruel, dark world. Even when agirl asks them to solve the murder
of her parents, they approach it
with the same naivety they would a
case of a missing red bicycle. Kind
of like a party on its second keg,
this is where the real fun begins.
The boys follow a lead to a "gentle-
men's" club where they think they
have to act like sophisticated men to
gain entry, so they dress up in tails
and top hats. In order to prove they
are real detec-
tives, they need
to recover a sto-
len ring off of a
suspect who, let's
just say, likes to
get "handsy" with
strippers (Who
doesn't?). The ring ends up in a full
toilet, and the world's smartest boy
ends up elbow deep in God knows
what.
The movie's luster lies in the sub-
tle, subdued comedictimingof its ac-
tors and some witty dialogue.
Lowbrow, crude and shocking, it's
everything you wanted in a film but
were too afraid to ask for. This is the
kind of film thatyour parents will hate.
This film is like the boy your grand-mother warned would try to take off
your bra while he was kissing you.
It comes at you quick and smooth,
and before you know it, you're in
love. I said it, I love this movie.
"Mystery Team" was made by Der-
rick Comedy, the New York University
grads and YouTube sensations. For a
taste, look up "Dickmento," a "Me-
mento" parody, on YouTube.
The film was shot in lengthy se-
quences, which can make it feel a
bit drawn out at times. But the plot-
driven story moves at a brisk pace,
and the premise doesn't wear thin.
There are some notable cameos in
the film because some members
of the troupehave high-profile jobs
(Glover is a writer for "30 Rock").
"MysteryTeam" is genuinely and con-
sistently funny with fresh ideas and
some promising young actors. If they
continue to produce such consis-
tently entertaining material, you will
be hearing a lot more about these
actors in the days to come. I had the
honor of meeting the boy genius in
person (he's cool and laid-back) as
well as the director of the film at Re-
gal Cinemas 14, and they were very
genial in the 45 seconds we spoke.
.xx 10,THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 + ALLIGATOR, 11
'Mystery Team' guarantees laughsonds and were like, 'Dude, that sounds awesome, that
is a really good album name,' and it stuck from there,"
Dueease said.
Aside from the title, Pereira also created the artwork
for the album, which was originally a watercolor painting
of a white owl surrounded by a group of black crows.
"It's great that we can keep everything in the band,"
Dueease said. "We don't have to outsource to any-
body."
Along with a great title and artwork, the songs are
pretty impressive as well, especially track five, "Every-
one Wants to Go to Heaven," and track six, "But No One
Wants to Die."
"It's sort of a traditional song that we picked up and
started playing just for fun, and we kind of added on a
whole beginning part to lead into it. Then we broke it up
into two separate songs," Dueease said. "It's an old civil
war death march, if I'm not mistaken. It's eerie and it's
beautiful, so it's fun to play."
With such a well-formed album, all GIM can hope for
is a good turnout at the show.
"This was written by all of us," Dueease said. "This is
the ground that we all found that we love."
Oar HeaM are Gold, Oar GrasS IS DtBe
12, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
ON CAMPUS
Students spring pillow fight
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
11:29 a.m.: Turlington Plaza
buzzes with students; anxiety
builds for those who know
what is about to occur.
11:30 a.m.: The Century
Tower bells chime and a sin-
gle cry erupts: "Pillow fight!"
Dozens of students whip out
pillows from backpacks and
purses to form a color-strewn
blur.
11:32 a.m.: The fight sub-
sides, and the day continues as
usual. But for those brief two
minutes, a rare celebration took
place.
The pillow fight broke out
Wednesday on Turlington
Plaza between classes. Mem-
bers of Gainesville's chapter of
Flashmob planned the friendly
brawl last Tuesday.
They contacted almost 7,000
students by way of e-mail, Fa-
cebook and word of mouth,
group president Scott Paterson
said.He estimates that 100 stu-
dents participated in the fight.
Students itched with antici-
pation as they glanced around
for hidden pillows as the min-
utes ticked down.
Carolina Lopez and Kelsey
Peck were worried that they
would be the only people to
show up.
"I thought nobody was go-
ing to do it because we came
and everyone was being really
sneaky," Lopez, a junior educa-
tion major, said.
During the fight, Lopez
pulled her pillow from her
sweater-covered basket, an ac-
cessory that Peck said made
Lopez look like Dorothy from
"The Wizard of Oz," and delved
into the heart of the mob.
Most students alternated be-
tween flinging their pillows at
their neighbors and hiding be-
hind their fluffy barricade.
"I went for offense, not de-ing and covering, but I was just
full-on smashing."
Even getting to the pillow
fight was a battle for Curran,
who sprinted from her public
speaking class in Rolfs Hall to
Turlington just in time for the
clash.
"Only at UF," she said.
Paterson, a senior advertis-
ing major, said the best part
about this particular event was
the low-cost aspect.
"Everyone has a pillow.
They're free, no cost involved,"
he said. "Just bring it, have fun.
It's a simple as that."
Paterson said flash mobs are
appealing because bystanders
are caught by surprise.
"A lot of people don't know
what's happening. It's just a
fun event. Everyone can relate
to it in some way," he said.
He said it is an event where
students feel like a part of a se-
cret club.
fense," said Michelle Curran, Paterson hopes to plan fu-
a freshman advertising major. ture Flashmobs but does not
"A lot of people were just duck- have any scheduled.
Fla. officials' texts to be public
By JIMMIE PAUL
Alligator Writer
From the campus level to the state level, trans-
parency has become a common theme.
Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum an-
nounced a new policy Tuesday that will treat
government officials' Blackberry messages and
text messages as public record.
"The evolution of technology should be an as-
set, not an obstacle, to transparency and account-
ability," McCollum said in a press release. "This
policy will allow for both government efficiency
and more open government."
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan
said she thinks the policy is a good idea.Hanrahan said public business means public
records, no matter the form of communication,
[7a1
Hanrahanadding that a lot of citizens
are confused about public re-
cords.
"If I texted my husband
and asked him to pick up the
kids, that's not the public's
business, she said. "But if I
texted him government infor-
mation, that's public record."
Other forms of electronic
communication that will be reviewed will in-
clude instant messaging, and Voice over Internet
Protocol, which allows people to use a cable con-
nection like a phone, according to the release.Restoring the Rafters
UF Physical Plant workers repair the 18-year-old bat house near Lake
Alice on Wednesday. The roosting fins in the bat house collapsed on
Aug. 16 and left the estimated 200,000 bats living there homeless.
March for Babies sets
fundraising goal at $100K
* THE MARCH WILL TAKE PLACE
ON NOV. 8.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Gators March for Babies, an event
that raises money to help pregnant
mothers and the families of premature
babies, will kick off Thursday in the
Florida Gym from 5 to 7 p.m.
The march, which will take place
Nov. 8, was formerly known as Gator-
Walk, but changed its name this year to
mirror the campaign's national name,
March for Babies.
Kyle Croft, the external public rela-
tions director for the march, said the
fundraising goal for the march this
year is $100,000.
The event will feature speeches from
Shelley Meyer and Rob Davis, a UF law
student born prematurely.
It will also include live music fromlocal band Crazy By Association.
Croft said he grew up in Gainesville
and has participated in the march since
seventh grade.
He said volunteering with the march
has helped him to see the strain placed
on the families of premature babies.
"It makes it personal even though
I haven't experienced it firsthand," he
said.
Croft said the march
Local also focuses on help-
News ing women have healthy
pregnancies.
Lisa McCraw, the
Gators March for Babies director, said
the march is important because it seeks
to prevent babies from being born pre-
maturely in the future.
Students interested in participating
by themselves or with a team can can
register online by visiting www.gators-
marchforbabies.org.
Students can also register on com-
puters at the event.Funny Girl
Comedian Tracey Ashley, a semifinalist on NBC's "Last Comic Standing," tells a
joke at the Orange & Brew Wednesday. Visit www.alligator.org for the story.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-313 1*GainesviePlace.com
12-9-75-1
& The g
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-18-09-36-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
2BR/2PVT BA AVAILABLE IN ROCKWOOD
VILLAS 3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of
utils. FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit.
On bus route close to Oaks Mall. 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-25-09-19-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-
408-4330 -305-962-2525, 305-408-4330 -
c2000_1@msn.com 9-18-09-6-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 9-18-5-1
For FRent
unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2Affordable Living -Convenient to Everything!
Spacious 2/1's Available Immediately
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
*P OLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, imitation, or discrimination because of color, region, sex, handicap, family status, or national origin, or intention to make imitation, or discrimination." We wll
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
14, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay 0 Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
We have REAL I /ls
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
48-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BIR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
* 3BR $99 Moves you in! $750
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-21-09-45-2
@4/2 $99 Moves U in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
@2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
*Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-21-09-45-2SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
42-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-1 8-09-36-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
34-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-22-33-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
30-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-23-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/i s from $392* 2/i s from $491P
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
%. Asn* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs *
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
II I I I A \
, *\ N I)
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
a a ft S
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial Mews Providers"
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-21-09-15-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2BR1.5BA townhouse for rent near UF,
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fireplace, en-
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 904-524-3063
9-30-09-18-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 9-22-09-10-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
1BR/1BA EFFICIENCY
with A/C, $320/mo. No pets. Year lease.
Shady lot. 1022.5 NW 4t Ave. 352-376-5887
9-25-09-13-2
Room for rent near Archer Road. Non smoker
$500/month includes utilities.Sec dep. $500.
Call 352-213-1567. 9-17-6-2
* r go,&* eoe- * 
"Copyrighted Material
0 1Syndicated Content,
Available from Commercial News Providers"
e i
II
Pr
pm-,
I I$240/MO INCL UTIL.
ONE BEDROOM FOR RENT!
2 miles east of UF NE 9th St & 3rd Ave. On
bus route. Share full bath. Non-smoking fe-
male. Clean. Cat ok. Call Jane 871-6065
9-17-09-5-2
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-15-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
2/2 Condo 2508 SW 35 PI
Gated Comm.w/Pool Near University
$750/Month Call Mike 786-299-4403 9-18-
09-7-2
*2 MONTHS RENT FREE*
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesville 1 mile from campus.
Includes washer, dryer, dishwasher, balcony,
pool, and alarm. Available now. Call 561 827
5358 or email zurich7@ufl.edu 9-18-09-6-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $650/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 9-25-09-11-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2
FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking,dog walk area,quiet
1.5miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuy carroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2
1 BR/1 BA POLOS. 3mo lease
avail/can renew. Oct 1st
move-in W/D, on bus route
24hr study room and gym.
petsok 847-722-0171 $729 9-22-09-5-2
Utilities Included! STUDIO (no bedroom!) for
rent $600 month $1000 security 2490 Sw
14th Drive Available Oct 31 386-527-6923
9-22-09-5-2
*Spacious new 2BR/2.5BA Townhouse near
UF. Apple. AC/Heat, Alarm Sys. Internet for
only $875/m @ 885 NW 21st Ave. Call 954-
805-7827 or 561-912-6223,
dennismiller@tycoint.com* 9-30-09-11-2The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
$599. 1 BR w/ large study, Washer/Dryer
provided;upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet,
prefer grad student or professional; green-
space, parking, close to UF/downtown 1822
NW 10th St 352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
4BR/2Bath condo only two blocks from UF.
Rent includes all utilities, cable tv and inter-
net, pool, laundry room, bbq/picnic area, on
bus stop. Great deal at $1,500/mo. 352-378-
4626 / 262-4290. 10-1-09-11-2
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
1BR/1BA $550/mo. Unfurnished.Spring 2010
Walking distance to campus.1 Month Free.
Move in October 2009. Call 352-870-7947 or
e-mail jihyun@ufl.edu 9-21-09-5-3
Sublease available immediately
Free-first month rent
free furniture & household stuff over $500
At 2811 SW Archer Road, Brandywine
Apartment
call at 352-213-1448 for more discounts
9-22-5-3
alRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$415/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-24-09-25-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo, 1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
9-21-09-15-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4Female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. Washer
& dryer included. On bus route. Non-
smoking, serious students only. $450 plus
utilities. 813-610-1698 9-17-10-4
2BRs available for serious students, each
with private bath in completely remodeled,
fully furnished mobile home. 6 mins to UF -
Archer & 1-75. Very clean. $325/mo each +
1/2 utils. Call 352-256-0999 9-21-09-10-4
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 395/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930
9-21-09-5-4
BARGAIN Share furn T/H w/ UF U/G.
3BR/2.5Ba M-M lease. Screened pa-
tio.Pool.$200 or $300 for Lg. Upstairs.
CasaBlanca West. (786) 299-8626 or
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-23-09-6-4
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6lSbleasesF Real Estate
16, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
i Furnishings Bicycles Motorcycles, Mopeds Help Wanted Help Wanted
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
STACKED WASHER & DRYER1 yr old -4 yr warranty -$800. 352-486-3226
9-1 7-09-5-6
QUALITY MATTRESSES at GREAT prices!
FREE delivery available. Try out your new
bed, in our brand new, family owned & oper-
ated showroom, at 3741 W. University Ave.
Call 352-505-6551 for more information.
www.gatormattress.com 9-18-09-5-6
computers
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
09 Brand new 49cc gas motorized bicycle.
never used, must see to appreciate. Red w/
lots of extras, papers, $550 obo call 352-495-
0770 or email bobbytrek@yahoo.com 9-21-
09-5-9
IFor Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-21-10
WPtorCycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www BuLyMyScooter com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-112001 Suzuki MarauderVZ800. Well cared for,
good condition. 800cc, custom Cobra pipes,
15,500 miles. Jacket, new helmet, motorcy-
cle cover, and 3 heavy-duty locks included.
Original exhaust included. Asking $2500 or
best offer. Email UF1853@msn.com with
"Motorcycle" in subject. 9-21-4-11This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
Au 9os the independent f orida
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
1999 Volvo S-70 = $3,500. 95,000 miles,
Dark Blue, 4 door, leather, power windows/
locks, cruise, cd, all receipts since pur-
chased. Many recent new parts including
brakes, belt, and battery. 727-415-3993. ja-
cobfyda@gmail.com 9-21-09-3-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
9-30-09-10-12
WIWantedP
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243 .2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-25-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-25-09-74-13
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-13
SILENT PARTNERS and INVESTORS
Sought for Record Label,
Recording Studio, ( 10) Acts,
Hip Hop, R&B, Comedy, etc.
CD Sales, Concerts, Marketing!
CONTACT: 352-870-1892
9-18-09-5-13RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-30-09-20-
14
BOOKKEEPER/RECEPTION IST/
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 9-22-10-14
Embroidery Machine Operatorexperience
req.Design & produce emb designs & logos.
Knowledge of computers & digitizing pro-
grams. Able to stand for long periods of time.
call 352-226-8868 M-F 7AM-4PM 9-21-09-
8-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Babysitter/Childcare Needed in my SW home
M-F. 8 am- 5 pm.
Approx. 20 hours a week
Must have own transporation and references
$8/Hr. (352)494-8848 9-18-6-14
HOMEWORK COACH for 8th grade High
Springs Community School ESE student w/
special needs (ADHD). Sun. thru Thurs., 2 to
3 hours/afternoon & additional time as need-
ed for projects. Some driving req'd. $10.00/
Hr. Great opportunity for someone pursuing
degree in special education. Send resume to
terryl_42@yahoo.com 9-17-09-5-14
Sa -."CoprigtIed teial
Syndicated Content
Avilable from Commercial News Providers"
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
F Help Wanted Help Wanted services Health Services Entertainment
Childcare/mothers helper needed to
help care for infant twins
Next to SFCC, perfect for student!
M,W,F 9am-noon
352-256-3715 9-17-5-14
PT SWIM COACH
Afternoon & evening hours available. Call
Perrin Foerster 352-359-0160 or email
coachperrin@yahoo.com 9-17-09-5-14
A Cash Machine $1000 cash paid daily for
returning phone calls. Easy to do, no selling,
not mm, strong residuals.1-800 662 1961
ext. 8610 9-18-09-5-14
Seeking part time telemarketer for veterinary
division. Flexible schedule, $10/ hour, work
from home with company provided phone.
Please send resume to
michael.mumaw@pulevet.com 9-18-09-4-
14
Great student job!
Exciting opportunity
to work as a luxury sedan chauffeur.
Interested? Please send your resume to
Jeremy@FabulousCars.com.
9-22-09-6-14
FT Office Assistant/Executive Assistant with
heavy emphasis on mail duties. Experience
is required. Email resume to
Stephanie@holbrooktravel.com 9-22-09-
6-14
Interships available. No pay to start though
you may be able to help change that
with hard work. Flexible Hours. Business
Management, Accounting/Finance, Market-
ing, Communications, etc. Email:
cpledger@naybor.us for more details. 9-17-
2-14
Nanny needed after school for driving, home-
work help and fun. Three busy children: 16
(with special needs), 14 and 8. About 9 hours
per week, $12 per hour. Experience and ref-
erences a must. Respond to
macphaulkids @ bellsouth.net 9-17-09-2-
14
[MOST ANTE
Davis
Black Male
(DOB 1 2/25/75); 5'09",
250 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Cruelty to Animals,
Possession of Cocaine
and Possession of
Marijuana
ALACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPHOUSEKEEPER 12 HRS/WK.
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES.
RESPOND TO
housekeeper.clean@gmail.com
9-29-09-10-14
NANNY requested p/t M-F 1:30-4:30,
Wednesdays 12:30-4:30 until Mom & Dad
get home. Own transportation required, ref-
erences please. Great neighborhood.
505-4535. 9-24-09-7-14
FARAHS on the AVENUE
Now hiring cook & busser. PT only. Please
apply 1120 W. University Ave. 9-21-3-14
Babysitter needed in High Springs Area!Fri
and Sat.9:15 pm until 03:15 am.Kids will be
in bed prior to your arrival. Must have own
transportation,be reliableand have refs.
Please email babysitter replies@yahoo.com
9-23-5-14
M 1 ServieS
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrmgaol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
** GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-15
STRINGING -Best machines in town. Huge
selection of strings -Ready in 24 hrs or free.
The same day service available and/or 1
hour. It is the EZ Thing 372-2257 9-30-
17-15
*Splendid Image Hair Salon*
$25 shampoo & deep condition
$55 relaxer & conditioning w/ends clip
Call for appointment 373-9600 Mon-Thurs
9-17-09-5-15
For Thorough & Dependable cleaning of your
Home, Apartment or Office
Please call J&B Cleaning Services
at (352) 278-8571
9-22-09-7-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
Premed in Physics 2053?
Professional Exam Review. (Space limited.)
VegaPhysics.com
9-18-09-3-15
Oak Glade Apts Its about 2 mins away from
Archer Rd 1BR 1BA Monthly Rent is $515.00
Please contact me to make leasing arrange-
ments 352-262-1860 9-30-10-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-7-
15-15
JHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16
er Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
FREE OVERGRIP with any stringing. Free
can of balls with purchase $20+. Lowest
prices on everything we sell. Where? At EZ
Tennis 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order any squash racket, check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. If any store can go lower, EZ 10-s can
go lower 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order badminton rackets check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. Yes, we will match & beat any lower
price. 372-2257 9-30-17-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
EVICTIONS
Sharon Ruth, Esq.
352-494-8848
9-28-14-18
Free beer if Gators beat Tenn. at Lux Bar.
211 W. Univ. Ave. Starting one hour after
game until Keg is empty. Other specials.
theluxbar.com. 9-18-09-2-18
WJCOnnections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Secret Girlfriend for 39 blond male with a
carribean hook bracelet.Harry's between 2-3.
Mon. thru Friday. 9-18-5-19
Event Ntices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Bring any lower price u-find on any racket,
EZ Tennis will match & beat that price. And
yes, including e-bay buy it now. Please bring
the print-out. 372-2257 9-30-17-21
We're looking for Title -Town's Top Talent!
The Gaineeville Civic Chorus wants singers,
dancers, musicians, actors and magicians
to participate in a showcase for individuals
and ensembles. The show will take place on
Friday October 23 in the Oak Hall Auditorium
at 7pm. Prizes include a studio quality CD or
DVD and a television appearance.For details
on registration and auditions visit
www.gcchorus.org 9-22-09-5-21
I'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
l Tickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 9-30-09-
18-22
MF R ides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
WEZ eYs
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
W 1.Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: WATCH
In Tigert Hall parking lot very early on Fri
9/11. Call to idenify 273-2818 9-18-3-25
Sports THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Berry returns to The Swamp as anchor of Tennessee D
k IV 4 By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
- AAlligator Staff Writer
A : rmdiferdinando@alligator org
Tim Tebow has thrown 11 interceptions in his career.
Just one of those has been returned for a touchdown.
As a freshman in 2007, Tennessee safety Eric Berry picked
off a Tebow pass and returned it 96 yards for a score. It was
the third game of Berry's college career.
"I remember that play," Tebow said. "That was a good
play by him. And he made me miss (the tackle), too. That's
the worst part about it, to tell you the truth."
Florida still won the game 59-20, but Berry announced his
arrival as one of the nation's most talented defensive play-Syndicated C on tents ers. In 28 career games, the junior has racked up 171 tack-Sy d c e les, 12 interceptions and 487 interception
Available from Commercial News Providers" reuCrn ard 'jr reuhny frbsrakng
former FSU cornerback Terrell Buckley
S.from 1989-91.
"You have to be aware of his range and
his speed and athleticism," Tebow said.
"But it won't change anything we do."
Tebow The Volunteers (1-1) have a four-game
losing streak against the No.1 Gators (2-0)
and are coming off a 19-15 home loss to UCLA last week.
"We haven't proven ourselves," Berry told reporters in
a teleconference Tuesday. "We haven't done anything to
make anyone not put us (as underdogs). Until we do some-
thing about that, then maybe I can say something on that."
.UT defensive coordinator Monte Kiffin, 69, is the father
of the Tampa 2 defense, an adapted version of the Cover 2
defense that was made to fit the smaller, faster teams he had
with the Buccaneers in the NFL.
Kiffin has made Berry the center piece of the same
Tennessee safety Eric Berry (bottom) needs only 15 interception return yards to tie the NCAA record set by former FSU scheme with the Volunteers, a team with speed and power
cornerback Terrell Buckley (1989-91). SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 19
Revenge will come after halftimeIt's hard enough to get Urban Meyer or
any other member of the Florida football
team to say anything about Lane Kiffin or
his remarks let alone get them to say what
they plan on doing as retaliation for Kiffin's
offseason comments.
But we all know it's on the Gators' mind,
and Meyer certainly has not forgot being
called a cheater by Kiffin in February. Or
when Kiffin said he can't wait to sing Rocky
Top all night long after the Volunteers beat
the Gators this year when he was first intro-
duced as head coach at Tennessee.
For now though, all UF is worried about
is winning in its conference opener on Satur-
day.
However, once the Gators have a com-
manding lead heading into halftime, their
mindsets are going to change.Bobby Callovi
Bobby's World
bcallovi@aligator orgThe first half is go-
ing to be all business,
and UF will jump out
to a large lead -I'm
thinking somewhere in
the range of 35-3. The
second half is going to
be personal; it's going
to be about proving
point.
Meyer will send a message to other coach-
es saying if you plan on talking trash before
the game or trying to embarrass the Gators,
there will be consequences.
The most popular idea for Meyer to dis-
play his team's dominance over Tennessee is
by going out and dropping 100 points on the
Volunteers.
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 19UF nears end of road trip
.THE GATORS ARE IN THE
MIDST OF 25 DAYS WITHOUT A
HOME MATCH.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@aligator org
After the UF volleyball team edged
FSU in a five-set thriller on Aug. 31,
coach Mary Wise said she received
feedback from a number of fans saying
they couldn't wait to come back and
see another match in the O'Connell
Center.
Unfortunately for those in atten-
dance that night, they have had to
wait, and they'll have to hold out a
little while longer before the Gators
take the floor in the O'Dome again.
Since defeating FSU, No. 5 Florida
(6-1) has participated in tournaments
in Stockton, Calif., and Tampa and
won't return to its home court untilSept. 25. UF will travel the final leg of
its nearly month-long road trip this
weekend, playing at Ole Miss and
Arkansas to kick off the Southeastern
Conference season.
"All of us would like to play at
home every single match, but it's not
always going to happen that way,"
junior setter Brynja Rodgers said. "Be-
ing on the road really challenges us,
and that's something
every team needs, is
.N to learn how to play
without the fans."
The 25-day pe-Volleyball riod without a home
match is the Gators'
longest since the end of the 2003
season, when the eventual national
runners-up played in Columbia, S.C.,
Lexington, Ky., and even Puerto Rico
-but never Gainesville -from Nov.
9 to Dec. 4.
SEE VOLLEYBALL, PAGE 20
UF LACROSSE NEWS
E The Gators released their fall exhi-
bition schedule on Tuesday. UF will
participate in four tournaments and
a match against Duke in prepara-
tion for February's season opener.FORMER GATORS
U UF's winningest baseball coach Dave
Fuller passed away Tuesday at the age of
94. Fuller was at the helm from 1948-75
and finished with a record of 557-354-6. He
won SEC Coach of the Year three times.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE DIFERDINANDO
H A clip from an '80s Monday Night Football telecast is on the Internet where
Chris Collinsworth says: "I like girls that aren't too bright because you can trick
'em a little bit .high school girls love me. Fourteen to eighteen, I'm a big star
with them. As soon as they mature, after they turn 18 years old, they start to fig-
ure it out." Ironically, Collinsworth looks like Dazed and Confused's Wooderson.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Tennessee sponsors Heisman campaign
Haden: Berry
best defender
in country
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Junior cornerback Joe Haden told the media
Wednesday that he thinks the best defensive play-
er in the country will be wearing orange in The
Swamp on Saturday, but not blue.
Haden said Tennessee safety Eric Berry is the
best defender in the nation, even better than Florida
linebacker Brandon Spikes.
"I love Spikes to death, but I
love Eric's game," Haden said.
"When we watch film when
we're about to play other SEC
teams that he has played, I love
watching him."
Haden met Berry through the
Haden Gators' own junior safety MajorWright, who befriended Berry at
the 2007 U.S. Army All-American game.
Berry, who returned an interception 96 yards
for a touchdown last time the Volunteers were in
Gainesville, is Tennessee's second-leading tackler
through two games and recorded 12 interceptions
in his first two years at Tennessee.FOOTBALL, from page 18
Berry, the 2008 Southeastern Con-
ference defensive player of the year,
had 10 tackles last week and led a UT
defense that held the Bruins to just 186
yards of total offense and kept the Vol-
unteers within striking distance the
entire game.
"He's a really good football player,
so you want to know where he is," UF
offensive coordinator Steve Addazio
said. "But in the same breath, you've
got a play called right now. It kind of
is what it is. (But) obviously you have
a really good football player on that
BOBBY, from page 18
While UF might be able to manage to score 100, I don't
think Meyer wants to risk injury to his starters by leaving
them on the field too long.
Others want him to punish Nu'Keese Richardson for
switching his commitment from the Gators to the Volun-
teers on National Signing Day.
Sure, that will let future commits know that if they plan
on changing their minds they better choose a school that
will not appear on the Gators' schedule any time soon, but
that doesn't directly hurt Kiffin and that's what they want
to do.
He can always go back to saving his second-half tim-
eouts for late in the fourth quarter like he did against
Georgia last year in retaliation for Mark Richt sending
his entire team on the field to celebrate the Bulldogs' first
touchdown against UF in 2007.
But Meyer is all about adding wrinkles to his offense, so"The main thing is staying fo-
cused on our key and not get
too distracted by play fakes
or guards pulling."
Eric Berry
Tennessee safety
field you have to account for."
Berry, nicknamed "The Fifth Di-
mension" by Volunteers fans, was a
consensus first-team All-American in
2008 and is a dark horse Heisman Tro-
phy candidate this year.
UT has invested $10,000 in pro-
fans can expect a new comeback to add to his repertoire.
Even though Meyer will want to prove a point, he
wants to win more and won't let his bitterness towards
Kiffin prevent him from winning, which is why you will
have to stay until the second half to see his revenge.
It will be something that he can pass off as part of the
game plan like using the timeouts against Georgia, which
he said afterwards was to give Emmanuel Moody some
more carries.
So when the Gators get that 30- or 40-point lead late in
third quarter, Meyer will put on his "I'm the bigger man"
act and take out his starters.
It says to Kiffin, "It is not worth my time to listen to
what you say," yet it also puts Tennessee in the same cat-
egory as Charleston Southern and Troy: A second-rate
team that makes good game practice for UF's backups.
The game should be decided by halftime, but the sec-
ond half will still be worth watching just to see what Mey-
er chooses to do as his retaliation.
tea
EL COX Bundle'm
Phone Internet TV
get the
Dane Cook 1/09 A r niPhone app!
for other phones
text DANE to 58888* Tlpoesriepoieb o~od~lodP009o omnctosIcAlihsrsre"Our lives are simplified with our phone, Internet and cable on one, easy
"Ou lie r implified with ourponItre adcabl onoeay
bill -saving us money!"
With the Cox Bundle, you can enjoy a better-than-normal, productive life.
Side effects of the Cox Cure are immediate and may lead to longer conversations
with friends and family, lower rates and faster Internet connections & downloads.
Plus, hi-def TV on your schedule with DVR and On Demand.
tSide effects vary by subscription & usage. Please use excessively.
WWW.COX.COM
1-866-961-1102mating Berry this season, and for the
first time since Peyton Manning was a
senior in 1997, the school is sponsor-
ing a full-fledged Heisman campaign.
But despite his big-play ability, Berry
said he won't try and do it all himself
when the Volunteers make the trip to
The Swamp on Saturday.
"The main thing is staying focused
on our key and not get too distracted
by play fakes or guards pulling," Berry
said. "I have a certain role in this de-
fense, and that's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to play within my role .
I'm not going to put this team in jeop-
ardy."
Support the Red
Cross Services to
Armed Forces and
change a life,
starting with your
own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
Jessica is there for Tom's That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for our country. American
T Red Cross
20, ALLIGATOR E THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2009
Mallet looks to stay hot vs UGA
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
UF senior Tim Tebow's 197.95
quarterback rating is more than 20
points above his career average,
which is the highest for any signal
caller in the history of the Southeast-
ern Conference.
Arkansas redshirt sophomore
quarterback Ryan Mallet will do his
best to keep his one-game, 210.25 ca-
reer SEC efficiency above Tebow's
against Georgia in Fayetteville on Sat-
urday.
Mallet, who started three games at
Michigan as a freshman, transferred
to Arkansas after former West Virgin-
ia coach Rich Rodriguez brought his
spread offense to Ann Arbor.
The 6-foot-7 quarter-
back sat out last season
A= and made his first start
as a Razorback against
Missouri State on Sept 5.
Mallet flourished in coach Bobby
Petrino's pass-heavy system, com-
pleting 17 of 22 attempts for 309 yards
and a touchdown.
Petrino commended Mallet, who
came to Arkansas weighing more
than 260 pounds, for dropping to
238 pounds and feels that Mallet has
a chance to become one of the best
quarterbacks who has ever played in
his system.
"I've never coached a guy this tall
before and that has the arm strength
that he has," Petrino said. "I've been
happy with his progress."
EVERYBODYS A CRITIC: Tennessee
coach Lane Kiffin and Georgia coach
Mark Richt commented on the heat
their respective quarterbacks, Jona-
than Crompton and Joe Cox, have
taken early on in the season.
Crompton threw three intercep-
tions in a loss to UCLA on Saturday,
and Cox has posted a 126.65 quar-
terback rating through his first two
games. Both of their teams are 1-1 on
the season.
Kiffin and Richt said they don't
believe quarterbacks, or players in
general, face any more criticism now
than they did 10 or 15 years ago, but
conceded that the Internet makes ite~1
Copyrighted Material
~~Syndcated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
A00
Arkansas coach Bobby Petrino thinks quarterback Ryan Mallett could
become one of the best quarterbacks to ever play in his system.
much easier for people to make their
opinions heard.
"You really don't have a lot of
times to read those things," Richt said.
"Now, I'm sure he's got people who
say, 'Hey Joe, did you hear about this
or that?' But it is pretty easy in season
to focus on the important things if you
choose to. Now, if you want to get on-
line and start reading that stuff, you
can really mess yourself up."
M UCH-N E E DE D R EST: Ole Miss coachHouston Nutt said the vast majority
of his 31 players who suffered from
flu-like symptoms before the Sept. 6
meeting with Memphis are back to
100 percent.
The Rebels, who were off last
week, play Southeastern Louisiana
on Saturday and Nutt said his team
used its 13 off days to work on getting
healthy and conditioning.
Among those affected by the flu
were quarterback Jevan Snead and
star wide receiver Dexter McCluster.
All of Florida's 2008 losses came away from home
VOLLEYBALL, from page 18
All of Florida's losses last season were away from home
-one during nonconference play, two in the SEC season
and one in the NCAA Tournament -and UF's only defeat
this season came at a neutral site against No. 3 Washington
last weekend in Tampa.
"You have to embrace the fact that other
fans are there literally cheering against you."
Brynja Rodgers
UFjunior setter
Sophomore setter Kelly Murphy said the Gators can't
afford any letdowns on the road, as it seems they draw
their opponents' best performances and toughest crowds
wherever they play.
To describe the intense competition UF faces on the
road every season, Wise referred to her squad as a "band
team.""There would be teams that normally don't have a band
at their home matches. They will when Florida shows up,"
Wise said. "All promotions, all efforts go into having the
best crowd when Florida comes to town."
UF has already had to deal with harsh crowds and a
similar atmosphere this season against Pacific and South
Florida, but the Gators fed off the opposing fans' energy
and came away with wins in both matches.
"You have to embrace the fact that other fans are there
literally cheering against you," Rodgers said. "As an ath-
lete, it kind of provides a little bit of motivation. It's always
fun to go on a point rally, and the crowd has to be quiet
and sit in their seats for a little while."
Though it is convenient to be playing at UF and not
having to disrupt the players' class schedules or the team's
practice routine, the substantial amount of time spent in
transit provides an opportunity for the team to bond and
develop chemistry off the court.
"We spend a lot of time on the bus, so that helps, espe-
cially with new freshmen when we try to mix them in,"
Murphy said. "It definitely makes us a lot closer spending
like six hours on the bus every weekend."
