.%0the independent florida
of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
We Inform. You Decide.-0
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
New fee brings big price jump for prepaid
U COST JUMPED $13,400. It increased from about $4,600 versities' tuition until it reaches Bill Edmonds, spokesman for He said students with prepaid
in 2008 to about $20,000 in 2009, the national average. the Florida Board of Governors, plans purchased on or before Jan.
according to Susan James, the di- The legislation said the legislature raised tuition 31, 2007 do not have to pay the
By CAROLYN TILLO rector of external affairs for the State allows state univer- by 8 percent. Likewise, Florida's differential tuition fee.
Alligator Writer Florida Prepaid College Board. News sities to increase the 11 state universities mandated a Bright Futures covers tuition
Jones wrote in an e-mail that total of their tuition 7 percent tuition differential fee, but not the tuition differential, he
Florida Prepaid's tuition dif- the increase in the plan stems and tuition differential fees by which brings in money for hir- said.
ferential fee plan has raised its from the Florida Legislature's up to 15 percent each year, she ing new professors and creating
price for newborns. efforts to boost Florida state uni- wrote. smaller classes. SEE PREPAID, PAGE 5
STATE
Costumed locals
march against
nuclear plant
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
A three-headed pink flamingo, a witch and a fish were
among about 35 protesters who marched Wednesday in
downtown Gainesville to protest the proposed $14 billion
nuclear power plant about 50 miles from Gainesville in Levy
County.
The marchers were members of Sustainable Urban and
Rural Florida(SURF), a community group that favors using
alternative energy sources and opposes the plant's construc-
tion. They donned costumes as part of a "Nukes are Mon-
strous!" parade.
Accompanied by music from the Gainesville Radical
Ruckus Marching Band, the marchers paraded around the
Bo Diddley Community Plaza and walked through the
Farmers Market to the post office on Southeast First Avenue.
They dropped a handful of letters addressed to Progress En-
ergy and state representatives into a mailbox, with messages
encouraging them to rethink plans for the power plant.
Christian Hansen danced along with the group in his
pink flamingo costume. Hansen said his costume had three
heads because nuclear waste leaked into the estuary where
the flamingo fed.
He said nuclear waste works its way up the food chain
and creates health hazards, but power companies and nu-
clear regulation committees continue to push off these prob-
SEE PARADE, PAGE 4Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Zombie Attack!
Skyler Kern, vice president of Theatre Strike Force, shouts as he runs away from other members limping
along as zombies on the north lawn during a flash mob, which took the group from the Reitz Union to Li-
brary West Wednesday afternoon. For a video and story about the flashmob, visit www.alligator.org.
Emergency text problems prompt second attempt
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@a l1igator o rg
Better. But not there yet.
UF said it will conduct another test of its
emergency messaging system soon -per-haps today -after problems plagued its test between 20 and 30 minutes later.
Wednesday. UF spokesman
The 65,000 students and employees who U F Steve Orlando said
are signed up for the service were supposed to Administration a glitch in the system
receive text messages a few minutes after they caused a 15-minute
were sent out around noon, but most students delay in getting the messages out.
surveyed for the article reported getting them Orlando said the company in charge of theservice, ConnectED, has reportedly fixed the
problem and wants to conduct another test.
In addition to texts, UF sent out emergency
e-mails, but another glitch caused two e-mails
to be sent out instead of one, slowing both
messages down a bit, he said.
SEE TEXT, PAGE 5
.The Fest 8, this weekend's punk festival in
Gainesville, features 200+ bands playing in
15 venues over 3 days. While this can feel
daunting, Alligator On line has you covered
with band reviews, suggested schedules,
interviews and tips on getting tickets. For
coverage from now until Sunday evening,
visit alligator.org/blogs/festT today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12 Thunder
CROSSWORD 15 storms
SPORTS 17 88/69
visit www.alligator.orgNot officially associated with the University
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 48
0 UF cornerback
Joe Haden said
the key to stopping
Georgia is to shut
down wide receiver
A.J. Green (right),
the SEC's leading
receiver. Green had
five catches for 91
yards vs. UF in 08.
See Story, Page 17.ele
y
--
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Kaleidoscope Month presents
Mr. and Mrs. AASU Pageant
Today
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Kaleidoscope Month is a celebra-
tion of Asian-American aware-
ness through events and forums.
The pageant will showcase many
hidden talents and aspects of the
culture. Come learn about a dif-
ferent culture and its traditions.
InternationalMedical Outreach's
Skate Station Fundraiser
Today, 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Skate Station Funworks,
1311 NW 76th Blvd.
Help us help others. Skating,
skating equipment rentals, a full
arcade and use of batting cages is
$10. All money raised will go to-
ward funding a medical mission
trip this spring break to Peru.
Pre-Fest Show
Today, 5 p.m.
1982 Music Venue
Kick off your Fest weekend
at 1982. Come out and see
Young Livers, Bridge & Tunnel,
Landmines, 0 Pioneers!!!, North
Lincoln and more. Doors open at
5 p.m.
"Contradictions of Islam and
Secularism in Turkey"
Today, 7 p.m.
Pugh Hall Ocora
Talk by Jenny White of Boston
University for the Center for
European Studies series titled
"Turkey & the West." Turkey is
a radically secularist state with a
long history of rule by a military
and industrial elite. The Muslim
government has been aligning
Turkey's laws to those of the
European Union as part of its
intensive campaign to gain mem-
bership.
Thriller Night: Michael Jackson
Dance Tribute
Today, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Southwest Recreation Center,
Basketball Court 4
Group Fitness is presenting its
second annual Thriller Night.
Come out and enjoy the music
of Michael Jackson while learn-
ing dances to his hit songs. Prizes
will be given in the categories of
Best Dancer, Most Enthusiasm
and Moves Most Like Michael.
Gators for HIV
Education(GHIVE)
H.O.T. Party
Today, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Offering free HIV testing in a
more intimate setting, you will
have a chance to meet and greet
new people at a fun social gath-
ering. This month's party is
Halloween-themed and a prize
for the best dressed will be up
for grabs. There will be free food
and games. Space is limited to the
first 25 guests, so please RSVP by
sending an e-mail to ghivevp@
yahoo.com for more details.
Advo-Cats general meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
Vet School, Lecture Hall BFORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/69FRIDAY
RAIN
85/66
The purpose of Advo-Cats is to
provide students from all as-
pects of UF a way to positively
influence the lives of animals
through philanthropy efforts in
the Gainesville community.
RUB Entertainment Presents:
"True Blood" Marathon
Today, 8 p.m.
Orange & Brew
Craving some blood? Come
enjoy the free screening of two
episodes of HBO's monster hit
"True Blood" part of RUB's
Halloween Bloodsucker's Bash.
You must be 18 or older to at-
tend due to mature content.
Visit www.union.ufl.edu/rub
for more info.
RUB Entertainment presents:
Vampire Movie Marathon
Today, 8 p.m.
Reitz Union Auditorium
Put on those fangs as RUB's
vampire movie week continues
with "Nosferatu: A Symphony
of Horror" and "Interview with
a Vampire." The event is free.
For more information, check
us out on Facebook or www.
union.ufl.edu/rub.
Zombie Scavenger Hunt
Friday, 7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.
O'Connell Center Parking Lot
Want to celebrate Halloween
and get good karma? Come
join the Neuroscience Club for
a scavenger hunt that's for a
good cause. It costs $5 to par-
ticipate, and all proceeds will
go to the Gainesville/north
central Florida chapter of the
National Alliance for Mental
Illness. Prizes will be given to
the first two teams to finish, as
well as the best dressed person.
Register at neuroscienceclub@
gmail.com, please include your
name and number.
Florida Education Association
Meeting
Tuesday, 7p.m.
Terrace Room
FEA will be hosting an Arts
in the Classroom workshop.
Those who attend will learn
fun activities that incorporate
dance, drama, art, music and
cooking into their curriculum.
There will be food and fun give-
aways. Contact Laura Roberts
at laura.roberts@ufl.edu with
any questions.
Engineers Without Borders
general body meeting
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
RNK Room 110
There will be updates on the
group's international projects
plus some great ways to get in-
volved with local and research
projects and our exciting fund-SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/66SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
79/57MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/56
raising committee. All majors are
welcome.
Taco Dinner
Tuesday, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Campus Christian House
All you can eat for $5 for pre-
sold tickets and $7 at the door.
The event is hosted by Project
MASCOT, a mentoring group
for at-risk elementary school stu-
dents.
RUB Entertainment presents:
comedian Lachlan Patterson
Tuesday, 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Orange & Brew
Stressed from all your exams and
classes? Come out for a good
laugh. Patterson has performed
on Comedy Central's "Live at
Gotham."
Golden Key General Meeting
Wednesday, 6:45 p.m.
This is the last general meeting
before the induction ceremo-
ny, so come out to learn why
Golden Key is the world's most
prestigious honor society. Come
learn about our service and char-
ity projects with free pizza and
soda. Please send an e-mail to aa-
gazarm@ufl.edu if you have any
questions.
African Student Union Pageant
Nov. 5, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
There will be lots of free food so
don't miss out. Penny voting for
each contestant will be from Oct.
26 to Nov. 5.
Gator Society for Human
Resource Management infor-
mation session
Nov. 9,6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Career Resource Center Library
GatorSHRM is a new student or-
ganization for human resources
offering networking, leadership,
volunteer and resume-building
opportunities. Students from all
majors are encouraged to attend
the information session. Free
refreshments. Please RSVP at
GatorSHRM@gmail.com. Learn
more about HR at shrm.org.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this space?
Send an e-mail to bkelley@alliga-
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please include
a one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event. Make sure all sub-
missions are formatted properly.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 48 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Flonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Managing
Assist
Assist
alligator
Assis
tEditor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligatororg
ging Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
g Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
ant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligatororg
ant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator org
Sports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
tant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
he Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, Samantha Owen,
Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSI NESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Commissioners, student groups promote politics on plaza
By BRANDON BRESLOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jacob Smith, president of
UF's Students for Change, spent
Wednesday morning under a tree
discussing health care.
A few yards away, Johnathan
Lott attempted to recruit students
to join the UF College Republi-
cans.
In the center of the Plaza of the
Americas, city and county commis-
sioners endured the heat to speak
with students
Student about local gov-Government ernment.
The event,
Student Government's Politics on
the Plaza, aimed to help students
become politically involved.
Representatives from 25 UF
organizations attended the event,
some with conflicting beliefs, but
all with the same goal of increas-
ing political participation.
Lott, vice chairman of the UF
College Republicans, tried to at-
tract people to the organization's
meetings.
"We want students who are in-
volved to help us out with events
and discuss their ideas with us,"
he said.
Members of the UF College
Democrats, Students for Change
and Students for the Preservation
of Freedom gave students sugges-tions about getting involved in the
health care debate, whether they
support the public option or not.
Gators for a Sustainable Cam-pus and UF's chapters of Amnesty
International and ONE also had
representatives at the event.
"I wouldn't have known aboutall of these organizations if they
weren't together at one time," said
Rahkiah Brown, an English senior.
Alachua County commission-
Juliana jimenez/ Alligator start
John Bryan, a UF freshman, tries to guess what country a flag represents at UF's Model United Nations
table during Politics on the Plaza on Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas.ers Lee Pinkoson, Rodney J. Long
and Paula DeLaney cleared up
common misconceptions about lo-
cal government and explained to
students why they should be in-
volved.
"It may not be as sexy as the
federal government, but noth-
ing pertains to the people here
more than the local government,"
Pinkoson said.
DeLaney explained zoning us-
ing a jigsaw puzzle and discussed
the importance of taxes in Alachua
County.
"I love being invited to speak
with UF students because I get to
explain what they get in return for
the money they spend locally," she
said.
Gainesville City Commissioner
Craig Lowe discussed his cam-
paign for mayor and the local elec-
tion in March.
Lowe told students to make
sure they are registered to vote in
Alachua County.
"Many students think that they
don't need to register with their lo-
cal addresses because they're only
going to be here for a few years,"
he said. "But I tell them to think of
it in terms of voting on behalf of
those after them."
The Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections and Chomp the
Vote registered people to vote and
gave out change of address forms.
Pro Skill Drills -Pool & Billiards Magazine
The Pro Skill Drills Boot Camp
"TH DRILL INSTRUCTOR"
IN THE
REITZ UNION GAME BOOM
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29
7PM-l 1PM
Entertaining Billiard Demonstration
Trick Shots,
ctor Learn to master the playing basics,
Dominic Esposito Play Beat the Pro to win prizes,
Pool & Bi&iard Magazine Session,
Recognized "Top 20 Instructors" Q & A S s in
Auhr: Pr Skl Di bok & D 's
Creator: The Jester "Aiming" jump cue stickPhotos and Autoaraphs
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
High school entrepreneurs pitch proposals at Santa Fe
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alexis Oliver is the kind of person who
looks at a bottle cap and thinks of jewelry.
The 16-year-old Buchholz High School stu-
dent dreams of turning her fashion-conscious
approach to recycling into a flourishing busi-
ness where she can take old clothes, add newmaterials and create one-of-a-kind garments. brings together Santa Fe College's Center for
She stood in front a panel of representa- Innovation and Economic Development and
lives from local businesses Wednesday night local private equity firm Ener-
to pitch this idea with a PowerPoint presen- gent Ventures.
tation and a confident smile. "I think I have a Local Six students, with one team
really different idea," she said. News of two, brought five business
Oliver, along with six other Buchholz proposals to the downtown
students, took part in the inaugural venture center in hopes of securing $500, training and
of Growing Entrepreneurs, a program that mentorship to get their businesses going.The students are in the Academy of Entre-
preneurship, a magnet program at Buchholz.
The program seeks to foster an entrepre-
neurial spirit in Gainesville area students, a
spirit that Dug Jones, Santa Fe's assistant vice
president for economic development, says is
already prevalent in the city.
"This is the right kind of place for an inno-
vation community," Jones said.
(e
VcPProtesters marched to the post
office, mailed letters to officials
She said she supports conservingPARADE, from page I energy and finding alternative energy
sources.
lems. But Cherie Jacobs, Progress Energy
Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
Dressed in Halloween costumes, Roadha Hall, center, Anaya Kelly, far left, Sophie Schwartz, left,
march with members of the Sustainable Urban and Rural Florida group in a protest at the Bo
Diddley Community Plaza Wednesday against plans to build a nuclear facility in Levy County.
IV"For 40 years they've been saying,
'Oh, by the time these plants get decom-
missioned, we'll solve this problem,"'
Hansen said. "They haven't."
Jack Davis, an associate professor of
history at UF, saw the protesters march-
ing. He said the proposition to build the
plant emphasizes that the state has no
sense of social responsibility.
"My 4-year-old daughter over here
is the one that's going to have to pay for
the mess they're gonna make," Davis
said.
Woody Blue, who held a sign saying
"Nuclear Energy Vampires Suck Our
Money and Never Die," said she has
been fighting nuclear power since the
1980s.
"Now we're back in the same old
place," Blue said. "We're still dealing
with the same old problems and doing
the same old things."spokeswoman, emphasized the benefits
of nuclear energy.
"For 40 years they've been
saying, 'Oh, by the time these
plants get decommissioned,
we'll solve this problem.' They
haven't."
Christian Hansen
protester
"Nuclear power has no greenhouse
gas emissions and it's one of the most
environmentally friendly to produce
electricity," Jacobs said.
She said Progress Energy also relies
on coal, oil and natural gas for power.
Jacobs said the plant would be fund-
ed by a combination of stocks, bonds
and cash flow from customers.
4
at7 1
a
@ a [PA
*THE FIRST 1,000 FANS AT THE MATCH WILL RECEIVE A FREE T-SHIRT!
* THE FIRST 250 UF STUDENTS WITH A VALID CATOR1WILL RECEIVE FREE
PIZZA AT HALFTIME!
*PRIZES WILL BE RAFFLED OFF TO UF STUDENTS, INCLUDING $250 CASH!
JAMES 6. PRESSLY STADIUM
ADMISSION 15 F RE E! 0VerIZ~fnwireless
Sake Cafe opens
on Archer Road
By ASHLYN POWELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville is feeding its
appetite for Japanese cuisine
with the opening of another
sushi restaurant.
Sake Caf6 opened on Oct.
22 on Archer Road. Despite
being the new kid in town
amid an economic recession,
business is booming, said
general manager Mark Nev-
ins.
"Business has been a lot
better than I thought it would
be," he said. "From noon un-
til 1:30 p.m., it is crowded
from the lunch rush."
The new restaurant facescompetition from similar
businesses nearby such as
Rolls 'n Bowls and Sushi
Matsuri Japanese Restaurant,
both of which are located
less than a mile
Local away from Sake
News Caf6.
To separate
itself from the competition,
Sake Caf6 infuses different
cuisines, Nevins said.
"We offer Japanese food
and we are also going to have
a Chinese menu," he said.
"People can get the best of
both worlds."
Sake Caf6 is located at
3100 Archer Road and is open
from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Florida tuition still among lowest in US
PREPAID, from page 1
UF freshman Ajla Fatkic has a
Florida Prepaid plan. She moved
to the U.S. from Bosnia when she
was 4 years old. She said her dad
knew tuition would increase but
wanted her to go to college.
"His biggest thing was he
wanted his kids to have the
American dream," Fatkic said.
She questioned whether the
increase in the plan was worthRuth Harris, the associate
controller for University Finan-
cial Services, said she does not
think the plan's increase in price
will deter many families from
purchasing prepaid plans. She
said families that want to pur-
chase the plans and have the
ability to do so will continue to
participate in the program.
"The beauty of this whole
thing is you're still paying to-day's costs for tomorrow's pric-
es," Harris said.
She said some families may
find it harder to afford the plan
after the increase, especially giv-
en the state of the economy.
However, Harris said UF re-
mains a low-cost institution.
Edmonds agreed. He said UF
still has the third-lowest tuition
and fees in the country, with
only Wyoming and Louisiana
charging less.
Texts previously delivered in under 6 minutes
TEXT, from page 1
Students surveyed for the article generally reported
getting the e-mails much earlier than the texts.
Even though the company has overseen two unsat-
isfactory tests so far, Orlando said UF is still willing to
give the company a chance.
"There's certainly got to be some point at which we
say, 'OK, this is not working out,"' he said. "I don't
think we're there yet."
In the last test of the system in August, it took more
than an hour for some people to get texts.
That was the first test with ConnectED, which has a
$33,000-a-year contract with UF.In tests with previous providers, messages were
sent out in less than six minutes, according to Kenneth
Allen, UF's emergency manage-
ment coordinator.
That doesn't include the time it
took the messages to reach individ-
, ual phones, however.
That process can add a little
more time, Allen said, and varies
among cell phone carriers.
Orlando Jonathan Tillett, a UF computer
engineering junior who received
his text at 12:23 p.m., said he was disappointed with
Wednesday's test run.
OATOR SWIMMING + UIVIN6
V0. EORCIA
Sa l i Jaciso IN ie FL FRIDAY, OCrOBER 30 @ 1 PM
(et the I
N(gohi-N
t
atest oi"ill (I dreso s froi 1 T 0a
li, 3ll(d fil ll~l* e)rfec1 accessories to
off volti. School Spirit "If Ol JI\ ".
l20c3ited if] S'ail l"lrco sq11arIe, ju1st 11p) the river
trOlli the stli 11111, 01- VIA] calories Irilia Turk<,
11('11, Sevell, .Jov ,S, Tibi, AlillyN, 3-l.aild
anlothers.
Co1me( visit its while Noiire ill town 1f1 the
big goalie. G(o (iAI)OIS!
1988 San Alarco lloiileNvni 904.346. 1900O'CONNELL CENTER CATE 2 -ADMISSION is FREE
WILLB?99"A1 0
OATORZONECOM
uF Mmrd o! Dime), -c eriv- Councl ProudlyPe
61h Annual
gators march for babies
UF
in support of the march of dimes
Register, Raise Money and
Join Us to Help Save Babies!
www.gatorsmarchforbabies.org
TURLINGTON PLAZA
REGISTRATION 1:00 PM
KICK-OFF 2:00 PM
AWARDS 3:00 PM
FOUnding Support ,r -WITH SUPPORT FROM
The Coller Companics r i" -1-A-TEas easy as
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252
Gerard donated in his
mother's name.
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
AmericanRed Cross( I 14 ~
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
Editorial
Closed Doors
AGH closure is
good business, bad callHands HealthCare is closing the doors at AGH on Nov.
1, citing persistent financial losses and the weakened
economy. In recent years, these annual losses have
climbed to more than $12 million.
Even with the impending closure, the Shands at AGH
Web site still reads: "People throughout the region count
on Shands AGH for their families' healthcare." This is
true; many of the low-income residents of east Gainesville
rely on charity-care services offered by AGH.
All told, the Shands HealthCare System provided more
than $115 million of charity care in 2008. While this is ad-
mirable, Shands is cutting off access to those in need by
moving many charity services out of the area.
A clear sign of how desperately east Gainesville re-
quires additional health care facilities -not fewer -is
the 2008 Alachua County Health Report Card. The east
Gainesville area scored lowest in almost every category,
spanning health, education and income.
When looking at STD rates among this population, the
statistics are shocking. Compared to people in neighbor-
ing areas, those in east Gainesville are more than three
times as likely to have sexually transmitted infections, and
almost four times as likely to have HIV.
This area also claims the lowest birth weights and high-
est infant mortality rate, four times higher here than in
other areas of Gainesville.
By losing maternity and obstetric services to the Shands
facilities on Archer Road, many will find it increasingly
difficult to get "early and regular care," which the Shands
Web site says is "essential to ensure a healthy pregnan-
cy. 1
This care may be essential, but unfortunately it is un-
profitable.
Shands CEO Timothy Goldfarb has said closing AGH
was a business decision, albeit a difficult one. AGH must
close to prevent future deficits for Shands.
Not-so-coincidentally, the same day that AGH closes,
Shands Cancer Hospital will open its doors. Cancer treat-
ment is expensive and highly lucrative, especially when
compared to providing basic health care services to low-
income neighborhoods.
Hats off to Gainesville's finest businessman.
But for the roughly 54,000 residents of east Gainesville,
this difficult business decision will have sweeping con-
sequences. Rates of treatable STDs, infant mortality and
homicide deaths (also higher here than anywhere else in
Gainesville) will increase as east Gainesville's intensive
care unit disappears.
Depriving this community of basic services will hinder
economic growth, encourage crime and hurt the city as a
whole.
While a wave of violent crime (and subsequent hospi-
talizations) might provide a short-term boon for Mr. Gold-
farb's bottom line, in the long run, Shands, UF and the city
will benefit from a healthier population and stable neigh-
borhoods.
Accomplishing this with dwindling resources will be
a challenge, but hopefully Mr. Goldfarb will see value in
redirecting some of the tens of millions in "savings" from
AGH's closing back into the community.
Because at some point, health care for those in need
must take precedence over earnings.
OK, we know that last part was a long shot. But at the
very least, we hope that the health of all Gainesville resi-
dents will factor a little more into Mr. Goldfarb's difficult
business decisions.
Ilthe independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Will Olsen
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must includethe
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
SMK
Column
'Halloween ain't w
alloween evolves for each of us as we go through
life more than perhaps any other holiday.
Thanksgiving is always about food, family and
football, and how one celebrates Christmas as a child
usually has lifelong repercussions on your religious or
commercial meaning for the holiday.
Halloween, though, naturally changes with us as we
age. Most of us start with a candy-based orgy of con-
cealed identity that transmits a host of antisocial be-
havioral patterns. Once our unannounced demands for
processed sugar become socially unacceptable due to
the inherent ageism of the costume industrial complex,
Halloween becomes much more focused on alcohol con-
sumption and the myriad ways an absurdly short skirt
connotes "naughtiness."
This year Halloween switched it all up on us. Hallow-
een itself changed so rapidly in 2009 that hardly anyone
even noticed -until it was much too late. The final nail
in the proverbial coffin was this week's showing of "It's
the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown" on ABC. The car-
toon usually evokes a great deal of emotion and nostal-
gia in me, and just as the gauzy strains of memory were
falling gently onto my conscious mind, I was jarred back
into our sell-out reality when Charlie began pimping for
a new Disney cartoon.
Disney owns ABC and I am not surprised by the
synergistic ploy, but they kept showing these Charlie
Brown promos and digging the knife ever deeper. I al-
most killed my TV when Charlie Brown used the word
"homies" when referring to a pair of digital elves. It was
like watching Snoopy raped and placed bleeding on a
medieval torture rack by a fiendishly grinning Mickey
Mouse.ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
''WIN 412AAINS WMZIIJ $PAtUM
FLASH M08 FOR
LlA IT VARCE
V/0U S EL L 1<
I COULD REALLY,-/,< E--r DNEFO
myCONE POS
XA10
hat it used to be'
Vampires, once a staple of
October, now dominate pop
culture year-round. While I e
vampire soft porn as much as
next American, we have to be
turally aware in these politic
Tommy Maple correct times and understand
letters@alligatororg slutty vampires were a scourg
out most of the latelate
ular
'joy
the
cul-
ally
that
e of
Eastern European society through-
1400s. It was acceptable when the
pale makeup and macabre mini were only pulled out of
the closet once a year, but now we live in an echo cham-
ber of vampire sexuality.
Leprechauns, too, now hold an elevated place in our
everyday world. Their single-minded investment strat-
egy has these miniature Rockefellers extremely well-po-
sitioned in our interconnected global society. Rainbows
may be pretty, but every time you make a wish on one
you fund a new mall kiosk or radio commercial touting
Cash 4 Gold. If you are afraid of our insane national debt
to the Chinese, just wait until the Leprechaun Nation
rises up (to waist level) and starts pushing us around.
UF's own King of the Leprechauns Bernie Machen has
tried to spoil Halloween for Gators by outlawing fun-size
candies and all candy wrapped in school colors. Unlike
the rest of his leprechaun brethren, Machen isn't evil. He
is simply following the other new American tradition of
making Halloween the pansiest holiday on the calendar.
Next time you see a slut vampire or hear Charlie
Brown call someone his homie, just remember -Hal-
loween ain't what it used to be.
Tommy Maple is a graduate student in international
communications. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Do you think
AGH should have been closed?Wednesday's question: Should the 19% YES
city enforce a holiday meal limit? 81% NO
70 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Editorial misrepresents ordinance
The Alligator has vented its outrage
over the city adhering to its 130-meals
limit for St. Francis House; now for
some facts.
The city ordinance does not lim-
it the number of people St. Francis
House can feed. It simply limits the
number of meals that can be handed
out on the St. Francis House property.
There are many other spaces that I'm
sure the city would support via special
permit, perhaps as close as the Court-
house parking lot on the corner oppo-
site St. Francis house.
I'm not sure where the idea that
being poor, homeless and/or hungry
trumps public safety, property own-
ers' rights and the enforcing of laws
and ordinances.
The government is responsible for
helping and protecting all the people,
not just the select few who are most
vocal.
If the issue involved enforcing oth-
er ordinances, such as those protecting
the Alligator distribution boxes from
damage and theft, the Editorial Board
would have a slant far different from
"Whose property rights is the commis-
sion concerned about?"
When Thanksgiving and Christmas
come, I wonder where the outraged
Alligator editorialists and cartoonists
will be: Helping (anywhere) to feed
and care for the homeless and hun-
gry, or sitting down to their nice, safe,
warm, bountiful tables?
Jim Austin
Gainesville resident
Home Depot to 'rot in hell'
I read your editiorial about the
Okeechobee man fired from Home De-pot for wearing his patriotic/religious
pin. I can't believe it.
I called Home Depot to say how
outraged I am and that I will not shop
at their stores anymore.
In the scheme of life, it is ridiculous
to fire someone over something so
mundane. They accept our dollar bills
that say "In God We Trust." They are
going to rot in hell for being so mean-
spirited.
I thank you for that article. I really
had to call the home office to see if the
article was true because I was so out-
raged.
Josephine Gebhardt
Rochester, N.Y Resident
U U U
Editorial Board misses point
Should a Home Depot employee
be allowed to wear a button reading,
"One nation under God"? This is the
wrong question to ask. By claiming
that Trevor Keezor's button didn't
have a "patently offensive phrase" be-
cause it's a quote from the Pledge of
Allegiance, the Editorial Board misses
the point.
Requiring citizens to pledge al-
legiance to a nation "under God" of-
fends the principles upon which our
country was founded. Those two
words weren't in the original pledge
from 1892 but were added during the
Red Scare of the early 1950s, when the
officially atheist Soviet Union became
a threat to national security.
Since then, our political climate has
improved, and so should our mindset
toward our fellow Americans who
exercise their right not to believe in
gods.
Jordon Kalilich
3EG-Copyrighted Matepal
-Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersflA
Guest column
Nation still devoted to consuming
may or may not be the vegan mentioned inWednesday's column, "Being eco-friendly isn't
always easy." Regardless, I think to view the
carbon footprint exercise as a demonstration of the
futility of lifestyle choices is way off the mark.
I found my own calculation staggering. Even if
everyone were vegan and didn't drive, we'd still
need two Earths to sustain us. This only clarified
that America's problem is a systemic one -one
that will not be solved by clotheslines alone.
There is certainly a trade-off between mak-
ing time to prepare homemade, locally-produced
meals or using those hours to make money at
work. There is a trade-off between biking to school
and getting a few extra minutes of sleep.
But are Americans better off when they chooseLindsey Mills to work more and exercise
Speaking Out less? For me, at least, the
______kingOutanswer is no.
If personal change can
lower the number of theoretical "Earths" we need
to survive from the average American's 5.3 to 2,
perhaps a shift away from our current obsession
with consumption would allow us to maintain a
lifestyle that could be replicated worldwide and
leave us with the one planet we've got still intact.
To say that it is preferable to buy new clothes
every day, rather than set aside a single Sunday af-
ternoon to erect a simple clothesline and clip one's
clothes onto it, reveals just how devoted to this ail-
ing nation's principles many people remain.
Lindsey Mills is a UF student.
HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of Florida;, 373-0775
Form Number: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue1ARGINTE /0 e s n
/10aDowowen Coistarumes
Butler Plaza Newber are
335-1232 332-3937
Support the Red
Cross Services to
Armed Forces and
'4' change a life,.starting with your
+ own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
Jessica is there for Tom's That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for our country. American
+ Red Crossallga4 sports
Tune in for the latest Gators
sports news and analysis
from our beat writers and
columnists.
X
X , 0
' X
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.
Thursday
College football night
$5 wine tasting, $6 Buckets,
$4 House wines
from 4-close
Vespa Giveaway
1-2 ,.vesi av 3273I ry1 t; rII wws Iap esit .c
theAvenue thursday, october 29, 2009
Spotlight: The Russian Circles
U,
0
a.
The Chicago-based band Russian Circles (Brian Cook, Mike Sullivan and Dave Turncrantz) will perform at
Common Grounds Friday at 5 p.m. during The Fest 8.THIS WEEK:
PG 9: Hippodrome ghost tour
review and profile on the Aus-
tralian singing group The Ten
Tenors
ONLINE: Check out the blogs
for weekend coverage of the
Fest 8
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULA RS:
SEX: College is the time to ex-
periment with sexuality, online
FASHION: Use trends to inspire
Halloween costumes, page 11
COMING UP:
The Avenue speaks with the gui-
tarist from the Italian rock band
Lacuna Coil.
Looking for something differ-
ent and scary this Halloween?
Check out the haunted house at
the Alachua County Fair or the
Newberry Corn Field Maze. If
you're too old for Halloween,
head downtown and listen to
some music at The Fest 8.
TH E F E S T 8 BA ND R EVIE WS TZR
Friday* o- o- o o o o P, o- o-o Saturday o- o- Ili o. o. o. o. o. o. Sundayo-Iio. .o. .o.liIi li
LOCAL: Battle! -1982 @ 5:30 p.m.
Kick off your Fest weekend with a gut check from
Gainesville's homegrown talent Battle!. The band
sticks to a punk formula, leaning heavy on growls
and chants, and has a strong local presence.
HEADLINER: A Wilhelm Scream -The Venue
@ 10:10 p.m.
Wilhelm brings their technically complex brand of
hardcore punk to The Venue's main stage Friday
night. They are on tour up the East Coast and
head to Europe in late-November.
SPOTLIGHT: Matt Kurz One -Civic Media
Center @ 9:30 p.m.
A new spin on the one-man band, Kurz covers
vocals, drums, guitar, keyboard and, with his feet,
bass guitar in a sloppy style that fits his soulful,
garage-rock tunes.LOCAL: Rehasher -The Venue @ 2:30 p.m.
Pop punk outfit Rehasher represents Gainesville as
main stage's opening act for Saturday. Listen out for
the catchy choruses so you can shout along, espe-
cially with the free-music anthem "PVC."
HEADLINER: Dillinger Four -The Venue @6 p.m.
With a decade of material behind them, Dillinger
Four has both rough and polished pop punk gems to
make the crowd bounce. Don't miss the Altercation
Punk Comedy Tour playing at both the open and
close of Dillinger's act.
SPOTLIGHT: Andrew Jackson Jihad -Civic
Media Center @ 4:40 p.m.
Hailing from Arizona, Jihad plays a brand of folk punk
to which Gainesville has made major contributions.
Fervent and irreverent, this may be the don't-miss
show of The Fest 8.LOCAL: Diet Cokeheads -Kickstand @ 4:40 p.m.
While dark, fuzzy walls of noise and cryptic spoken
word are a departure from most Fest rockers,
Gainesville's Diet Cokeheads pull it convincingly
enough to not feel pretentious.
HEADLINER: The Methadones -The Venue @6 p.m.
Born out of '80s punk heroes Screeching Weasel, the
Methadones keep a straight forward pop punk model,
while trading in the nasally vocals for a revivalist polish.
For a Sunday afternoon, this set will see a decent
turnout.
SPOTLIGHT: Defiance, OH -The Kickstand @ 10:30 p.m.
Another folk punk outfit worth seeing, Defiance will
play a late show on both Saturday and Sunday night. If
you're going to Fest, you have no excuse to miss them.
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 +ALLIGATOR, 9
Chicago-based band releases new album, starts tour
By MARY MANCHESS
avenue writer
With their new album, "Geneva,"
released just a little more than a
week ago, the Russian Circles have
already gassed up their 16-passen-
ger van and kicked it into high gear.
It has been about three to four
years since the Chicago-based band
has performed at The Fest, Gaines-
ville's legendary three-day concert
series that is known to attract music
lovers worldwide.
The trio will play Friday night at
Common Grounds. Doors open at 5
p.m., and tickets are $20 without aFest 8 pass.
The band's new album has re-
ceived great reviews from many crit-
ics in the music industry, including
Alternative Press and NME. Guitarist
Mike Sullivan said these reactions
have been a breath of fresh air.
"You write music for yourself, but
God knows how people are going to
react to it," he said.
Now that the production of the
album is behind them, the band just
needs to focus on keeping a high en-
ergy throughout its hectic tour sea-
son that will last until mid-December.
Sullivan said that the band didn't ex-
actly plan for so many things to hap-pen at once, but everything was coin-
cidentally just thrown into place.
Life on the road can be difficult in
some aspects, like
when it comes to
getting a decent
amount of sleep
or a good meal.
But Sullivan said
he enjoys tour-
ing a lot because
everything is soSullivan methodical; plus,
coffee always
seems to hold him through.
"I feel more comfortable on tour
than being at home because of lackof privacy and everything," he said.
"Every day is a new adventure. I love
being in the country, and I love driv-
ing, so every drive is enjoyable to me,
thankfully."
He is especially lookingforward to
performing at music festivals, such
as The Fest 8 and the Fun Fun Fun
Fest in Austin, Texas, because it's a
chance to take a short break from
the typical touring routine.
"On tour you see the same bands
every night, and with festivals it's a
good change of pace to say hi to your
friends, step back and enjoy a con-
cert, not just play it," he said. "[The
Fest 8] especially is very diverse, andthere are a ton of people so it makes
for hilarious people-watching."
Another reason touring is so excit-
ingforthe Russian Circles is because
the band members are highly enthu-
siastic about giving off energetic live
performances. Sullivan explained
that the band is very meticulous
about the technicalities that go into
its shows.
"It is just fun to go up there and
grow from our previous experiences,
keep doing what we are doing and
see how it progresses," he said. "We
are tighter and stronger as a band,
and it's been awhile, so we are ready
for it."
Ghost tour reveals past
By JON SILMAN difficult journey by train, over thousands of
avenue writer miles, to Gainesville only to find out her son
had been hanged the day before. Distraught
The idea of letting actors loose after hours and overwhelmed with emotion, she went
intheir own playhouse is enticingand inspired. insane. She still haunts the Hipp to this day.
The Hippodrome Ghost Tour started at10:30 We were led around a dark hallway to the
p.m. last Thursday. A group of us (a young mar- women's restroom where she sometimes can
ried couple and some Hipp employees) were be heard weeping. Sitting on the playhouse
led upstairs into what looked like a dance re- floor in pitch black is unnerving. The basement
hearsal room. We sat in chairs for about 10 of the Hippodrome is wide and open. Dark
minutes, wondering. A door that looked like spaces take on new meanings late at night
it belonged in an Old West bank from a Clint under the right circum-
Eastwood movie opened slowly and Rusty Only in stances. Sailing sold
Sailing, a seasoned actor, shuffled out precari- o. us on the story and fed
ously. He was bearded and dressed in all black. us morsels of it crumb
He moved cautiously but fancifully around by crumb leading up to
us like a modern Vincent Price. He warned the frightening "reveal" at the end of the tour.
that people have a tendency to get locked in The highlightoftheeveningincludesgettingto
the vault, so try your best stay away from it. seetheinnerworkingsoftheHippodromeeleva-
The legend goes like this: In 1914, Clem- tor room in the basement, which resembles an
ent Boyle, a young man, may or may not have electricity roomfor an electricchair,1920sstyle.
committed a murder. From his cell in the Accordingto Salling, this is the tour's second
depths of the Hippodrome, he wrote a heart- year. He's been withthe Hipp since its inception
felt letter to his mother, Lucinda. The letter in 1973, but heswears he was 5 atthetime and
begged her to help him, for he was facing playing children's roles. When I ask for his age,
death by hanging. A makeshift gallows was he tells me he's "old enough to do a ghosttour."
constructed in the courtyard for the purpose Since he is the mastermind behind the
of the dastardly deed. The mother made the whole production, I am inclined to agree.Ten Tenors to play UF
By JOEY FLECHAS
avenue writer
The Three Tenors used to dominate the
ever-so competitive tenor scene.
Now, The Ten Tenors are emerging to
break through and take their onslaught of
voice to the world.
The Australian group is performing at
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.
The Ten Tenors formed in 1995 at the
Queensland Conservatorium Griffith Univer-
sity in Brisbane, Australia. Ten opera stu-
dents got together to occasionally perform
and make a little extra money.
The group sings songs from all eras and
genres, from opera to pop ballads to rock
'n' roll classics.
Current cast member Jeff Teale, who
goes by "Teals" on stage, said performing
around the world has been an extremely re-
warding experience.
"Different songs work in different coun-tries," he said.
Having toured the world, he said South
America was one of the most pleasant to
visit. The group played a show in Lima,
Peru, where apparently tenormania had
taken over. Crowds of screaming fans sur-
rounded the group's car, with police having
to escort the tenors around.
"We'd never experi-
enced an audience so
welcoming," he said.
The Ten Tenors' dis-
tinctAustralian accents
lend some unique per-
sonality to the show,
Teale said.
His favorite song to perform is Simon
and Garfunkel's "The Boxer," a crowd fa-
vorite.
"It's the moment where we take their
breath away," he said.
Tuesday's performance will kick off their
U.S. tour in support of their latest album of
disparate musical stylings, "Nostalgica."
Hey GorgeousHelp provide local
students in need with
free educational
materials and
supplies!
Donate items
that you no
longer
use: spiral
notebooks,
art supplies,
folders, pencils,
notebook paper,
highlighters, and more!
TOOLSFOR
SCHO 2LS
For more information:
www.toolsforschools.alachua.fl.us
352-374-5213
10, ALLIGATOR * THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous
Cafe Gardens has been serving
Gators with delicious food
and a large selection of beers
and wines. Located just
across from campustnear the
Florida Book Store, this quaint
landmark establishment with
award winning courtyard
dining is perfect for any date
or gathering. For live music
schedule, call 376-2233. Hours:
Mon-Wed Ilam-10pm, Thurs-
Sat I1am-I1pm, Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc.
Even create your own. Our
burgers are prepared daily and
cooked to order. Our fresh deli
sandwiches come with over
1/4 lb of meat. Check out our
full menu at GatorDawgs.com.
Several delicious vegetarian 
&
vegan options. We are located
at 1023 W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft
and Red Stripe beers! We
deliver! Open late to serve
your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed: lam-3am. Thurs-
Sat: 1Iam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located at
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.ED)I~
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (Behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown)
Offering Asian Fusion Cuisine
in a relaxing atmosphere.
Wed and Thurs night $5
martinis.
Open for lunch: Mon-Fri
11:30-2:30 Sun 12-5 and dinner
Sun-Thurs 5-10pm Fri-Sat
5-10:30pm
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents! Biggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian?cNot a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday 7am-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super
lunch/dinner combos. FREE
DELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog
legs, and alligator, as well as
USDA Prime beef, seafood, grits,
greens & hush puppies. Open
Thursday & Friday 5pr-1 pm,
Saturday 12pm-IOpm & Sunday
12pm-8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
X9@Qm
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301
Dtites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
delicious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkinsg, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specials
make shopping at D'Lites a
special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
(next to the Hollywood Video) ARor at the Shoppes of Williston at
SW. 34th Street and Williston
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Eacebook'
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, loose
leaf teas, and beer, with lots
of vegan options. Now open
24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
blocks east of campus at 1025
W. University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yogurt
has 0% fat and contains live
and active cultures. Choose
any combination of 8 different
flavors and over 30 toppings.
Everything for just 45 cents an
ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd (next
to Bento Red) Open from noon
to midnight daily!
TC3Y
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real frozen
yogurt products. Our low calorie
and low-fat soft serve is your
healthiest choice in Gainesville,
and it tastes great too. Waffle
Cone Wednesday from 5-8p.m.
and half-off smoothies from
5-6p.m. every day! Locations
at 34th Street next to Crispers,
Thornebrook Village at 43rd
Street and Town of Tioga. Find
us one Facebook and follow us
on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"
Yogaberry
OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM
THE UNIVERSITY IN TARGET
COPY! Come build your healthy
treat at Yogaberry! Our yogurt
is 100% fat free and the only
yogurt that is made with real
organic milk. Choose from an
array of fresh fruit toppings cut
daily, candies and fun cereal.
New flavors for you to try daily,
and always free samples! In
addition, we have the finest
organic, free-trade coffee.
Our coffee bar features lattes,
cappuccino's, espresso, cuban
coffee's, yoga mocha's and much
more!Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret in
Gainesville, Let's Eat Diner is a
small diner just off the beaten
path on 39 Ave at NW 22 Dr.
Open Mon-Sat 7am till 8pm
serving breakfast, lunch, and
supper and Sunday 11am till
2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.com
Oh yeah, we also do catering!
Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized
in catering any group size.
Delivery available-free delivery
on any purchase over $25! Open
7 days Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm,
Sunday lpm-8pm. Call 352-505-
6200. 7625 W Newberry Rd
Luca's Pasta
Customize your own pasta.
Over 100 combinations, starting
@ $2.99! Choose your pasta,
sauce, & topping. All made fresh
& quick. Vegan & Gluten-free
options too. Open Mon-Sat 11-9.
Delivery/take out/dine in. See
menu online www.lucaspasta.
com.
607 W. University Ave.
352-338-1700
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372Ristorante Deneno
With new ownership at the
helm, Deneno is presenting
great Italian food in nearby
Alachua. Worth the drive! Open
for lunch Mon-Fri 11:30-2.
Dinner 7 nights a week from
5pm. Happy Hour Tues-Fri 5-7.
Every Tuesday is 1/2 off bottles
of wine. 14960 Main Street,
Alachua. 386-418-1066
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs IIam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
1lam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
great locations with outside
eating. Open every day for carry-
out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Open for Lunch & Dinner
$6.99 Daily Lunch Specials
Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/
$12.50 Buckets of ANY beer
Check Out Our New & Exciting
Menu & Expanded
Sunday Brunch Menu
$4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
$4 Mojito Menu Thursdays
$5 off next $25 purchase
With This Ad
352-377-3278
www.cabanacove.net
2410 NW 43rd St.
Gainesville, Fl. 32606
Located Behind Garden
Gate NurseryTaGuTo
I (I jrhalloween 
Trends are perfect for
last-minute costumesThe Olam Cafe
Mouthwatering, healthy Kosher
cuisine at affordable prices!
Daily $ 10 All-You-Can-Eat
Dinner Specials. Mexican, Pan-
Asian, Italian, Mediterranean
& American Deli! SUSHI night
every Wednesday at the low
price of $10! NEW this semester-
Schwarma & Falafel Station!
Fresh Salad Bar daily with over
50 + items! Take-out available.
Lunch Specials starting at $5
11:30-2:30 M-F. Dinner 5:30-8:30
M-Th. Located inside the Hillel
building across from O'Dome.
202 W University Ave. 352-248-
2606 www.theolamcafe.com
For event info:
www.myolamcafe.com
Green Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink+ Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-lOpm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.com
an/;3
THE JONES
Gainesville's own indepen-
dently owned community
restaurant dedicated to bringing
sustainable, local, and organic
food to the table. Oh, and it's
really yummy. Herbivores,
carnivores, & omnivores
welcome! *Breakfast & Lunch:
8am to 3pm every day. Dinner:
Friday thru Monday nights
5pm to 10pm. * Check out our
Facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue
352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafd
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This l2oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. Iam-1Opm
Fri-Sat. llam-llpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred'sTi Amo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs
6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho, Banh-Cuon,
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Big new room! Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn
Downtown. Dine in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934 1228 W Univ Ave
0
0
alligatorBy REBEKAH GEIER
avenue writer
"I wish I could pull it off" is an in-
famous quote we all wish we could
avoid, regarding clothing that you lust
for, only it doesn't seem to fit your per-
sonal style.
Well what better occasion than
Halloween, a day to shake off all your
fashion inhibitions and literally wear
whatever you want.
Rather than using Halloween as an
excuse to wear that slutty costume you
pulled out of a $60 plastic bag, buy
something you would normally over-
look.
Mix and match fashionable pieces
from stores like Forever 21 with cos-
tume accessories from party stores,
or channel fashion trends into a cos-
tume.
For last-minute costume ideas,
think about today's trendy pieces and
how they are inspired after real-life
characters. Like leather and studs, in-
spired by rock stars and biker babes.
Or fake, thick-brimmed glasses in-
spired by nerds everywhere.
Last Halloween, I was Blair WaldorfTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 + ALLIGATOR, 11
from "Gossip Girl." I admired her style
on the show, but figured I could never
wear her rich schoolgirl wardrobe, red
lipstick and skyscraper heels to my
morning class in Turlington--- It just
wasn't my style. So I satisfied my prep-
py fad and went to Forever 21 where I
found a navy blazer, red headband and
bright red tights to compliment Blair's
signature pop of color. Miss Waldorf
would be ashamed if she knew I pulled
off her Upper East Side look forless
than $60. And the best part about my
costume" was that I could rewear ev-
ery piece.
Halloween is that opportunity to
experiment with beauty and fashion
trends, so tease the hell out of your
hair or paint the perfect smoky eye.
And when you buy something new
don't you want to get full use out of
it? So pick up that killer jacket you've
been eying, make it part of your cos-
tume, then throw it on before a partyto
spice up your ensemble. Because re-
ally, where else will you be able to wear
your naughty nurse dress?
To see what costume I am putting
together this year, check out the Alliga-
tor Web site after Halloween!
rnoto courtesy o febekan eier
Maggie Blehl (left) and Rebekah Geier (right) created DIY costumes of Pam from "The
Office" and Blair Waldorf from "Gossip Girl" in their dorm on Halloween last year
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 11-6-40-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
ROOM FOR RENT
Lg master suite in new home; 15 min to VA,
Shands & UF. NS, professional only. Util,
cable TV & wireless internet incl. $525/mo.
219-3410 11-3-09-20-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-2-09-15-1
All Inclusive Canopy Apts-Only $465 mth.
Relet room in 4/4, Brand new, amazing ame-
nities, 1 mi from UF, www.canopyuf.com.
Call Marisa 352-359-1456 for more info. 11-
2-09-14-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils ind $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 11-
3-5-1
Fully furnished Apartment, utilities included.
1/1 in a 3/3 on the second floor at the end of
the apt complex with no one next to the apt.
$435 a month. Best Deal!
Call Tim
(352)275-9083
10-30-09-3-1QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2Madison Pointe NW 23rd Blvd
1/1 $659, 2/2 $699, 3/2 $799
W/D*Screened Patio*Tanning
Fitness Center*Full size bball court
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
12-9-75-2
*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-212-
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished furnished unurnished ufurnished
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue* Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersApartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-30-09-66-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1bth -$399 2br/1bth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
I NOST T D
Charles Ford
White Male
(DOB 02/05/86); 511",
160 lbs, Brown Hair,
Blue Eyes
Wanted for:
Felony Theft
AL~ACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPNo Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
-applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1bth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1bth $425 (*off SW 34th St.)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
000$550 2BR Washer/Dryer provided;
upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer
grad student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown NW 10th St
352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA,
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 11-2-09-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
iBR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 $1007, 3/3 Townhome $1092
Vaulted Ceilings-Screened Patio
Garage-W/D-Microwave
2701 NW 23rd Blvd
352-372-0400 madisonpointe.org
12-9-48-2
HOUSE avail now. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
Homes available for immediate occupancy!!
Lowpayments!
$49 Deposit!
Call today! 352-378-4411 10-30-09-17-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
11-5-09-20-2
kickoff EDITIONS
Reach your Target Market before the game!
15% DISCOUNT 15% DISCOUNTForany ON ADVERTISMENTS RU Nadvertisement N 5 OUT O 7 EDIT ONSthat uns pr to DEADLINE FOR SPECI ALKickoff Editon and OFFERs pckedup (no WE D NOV 209changes) 'NO OHERD 0 N M
5% DISCOUNT APPY
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
olr photos! opponent features!
team rosters! gator features!
and much more!
October 30
November 6
November 13
November 20
November 25
December 4
allig'a.t .orGeorgia
Vanderbilt
Men's Basketball Tipoff
Florida International
Florida State
SEC Championship*Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
Deadline: November 10
Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
to place your ad, call 352-376-4482
*To Be Determined
14, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
For Rent For Rent Smmes Furnishgs urishngs
furnished furnished
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-9-
09-20-2
*@@WALK TO CLASS@@@
3 blocks to UF, near the Swamp. 3BR/1BA
house. $900/mo Andree Realty 375-2900
10-30-09-14-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA, 1200 sq ft twnhse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D, great location, very quiet,
great for grad student or prof. 508 NE 4th
Ave. Avail. now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
11-3-09-15-2
**STUDENTS** 1 bedroom apt in historic
building between UF & downtown. Walk or
bike everywhere. 116 NW 7th Terr. $485/
mth. Call 870-2760. Others available 11-
4-09-15-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 10-29-
09-10-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-6-09-14-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010)
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th Ave
352-376-1619 352-373-4500$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f.
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com
11-18--09-15-2
3/2 Biven's Cove $824/mo
November Free
lots of amenities! rcromwell201@gmail.com
10-30-3-2
WALDO 1 Bedroom,1 bath duplex apt in
downtown Waldo. 20 mins to Gvlle. Newly
renovated, clean. $575 mo. 1st, last & se-
curity, references. (352) 378-2141 Lv msg.
11-3-09-5-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1 BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $695+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-17-14-2
Walk to UF 3BR/1 BA house, grandaddy oaks
fenced yard, cent H/AC, DW, W/D, scr back
porch, enclosed front porch for additional liv-
ing space. Completely redone, immaculate.
Pets ok. Avail now. $1050/mo 378-4684 11-
4-09-5-2
495/month + util. Looking Glass Apts sub-
lease.Private Bedroom + Private Bath in 2/2.
Washer/dryer included. NO move in fees, NO
deposits. No Pets. 2 mins to campus. Perfect
location! Share apt with great female room-
mate. Avail DEC, JAN or possibly sooner if
needed. Call 352-871-0162 10-30-09-6-3
O Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
The Landings 336-3838
Regency Oaks South West Villas The Laurels 335-4455
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave Greenwich Green 372-8100
352-378-5766 352-336-9000 Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
We Speak Spanish
11-20-09-20-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neighbor-
hood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood floors,
fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $900/mo. $30/
mo ontime discount. 773-407-1774. 11-19-
09-20-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES!Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750 per month. Call 317-5060
11-5-09-10-2
2 br,2.5 bathroom townhouse. within miles
of shands, uf, and shopping. $699 + utilties
& condo fees. call (321) 591-0273. 10-29-
09-5-2
1/1 in 3/3 in Campus View Condos. 1235
SW 9th Road, 3rd floor unit. Newly built, w/d,
new appliances, Females only please. $515,
from January to July 31st. Can move in early.
Please call 727-776-7098. 11-6-10-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09-
15-2
FAMILY AREA WITH PETS, OK
Two Bd with Two Full Baths, new carpet, just
painted, new refrigerator. Fenced in back
yard, patio, and large W/D room plus stor-
age. Avail Nov 1st. $660. Only $50 Sec, with
reference. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-09-10-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-21BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-30-09-47-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-6-09-15-4
Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone. Furn rm
avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo or $100/
wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc avail.
Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to vacate.
Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-2-10-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
forresponsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-4-
09-10-4
SPRING SEMESTER 2010.WALKING
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. Parkside 11 town-
house. Female roomate wanted for 1 bdr 1
ba $525.Sue 305-785-7733 10-30-09-5-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4
SWEET 2/1 HOUSE
Prive location, 708 NW 10th Ave. includes;
all Utl's, W/D, and Swimming pool. Avail Now
$440. Plus sec. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-
09-10-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 395/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930 11-
2-09-5-4450/mo + utilities (negotiable). At the
house we have all modern working applianc-
es, a fenced-in backyard, a car overhang,
plenty of parking. Located close to shopping
centerss & 1 mile from the UF law.
Pet friendly. M/F O.K. Contact Josh at:
561.676.2662, jbarnhill@ufl.edu or Ben at:
bbabcock@ufl.edu
11-3-6-4
Female roommate wanted to share
3bed/1 bath house w/my 3yo daughter and
me. Residence is on bus route 8. Room is
unfurnished. Must be mature and like chil-
dren. No smoking, no drugs, no partying.
Back-ground check will be done. $200/mo,
plus half GRU bill. Call 352-214-4601. 10-
30-09-2-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
11-12-09-10-4
$350 FEMALE ONLY
1/2 of utilities, FREE WATER! 786-797-2778
mad05@ufl.edu 11-4-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
*@@WHY PAY RENT?@@
Creekside Villas. 1BR/1BA condo. Only
$69,900. New kitchen, new paint, new floor,
new appliances. Fireplace, near Sam's Club.
Andree Realty 375-2900 10-30-09-14-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
1 br/1 ba by Regal Cinemas & UF
507 NW 39th Rd #126- Hawthorne Reserve
Condos. $60,000 short sale. Call Stacy at
Trevor Waters Realty 352-682-8530 11-2-
09-5-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
U17 ompters
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
if
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
a a 0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers-subleases Real Estate
4W do.-
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 15
Bicycles Motorcycles, Mopeds Motorcycls,Mopeds Autos Autos
Did you know that with as little as $40 down
you can be riding a new quality bike today?
Schwinn Shop has the best selection of new
and used bikes. 1225 W University -2 doors
down from Leonardo's 374-2064 11-6-15-9
CFFor Sale D
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
**Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
.0 6 VW 0, @ e 4D .4e0.0 -a 0
S9 8
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content .m
Available from Commercial News Providers
IIE2003 BMG Trailblazer Silverfox Scooter
2,323 miles; Red; 49cc; Single cylinder
Excellent Condition
$900 (includes title and helmet)
Contact (727)-793-4752 10-30-5-11
PINK & BLACK SCOOTER 2008
Only 8 miles on it! Electric
Incl charger. Exc cond. $700. 386-684-6153
11-4-09-5-11
CIF Autos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
0Over 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-122003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111 k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
Z Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-6-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
6-09-74-13
Help Needed
OVolunteers: to drive adult cats to Gville to
neuter/spay & return
OWorking Computer needed desperately.
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-13
STUDENT WANTED FOR CONSULT AND
PRODUCTION ADOBE PHOTOSHOP/
ILLUSTRATOR -HRS VARY WILL WORK
WITH YOUR SCHEDULE. 213-1219 10-30-
09-2-13
THE GIF GUIDE HelpWanted
WINTER 2009
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to reader who responds to advertising use cau-g g t g tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
more than 52,000 readers! vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
students, faculty and staff looking for
graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Deadline:
Friday, November 13
Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
352.376.4482
alihe independent floridaiga t orthe independent flordaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14-
16, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
FHelp Wanted Help Wanted services Health Services Entertainment
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Bartender Openings.
Earn $250/day. No Exp req! Will train
PT/FT Call 305-929-8559 x850 11-3-09-
20-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
STUDENT WORK
GREAT PAY
Customer Sales/Service
Flex Sched, PT/FT Avail,
Work around classes,
conditions apply,
352-371-9675
11-12-09-20-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14Sun Country Sports is accepting applica-
ions for Aquatics positions -swim coaches,
lifeguards, & more. Applications available
online at suncountrysports.com. Fill one out
today and bring to either location.
10-29-09-5-14
Full time NANNIES needed for Jan
one toddler $10/hr M-F OR 2 elem age $12/
hr M-F + E & wkds; grad students welcome;
exp req; Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume,
photo, short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
NANNY for 1.5 children ages 1 & 2.5
20 hrs/wk; 4hrs/day, variable am/pm
Noah's Ark Nanny: resume, photo,
class sched, bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
DAILY AFTER SCHOOL COACH NEEDED
M-F -forteenage boywith autism and learning
disabilities. Reliable transportation required.
Please email resume/inquiry to smasgville@
gmail.com. 10-30-09-5-14
Campus Reps Wanted. $99 per referral
send namelocationemail to:
questions@kfun.tv 11-3-09-5-14
DENTAL FRONT DESK
Scheduling & insurance billing for local den-
tal practice. Self-starter with experience.
Mon-Thurs. Fax resume 352-375-4268 11-
3-09-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT. PT
1-5 or 6pm, 15-20 hrs/wk. Proficient typ-
ing, Word, Excel, online surfing. $7.25/hr.
siva1950@yahoo.com 11-4-09-5-14
SERVERS
Evenings &weekends. Experienced & friend-
ly. Apply in person between 2-5. Napolatanos
606 NW 75th St. 11-4-09-5-14
Transcription/Office Asst
Must be pleasant, enjoy people & have expe-
rience; also admin. & grading psych tests.
Email res. info@villagecounselingcenter.net
11-12-09-10-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER -Join Our Team!
Unique long term opportunity. Full time
position with 100% employee owned Co.
Extensive training/benefits-health, 401K, etc.
Indesign, photoshop, MAC/PC experience
a must. Apply now, Renaissance Printing,
4130 NW 16th Blvd. Drug Test. 11-6-7-14
F Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
www.Capturimage.com
photo & video studio and location shoots, for
parties, portraits, YouTube, etc. Thurs night
open after hours by appt. Halloween special.
Good rates, basic to deluxe.
10-30-8-15
Writing a paper? Send it to:
GETABETTERGRADE@gmail.com.
We'll check grammar-syntax.
Quick turnaround. Inexpensive. 11-10-09-
10-15
How's your Complexion?
My facials are custom tailored to your skin's
specific needs! New clients get 10% off!
Call Jennifer at COMPLEXIONS to make an
appointment! 352-225-6696
11-4-09-5-15
I'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
6 -0 
.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
38-1612-8-
Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Coolest Homepage On The Internet- Free!
Videos, Games, News, Social Networking
Gateway- Free, REALLY! Cash Back Online
Shopping.
http://ppl.blastoffnetwork.com/Florida
10-30-6-21
HAUNTED HOUSE
Oct. 29th 7p-1 1 p Admission $4
4180 NE 15th St. One Room School House
Proceeds for 5th Grade Patrols
10-29-2-21
W J Z Tickets
Buying FL vs GA Tlx
Top $ Paid- Local Pick-up. 1-877-596-1234
10-30-09-21-22
Need 7 tickets to UF/UGA
Call 904-755-1998 or email
ufugatix@vzw.blackberrynet. 10-30-09-2-
22
Rides
12-9-09-75-18
Event N ticeCIi GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT? Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD charge pay by phone or online- $35 CAN
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED! $45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196__________________________ 12-9-74-23
Free service!
Cash back on every purchase, up to 15%,
at over 300 major retailers.
www.blastofftosavingsonline.com 10-29-
09-2-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Help Needed -Rescue/Rehome
OKittens: toms, wormed. litter trained
OSmall Dog: neutered, shots, housebroken
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-24
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Sports
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF prepares to face SEC's top receiver
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
Florida cornerback Joe Haden couldn't tell you much about the
nuances of Georgia's offense or quarterback Joe Cox's playing style.
Normally, that would be pretty alarming to hear three days be-
fore a major rivalry matchup, but for the strategy the Gators' defense
will use Saturday against the Bulldogs, he only needs to know about
one player: receiver A.J. Green.
"I've just been watching A.J.," Haden said.
Haden said he has watched more film on Green than any wide-
out in the past -two hours each day since Sunday -spending little
time studying the rest of UGA's offense.
That's because the Gators believe stopping Green means shut-
ting down the Bulldogs altogether. Green (41 catches, 682 yards, six
touchdowns) leads the Southeastern Conference in receptions and
receiving yards per game, and he has twice as many catches and
more than three times as many yards as any other UGA receiver.
On a team ranked last in the SEC for rushing offense, that makes
Green the only real threat.
"He's the guy we need to stop," Haden said. "I
know [Brandon Spikes], [Carlos Dunlap] and every-
body are going to stop the run, so they're going to
Football have to resort to the pass."
Haden and Janoris Jenkins will both spend time
covering Green on their respective sides of the field,
though Haden said Green lines up on Jenkins' side more often.
He likens Green to LSU wideouts Brandon LaFell and Terrance
Toliver, only better.
"He has proven time and time again what he can do when the
ball is in the air," Cox said. "You have to find ways to get the ball
in his hands, even if it's handing him a reverse or throwing him a
screen. You have to be creative getting him the ball because a lot of
teams account for him."
The running game is a pretty big mismatch on paper, as Florida
will put the SEC's second-best run defense against a Georgia squad
averaging just 108 rushing yards per game. Richard Samuel entered
the year as the starter and looked to pose a formidable one-two
punch along with Caleb King, but neither has fared well.
Samuel carried the load in the first three games, gaining 256 yards
on 51 carries, but he has 79 yards on 26 carries in four contests since.
Those first three performances alone are enough to make him the
team's leading rusher, with King (35 carries, 135 yards) and Washaun
Ealey (31 carries, 122 yards) next in line.
The disappointment of the running game sums up the season so0N'-IA
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Georgia wide receiver A.J. Green (right) leads the SEC in
catches and receiving yards per game.
far for the Bulldogs (4-3, 3-2 SEC), and while Florida will be trying to
clinch the SEC East on Saturday, they just want to get back on track.
"Obviously, for the goals we set for this season, we're not happy
with where we are," Cox said. "The good thing is, we had our off
week, and now it's like we have a second half of the season we can
focus on and try to finish up strong. We just want to right some of the
things that have gone wrong."
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@a ligator org
As the NBA season begins, the Gators
will have two fewer fans in attendance at
the O'Connell Center.
During the offseason, Boston Celt-
ics coach Doc Rivers and Atlanta Hawks
coach Mike Woodson could often be spot-
ted together cheering on their daughters,
junior opposite hitter Callie Rivers and
freshman outside hitter Mariah Wood-
son.But now that basketball season has
begun, they can't attend their daughters'
matches anymore.
"It's not as much as
both of them probably
would like, but they
come as much as they
can," Rivers said.
However, it has not
Rivers stopped them fromkeeping track of No. 10
Florida's (16-3, 10-2 Southeastern Confer-
ence) matches.
"My dad just told me that he had the
TEEING OFF WITH MIKE DiFERDINANDO
HIt's not easy to get clean. So let's give Wizards forward Caron Butler some
credit after kicking his six-can-a-day Mountain Dew habit. "Those first two weeks
without The Dew was the toughest two weeks of my life," Butler told NBA.com.
.Josh Haden, brother of Joe, was so proud of playing for Boston College that
he got the BC logo tattooed on his chest. Now, he's transferring. My money is on
Bethune-Cookman.Hawks watch our game this past Friday
against Arkansas in the locker room before
they went out to play," Woodson said.
Doc and Mike have been friends for a
long time, but thanks to their daughters,
their friendship has gotten even stronger
recently.
"They aren't enemies. People might
think they hate each other, but that's not
the case," Woodson said. "They are actu-
ally very good friends, and the fact that
Callie and I play together helps their re-
lationship."
SEE VOLLEYBALL, PAGE 18
FANTASY CHALLENGE
* Reader Ben Volin continues to roll,
improving to 7-1 last weekend while
writers Mike McCall and Bobby
Callovi sit two games back. Check
out alligatorSports.org for a recap.Previous question:
How has Tim Tebow
affected his legacy
with this season's
play?UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators bond over NBA coaching fathers
Percent (Votes)
Unchanged 63% (103)
Hurt 34% (55)
Helped 3% (5)
163 TOTAL VOTESNCAA season
disappoints
through first
halt of gamesJwas fooled
See, four weeks ago, I wrote
this column about how there
were three great teams in college
football, and I was trying to figure
out who was the fourth best team in
the country.
I saw Florida, Alabama and Texas
as far and above anyone else.
Losses by
any other team
didn't deserve
to be called up-
sets. Turns out,
fourweekslater,
Phil Kegler that statement
Phil on the Hill is still true. But
pkegler@alligator org now it seems
even those
three don't de-
serve to be called great teams.
Instead, there are no elite teams in
college football this year.
Sounds ridiculous, right? It's the
truth.
Somehow, someway, the 2009
college football season became full of
parity and lacking in greatness.
Coming off the 2008 season and
a great title game matchup of Okla-
homa and Florida, everyone thought
2009 would be great. Stars were com-
ing back, and as great as last season
was, this year would be even better.
It's been a pretty big letdown so
far.
The Gators might have one of the
best defenses in recent years, but as
a whole, they might not be the best
team in the Southeastern Confer-
ence. Tim Tebow is struggling with
the pressure and is playing some of
his worst games as a Gator.
Alabama just scored all of its
points against Tennessee via field
goals. Quarterback Greg McElroy
has come back down to Earth after
dominating earlier in the year. The
Crimson Tide were looking hard to
beat, but a one-sided offense will get
shut down eventually.
Colt McCoy and Texas have
looked like shells of their former
SEE PHIL, PAGE 18
POLL RESULTS
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
Rookie Freeman will get start for Bucs after bye week
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TAMPA -The winless Tampa
Bay Buccaneers have changed start-
ing quarterbacks again, with rookie
Josh Freeman taking over.
Freeman was the 17th pick in
the first round of this year's draft.
He made his NFL debut last Sun-
day, playing two series in the fourthquarter of a 35-7 loss to the New
England Patriots in London.
"It's definitely something I've
been working toward. It's finally go-
ing to be great to get an opportunity
to step out there and do something,"
the former Kansas State standout
said Wednesday.
"My mind-set right now is to
prepare the best I can and then go
out and do what I do, which is playfootball and try to
find a way to get
a win.
CoachRaheem
Morris was non-
commital about
his quarterback
plans after Free-
man completed
two of four passes for 16 yards and
was sacked twice for 16 yards inlosses during his brief stint against
New England.
Morris officially made the change
when the team practiced for the first
time since returning from London.
"He's been waiting for his time
patiently, but he's used his time
wisely," said Morris, who has main-
tained from the day Freeman was
drafted that he will not rush the
21-year-old's development."The plan bringing him in here
was let him sit behind a vet. Hope-
fully, the vet will get you a bunch of
wins, but that didn't happen. .He's
earned the right. He's went into the
lab, he's done the extra studying,
he's done the extra preparation."
The Bucs (0-7) have a bye this
week, so Freeman will have extra
time to prepare for his first start
Nov. 8 at home against Green Bay.
Woodson didn't like
hoops growing up
VOLLEYBALL, from page 17
In return, the tie between their fathers has also
helped Rivers and Woodson become close off the
court, and it even helped Woodson in her decision
to become a Gator.
On her recruiting trip to UF, she gravitated to-
ward Rivers and the relationship she had withher al-
lowed Woodson to feel comfortable in Gainesville.
"Basically when she came here I just told her this
was a great place to be and if I could go back in time
I wouldn't change my decision, I am happy that I
came here," Rivers said.
Although their fathers are both NBA head
coaches and they are both part of
the same volleyball team, the simi-
larities between them stop there.
Growing up, Rivers admittedVolleyball she was a "tomboy" as she grew up
with four brothers and played bas-
ketball, soccer and volleyball. But Woodson, on the
other hand, enjoyed cheerleading and volleyball
while despising basketball.
"I loved cheering to be honest, even though I
am like six-feet tall," Woodson said. "Basketball, I
looked at as being gross. I don't know why. I just
thought it wasn't feminine enough."
In a one-on-one basketball game they agreed
Callie would win without a doubt.
But the answer wasn't so clear when they were
asked which father would win when the Celtics and
the Hawks go up against each other on Nov. 13.
On that same day the Gators will be busy play-
ing one of their most important matches of the sea-
son against LSU that same night, so the bragging
will have to wait -at least until after the match.
EXAMS
(kv Independent Optometrist)
'1111,A, Comer of
NW 13th St.
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EYECARE
I EXPRESS
L (35)376-6133Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF freshman Mariah Woodson (4) is the daughter of Atlanta Hawks
coach Mike Woodson.
FALL HOUSING FAIR
brought to you by Housing affairs
a
&J -~
N ~Reitz Union Colonade
November 4th 10 am -2 pmPHIL,from page 17
selves, even though this weekend's match-
up at Oklahoma State looks to be the final
test to an undefeated regular season.
This season's results have been shock-
ing. Not knowing what to expect can be a
good thing, but at some point, we all want
to see a good college football game.
McCoy has eight interceptions already
this season, equal to the number he finished
with after the 2008 season. Tebow already
has eight total turnovers -four picks, four
fumbles -more than he has ever had in
any one full season.
Oklahoma quarterback Sam Bradford
(injured shoulder) and Oklahoma State
wide receiver Dez Bryant (ruled ineligible)
are worried about readying themselves for
the NFL Draft instead of making highlight-
reel plays on Saturdays.
The lack of standout performers has
reared its head in projections for the Heis-
man Trophy. There is no frontrunner for
the award. It seems every contender has
flaws.
The last six weeks of the season will
certainly be interesting but not nearly for
reasons I would have thought.
There are five undefeated teams left in
the six BCS conferences -Florida, Ala-
bama, Texas, Cincinnati and Iowa.
Obviously the SEC title game will allow
a maximum of four to finish unscathed, but
would these teams be great? Who would
be left out of the title game? Does Texas get
the nod because it got slighted last year?
Four weeks from now, the college foot-
ball season will be nearing completion. I
just hope it seems lot more exciting then.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
SEC cracks down on criticism of officials
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
In the last two weeks, three Southeast-
ern Conference coaches have been repri-
manded by the league for making negative
comments about the referees.
Arkansas' Bobby Petrino and Mississippi
State's Dan Mullen spoke about what they
believed to be blown calls after their losses
to Florida, and Tennessee's Lane Kiffin com-
plained after his team's loss to Alabama.
Vanderbilt coach Bobby Johnson doesn't
remember a year where there were so many
controversies with the referees.
"You have bad calls every year, but they
are magnified because of the replay system,
the amount of games we have television all
the time and everybody sees them," Johnson
said during the SEC coaches teleconference
Wednesday.
Mullen's grievance stemmed from the
refs not overturning Dustinad Doe's touchdown to a fumble
recovered by the Bulldogs af-
ter reviewing the play.
While the replay system
has been met with complaints, Johnson is
happy with the system in place but admits
it is flawed.
"It works as well as humanly possible.
People are going to make mistakes, but
when you've got the number of cameras we
have with the television exposure we have
and you have a chance to run it slow and
look at it, it gives us a chance to correct the
obviously wrong call," Johnson said. "When
they are so close that you can't tell, you just
can't argue with it."
EARLYSIGNING DAY: With recruits de-
committing late becoming a more frequent
practice, talks about an early signing day
have picked up steam around the nation.
LSU coach Les Miles is in favor of imple-
menting an early signing date to lock in com-
mits before February as long as it doesn't
affect the current calendar in place for the
recruiting process.
"What I have always said is you have an
early signing day," Miles said. "Currently,we have a bunch of guys committed to us.
We're committing to them and they are
committed to us. They should have the op-
portunity to solidify that in December or late
November.
"If the decision is already made, why ex-
tend the decision signing day to February?"
KIFFIN KEEPING QUIET: In his first year as
Tennessee's head coach, Kiffin has been ruf-
fling people's feather with some of his com-
ments and attacks on other SEC coaches.
Kiffin, whose recent comments about refs
caused him to be reprimanded by the SEC,may be turning over a new leaf. When asked
Wednesday about his thoughts on the replay
system, Kiffin chose not to comment.
"I'm really not getting into that. I'm go-
ing to stay away from that," Kiffin said.
He repeated that sentiment when asked
if he felt he was treated similarly by the con-
ference as other coaches.
"I'm moving on from last week," Kiffin
said. "I'm not getting into conversations
about it and whether I feel we have been
treated different than Florida or Alabama or
Nick Saban or Urban Meyer, so I'm going to
stay away from it."
Mississippi State coach Dan Mullen was reprimanded by the SEC for criticizing of-
ficials. Mullen felt Dustin Doe's interception return should've been ruled a fumble.
Excess 4tceOkt Ceoisamptio
Can Caase Impotence.
-atorWell Health Promotion ServicesJax native
collects
UF-UGA tix
0 STAMPER HAS OBTAINED
ABOUT 20 TICKETS.
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Florida linebacker Ryan Stamper
is about to break a record he set a
season ago.
The Jacksonville native has been
stock-piling tickets to this Saturday's
Florida-Georgia game since this sea-
son began, and he's now up to 19 or
20 total tickets for family and friends,
breaking his unofficial record of 17.
"I know me, (Brandon) Hicks
and (Tim) Tebow do (talk about the
game). All three of us being from
Jacksonville. They told me this is
their favorite game, this is really my
favorite game too," Stamper said.
"Just coming home to the home team,
and playing in front of the fans and
trying to get as many tickets as you
can. They say I had the Florida-Geor-
gia ticket record last year, I'm about
to break that record this year."
Each player is allotted four tickets
to each game, and Stamper always
starts trading for Florida-Geor-
gia tickets early on. This year, he
swapped his LSU tickets for senior
wide receiver David Nelson's tickets
to this weekend's game.
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2009
UF WOMEN'S GOLF
Gators conclude fall slate with second-place finish
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
The Florida women's golf team must have
really liked where the men wrapped up their
season.
A day after the men's team finished its sea-
son with a second-place effort in Orlando, the
women concluded their fall 2009 season with
a runner-up finish at the Las Vegas Collegiate
Showdown on Wednesday.
All of the Gators competitors finished in
the top 20 at the tournament.
The squad shot the lowest score Wednes-
day with a nine-over 297. It carded a total of
883 (289-297-297, +19).
"We played a really great round today,"
coach Jan Dowling said. "We played through
some tough conditions today, and we had
the lowest round of the day today which waspretty fantastic. We had a great run at it to-
day. We are going to use it as motivation, get
ourselves through the winter and work hard
to get into contention in the spring. It's a good
finish to our fall."
Florida was just five strokes behind first-
place Arizona, which totaled 14 over (284-294-
300, 878).
Freshman Isabelle Lendl led UF for the
second straight round this tournament. She
ended in a tie for sixth with a 54-hole score of
220 (73-72-75, +4). Her last round of the tour-
nament was her highest thus far. Going into
the final three holes, Lendl was one-over par
and went on to tally a double bogey, a bogey
and a birdie.
"She had two great tournaments in a row
and great plays," Dowling said. "She is think-
ing really well on the golf course and making
good decisions.I am really proud of the wayshe played."
Lendl has had a top-10 finish in both of the
tournaments she has competed in this sea-
son.
"She has been doing really well for us this
week," Jensen said. "She
came on strong and really
played solid; she's helped
us a lot. She brought posi-
tive energy and she is great
to have on the team."
Freshman Amelia Lewis
and junior Jessica Yadloc-
Lendi zky tied for 11th place with
a three-round score of 222
(+6). Yadloczky carded a two-over 74 in her fi-
nal round with three birdies and five bogeys.
Lewis matched her Tuesday score in the
final round with a three-over 75. She went
two-under on her first eight holes and col-lected two more birdies, five bogeys and one
double bogey.
Sophomore Marika Lendl had the best fin-
ish of her career Wednesday, tying for 14th
place. She carded a 223 (73-74-76, +7).
Sophomore Evan Jensen finished just one
stroke behind Marika with a 224 (75-76-73,
+8), which translated into a tie for 17th place.
"We were a little let down, we all knew
that we were right there in the middle of the
competition, through out the round, so it was
a little bit of a let down to find out we lost by
a few," Jensen said. "But, it shows that we can
be in contention and we really persevered to-
day and played through the rough weather
and stayed patient. I think it is a good show of
what we can do."
The Gators will start up again in February
at the Northrop Grumman Regional Chal-
lenge.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
A Friend Dies.Who Cares?
I
Toxic drinking is an epidemic on campuses all across America.
It means consuming so much alcohol the drinker passes out. But while "sleeping it off," the victim may be quietly dying.
When you come right down to it, students themselves are the best ones to tackle this problem.
So, in growing numbers, Stony Brook students have joined together in the Red Watch Band movement.
Working with experts, they fine-tuned a course in techniques to handle these alcohol emergencies. Red Watch Band
members can act fast, when every second counts.They know the quick steps they can take to rescue a passed-out
student from a drinking death, and can immediately summon professional help. Everyone completing the course is
given the distinctive red watch for identification.
Since its inception at Stony Brook University in March 2009, approximately 40 schools
across the country have signed on to implement this lifesaving program.
To prevent toxic drinking deaths, go to redwatchband.orgSTONY
BRO4\K
JA/\H (NM 1WMY01 N1WY0k4K
