h% .
4'
A f
/ L
I ,f
A
fIEOfIMPE N
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Illustration Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, September 4, 2009
4L
Repeating
By MIKE McCALL I ALLIGATOR STAFF WRITER
mmccall@alligator.org
Gators hope to reprise title run
A t Florida, national titleshave been reduced to a
yearlong drill.
There are months of
conditioning, followed by fall camp
and a grueling season.
Then, a whistle blows in Miami,
and it's time tocrinse andcrepeat.
Basking in the glory of last sea-
son's BCS championship is not part
of the process, but there are plenty
of accolades floating around.
The defending champs return
most of their key players, including
a quarterback already hailed as one
of the game's greats and a coachrec-
ognized as the best in the business.
The Gators were picked as the
preseason No. 1by every majorcol-
lege football magazine andcreceived
58 of 60 first-place votes in the Asso-
ciated Press poll -the highest total
ever -but they still feel like there
are doubters.
There's something left to prove:
that they belong among the best
teams ever.
These Gators are hungry for
more than another trophy. They
want perfection.
"We want to be great," receiver
David Nelson said. "We want to
be known as one of the best, so we
want to be known as the team that
did it again. That's what we're try-
ing to prove. We want to prove to
the country that we can do it again.
A lot of people are ranking us No.
1, but they also have their doubts
that no team can do it again. Right
now, we are hungry to prove people
wrong."
After a summer trying to avoid
their own press clippings, taking
advice from a slew of big-time guest
speakers and fuming overpast loss-
es, the day has arrived.
The quest for the best season in
school history starts now.
Friends in High Places
Despite the high expectations
inside and out of the locker room,
the company line throughout theoffseason was, "We just want to winthe Southeastern Conference." But
back then, Game 1 against Charles-ton Southern was still a far-off date.
Now that kickoff has ceased to
be Sept. 5 and become Saturday, it's
more clear what this team is about.
As quarterback Tim Tebow dem-
onstrated in his speech following
the loss to Ole Miss last year, an un-
defeated season is a priority. So is
repeating.
To that end, coach Urban Meyer
brought in experts on the subject
during the offseason. Lou Holtz,
Tony Dungy and Mike Shanahan
were among the guest speakers in-
vited into the Florida locker room
-three coaches with experience
when it comes to defending cham-
pionships.
Holtz won a national title with
Notre Dame in 1988, but saw his bid
for a repeat stymied by Miami after
an 11-0 start. Dungy's Indianapolis
Colts also failed in an attempt to
repeat theirc2006 SupercBowl win,
but Shanahan successfully coached
the Denver Broncos to back-to-back
titles in 1997-98.
And if that's not enough help,
there's a pretty
good example just
down the street
in UF basketball
coach Billy Dono-
van, who won con-
secutive champi-
Dungy onships in 2006-07
and will serve as
Meyer's blueprint for success.
"The way he managed it, espe-
cially when they hit a little skid in
the middle of the season, the way he
pulled that (2007) team back togeth-
er [was impressive]," Meyer said.
"I learned a lot. That was one of the
best basketball teams of all time."
Meyer picked Donovan's brain
during the offseason for tips to keep
his team focused, even showing the
same Tiger Woods interview that
Donovan showed his squad. In it,
Woods defines greatness as having
the ability to win again and again,
something Holtz was convincedAndrew Stanfill/ Alligator Staff
Linebackers Brandon Spikes (left) and Dustin Doe (32) hope to be kissing another crystal ball when the 2010 BCS National Championship Game rolls
around on Jan. 7 in Pasadena, Calif. The Gators are trying to become the first team to win back-to-back titles during the BCS era.
Florida could do after watching just
one practice on his visit.
"It's very difficult (to repeat),
but I think Florida is in a class by
themselves," said Holtz, currently
an analyst for ESPN. "Here's what
impressed me the
most. I didn't ex-
Al pect to see this, but
I saw a group of
coaches so enthu-
siastic, players so
focused and work-
ing hard, it looked
Holtz like a team that
was out to prove
something. It's not just their talent
and leadership. You don't usually
see a veteran football team working
that hard."
Lessons Learned
The work ethic Holtz saw stems
partly from a chip on the players'
shoulders.
But unlike most teams, the Gators
aren't trying to overcome it. They've
seen what happens when it's gone.
After winning the 2006 national
title, Florida went 9-4 and lost to
Michigan in the Capital One Bowl.
"A lot of times, when you're assuccessful as we've been through-
out our career, you get complacent,"
Nelson said. "That's what happened
two years ago. We thought we had
all the answers, and they showed us.
There are a lot of guys on this team
who were on that
2007 team, went
to the Capital One
Bowl and felt that
loss, so we don't
want that again.
We still carry that
loss, that pain we
Shanahan had against Michi-
gan in the Capital
One Bowl. We still have that grudge,
that sick feeling in our stomach."
That's the other thing about this
team: losses die hard.
All the highs of a national title
haven't wiped that loss to Michigan
away, and despite the turnaround
that ensued, stumbling against Ole
Miss is still a touchy subject.
"That loss is still frustrating to
everybody, although a lot of good
came from it," Tebow said. "That's
one of the good things about our
team, though, is how upset and mad
we get about something like that.
"We get pretty self-motivated
statistical breakdown
UF CHARLESTON SOUTHERN
43.6 Points Scored 23.1
12.9 Points Allowed 22.3
213.9 Passing Yards 183.1
231.1 Rushing Yards 109.8
179.9 Passing Yards Allowed 190.4
105.4 Rushing Yards Allowed 155.3
83/161 (52%) 3rd Down Conversions 62/157 (39%)
63/192 (33%) 3rd Down Defense 62/152 (41%)
62/68 (75%) Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %) 34/42 (60%)
27/39 (46%) Red Zone Defense (TD%) 31/47 (49%)
+22 Turnover Margin +6 Ifrom things like that, and irritated,
and we still use that today in prac-
tice."
Reminding themselves of losses
and keeping a narrow watch on the
conference schedule are just tricks
to stay focused and avoid compla-
cency, the two biggest roadblocks
that Dungy, Shanahan and Holtz
pointed out to the team this sum-
mer.
The only on-field question about
the Gators is whether they can re-
place receivers Percy Harvin and
Louis Murphy.
With a thin group of wideouts,
none of whom are as proven as their
predecessors, it's a legitimate con-
cern-.
But Florida has a trump card.
For the first time in 20 games,
Tebow is healthy.
For the final six contests in 2007,
Tebow took painkilling injections to
deal with his injuredright shoulder,
and he did the same thing all last
season after re-injuring it in the sea-
son opener against Hawaii.
"He's 100 percent for the first
time in his career, which is scary,"
Nelson said. "You can see that extra
get-up that he has, and I can't wait
to see him on Saturday."
Similar Starts
It UF does manage an u~ndefeat-
ed season, it wouldn'tbe the first in
school history.
In 1911, the Gators' first year
playing against big-name oppo-
nents, they went 5-0-1, tying South
Carolina.
This year will start just as that
one did, with Florida hosting a team
from Charleston. Then, it was The
Citadel, which UF topped before
defeating three other teams from the
state and crowning themselves "The
Champions of South Carolina."
Now, it's Charleston Southern,
and the Gators have their eyes on
muchmore.It'sthe start of a masch
they hope ends with anothercrcystal
ball.
The drill won't be over until the
whistle blows in Pasadena.NUMBERS
Southern nits18 yeharhistory
3 N atonal cha mpionships by
Florndainthe last 13 seasons
Amount Florida$45 K will pay Charleston
Southern for Saturday's game
Num ber of 20-person Sky Suites9in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
(priced at $52K annually) it will take
for Florida to earn back the price of
playingCharleston Southern. The
stad um has 62 Sky Suites.
8Listed ca pacity88954 of Ben Hll Griffin
Stadium
94 783Combined at-
Stendance at
Charleston Southern's seven road
games in 2008
INJURY
REPORT
-OUT
WR Andre Debose (hamstring)
LB Dustin Doe (suspension)
S Dorian Munroe (knee)
WR Carl Moore (back)
CB Jeremy Brown (back)
-DOUBTFUL -
LB Brendan Beal (neck)
-PROBABLE -
LB Jon Bostic (ankle)
LB Brandon Hicks (ankle)
DT Lawrence Marsh (ankle)
LB Jelani Jenkins (ankle)
UF offense vs. Charleston Southern defense
J eff Tim
Demps Tebow
Deonte Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Matt David Nelson Riley Cooper
Thompson Hernandez Gilbert Mike Pouncey Carl Patchan
Pouncey Johnson
Ryan Ard Matt Damon Joel
Woods Middleton Walton
David Fred Andrew
Jackson Godfrey McKain
t B
Matt Bach Chris KuzdaleJacques
Bazileo 9 Major Wright Ahmad Black
Ryan Brandon A.J.
Stamper Spikes Jones
DETT
IJayel Carlos
Jermaine Howard Lawrence Dunlap
Cunningham MarshJanorisCB)
Joe Haden
0 0 00 Go 0 0 0
Gerald Tim Jones Levi Jordan J.W. Kwame Greg
Stevenson McFatter Jarrett Lancaster B.J. Myers Krakue Fiegel
Johns Baker
A.J. Toscano
Antwan IveyCharles
JamesIUF defense vs. Charleston Southern offenseI
Johnson urges
transparency
By CHELSEA KEENAN and
KATHRYN RANHORN
Alligator Writers
During Tuesday's Student
Senate meeting, Student Body
President Jordan Johnson was
first to sign a waiver granting
UT students access to his previ-
ously unavailable records that
were protected under the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy
Act, more commonly referred to
as FERPA.
FERPA, a federal law, pro-
tects students' educational re-
cords from being viewed by the
public.
Johnson encouraged senators
to sign the voluntary waiver,
which would allow items such as
voting records and recordings of
Senate meetings to be put online.
"This is a big deal," he said.
"We had a lot of people to go
through and research to do."
Although members from theProgress Party and the Orange
and Blue Party said they are
pleased with Johnson's deci-
sions, they've progressed with
their own initiatives to promote
transparency.
"This is a big deal. We
had a lot of people to go
through and research to
do."
Jordan Johnson
Student Body President
"We've been releasing our
voting records on our Web site
since the very first date," said
Sen. Dave Schneider, Progress
Party leader.
Orange and Blue Party leader
Jonathan Ossip said signing the
waiver is a step in the right di-
rection but is not enough since
it does not include SG-related e-
SEE WAIVER, PAGE 9
LOCAL
Judge upholds
bar ordinance
By C.J. PRUNER
Alligator Writer
In a recent development of Gainesville's battle with the bottle, an
Alachua County judge upheld a city ordinance that attempts to curb
underage drinking.
The Underage Prohibition in Alcoholic Beverage Establishments
ordinance, which went into effect April 1, restricts
bars from admitting people under 21 after 9 p.m.
if the bars have exceeded a certain number of un-
derage drinking offenses. Venues with a capacity
of less than 201 can have five offenses, while venues
with a capacity of more than 201 can have 10.
Hearings began last month after local bar owner
Rob Zeller challenged the ordinance's constitution-
Roundtree ality. After hearing arguments from both sides,
Alachua County Circuit Judge Robert Roundtree
decided to uphold the law, according to Gainesville litigation attorney
Elizabeth Waratuke.
In a small victory for bar owners, the court struck out a clause that
SEE ORDINANCE, PAGE 9the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 10 We Inform. You Decide.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009
County gives $M to non profits
* 31 LOCAL PROGRAMS
WILL RECEIVE FUNDING.
By DALIA SABBAGH
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Commis-
sion unanimously approved more
than $1 million in funding for 31
nonprofit programs in a meeting
Thursday.The programs were narrowed
down from about 70 by the county's
Community Agency Partnership
Program, which grants yearly re-
imbursement
Alachua County funding to lo-
COmmiSSiOn cal groups that
aim to reduce
poverty in Alachua County.
The application process began six
months ago and required that all ap-
plicants take a training session, saidboard member Jennifer Tragash.
Out of about 70 programs, the
board chose 38 to move to the sec-
ond round of consideration, Tragash
said.
Of those, 31 were selected to re-
ceive funding.
"We have collectively spent about
900 hours reviewing these 38 appli-
cations that could be up to 2 inches
SEE COMMISSION, PAGE 9
_p ,"Copyrighted MaterialV 1 Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
"wN A visiting profes-
sor of art history from
Cape Town, South
Africa lectured at the
Harn Museum about
the historical evolu-
tion of photography in
his country. See story,
Page 3.Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
ThunderCROSSWORD 15 storms
SPORTS 18 88/71
visit www.alligator.org1b
Toss-Up
UF student Etai
Dvora, member of
the group Objects
in Motion, practices
juggling clubs after
class on the Plaza
of the Americas
Thursday afternoon.
The group, the
official juggling
club at UF, meets
every Tuesday and
Thursday afternoon
for practice. Jugglers
learn to keep objects
like balls, clubs and
rings suspended in the
air simultaneously.
They also practice
contact juggling,
where objects must
continuously touch a
person's body.
0 Tim Tebow (right)
will take the field
for his final season
opener Saturday
against FCS foe
Charleston South-
ern. The Gators
enter the season as
heavy favorites to
repeat as champs.
See Story, Page 18.
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009
News Today
Multicultural Greek Council
Showcase: Evolution
Today, 6 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Each organization from MGC
will be showcasing their values,
traditions and history through
live performances and skits.
African Student Union Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.
CSE E-222
Join ASU for the first monthly
general body meeting of the
year. Free food will be served.
For more information, go to
www.ASUatUF.com.
Shabbat at Hillel
Today, 7 p.m. and Saturday,
10:30 a.m.
2020 W University Ave.
Hillel will be celebrating
Shabbat with its three regular
service options and an alterna-
tive learner's service for those
who want to learn more about
Shabbat, followed by free ko-
sher dinner. Shabbat continues
on Saturday morning with ser-
vices at 10:30.TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/71SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/71
Phi Alpha Delta Pre-Law
Fraternity International
meeting
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
CSE E-222
Informational meeting for stu-
dents interested in pre-law.
Come meet current members
and find out how to apply.
For more information, visit
www.ufpad.com.
Darius at UF
Sept. 10, 7 p.m.
Phillips Center for the
Performing Arts
The UF College of Public
HealthandHealthProfessions
invites you to attend. Movie
screening and talk with
Darius Weems and crew. The
event is free and open to theSUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/72MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/72TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/72
public. For more about this
event please visit www.phhp.
ufl.edu/announcements/dar-
ius/.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
* /.PEACH VALLEY
11am-7pm Fridays
and 4pin-7or Monday -Thursday
Great drink specials too.R AKFAST -LU N CH -DIN NER Sister restaurant of
Stonewood Grill & Tavern
Breakfast, lunch, and dinner
served anytime
-Full menu take out
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25i% OF any one GNC Product -Catering
Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer "Eprec heFehesnn 3914 SW Archer Rd 3275 SW 34th St. (Behind Hooters) 'Experience The Freshness"
aV 3 6020 E / (352) 376-1834 Open Daily 7am-8pm
BIKES & MORE
PROPOSED 2010-2011 ACTIVITY
AND SERVICE FEE BUDGET
GOOD ON ANY PURCHASE S9.99 OR MIORE
EXPIRES SEPT 18 2009 LIMIT ONE COUPON PER CUSTOMER
OPEN 2133 NWa TH SitOPEN (6th & 23rd -behind Ward's) AINESVILLE,F
7 DAYS
A WEEK (3521373=6'574a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 10 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligatororg
Assistant Online Editor AndrewStanfill, astanfil@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
a lligatorsports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director
Advertising Office Manager
Advertising Assistant
Intern Coordinator
Display Advertising Clerks
Sales RepresentativesRose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligatororg
Melissa Bell
Sara Ingebretsen
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncLine hum
Student Government
Recreational Sports
J. Wayne Reitz Union
TOTALAmount
$4,691,659
$4,705,751l
$4,976,040
$14,373,450
If you have any questions concerning this bud-
get, please contact the Student Senate office
at 392-1665. Any amendment to this budget
must be sponsored by a student senator. The
deadline to submit amendments to the Senate
Office, Room 307C, J. Wayne Reitz Union, is
September 8 at noon. This budget will be con-
sidered by the full Senate on first reading on
September 15 at 7:30 pm in room 282 JWRU.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
City codes may pull
plug on 'Pool Bus'
By DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
When a few college kids salvaged
a $400 school bus and turned it into
a pool, they thought they had struck
gold; but last Thursday, the City of
Gainesville Code Enforcement Divi-
sion asked them to remove the bus
from their property.
The students were cited for three
$250 violations, according to Ed
Dimuccio, investigator for the City
of Gainesville Code Enforcement
Division. The offenses included the
pool being too close to power lines
and the pool not meeting the stan-
dards for fencing and enclosure.
The owners of the bus, six room-
mates who live on the 1000 block of
Sixth Avenue, found the bus on a
Craigslist ad from a Baptist preacher
in Orange Heights last October. For
an additional $600, they got the reg-
istration, insurance and tag to make
it legal.
Originally, they used the bus
to drive to the UF-Georgia game
and tailgate. They also took it on a
weeklong camping trip, drove their
friends downtown on Halloween
and even occasionally dropped their
friends off at classes, said GiancarloMarogti, a fifth-year senior and part-
owner of the bus.
In an act of vandalism on St.
Patrick's Day, the bus' tires were
slashed and the windshield was
broken. Instead of repairing the
damage, the owners came up with a
different idea.
"We were walking to the pool
one day and just wished that we
didn't have to," said Adam Heaton,
a graduate student and another
owner of the bus.
They removed part of the roof,
took out the windows and turned it
into a swimming pool. They added
an entertainment center where the
roof remained.
"We bought a pool pump, fil-
ter and pool liner," Marogti said.
"It was up and running in about a
week."
The roommates enjoyed the pool
for more than a month before an in-
vestigator from code enforcement
came to them with a list of viola-
tions.
"We're willing to do anything to
make it legitimate to stay," Heaton
said, in hopes of making the bus
safe and acceptable under city laws.
Since the inspector's visit, the men
have drained the water from theCal 'Big Red' Walters strikes a pose in a school-bus-turned-swimming-pool parked at a house on the
1000 block of Southwest Sixth Avenue. The bus owners are working to bring it up to code.
pool and plan to move the bus far-
ther away from the power lines.
"It's become a landmark of the
neighborhood," Heaton said. "Ev-
erybody loves it."
Even if the students find a way
to securely lock the back and front
doors, they would still be in viola-
tion of ordinances regarding swim-
ming pools, Dimuccio said.
"A child could get in it and no-body would know," he said. "It's
becoming a safety hazard."
The division is waiting on a
maintenance report for the bus to
determine if it is safe to drive on
streets.
The bus is also more than 35 feet
long, too long to be parked at the
house even if registered as an RV,
according to Dimuccio.
"Their best bet is to find a place tostore it and then bring it back for less
than 72 hours to use it," Dimuccio
said. "I don't see any way they're
going to be able to keep it."
If they are allowed to keep the
bus, the owners said they plan on
fixing it up so that it can be driven to
campus on game days.
"It's been such a big part of our
college careers," Marogti said. "We
don't want to lose it."
South African prof. details evolution of photography
* HE IS VISITING FROM CAPE TOWN.
By SHEMUEL ARRINDELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Godby, a professor of art history
at the University of Cape Town in South Af-
rica, presented a lecture on the evolution ofthe country's photography Thursday night.
Godby, who spoke as a part of the Ham
Eminent Scholar lecture series, said South
African photographers changed their styles
based on historical events like apartheid, pro-
tests, strikes and religious practices.
Now, more than 20 years later, photo-
graphs representing a more positive South
Africa are being displayed in small South Af-rican galleries and museums, he said.
After the presentation, Tom Southall, the
Harn's photography curator, made a com-
parison to the Great Depression when he said
photos were taken "of the people, but not for
the people," adding the situation is improv-
ing.
Helen Safa, a retired UF professor of an-
thropology and Latin American studies, saidshe doesn't believe art or photography is get-
ting more popular in South Africa.
Safa, who traveled to South Africa in 2001,
said the money in South Africa is spent on
items like cars, not art.
If South Africans are not willing to buy
and display their own art, the photographers
will continue to sell their work in American
and European galleries, she said.
stop ny me venzon vvireiess uator t-ant-est iocatea outsiae Or uate z or tne utonneit center. see tne
Gator Radio Network pre-game show live! Win prizes, play games, get autographs and more!
FanFest starts at 4 p.m. and goes until kick-off!
bring canned goods to FanFest
[for the Gator CandGos
Challenge for Kids!
t b Gtar~estn 0
tle Gato9 -me swamP
s ttenBu acest ina li te stand
k~ja al,, fed 1(" ztO 99 i afl
poud, an6 
apP~ C
tomboV team on a
l eantk ts ut lenssspon~blY3" t 1AV vielI
4PHere on Campus!
southwest grill
Monday-Friday
10:30am-9:00pm
Saturday-Sunday
11:00am-9:00pmchj ISO too
Monday-Thursday
10:30am-9:00pm
Friday
10:30am-3:00pm
Saturday-Sunday
11 :ooam-3:nOnmWomen's 6v6 Soccer
Fun Cheap
Healthy Organized
All skill levels Weekly games
Teams welcome Individuals welcome
Additional info: kelly@grsl.org
I
4, ALLIGATOR .FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Parties look to fill spots
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Thursday marked the beginning of Stu-
dent Government elections when students
with intentions of joining a student political
party stopped by the Reitz Union.
The Unite Party attracted about 60 stu-
dents. About 20 students committed to the
Orange and Blue Party and about 15 commit-
ted to the Progress Party.
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Ben Cavataro
said candidates came into the interviews with
varying ideas, including fixing the elevators
in Beaty Towers and shortening the lines for
free printing.
"A lot of the ideas are motivated by real
student concerns, you know, what real peo-
ple are feeling," Cavataro said.
Freshman Michael Morales said he's lean-
ing toward the Orange and Blue Party.
"I definitely find that their policy of put-
ting the students before themselves is some-
thing I can agree with," he said.
Dave Schneider, Progress Party president,
said his party's goal this election season is to
bring SG from its third-floor office to the stu-dents.
Sophomore Jeanna Lee said she was in-
terested in the Progress Party because it
embodies the idea that there is room for im-
provement in SG and encourages a diverse
platform.
"There's good students leading ev-
erywhere, not just Greek houses,
not just the dorms."
Jason Yoepp
Unite Party spokesman
Unite Party spokesman Jason Yoepp said
the party saw a great turnout, but he doesn't
want students to be discouraged from stop-
ping by today or Tuesday.
He said there are plenty of good students
out there, and he doesn't want them to be in-
timidated or think they don't have a shot.
"There's good students leading every-
where," he said. "Not just Greek houses, not
just the dorms."
Slating will continue today and Tuesday
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m in Room 284 of the Reitz
Union.Google exec gives $5M
for children's hospital
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Good is finally coming from a lo-
cal family's nightmare.
Wednesday, less than two years
after Horst and Luisa Ferrero's
3-year-old son died from medical
error at UF's pediatric clinic, the Se-
bastian Ferrero Foundation received
a $5 million gift from Google's tech-
nology director, Craig Silverstein,
a Gainesville native who became
Google's first employee in 1998.
The money will go toward ad-
vancing the foundation's mission of
establishing a full-service children's
hospital in Gainesville.
"Growing up the child of two
doctors, I understand the importantrole medical care plays in a com-
munity," Silverstein said in a press
release. "The more I hear about this
project and what it will bring to
Gainesville, the more excited I am
by it."
Deborah Peeples, executive di-
rector of the SebastianLocal Ferrero Foundation,News described Sebastian's
family as "deeply grat-
ified and excited" about the gift.
"They feel this is a wonderful
way to honor Sebastian," Peeples
said. "We want him to be remem-
bered as the little hero who brought
the community together to improve
the level of medical care available
in Gainesville to a full-service chil-
dren's hospital."
E1 Dyslexia
A WSlow Reading?
Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
241NW4r__2-B__7811 Years of gain in
SAFETY BELTS weeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesville
for over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.SMART FRM 352.332.2629 5930 SW Archer Rd
THE START in fo~amo rriscenters.co m
Cuban SandWches, Plates, Pastries
Coffee, and more!
Delicious food made by Mom'
E igs andBee
photos~beachereo rcoFor c ntt rulsviitAZr -r s8',nto d nelly's
The best gameday photos from the
game against Charleston Southern:
-fans -stands -tailgating -signs
Email Photos To.:
photos@bleacherreport.com
For contest rules, visit:
www.BleacherReport.com/photos
m bleacher
i report"SUBLIMELY SMART, SEXY
AND SERIOUSLY FUNNY."
Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE
Roger Ebert, CHICAGO SUN-TIMES
PARENTS STRONGLYCAUTIONED S ''k$|W[% SOIJIDIRKMIMERRRWERAF RC
FREUMTR D e 500 DAYS OF SUMMER.COM
MOBILE USERS -FOR SHOWTIMES -TEXT SUMMER AND YOUR ZIP CODE TO 43 KIX (43549)
NOW PLAYING EVERYWHERE
CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS FOR THEATRES AND SHOWTIMES
Find your calling.
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FINDalligior
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 5
Group offers grants for local women 's advocates
By KATHLEEN BIRKHIMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local women's advocacy group
is accepting applications for mini
grants for groups or individuals
who support Gainesville's women.
The Gainesville Commission on
the Status of Women will offer thegrants bi-annually, and $500 will be
distributed between up to three ad-
vocacy groups, individuals or busi-
nesses for their nonprofit programs.
According to GCOSW member
and UF student Megan Silbert, the
organization is committed to offer-
ing the grants for the next two years
and hopes the program will contin-ue beyond that.
The online application asks for
information about the applicant's
mission, the project's
Local financial status and its
News impact on women and
girls in Gainesville.
About 20 contributors, includ-
ing a sub-committee of three judges,helped to create the evaluation cri-
teria that will be used to judge the
entries, Silbert said.
The GCOSW was founded more
than 25 years ago to promoteequal-
ity for women, according to partici-
pant Jan Zak, who helped distribute
information about the mini grant via
the organization's e-group.Zak stressed the effect of the
group's largest annual conference,
which she said "brings to the fore-
front violence [against women]."
She discussed other events,
including an amateur art exhibit
hosted in the Reitz Union featuring
artists who have survived violence
or trauma.
PC & MAC 1228W University ave
Next to Holiday Inn* m(352) 374-0934AvREPA IR saigonlegendrestaurantco
IMPACT COMPUTER $28M=Dov *N'ow
Regular Price I _O
MEXT T FOM T F XT15 W. University Ave. (352) 373-4841
P371-1110 www.DTBarbershop.com
IHAppy HO0UR ALL DAY EVERYDAY!
~je Ce 0 
5,~ ,( fe boGator Saturdays 4 F() \ E
The best place to watch \e N
the Gators win!
Live Game on 45 TVs
V 2 Large Screens I
E NFL Sunday + Monday Tuesday A
A 35( wings (boneless or regular) All the jumbo wings TR Paty with Qsl ,2,3,4,5 you can eat.
$Drafts -$2 Wells -$3 Calls 4pmn 12a1 $9.51
S $4 Ci's Juice -$5 Jager Bombs No ai n les
375 -BEER * 3507 SW 2nd Ave * CalicoJacks.net * 371-1675
Save on great tailgating items each week, only at your neighborhood
Publix. We have everything you need for game day, all in one place.
We call it The Ultimate Tailgate Party. You get in, get what you need,
and ultimately, Rule the Lot.
59
k VSpecialty Burgers
Blue Cheese, Horseradish Cheddar,
Jalapeho, or Bacon and Cheddar
SAVE UP TO .40 LB
French Hamburger Buns, 8-Count
Handmade in Our Bakery, Baked Fresh Throughout the Day,
FOR2500From the Publix Bakery, 16-oz pkg.
Snyder's of Hanover Pretzel Pieces
Or Nibblers, Assorted Varieties, 10-oz bag
Fruit Salad. 2
Small, Medium, Large, or Extra Large Size Package, Made in Store Daily, Full of Vitamin C
Fuze Beverages .. ..FOR)0
Assorted Varieties, 18.5-oz bot.
Prices effective Thursday, September 3 through Wednesday, September 9, 2009.
Publix.
Proud Sponsor of the University of Florida Gators®
Charleston Southern vs. University of Florida,
Saturday, September 5, 2009
Visit theultimatetailgateparty.com for your next play.I HI THE BROTHERS BLOOM.H IPP Starring Adrian Brody, Rachel Weisz & Mark Ruffalocinema 6:30 & 9pm I Sat 4:15, 6:45 & 9:15 | Sun at 2, 4:30 & 7
ITickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORGg p
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009
With the second week under your belts, you're probably
feeling a little fatigued.
This is understandable. We at the Editorial Board feel your
pain, but would like to remind you that the acceptable period
for mourning is over -fall is in full swing. Drop/Add is over.
So like a claustrophobic who made the poor decision to ride Ep-
cot's Mission: Space, you're locked in for the full ride, whether
you decide you like it or not (or bang against the door scream-
ing to be let out, ruining the ride for the rest of the people in
your capsule).
Bad memories.
And, if you've already made it through this heady introduc-
tion, it looks like you're also locked in for this week's edition
of.
Darts & Laurels
And now to point to someone who is having a better week
than you: our favorite (we only know one) former mullet-rock-
ing, hockey-playing impregnator -Levi Johnston. We don't
know how much he got paid to write a tell-all on Sarah Palin
for Vanity Fair, but from the snippets we've seen from it about
late-night Taco Bell runs and reality TV marathons, it's mad
compelling.
However, for taking his 15 minutes of fame to a new high (or
low, whatever), we'd like to cast a hey-at-least-you-taught-us-
it's-possible-to-feel-sympathy-for-Sarah-Palin DART at Levi
Johnston. We understand that money can be tempting, but for
the love of all that is holy, think about your kid and her mother.
(Coming to newsstands Sept. 8.)
Someone else who's having a better week than you is reign-
ing table tennis champion Wang Hao. The 25-year-old was
banned from dating until national team officials finally set him
up with other Chinese table tennis player, Peng Luyang. We
wonder if all his training and skill cultivation wasn't an elabo-
rate ploy to get the government to set him up with a girl, but if
it was, more power to him for achieving his goals.
For going to the most extreme lengths to get a girl, ever, we'd
like to send a your-level-of-dedication-to-getting-laid-is-second-
only-to-Mario-in-Super-Mario-Bros. LAUREL to Peng Luyang.
Although, considering this is probably just China using him to
breed the ultimate ping-pong protege, Luyang might have been
better off skipping those years he threw away in a specialized
ping-pong academy and just applying for a VISA and a spot on
"The Pick-Up Artist." But hey, whatever works.
To throw some positivity into the mix, we'd like to send a
LAUREL to those involved in the new coalition to prevent re-
currences of the Tau Epsilon Phi and Pi Kappa Phi fraternity
hazing incidents. Hazing is bad in most cases. However, we do
wonder if the last case of hazing at UF was that bad. We think a
second coalition should be formed to promote Sigma Lambda
Gamma sorority's alleged "hazing" scenario, which involved
restrictions on Facebook, make-up and fast food. "Real" hazing,
though, is no good.
We already lauded SG last week for responding to student
outcry and re-instating The New York Times readership pro-
gram on campus. This time, however, we'd like to send a but-it-
only-took-you-90-letters-to-the-editor-and-constant-takeover-
of-the-opinions-pages-to-do-something DART at the Student
Government officials who sometimes treat this paper like it's
the now-defunct Juicy Campus.
We'll also send out a LAUREL to our readers who had to
put up with officials complaing about complaints, or whatever
they were doing. And to think that things will only get worse
with SG elections on the horizon.
We appreciate getting The New York Times back, but we
also appreciate getting the last word.
That's all for this week. Enjoy watching Florida play some
school no one's ever heard of on Saturday. Go Gators?
0l the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.a Iigator.org/opinions
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated
Available from Commercial News Providers"~
Sr
Slating brings annoyance, fliers for all
f you don't have of headphones, I strongly suggest
that this week or next you invest in a pair.
You don't eve need to attach them to an iPod or
even portable CD player, and they don't even have to be
expensive; a standard $5 pair from Wal-Mart will do.
They only need to last the next five weeks or so.
I would also advise rerouting your daily walk to and
from classes: away from large public areas including,
but not limited to, Turlington Plaza, the Plaza of the
Americas and anywhere near Anderson and Matherly
halls. Ambushes may await you in other parts of cam-
pus. In this case, just steer clear of all bright blue, red
and orange shirts.
Taken together, these defensive measures should in-
sulate you from the barrage of fliers, political posturing
and free pencils that await you over the course of the
next four to five weeks.
Indeed, it is the most wonderful time of the year for
UF students as Student Government elections gear up.
For the uninitiated (that's you, freshmen), the next five
weeks will be more aggravating than anything you have
ever experienced.
Around every corner of campus, an SG flier or el-
evator speech awaits to ambush you between 8 a.m. to
5 p.m, including lunch breaks. It is almost impossible
to avoid this broadside of fake smiles and politicking,
but by taking the measures suggested above, you can
significantly increase the chance of you escaping this
ordeal unscathed.
To be fair, it does seem a bit hypocritical of me to be
complaining about how bothersome SG elections can be
when just last spring I was one of the army of orange,
blue and red waiting to greet you during your dailyrLI
Kyle Robisch
Ietters@alligator orgcommute through campus, armed
with a plastic grin and a handful
of stickers.
However it seems that this elec-
tion is going to be particularly dirty
and bitterly contested, if the letters
and guest columns in the Alligator
and the speeches in Student Senate
are any indication of the months to
come.
I should also point out that my criticism is not lim-
ited to a single political party or grouping; every party
and member is and will be guilty of political pandering
to the students, myself most likely included.
But that certainly does not mean you have to blindly
accept it.
It certainlymay be important to you to vote and be
informed, and by all means please do so. However, the
glossy fliers and free pencils that will come to litter Tur-
lington Plaza do not aid in the political education pro-
cess.
Don't be afraid to do your own research and find out
for yourself about the parties' platforms and voting re-
cords.
So while this brown-nosing is to be expected in any
election at any level from SG to the United States pres-
idential election, it is also important to be able to cut
through what is B.S. and what is true.
But since that is becoming increasingly impossible in
SG elections, the better strategy may be to keep your
head down and ears covered.
Kyle Robisch is a political science and economics junior.
His column appears weekly.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Is SG election Thursday's question: Do you play
season the most annoying time fantasy football?
of the year?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgp
32% YES
68% NO
75 TOTAL VOTESt.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Fans should remember they represent UF on game daysF resh off their 24-14 victory over Oklahoma in thePatricia Telles-Irvin off to a national audience why As loyal Gators, when we wear the Orange and Blue,
Saturdaysinrthe &JordaFnoJohnson
the Gators are ready to roll again Saturday in the & Jordan Johnson Gators. munity.
season opener against the Charleston Southern Bucca- Speaking Out UF has a great football pro- Home games are our chance to showcase UF and
neers. gram and a great athletic pro- Gainesville at its best. Hundreds of thousands of alumni
Head football coach Urban Meyer, quarterback Tim gram. Our students are among the best in the country. As and supporters worldwide will be watching, as will mil-
Tebow and the entire team will do their all to bring recog- we celebrate the action on the field, let's mirror these facts lions of others.
nition and respect to UF once again. in how we treat ourselves and each other. Thank you for your great Game-Day spirit. Have a ter-
We believe Gators fans will follow their lead. That's We know how to have a great time. We also know to rific time and GO GATORS!
because each home game is not only a chance to show- treat others respectfully, follow the rules and look out for Patricia Telles-Irvin, Vice President for Student Affairs
case Florida football; it's also a great opportunity to show one another's safety and well-being. Jordan Johnson, UF Student Body President
Political bumper stickers are childish, show driver stupidity
If the eyes are the window to the soul,then a bumper sticker is the portal to the
back of a moron's head.
I'm not referring to classic pieces of car
flair, such as "Where's the beef?," "Drive it
like you stole it" and the ever-popular "My
kid beat up your honor student." Gems like
these get straight to the point -if they have
one. Asking tailgaters to locate their meat
won't elicit a nasty response. They'll prob-
ably snort a chuckle and continue happily
riding your ass while constantly re-reading
your lame automobile decorations.
Recently, however, I've noticed the once-
gleeful tradition of selecting the perfect
bumper sticker has devolved into pulling
punches at political opponents. Gator Na-
tion, this is a disaster. Why are we wasting
our cars' surface area arguing political agen-
das when we could be goading fellow trav-
elers into mashing the pedal to the metal?
We have Bill O'Reilly and Keith Olber-
mann on television, Rush Limbaugh andNational Public Radio in traffic and our
empty-headed neighbors and co-workers to
fill every other gap in our days. There is no
reason the exterior of our cars should argue
our points to people we've never met. Why
stir up trouble on the highway? Most of us
have obviously forgotten the all-too-true
warning sign donned by hundreds of 1991
Dodge Rams: "Keep honking, I'm reload-
ing."
I work a part-time job where I see hun-
dreds of bumper stickers daily. Sometimes I
laugh, but mostly I shake my head in either
disgust or confusion. Lately, I've been see-
ing hordes of shiny new anti-Barack Obama
bumper stickers, which makes sense be-
cause he's working from the office that can-
not escape criticism.
Some of my favorites: "So, how's that
hope and change working out for you?,"
"I'll keep my guns, freedom and money
.You can keep the 'change!' and "Buck
Ofama." (OK, that last one has been donebefore, but I saw one
Chevy Equinox so en-
thusiastic it decided to
"buck" the president
twice).
On other vehicles, I
Adam Wynn see tailgates and bum-
letters@alligator org pers wearing slightly
older, faded bumper
stickers. They say
inane things like "No more Nazis -vote
Democrat," or "dubya dubya dubya dot liar
dot com." The surplus of NObama stick-
ers seems to be a petty attempt at revenge
on every motorist whose car spouted anti-
George W. Bush jargon through the better
part of last year.
The best anti-W sticker uses the ex-pres-
ident's middle initial to begin the phrase
"Worst president ever."
Cue Comic Book Guy from "The Simp-
sons."
I imagine such a creation just about max-es out the intellectual capacity of someone
who has never heard of Herbert Hoover, the
"do-nothing" president who slid us into the
Great Depression.
Bush is out of office. Get rid of your stu-
pid, fruitless bumper sticker and go pray for
the servicemen in your family.
Obama is trudging through a dead-
weight legislative branch, but he still has
three years to go. Scrape the childish stick-
ers from your rear bumper because they
will look like crap in 2012 no matter how his
presidential term is remembered.
As for your cars, apologize for dress-
ing them up in all things ridiculous. They
probably appreciate your angry adhesives
as much as your grandma's Pomeranian
likes its Superman costume. If you insist on
pimping your ride with rear-end stickiness,
I suggest touting your kid's ability to wal-
lop other 12-year-olds.
Adam Wynn is a journalism senior. His
column appears as needed.
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009
VerfOnwireless
Take theInternet.
Leave the bulk.
The HP Mini netbook. Connected. Portable. Affordable.
Introducing the ultra portable HP Mini netbook with America's Largest and Most Reliable 3G Network
built-in. Loaded with an 80GB hard drive, webcam, and Windows® XP, it's anything but small.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with a 1- or 2-yr. agreement.
HPMini netbook
NOW $1 99ONLY 199
$299.99 2-yr. price, less $100 mail-in
rebate debit card with 2-yr. activation
on a Mobile Broadband plan from
$39.99 monthly access. Activation fees,
taxes & other charges apply.*
[ Wn
4!J. W in dows
Switch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249) Click verizonwireless.com/getdiscount Visit any store
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Open 7 days a week.
Technicians available at select locations.
CLERMONT 1415 F. Hwy. 50 352-243-6826 LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwy. 27/441, Ste. G. 352-350-2861 OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave. Rd. 352-237-3434 BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
GAINESVILLE 3401 S.W. Archer Rd. 352-378-8828 LAKE CITY Lake City Mall 386-719-2173 OCALA WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352-237-8697 1-800-899-4249
Oaks Mall Kiosk 352-331-0379 LEESBURG Lake Square Mall 352-787-2449 1-800-899-4249
3401 SW Archer Rd. 352-378-8828 OCALA 2613 S.W. 19th Ave. Rd. 352-620-0025
3626 SW Archer Rd. 352-491-2500
In Collaboration with Visit verizonwireless.com
Alcatel-Lucent _A "epta'm" La to find a Club nearyou.
Mat.*liula Consular
Our Surcharges (incl. Fed. Univ. Svc. of 12.9% of interstate & int'l telecom charges (varies quarterly), 7C Regulatory & 92C Administrative/line/mo., & others by area) are not taxes (details: 1-888-684-1888); gov't taxes & our surcharges could add 7% -27% to
your bill.Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Agmt, Data Plan, credit approval & rebate form. Up to $175 early termination fee, up to $. 10/MB after allowance. Mobile Broadband is available to more than 280 million people in the U.S. in 259 major metros. Offers & coverage
not available everywhere. Rebate debit card takes up to 6 wks. & exp. in 12 mos. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. 2009 Verizon Wireless. NETS
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Records eventually accessible online
WAIVFRf 
mails.
He said there is a bill sponsored by the
Orange and Blue Party in the Judiciary Com-
mittee, a group in charge of choosing and ap-
proving bills that will be discussed in Senate
meetings, that would call for a more compre-
hensive FERPA waiver.
"The only reason you wouldn't want your
voting records to be available is because you're
not proud of what you've done," he said.
Johnson said records will eventually be on-
line. However, because this is a large structural
change to the Web site, not everything will be
available immediately.
Nury Hyre, an economics senior, said she
was shocked records weren't public already.
"This school promotes technology and stu-
dent access to knowledge and information,"
she said. "Not having the voting records online
goes against what UF stands for."Available
Educational Records
E V 111 Mmes fmeeg
V recordings, of, Ineetmfs
p records of aIl>tiis of money
to st dent o a, 0t11S,
V skudfm L A iiy Requisi[,iol
foTrmis
V official SG am ioUneements
i s ue o
Funds requested exceed those available
COMMISSION, from page 1
thick," Tragash said. "We do not leave the room until
we all agree that the agency is getting what we are rec-
ommending."
Unfortunately, she said, the requests for funding ex-
ceeded the amount available by more than $1 million.
"It's increasingly a struggle to be able to provide
funding for nonprofits, and there is a growing amount
of need in our community for our social services," said
County Manager Randall Reid.Among the agencies that received funding are
Big Brothers and Sisters of Mid-Florida, Bread of the
Mighty Food Bank, Children's Home Society, Elder-
Care of Alachua County, Epilepsy Foundation of Flor-
ida, Florida Organic Growers, St. Francis House, the
Hippodrome State Theatre, Planned Parenthood and
Peaceful Paths.
"It's a grueling process for everyone, but I am com-
pletely satisfied with the vote," Tragash said. "The fact
that it was unanimous -that doesn't happen often -
means that the commission recognizes chronic poverty
as a problem."
First Month of *
Cox Digital Cable
and Installation (with paid subscription to standard cable service)
I- .v =LR=== IC=- ----. E5FlrsI sT- rE S~E H D E=Ss-l E EFrsiE ETiri ESnFENn
With Cox Digital Cable, you can get all the sports programming you love -with FREE HD**. From the
hardwood to the gridiron, college and the pros, the games you've just got to see are all right here!
your friend in the digital age( 1-800-942-1809 www.cox.com
M ~ ~~~ ppr 1 q d/14171
W* At --)l&
* Panda- Jewe[-ly
* Veia Badl-ey
Mon -Sat 10AM- 7PM Sun 12 PM -5PM
201 SE 2nd Place Suite 112
DowntownGainesville
352-376-3266
NEW STUDY AID*
-Energy drink with a
mind boost and no
crazy buzz.
" Official energy drink
of AVP PRO BEACH
VOLLEYBALL tour.
* Not Sold In Stores
-Local Distributor
www.AchevLiftOff.com
352-336-0004
888-332-0334
sttmet have nt been valuted by the Foodand Drug Adm inistraon This product is not intended todign s, tret, -u or prevent any disease.
allig tor
ADVERTISING
Contact us at [352] 376.4482.Underage arrests down
ORDINANCE, from page 1
prohibits bars from using an "innocent owner" defense. The
defense allows owners to contest admission restrictions if they
can prove that there was no way to prevent underage drinking,
such as the use of fake IDs.
The UF Student Senate has spoken out against the ordinance,
claiming that it hurts businesses and "prohibit(s) safe nightlife
engagements of the underage population of students."
UF Student Body President Jordan Johnson said the devel-
opment is a healthy compromise.
"This isn't an issue about one person having a drink at a bar.
It's about making sure that everyone is safe when they go
out," Johnson said.
Since the law took effect, there has been a de-
News crease in underage drinking arrests, according
to the Gainesville Police Department's Web site.
Offenses for bars with a capacity of more
than 201 have plummeted about 75 percent, while arrests
at bars with a capacity of less than 201 have seen about a 46
percent decrease.
Lt. Keith Kameg, GPD spokesman, attributed the encour-
aging statistics to the cooperative effort between bars and
police and "the legislation's teeth."
"We want to make sure that Gainesville is a vibrant, yet
safe, community," he said. "The bars have been doing a really
great job working with us to make sure that this works."
Joseph Gloger, a Gainesville bouncer, was surprised at how
seriously owners and police are working to address the issue
and warns potential underage patrons of the consequences.
"They aren't messing around with this," he said, pointing to
the number of cops who go into establishments looking for any
illegal activity. "It's just not worth the risk."
C-
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,2009
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
Florida might be facing
lowly Charleston Southern
on Saturday, but the coach-
ing staff is still keeping the
Gators' starting lineups se-
cret.
Defensive coordinator
Charlie Strong said the battle
at safety between Will Hill
and returning starters Ah-
mad Black and Major Wright
remains too close to call.
Strong continued to refer to
all three of them as "starters"
on Thursday.
Offensive line is another
position yet to be solidified.
113 N. Main Downtown
372.5446
The Wine & Cheese Gallery
Pre-Game Brunch
12 PM *2 for Entree
F
"PAE The first
ever Africa Choir at the
University of Florida Open to ALL
students of the university.
Come and enjoy singing and performing
songs from the African Continent.
Meets every FRIDAY 3PM-4PM,
MUSIC BUILDING, ROOM 120
FIRST MEETING AND REGISTRATION:
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 4TH, 2009
NO
R(EGlnSTAnON Fore more information email
FEE duncan.wambugu@ufl.edu
ENVIRONMENTAL TRACK
in the
Depto.Of GeOIoical Sdenes
BadheloF of Arts degree program
Contact Dr. Joseph Meert (Jmeert@geologyufledu)
or*Dr. Matt Smith (msmith@geologyufledu)
or the Dept. of Geological Sciences at 392-2231UF WOMEN'S GOLF
Gators open season in DaytonaUF coaches refuse
to name startersBy KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
The Florida women's golf
team will tee off its season this
weekend in Daytona for the
Hooters Match Play Champion-
ship with a new coach and some
fresh new talent.
After 11 seasons as head coach
for the Gators, Jill Briles-Hinton
announced her resignation in
May, but UF was not without a
coach for long. Jan Dowling was
up for the challenge and named
head coach in June.
Dowling left her position as
an assistant coach at Duke to
head up the women's golf team
at UF.
Her experience as a college
and professional golfer will
prove helpful to the young Flor-
ida team.
"We all really like her," soph-
omore Evan Jensen said. "She
is very energetic and confident.We're all really happy with
her."
Returning players Jessica
Yadloczky, Andrea Watts,
Marika Lendl and Jensen have
already faced off in intense in-
trasquad practice rounds with
freshmen Ni-
cole Boyett,
Mia Piccio, Me-
gan Pak, Ame-
lia Lewis and
Isabelle Lendl.
"We have
such a young
Dowling team and there
is a lot of com-
petition within our team, so I'm
really excited about the year,"
Jensen said.
The first qualifier of the year
kept Yadloczky, a junior, out of
the season's first tournament.
"We had a qualifier and we
have a very competitive team
this year. You have got to play
very well to make the lineup,"
C=
Still need housing this Fall?
Ask about our Last Minute Move-In Special!
352.338.7467 13" STRE[T
Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!
F*9- " 0
U ATTENTION STUDENTS
FEE PAYMENT DEADLINE FOR FALL TERM Debit Cards
TODAY, 3:30 PM FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4TH
Pay on myUFL (my.ufl.edu) with MasterCard, American Express,
Discover or electronic funds transfer from your checking account. CASH
Place your personal check, cashier's check or money order in
the 24-hour Criser drop box,
S1 13 Criser Hall. Check
through mailEFT Cash & Debit payments will not be accepted or drop box
PAY EARLY ON myUFL TO AVOID DELAYS DUE TO INCREASED TRAFFIC
To avoid a $100 late payment fee. .pay by 3:30 PM TODAY!
For questions, contact University Financial Services 352-392-0181.Dowling said. "And unfortu-
nately, this year we'll have some
players who will stay home for a
tournament or two.
"It's all part of the grow-
ing process, and when you face
some adversity, you will get bet-
ter in the long run."
Despite the competition, the
women and their new coach are
showing signs of coming togeth-
er and growing, a key for a suc-
cessful season.
"They [the returners] help
with everything from the golf
game all the way down to the
academics and getting to know
the school," said Dowling. "Our
team has been great. They seem
to get along really well.
"The freshmen have a lot to
learn, not so much with their
golf game, but with being a stu-
dent-athlete at the University of
Florida. It's a huge asset to have
a group of upperclassmen who
are willing and helpful."All set to start Saturday are
Maurkice Pouncey at center,
Mike Pouncey at right guard
and Marcus Gilbert at right
tackle.
Carl Johnson will also start,
but his position will be dictat-
ed by who the
fifth lineman
is -left guard
Football James Wilson
or left tackle
Matt Patchan.
"I talked to [offensive
coordinator and line coach
Steve Addaziol, and he's not
going to announce," coach
Urban Meyer said Thursday.
"He says right now we have
six starters."
I
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
UF SOCCER
Gators start tough stretch after easy opening slate
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
So far this season, Becky Bur-
leigh's squad hasn't tipped its
hand.
The Gators have played three
games, and they've won all of them.
But those were better classified as
tune-ups, not measuring sticks.
Only one of the teams played in
last year's NCAA Championship
-Miami, a team that was bounced
in the first round.
When the Gators (3-0-0) take on
Indiana (3-0-0) today, that soft-op-
ponent trend will continue.
The Hoosiers were a below-.500
team last year, and although they
are unbeaten so far this season,
their victories have come againstteams from less-established confer-
ences like the Mid-American Con-
ference and the Missouri Valley
Conference.
But come Sunday, the Gators
will finally get a real test. Their
game against No. 8 UCLA (1-1-
1) will be the first of four straight
matchups against top-20 teams.
The Bruins are a powerhouse,
having won six straight Pacific-10
Conference titles. Last year's squad
made the NCAA semifinals before
losing to eventual national champi-
ons North Carolina 1-0.
UCLA has gotten off to a rough
start this year, getting trounced in a
season-opening rematch with No. 1
North Carolina 7-2, then tying No.
12 San Diego.
Keeper Katie Fraine said UF
does not see the Bruins' poor start"Playing a challenging
schedule gets you to know
your team really well and
exposes your weakness-
es.
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach
as evidence of a down year.
The Gators expect a tough non-
conference schedule. Since 2004, the
team has played 18 games against
preseason top-25 teams before
Southeastern Conference matchups
began.
"Playing a challenging schedule
gets you to know your team really
well and exposes your weakness-
es," Burleigh said.Burleigh said she schedules
tough opponents so her team can
prepare for SEC games, and Fraine
reiterated that point.
"If we play a bunch of wussy
teams before we go into our con-
ference, we're just going to get
our butts whooped (against SEC
teams)," she said.
Since 2004, the Gators are 42-
7-6 against SEC teams, while their
record in matchups with ranked
teams is a mediocre 7-7-1.
Most members of the team claim
their goal is to win the SEC cham-
pionship, but Burleigh's decision
to constantly flood UF's schedule
with top-tier opponents suggests
she is preparing the Gators for pos-
sible games in the later rounds of
the NCAA Championships.
During the next three weekends,the Gators will take on three teams
that reached the national quarterfi-
nals last year.
Burleigh said the team's ap-
proach to a game is the same re-
gardless of the opponent's quality,
but some of her players don't share
that opinion.
"It's easier for a team to get
pumped for a UCLA or a Duke
rather than an FlU," Fraine said.
Other players said their moti-
vation during offseason workouts
came from thinking about ranked
teams.
"(Before the season begins), we
prepare a little more for the top-20
teams because we know they're go-
ing to be a greater challenge than
maybe some of the other teams,"
sophomore Lindsay Thompson
said.
$23 Student Special
(includes golf cart)
Valid: Mon-Thurs (All Day)
Fri-Sun (After 11lam)
for an 18" XL a-topping pizza
Offer valid every monday following a Gator victory
from 10 am -3 am
IKONWGDD
G F L CO 7 Sr
Call 334-3120 For Your Tee Time Today
2100 NE 39th Avenue _BUm oEGET ONE FREE
Rgarupor cone with this ad
Contact us at [352] 373.4482.
alli gtorSmile.
Get Involved
Qualifyingfor a Student Senate Seat
September 3, 4, and 8 in room 284 of the Reitz
Union from 9 AM to 5 PM each day. Have a
picture ID. An informational meeting will be
held September I in room 361 of the Reitz
Union at 6:30 PM.
Applications for open positions are avail-
able on our website at www.sg.ufl.edu. Look
under Start Here on the front page or click on
Apply Here.
Student Body Elections
Vote for your Student Senators on September
29 or 30 between 8 AM and 8 PM. Find more
information at www.sg.ufl.edu/elections.SMOKERS
Ages 18 through 21
If you smoke a minimum of I cigarette per week, you can earn
$40 for less than 2 hours of your time by helping with a Duke
University and University of Florida at Gainesville study on
evaluating a booklet of information on genetic testing. Tasks involve
completing a short survey, participating in an interview about
genetic testing and smoking, and reading a booklet about genetic
testing and smoking. No classes, medications, or counseling involved.
If interested, and to see if you qualify, please call 352-273-2165
or go to http://www.psych.ufl.edu/-shepperd/surveys/gstmsurvey.html
Pro5950
.$100 12 oz. Draft Beer
Noon-6 p.m.
7 Days a Week
In shop only
with purchase of meu entree
W e 2124 SW 34th St
Deie mn Sweetbay Plaza
Sun.-Wed. Thurs.-Sat.672-6111 11AM-3AM 11AM-4AM
S COO0T ER FA113 1
Saturday * Sept 12th * 10 a.m. Inspection: one hour prior
232 Brand NEW SCOOTERS
Most still in shipping containers W_
ALL SELLING to the HIGH EST BIDD)E R! 42"
www.ewatdauctions.comEw %B 407-275-6853Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
ID. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome,
ABioitest
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
UTUE I INTSP CE
AT A USE OIL COLLECTION CENTER.
Fluridai Depatment of E environment Rugulati-n
Classifieds
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
in1 For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished furnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
The *
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fIr., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-18-09-36-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
PROF/GRAD STUDENT. All Amenities.
Studious & quiet. Safe & secure. $350/mo.
Leave message 333-8300. 9-4-09-14-1
1br/1ba in 4/4 luxury condo $369/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 9-10-12-13 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Aptfor rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three blks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1
DUCKPOND
Prof/grad student. fully furn large room in qui-
et house. Bike to campus. $350/mo. Leave
message 872-8388 9-4-09-10-1
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
lrg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
9-4-09-10-1
$300/mo.each 4 bdrm/2bath, washer &
dryer with utility pkg. CLEAN! @ University
Commons. 352-266-4114. 9-8-09-10-1
Beautifully Furnished 2/2 condo at Creeks
Edge, Ground floor, pool, 24hr gym, tennis
court, on RTS route 8, less than 2 miles to
campus, $1100 call 904-501-1990
9-8-09-10-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
Live in Luxury @ Windsor Park! Fully fur-
nished 3bed/3private bath poll view. Rent
includes: utilities, cable, high-speed inter-
net, washer/dryer, plus all amenities. ONLY
$399 CALL 305-984-4245 FOR MORE INFO
9-14-09-10-1
2 BR/ 2 pvt Bth Available in Rockwood Villas
3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of utilities.
FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit. On
bus route close to Oaks Mall. Call 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-16-09-12-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1
Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1Furnished., Windsor Park. ROOM $ 420 and
APT 1/1 $ 620 .2 mi from UF.All inclu. Elec,
TV,internet,gym, pool, W/Dry, Basketball,
.soccer & tennis courts.- 305-962-2525,
305-408-4330 -c2000_1@msn.com 9-8-
09-4-1
House for rent. Small, quiet and comfortable.
Renovated, open, modern floor plan. All new
fixtures. Ideal for one or two people. 1BR.
$560/mo. Available immediately. 125 SE
10th St. 316-6667 9-11-09-5-1
For Rent
unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1 BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $900* 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BIR $459 *2BR $539
No Move In Fees! Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor-
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by4 pm will appear two publica- rections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after the first
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unrnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
4O LLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75thStreet Cal332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOTI
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
*379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42s TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
G \
MEH @hiebub
New Life Community
Chapel
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
Phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
E Sc uEgGoMOThe Spirit of Yahweh
Got truth?
The Gospel: Raw Uncut 
&
UNHEARD!
Bible Study Every Saturday
www.yahshuah.com
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
located 104 NW 14th Street.
For full schedule of events visit
gatorwesley.com
Southwest United
Methodist Church
Open and inclusive, Family away
from home, Informal Worship,
Classes and activities will be
planned using student input.
Sunday worship 10:45am
2400 SW Williston Rd
352-378-4931I, D a emdm@
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
10am Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meeting at R.K. Yonge school
1080 SW 11th Street
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-
827$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale lbr-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 9-14-
09-68-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-8-09-
59-2We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
43-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
3BR $99 Moves you in! $750/mo
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-4-09-35-2
Attention
Alligator Advertisers!
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday,
September 7th due to the Labor Day holiday. The
Business Office will be working, but will not be
answering phones or accepting advertisements.
The DEADLINE
for Wednesday, September 9
is TODAY by 4:00pm
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display: 376-4482
Classifieds: 373-3463
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfrunished burnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
4/2 $99 Moves you in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-4-09-35-2
2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total.
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-4-09-35-2
Room $299. $99 first month.
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-4-09-35-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
POOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-18-09-36-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
29-2
3BR/1BA House Available August 1st. Cent
H/AC, ceiling fans, carport. $900/mo. 217
NW 36th Terrace. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-
6968 9-4-09-24-2
611 NW 34th Dr. Available August 1st.
3BR/2BA house. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans.
$950/mo. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968
9-4-09-24-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-8-23-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
25-2
Prime location Beautiful extra large 2BR/1 BA
unit M-21 Summit House 1700 SW 16th
Ave. Near UFNA/Vet/Shands. $600/mo.
Pool, parking. Private lease. 480-390-4528.
Deposit. 9-4-09-19-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $1095/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-18-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
1st month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
iBR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-21st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundlowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specialsr
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
Available Aug: Cute & Clean Vintage 4bd/
2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1350/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
9-8-09-17-2
HOUSE avail 1st wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1100/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-11-09-15-2
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
GET A FREE BEACH VACATION!
Large 2 BR 1.5 BA Townhomes
Close to UF & On 2 Bus Routes
Open House Everyday 359-6386
www.gopinnaclepoint.com
9-4-09-13-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 3 bed/3 bath $1,100.
Each room has a private bath. End unit in
quiet neighborhood. 2 pools, sand vball court,
tennis courts. Close to the mall, UF, and
SFCC. On bus route. Call 352.514.3424.
9-9-09-15-21 BR/1 BA available now. Near Shands. Large
screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. Pets ok.
$525/mo, $575 sec dep. 3300 SW 23rd St.
Apt #2. Call 352-371-3473, please leave
message. 9-4-09-12-2
2BR + small bonus room/1 BA. Near Shands.
Availalbe now. Large screened-in porch. W/D
hook-ups. $685/mo, $700 sec dep. 3300 SW
23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 please
leave message. 9-4-09-12-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2 Bedroom-2 Full Bath Modern Condo. One
Car Garage plus reserved parking. Tiffany
Condos -NW 23rd Blvd. $850 mo + $500 dep
tiffany@NFMLLC.com, 352-514-1800. Pics
at tinyurl.com/tiffany4 9-8-09-12-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*3BR/1 BA House
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
*2BR/1.5BA Townhouse
7130 SW 45th PI $600/mo.
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 9-4-09-
10-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-2
Townhouse 4/2/1/2 covered parking, swim-
ming,' exercise room, screened porches,
laundry hook ups,clean updated unit, pets
less than 40 lbs okay. $900 rent + deposit
Susan 352-262-4617. 9-4-09-9-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
4BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-2
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesvile. 2 miles from campus
and close to shops and restaurants. Apt in-
cludes washer, dryer, balcony, pool, and
alarm system. Available now. Call (561) 827
5358 9-8-09-10-2
$599. IBR with large study. Washer/
Dryer provided;upstairs; ceiling fans,
CHA, quiet, prefer grad student or profes-
sional; greenspace, parking, close to UF/
downtown. 1822 NW 10Oth St. 352 376 0080
9-8-09-10-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 3Bd/2Ba
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addl dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
Corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft Rent reduced to
$1400 + $1400/OBO dep. Motivated to rent!
Avail now. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956 9-9-09-10-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectively.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-22br/1ba House $795/mo walk to UF!
Located behind Norman Hall. Includes 2
parking spots, high speed internet, shared
washer/dryer. Renovated '09 -tile, paint,
appliances. Private owner 352-375-5975.
9-11-09-10-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-4-09-5-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
Looking for an affordable/spacious place to
live in SW Gville? Renovated 2BR/2BA apt
Archer Rd near UF, Butler Plaza, 1-75. Tile
fir in living/dining rms, kitchen & bath. Carpet
BRs. Short leases avail 352-262-2828 9-4-
09-5-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
2BR/1BA House on Large Wooded Lot.
Archer Rd/-75 area, $800/mo. and one
FREE month with lease. Safe family neigh-
borhood. New tile and carpet. Washer/
Dryer. E-mail MH575@Cox.net for more
info. 9-4-09-4-2
2/1 Available in NE Gville for $700/mo
Fenced yard, garage, house all redone inside
with new appliances, paint, fixtures, carpet/
tile. $1000 security, lease length negotiable.
Call 352-284-3961 9-8-09-5-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x1O 9-9-09-5-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $650/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 x10 9-9-09-5-2
2BR 1 BA Apts $550-600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
1BR 1BA Apt $450/Mo
1BLK TO UF, Central H &Air
Carpet, Laundry Facilities
1236 Sw 4th Avenue
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 9-9-09-5-2
OWNER
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, Fl.
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low [axes.
$269K
Call Gigi Taljall
@352-281 -0001
Watson Realty Corp.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
FrRn For Rent _Jes ~ t t uFre unfurnished Subleases Roommates Real EO nfurnishe~d unur1se
TOWER OAKS
2BR 1 BA Duplex $525/Mo
2210 Sw 70th Terrace
New Carpet, paint. Central H &
Air. Laundry hkups. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-9-09-5-2
HUGE 1BR available now
Terrazzo floors, close to UF & SFC. 4022
NW 7th. Flex lease. $425/mo A/C heat, close
to bus lines. 352-318-8822 9-9-09-5-2
5 bed, 3.5 bath large NW home
2 master suites, in-ground pool,
study, fireplace, remodeled in
2009, 2 car garage $1975 month
Smart Choice Realty 376-2779 9-9-09-5-2
2 bed, 2.5 bath furnished condo
5 miles to UF, $800 a month
3 bed, 2 bath condo, 4 miles to
UF, unfurnished, $875 month
Smart Choice Realty 376-2779 9-9-09-5-2
* 1BR condo, 2nd fIr. $625/mo;
* 2BR condo, 1stflrw/ patio $750/mo
Both newly remodeled. New appliances incl
built-in microwaves & W/D. 1 mi from UF.
772-801-9884 9-10-09-5-2Rent reduced Must see!,Quiet,1/2 mile UF,
2BR/2.5BA Twnhs,1200sf,4112 SW15thPI,
fenced yd, A/C,W/D hk-up, DW,Pets OK,
SW20th busline,$775/mo.Open Hse Sat-
Sun10-6, Aval now.352-378-6817,871-8205
9-10-09-5-2
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils incl $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 9-4-
09-2-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2
Greenleaf 2BR/1 BA, Tile living room & dining
rm, new carpet, paint, vaulted ceiling, walk-
in closets, W/D hook-up, corner unit, fenced
yard, quiet neighborhood. $675/mo + sec
dep. 332-8196 or 339-6177 9-9-09-5-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
2BR1.5BA townhouse for ren
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fi
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 9
9-30-09-18-2
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidE
'
us
I-
U
Si._UI
I
IIIt near UF,
replace, en-FEMALE wanted, $550 furnished, all-inclu-
sive sublease 1/1 in a 2/2 at JEFFERSON!
352-895-6346 or neha63@ufl.edu
9-8-09-10-3
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
Fully furnished/Utilities included Apt. @
The Estates. $520 or Best Offer. 1 Bdr/1
Bath available. Pets are welcomed. Call
678-478-0793 for more information. 9-10-
5-3
ftRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
04-524-3063 Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 9-18-09-35-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
rs" Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 9-8-
09-21-4
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
9-4-09-10-4
Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site. 505-9264 or 870-0904 9-4-09-14-
4
Female for upstairs 4/bed 4/bath Countryside
@ UF Condo fullyfurnished, $435 incl utilities
cable/internet W/D pool work-out fac. semes-
ter renter ok, great bus route. 904-612-3944
9-8-09-15-4
Roommate wanted to share 3br/2ba house
w/pool near UF campus. No pets, No smok-
ing-
$395/month +1/3 utilities.
Call 321-537-6212 for more info 9-8-09-15-
4
GREAT PRICE!
$380 & all utils incl. 1/1 avail in fully furn 4/4
apt. New carpet & paint, cable, wireless in-
ternet, pool, W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus
rts. Bus stop on site. 954-593-3063 9-4-09-
13-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$430/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-10-09-15-41 BR in 3BR/2BA GREENLEAF
Furnished condo. W/D, free TV cable. $350/
mo + 1/3 utils. Call 352-260-3359 9-10-09-
15-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
9-4-09-5-4
Female roommate needed, beautifully
renovated, furnished condo,1 mile
from UF, $399/MO includes cable,
internet, utilities, pool + fitness room
and on bus routes, 352 262-2871
9-4-09-10-4
$375 + divide utilities. 2 spacious rooms
avail. in 4/2 furnished house. Female college
student pref. 10 min from UF. Bus stop in
front of house & goes straight to UF. W/D in
house. Avail. immed. No pets 954-667-7290
9-9-2-4
FIRST MONTH FREE
Share 3br/2.5ba townhouse on SW 35th
PI with one roommate! $399/mo+1/2 utils,
cable, internet. Close to campus, great bus
route. Call Lee 239-353-9010(day) or 239
353-5340 (evenings). 9-9-09-10-4
Share furn T/H w/UF U/G. 3BR/2.5Ba M-M
lease. 1st & Last moves you in. $325 up-
stairs,$250 ground. No dogs. Screened patio
& pool. 786.514.5319/786.299.8626/
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-8-09-7-4
My roomate and I have two rooms avail-
able in a nice house. The house is only 3
miles from school and walking distance to
a busstop. We are looking for 2 female roo-
mates.rent is $400 for the bigger room and
$375 for the smaller. The house has a fenced
in back yard and is located in a great neigh-
borhood. Call Christina if you are interested
my number is 847 452 9874. 9-4-09-5-2
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4
Roommate needed. Private BR in quiet
house. Great for grad student. $350 + 1/3
util & 1 mo. deposit. DSL/cable/laundry/yard.
Midway between UF/SFC. 352-376-9200.
9-9-5-4
Verry cool roommate. Walk to UF. 2BR/1 BA.
$325/mo + utils & satelite. Furnished room,
with king-sized bed, desk and TV. Near
Norman Hall. Call Jim at 372-9411 or 215-
1164 9-9-09-5-4
Female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. Washer
& dryer included. On bus route. Non-
smoking, serious students only. $450 plus
utilities. 813-610-1698 9-17-10-4
r Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
2001 2BR/2BA Mobile Home
in Oak Park Village. Includes appliances,
10x10 shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687
9-8-09-20-5
A 4bdr 3ba $217/mo! HUD HOME! 3 bdrm
only $199/mo! Stop Renting! 5% dw, 15 yrs
@ 8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext
5669 9-4-1-5
A Bank Repo! 5bdr 3ba $317/mo! 3 br
Foreclosure! $199/mo!! 5% dw, 15 yrs @
8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext 5853
9-4-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 500+
FLORIDA Homes REDC I Free Brochure
www.Auction.com RE No. CQ1031187 9-4-
1-5
Owner Must Sell. 4+ acres- $57,300 Nice
oak trees, private access to lake. All utilities
in. Ready to build when you are! Financing
avail. Call now (866)352-2249. www.flland-
bargains.com 9-4-1-5
LAKEFRONT SALE 3+ ACRE
WATERFRONT only $34,900 DOCKABLE!
8/29/09 Save $10,000! Wooded park- like
setting on one of Alabama's top recreational
lakes. All amenities complete. Boat to Gulf
of Mexico. Excellent Financing Call now
(866)952-5339 www.grandviewharbor.com
9-4-1-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
16, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,2009
Furnishings For Sale 11 Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
05 PC Bedroom set -$275
ODining table w/ four chairs -$125
*Queen & Full mattress sets -$90/set
Call Billy 215-3403 9-9-09-14-6
Like New White Metal Weight Bench, as-
sembled, ready to use, no weights included.
$50.00 or best offer.Tel333-1170. 9-8-4-6PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
OSOOJET BOATOOO
'97 14 SeaDoo, 4-5 seater, perfect for lakes,
rivers, intercoastal. Runs great, looks great!
Must sell, moving. Comes w/ wakeboard, ski
rope & skis. $6500/OBO Call 352-316-1637
9-4-09-10-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $1 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-11-09-8-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 9-4-1-10
METAL ROOFING. 40 yr Warranty-Buy di-
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock,
w/all accessories. Quick turn around.
Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg,
(888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com
9-4-1-10
Computers cycleviopeds
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
COMTPUTERS
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Lexmark Inkjet Cartridges
5 Black #4 / 3 Color #5
(Paid $250) $150 Take All
(941)916-1912 9-9-5-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
*Best Prices in Town*
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PARKING SPACES
FOR RENT $60/mo.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968 9-4-09-24-
10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Call for se-
mester rates: 352-538-2454. 9-4-09-14-10***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2006 49cc Venus Scooter: runs great, de-
pendable, 90 miles per gallon, fully serviced,
and has a metropolitan look. Bought it for
$1,400 and selling it for $850 352-328-6122CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
'02 NISSAN MAXIMA
142K miles. 1 owner. $6000. Call 352-475-
2063 or 352-215-1399 9-4-09-5-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED
BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free
Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.
ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible,
Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.
9-4-1-12
Acura Integra 98 $500! Honda Civic 01
$550! Nissan Altima 99 $500! Toyota Corolla
02 $500! Police Impounds! For listings call
(800)366-9813 ext 9275. 9-4-1-12
W Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-11-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-11-09-74-13
Volunteers Wanted -Horses Helping People
is seeking volunteers for therapy and horse-
back riding program. Please email awalnes@
gmail.com or view our webpage at www.
horseshelpingpeople.org. 9-8-5-14
9-4-6-11H
E ll At M F Hep Wanted
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetingsLIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Executive Assistant- Crime Prevention
Security experiencing huge growth, great
career opportunity! Experience preferred.
Background check, drug test & valid FL
Drivers License required. Great benefits! Fax
resume to Jessica @ 376-9236
9-9-09-14-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2009
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-4-09-11-14
Brand new start-up company is looking
for Reps in ALL areas. We train & support
at no cost. Be your own boss. Make the
fortune you've dreamed of. No $ to start.
http://stokton.org/vacancies.htm 9-10-
09-14-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
MOSES MEDIA INC. has 18 immedi-
ate openings for National Internet Sales
Reps for our downtown office. Will train.
Commission based. Applicants must have
great communication skills, be self motivated
and computer literate. Telemarketing exp. a
plus. Please call Mr. Williams 352-337-2800
94-9-10-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
Long hair models needed Work in a easy
going beautiful outdoor setting. Hip length
and longer only. No exp. ness. earn $80-300
while enjoying the day. 352 792-1824
9-4-09-10-14Consultants wanted at the Center for
Instructional Technology and Training at the
University of Florida to assist in Faculty lab.
Applicants must be familiar with Windows
and MS Office, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver.
A friendly and cheerful attitude is essential
for this customer service position. Pay
starts at $8.00/hour. Contact Jennifer Smith
jksmith@ufl.edu, online application at:
http://www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php.
9-4-10-14
WEB GRAPHIC ARTISTS wanted at the
UF Center for Instructional Technology and
Training. Develop your portfolio! Please visit
our website for more information. Schedule
is flexible; pay starts at $10.00 per hour. Call
392-7249 ext 230, online application at http://
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php
9-4-10-14
MOTHERS HELPER
2:30-6 weekdays for 13 and 11 y/o kids.
References and reliable car
required. 352-379-1017.
9-4-09-10-14
einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotes@gmail.com 9-10-09-3-
14
I MOTNTEDE
John F. Reed, Jr
White Male
(DOB 11/29/73); 6'00",
195 lbs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Burglary, Felony
Criminal Mischief and
Petit Theft
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPOFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Help Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted Services personal
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-9-09-10-14
Gatorfood is looking for drivers for the fall.
Get paid quick- collect all tips and delivery
fees in cash each night! Must be 21 and have
a clean driving record. Please call (352) 379-
3663 for more information. 9-4-6-14
Publication Designer Wanted
Design printed program flyers and online
sports-theme magazine for Easton-Newberry
Sports Complex in Newberry. PT to start w/
FT possible. Exp with Mac software desired.
Resume: dougengh@teacharchery.org
9-8-7-14
Responsible, loving, fun and smart part-time
after school nanny for two children, one in
elementary school and one in middle school.
Older child has Asperger's.
Pick-up from school. Transport to activities.
Help with homework. Act as role-model.
Required: OT, Speech, Psych or Special
Ed background, or other experience with
Asperger's children
Hours: 3:00p until the end of the day (be-
tween 5:00p and 7:00p, depending on the
day), M-F
Rate: $12 per hour
Send resume to: pflugg@bellsouth.net
9-4-09-5-14
be part of $7trillion industry!
spring break on a budget!
away football games on a budget!
pay for tuition!
visit-www.trips-net.net/bdazzled 9-4-09-5-
14
Campus Marketing Position
Want to work for HP but haven't got a degree
yet? Be a campus ambassador and get paid
to promote the brand on your campus.
Apply at: www.repnation.com/hp 9-10-09-
8-14
B O O K K E E P E R / R E C E P T I OIN I S T/
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Receptionist/fileclerk/runnerfor busy lawfirm.
Must be organized, motivated, teamplayer w/
positive attitude, reliable transportation. p/t
or f/t Resume: mel@millerbrasington.com.
9-4-09-5-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
SHIPPING TECH
Full or part time. Must be dependable. Prior
experience a plus. Please send resume to
hr@gleim.com or apply online at www.gleim.
com 9-15-09-10-14
BARTENDERS, WAITSTAFF & COOKS
Scores Bar & Grill
1 W University Ave. Apply in person 2-5pm.
9-8-09-5-14
** MARTIAL ARTS INSTR. WANTED **
For growing TKD/MMA school
in Gville. Friendly, energetic
person. Experience preferred.
Leave msg at (352) 375-0700
9-8-09-5-14
THE RED ONION
Now accepting applications for server &
kitchen positions; experience necessary.
Apply in person only, before 11am or after
2pm. Located in the Uptown Village Apts on
NW 39th Ave. & 24th Blvd 9-4-4-14
LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. Experience
preferred. Great benefits. Must be avail.
afternoons & weekends. Apply in person.
Spyglass Apartments. DFWP
12-9-09-67-14Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college. For a confidential inter-
view, call 1-800-577-2021 & please leave
your name & number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Afterschool help needed for busy 16-year-
old special needs girl. Experience and clean
driving record a must, background check re-
quired. 6-9 hours per week, $12 per. Apply to
macphaulkids@bellsouth.net. 9-4-09-3-14
Leasing Agent- Part Time position. Looking
for energetic, fun, outgoing, responsible can-
didates with great customer service skills.
Stop by Towne Parc apts to fill out an ap-
plication. For more info call 352-375-3072
9-9-5-14
Doggie Daycare Needs Canine Caretakers
Must be comfortable working with groups of
dogs. Sat. availability a must. Apply in per-
son. Off SW 34th next to bowling alley. www.
campmarlin.com, 352-376-9544 9-9-09-5-
14
Help wanted for one serious hardworking
and trustworthy UF student. Gen or const
labor, exp with electrical & plumbing, carpen-
try, chainsaw & heavy lifting. Part time flex-
ible hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-4-09-3-14
Spanish/English bilinguals wanted for re-
search study at UF. Pays $40. Must speak
Spanish better than English and be 18-40
years old. If interested, e-mail
ufaphasialab@gmail.com 9-4-09-3-14
Fan Photographers needed for UF
football home games! Email to apply
ufphotomanagerl @gmail.com. Fan pho-
tographers motivate and excite fans to take
photos that are viewable on gatorzone.com
in a partnership with UF. $7.50/hour plus
productivity bonus drives hourly rate to $12-
$20/hour. Equipment provided.
9-15-09-8-14
PT Nanny for 3.5 yr old boy. Mon/Wed/Thurs
7-8:30 am & Tues 5-6:30 pm. Minimum 1 yr
commitment. Background check & referenc-
es required; CPR & experience preferred.
Must be nonsmoker with car & cell phone.
Excellent salary. 225-3349. 9-4-09-5-14
$10/hour to participate in a study of how
we perceive speech sounds from other
languages. Email: spl.ufl@gmail.com
9-8-09-3-14
PART TIME -
APPROX 4 HOURS PER WEEK $8/HR.
EMAIL CPLEDGER@NAYBOR.US
FOR MORE DETAILS 9-4-2-14
Personal Care for physically disabled woman
Weekends 3pm -11pm. Background & CPR
Email resume to berrycoworker@yahoo.com
Call 377-7417 9-9-09-4-14
HANDYMAN NEEDED
Carpentry, painting, electric $10/hr.
Call 224-5990 9-10-09-5-14
SANDY'S SAVVYCHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRING. Great working environment.
PT/FT positions available. $7.25-$7.50/hr +
incentives. 352-372-1226 -2906 NW 13th St
9-10-09-5-14
RV delivery drivers needed. Deliver RVs,
boats and trucks for PAY! Deliver to all 48
states and CN. For details log on to www.
RVdeliveryjobs.com 9-4-1-14
PTL OTR Drivers. New Pay Package! Great
Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months experience
required. No felony or DUI past 5 years.
(877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 9-4-1-14
Seeking motivated sales coordinator to fa-
cilitate sales teams growth and expansion.
This position requires a detail oriented, or-
ganized motivated individual with a deep
understanding of the sales process and
customer service satisfaction. Proficient in
all Microsoft applications and able to quickly
learn customized software bachelors degree
preferred but not required for the right candi-
date. Please submit resume with cover letter
and expected salary to
tguynn@perryroofing.com. 9-10-09-4-14SDR Auditor
Seeking serious, responsible detailed per-
son for part-time position at corp. Must work
some weekends. send resume to
flhenry@lifesouth.org 9-11-09-5-14
W lServices
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
PRESSURE WASHING & PAINTING
Serving FL for more than 10 yrs!Unbeatable
Prices!!Call today@(352)219-4944 for
your free estimate. We offer wall papper
hanging,Concrete Staining,Dry Wall,Tile &
Cleaning as well. 9-4-4-15
PHYSICS TUTOR, PhD physicist with pri-
vate college teaching experience available
for tutoring in general physics.
d.alderman.barlow@gmail.com 9-4-2-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers! One Call -
One Order -One Payment The Advertising
Networks of Florida -Put Us to work for You!
(866)742-1373 www.national-classifieds.
com, info@national-classifieds.com 9-4-1 -
15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (866)858-2121, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 9-4-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 9-4-1-15
CRIMINAL RECORD? MISDEMEANOR,
FELONY? Have them expunged for $99.95,
30 to 60 daysincluding DUI's. Get a Fresh
Start Today. Call (800)621-4889 24/7days.
9-4-1-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
* * PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES * *
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
CHACOS
Great sandal for walking all over campus.
Adjustable straps for a custom fit & they last a
long time. Flip flops too! Lloyd Clarke Sports
1504 NW 13th St. 352-372-7836 9-4-10-18
BOARDSHORT SALE!
Awesome colors & prints all on sale.
Billabong, Quiksilver, Element, Fox, Hurley &
Oakley. Check it out. Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1
mile N. on 13th St. 9-4-10-18
MODELS NEEDED
Hair and Fashion. No exp.
Editorial and photo. 331-4340.
EINSTEINS 600 NW 75th St. "C' 9-8-10-18
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
COMIC BOOKS!
Low prices, huge selection. New comic sup-
scription service. Hoyt's Cosmos of Comics.
501 NW 23rd Ave. 352-378-0182.
cosmosofcomics.com 9-4-1-21
Tickets
C rHealth Services I
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus onBOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 9-30-09-
18-22
MF_ Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16 Pets
3 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18u rry, ea ery, sca y. no, no your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Tri-County Bird Hospital
Recept/Tech PT for more info call 352-318-
1247. Apply in person Mon thru Fri. 9-4-
09-10-24
Sports
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.a II igator.org/sports
Picks
Column
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Saturday 7 p.m.
TV/RADIO: SUN/FSN/WRUF
AM850
The alligatorSports Brand Picks
Column is a long-standing tradition
at our newspaper, the beginnings of
which can be traced back through
generations of student sportswriters.
So naturally, we decided to shake
it up a little bit this semester.
We spit in the face of tradition.
No more interviews with lei shop
owners in Hawaii, Uga handlers in
Georgia or whiskey distillery manag-
ers in Tennessee.
From now on, we'll start out Picks
Column with what we love most -
arguing -but we'll still end it with
some good, old-fashioned insults.
Each week, two of our writers will
debate one of the most highly contest-
ed games in this column, and to add
some legitimacy to our little opera-
tion, we've added five "professional"
Florida beat writers to our picks sec-
tion.
Oh, and this year we're picking
against the spread, because we're
men, and this is America.
ALABAMA WILL EASILY WIN BY
MORE THAN 6.5 POINTS VS. VIRGINIA
TECH BECAUSE. I'm not sure how
anyone could seriously consider pick-
ing Virginia Tech in this one.
The Hokies come from an inferior
conference, and Darrell Evans, their
star running back, will be on crutch-
es.
Sure, Alabama is breaking in start-
ers at quarterback and left tackle,
but wide receiver Julio Jones will
make their jobs easier. The 6-foot-4,
210-pound playmaker will take ad-
vantage of whichever 5-foot-11 cor-
nerback is covering him.
Also, Virginia Tech has never won
a game in the Georgia Dome, where
the game will be played.
Don't worry about the fact that the
Hokies have only played there once.
They still lost that game and will lose
big to Alabama. -BOBBY CALLOVI
SEE PICKS, PAGE 19Tebow's farewell tour begins Saturday
* THE SENIOR QB HAS
SEVEN GAMES LEFT IN THE
SWAMP.
By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator org
Take a long, hard look at
Tim Tebow when he walks out
onto the field Saturday. He just
might be staring back.
Saturday marks the start of
the senior's farewell tour, and
the Heisman Trophy winner is
going to be soaking up every
minute of his last go-around.
"It's special," Tebow said.
"The most memorable part for
me is I wait until the end and I
get to see everyone run out (of
the tunnel). And then I hear the
roar. That's what makes it the
most special."
The praise hasn't stopped
since UF knocked off Oklahoma
to win the BCS National Cham-
pionship Game back on Jan. 8.
The No. 1 Gators have been
showered with accolades. They
racked up a historic 58 out of 60
votes in The Associated Press's
preseason poll. And No. 15 once
again tops the watch list for ev-
ery award under the sun.
Saturday's season opener
against Football Championship
Subdivision opponent Charles-
ton Southern should only fuelAndrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Tim Tebow will start his third season opener for the Gators against Chalreston Southern. Team-
mates and coaches say the senior quarterback is healthy for the first time in his career.
the fire.
The Buccaneers, who were
7-5 last season and finished fifth
in the Big South Conference, are
more than 60-point underdogs.
"I think I would love to go
play another Miami or some-
thing -that's a rivalry game
and intense and fun," Tebow
said. "But this is also a game
where we can work on things,sharpen up, get ready, try to be
crisp and play. It's the first op-
portunity. You want to get that
under your belt and see what
you've got."
Charleston Southern fell to
Miami 52-7 in the 2008 season
opener.
There might not be much
drama in The Swamp on Satur-
day, but there are still plenty ofthings for Gators fans to keep
an eye on.
Matt Patchan and James Wil-
son are fighting for a starting
job on the offensive line.
Jeff Demps was named the
starter at running back, but is
only narrowly holding off ad-
vances from Chris Rainey and
Emmanuel Moody.
SEE FOOT, PAGE 20
Florida's dominant talent demands a tougher schedule
he supposed best team in college foot-ball, what many call one of the best
teams ever, is about to begin one of
the easiest schedules in the country.
I couldn't be more disappointed.
Really, Florida?
Charleston Southern, Troy, FIU and the
annual matchup with Florida State.
I realize there is no incentive for the
Gators to schedule a heavyweight non-con-
ference game. Schedules are made years in
advance.
Running undefeated through a soft slate
is rewarded in the current BCS system.
But UF could've done more. Just because
it could.
Just because it returns every defensive
starter and is solid on offense despite a lack
of depth at receiver.
You've got possibly the best college foot-Phil Kegler
Phil on the Hill
pkegler@aligator orgball player of all time,
and the combined re-
cord of your non-con-
ference opponents is
29-21 (.580)?
It's a shame, be-
cause Florida could
make a statement.
To be the best, you
need swagger.
You need a take-on-all-comers attitude,
even without any outside incentive.
For me, scheduling is one of my favorite
aspects when I start a new dynasty in EA
Sports' NCAA Football video game. I strive
to get the computer to rate my strength of
schedule as an A or possibly even an A+.
Certainly, I use some suicidal moves to
get there -scheduling several top-10 non-
conference opponents, including a few onthe road.
But in my mind, I'm usually playing
with a pretty good team, and I want the
challenge of feeling like I'm the best.
I want to be pushed week-in and week-
out.
The Gators could take a page from that
line of thinking and learn something from
their heated rival in Athens.
Georgia, ranked No. 13 in the preseason
polls, opens its season by playing at No. 9
Oklahoma State then comes home the next
week to immediately start its SEC schedule
against South Carolina.
Two weeks later, UGA hosts Arizona
State as the second half of a home-and-
home series (the Bulldogs won 27-10 in
Tempe, Ariz., in 2008). Georgia caps off its
non-conference schedule with its in-state
SEE PHIL, PAGE 19
U Check out a preview of the soc-
cer team's weekend matches on
Page 11 as well as coverage of the
women's golf team and a football
notebook on Page 10.U Check out our podcast tonight on the epic
UF-Charleston Southern matchup. Expect
thrilling insider information from Kyle Mais-
tri, Phil Kegler and Mike McCall with host
Adam Berry. Check it out on iTunes.H Jim Tressel spoke up in defense of Rich Rodriguez. Translation: "Let's not start
poking around too much, cuz my guys are working hours that would make coal
miners cry." .Miss. HS DE Kaleb Eulls saved a busload of students when he
tackled a 14-year-old girl who pulled a gun. Eulls' act was heroic, but are we sure
he wasn't jumping in front of her to get out of his commitment to Miss. State?
PICKS, from page 18
VIRGINIA TECH WILL OBVIOUSLY COVER THE
6.5-POINT SPREAD BECAUSE. Alabama hasn't defeat-
ed an ACC school to open a season since. one year
ago. OK, the Tide are the obvious favorite to win this
game, but I think the Hokies can keep it close enough
to cover the 6.5-point spread. VT plays solid defense
every year, commits to special teams and has a dy-
namic dual-threat quarterback named Tyrod Taylor.
Florida disposed of Alabama in last year's SEC
Championship Game using the same formula: tough
defense, a commitment to special teams and a dual-
threat quarterback whose initials are TT.
-KYLE MAISTRI
Now, on to the picks!
Representing the Alligator, we have our five
sprightly young football writers:
Mike "I can sense even the smallest human suf-
fering" DiFerdinando, who will be trading in his Red
Bull and cereal for hand lotion and tissues when Zac
Robinson and his beloved Oklahoma State Cowboys
take on Georgia this weekend.
Bobby "I never have to worry about a DUI" Callo-
vi, who, at the age of 21 and the height of 5-foot-6, still
needs the rest of us to drive him around. He can drink
alcohol, but he's still a growth spurt away from being
allowed to sit in the front seat.
Phil "Go big, but mostly just go home" Kegler,
who admittedly drank nothing but Bud Light on his
weeklong trip to Vegas, where alcohol is free.
Mike "Draft to trade" McCall, who spitefully took
a second defense in our office fantasy NFL draft be-
cause he was outbid on David Garrard as his third
quarterback in a one-QB league.
Kyle "I finally made it past midnight" Maistri, who
recently broke his Joe DiMaggio-like streak of passing
out before the change of day during a party in whichliquor was prominently involved.
Representing the outside world that unfathomably
exists beyond the Alligator, we have our five aging
beat writers:
From the Palm Beach Post, welcome Ben "Back to
school" Volin, who couldn't stay away from college-
aged girls, so he enrolled in an MBA program.
From the Jacksonville Times-Union, welcome Mike
"I'm a man, I'm 39" DiRocco, who is the longest-ten-
ured beat writer in this column, and quite possibly the
western hemisphere.
From the Orlando Sentinel, welcome Jeremy
"Strictly business" Fowler, who was the only one not
to laugh after he asked Urban Meyer if Matt Patchan's
assessment of Lane Kiffin as a bozo was accurate.
From the Miami Herald, welcome Joe "Is a three-
piece too formal?" Goodman, who may not outreport
you, but he'll certainly outdress you.
And last and coincidentally least, from the
Gainesville Sun, welcome Ed "Drunk, equal-oppor-
tunity Casanova" Aschoff, who "apparently" made
out with three different girls of varying ethnicities the
other night.
MD BC PK MM KM
UGA (+55) at OSU OSU OSU OSU OSU OSU
BUL (+2 5) at WF BUL BUL WF WF WF
MIZZ (+6 5) vs ILL ILL ILL ILL MIZZ ILL
BYU (+22) vs OU BYU OU OU OU OU
BAMAvs VT(+65) BAMA BAMA BAMA BAMA VT
MID(+215) at CAL MID MID MID MID MID
UC (+6) at RU UC RU UC RU UC
MIA (+6) at FSU FSU MIA FSU FSU FSU
UN (+14 5)at ND ND ND UN ND UN
CSULI(+63) at UF CSUL UF CSUL CSUL UF
UGA (+55) at OSU
BUL (+2 5) at WF
MIZZ(+65)vs ILL
BYU (+22) vs OU
BAMAvs VT(+65)
MD (+215) at CAL
UC (+6) at RU
MIA (+6) at FSU
UN (+145) at ND
CSU (+63) at UFBV
OSU
BU
ILL
OU
VT
MD
UC
FSU
UN
CSUMD
OSU
WF
ILL
OU
BAMA
MD
UC
FSU
ND
CSUJF
UGA
WF
ILL
BYU
BAMA
MD
UC
FSU
ND
CSUJG
UGA
BUL
ILL
BYU
VT
CAL
RU
MIA
ND
UFEA
OSU
BU
ILL
OU
VT
CAL
RU
FSU
ND
UF
352-378-7033
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
-- .Saturda.
Free Beer
L eiv-61ESPN GAME DRy
NNATCH ALL THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION
Feel like you're at the Gator Games
with our BOSE SPEAKERS-\
bringing you all the action
Game Time Specials: $2 Domestic Drafts -
$4 Jager Shots
Visit our website for additional specials.
Wings, burgers, gatar bites, and more.a1Lgg4qports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.
+L
0OrL 01 %dash1 Donate rlasmal! iho sands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
a, a "Where It Pays to Care"FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
PHIL,frompage18
rival, Georgia Tech.
Obviously rivalry games are hit-and-miss as to their
quality, but this year, the Bulldogs face a tough matchup
playing at the 15th-ranked Yellow Jackets, whose triple-
option offense ran all over the field last year, racking up
409 rushing yards in a 45-42 victory.
While Saturday's opener against Charleston Southern
gives Florida a chance to ease into the fall, receiver David
Nelson admits he wouldn't mind playing in a marquee
game early in the year.
"When you play a team the caliber of Oklahoma State's
from different conferences -teams you don't ever get to
play but you get to see on TV -it would be fun to play a
team like that every once in a while," Nelson said.
It would ease one problem -trying to decide when to
call off the dogs. Last year, Meyer took heat for kicking a
late, meaningless field goal against Miami, a 26-3 win.
If it was up to Nelson, he would play the whole game
Saturday, and not because he has a desire to run up the
score on the Bucs.
When you're playing in one of your last seven games
inside The Swamp, wouldn't you like to play more than
a half?
There's a chance Nelson and plenty of other starters
won't see any fourth-quarter playing time in at least three
of the seven home games (Charleston Southern, Troy,
FIU).
The solution is simple.
Don't leave it to the analysts. Don't leave it to people
judging stats against subpar opponents.
Prove it where it should be proven.
Do it on the field.
The
ar &(ri
HOUSE
Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk.01 11 10 W."
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,2009
Meyer: Backups are ready
FOOT, from page 18
Major Wright, Ahmad Black and Will Hill are locked in
a three-way competition for two starting spots at safety.
New offensive coordinator Steve Addazio will call
plays for the first time as he tries to replace Mississippi
State coach Dan Mullen. The second half will likely be-
long to John Brantley and a host of new faces.
"It will be a little easier to put (younger
players) in (this year)," Meyer said. "Our
first year, second year it was a little more
difficult to put guys in because you're go-
Footbal ing to put that thing in reverse. We can't let
that happen."
The Gators are 14 games, 56 quarters and
840 minutes away from the end of the 2009 football season
and a potential run at college football history.
Regardless of how the chips fall, there is at least one
guy who's going to enjoy every second of it.
"There are seven more opportunities to run out of that
tunnel," Tebow said. "I'm going to cherish every oppor-
tunity, every minute, every chance I get to be on that field
and play with those guys. I'm going to make it special and
leave everything out there."
AvMED
Health plans with
your health
in mind.
* Expanded provider network
* No deductible/no co-insurance
* No referrals
* Retail Clinic Care -Pay your PCP
co-payment at AvMed-participating
clinics in Florida
* 24/7 Member Services and
24/7 Nurse On Call
* Worldwide emergency coverage
* Weight WatchersTM Reimbursement
program
* Discounts on gym memberships,
massage therapy, yoga and more
For more information,
call 1-888-762-8633
or visit AvMed's Web Site at
www.avmed.org/go/state/welcome.asp
AvMED
H E A L T H P L A N SUF VOLLEYBALL
Biggest test so far is familiar foe
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
It's been nine months since Stan-
ford eliminated Florida from the
NCAA Tournament, but it seems as
if the Gators have eliminated their
memories of that game.
Tonight, No. 5 UF (3-0) will have
a chance at redemption as it faces No.
11 Stanford (2-1) at 8 p.m. as part of
the Community Bankers Classic in
Stockton, Calif., and will face either
Pacific or San Jose State on Saturday
night, depending on the result of to-
night's match.
But the Gators seem to have for-
gotten about last season's loss and
are taking a different approach to
their first big test of the season.
"We haven't talked too much
about it," senior libero Elyse Cusack
said. "This isn't a revenge match or
anything like that; it's just a great
opportunity to play a great team like
Stanford."
Since their last meeting in the
round of 16 on Dec. 12, both teams
I (A PLANhave changed.
Two UF starters from that De-
cember game, middleblocker Kelsey
Bowers and setter Cindy Bathelt,
have graduated and transferred,
respectively. However, sophomore
middle blocker Cassandra Ander-
son and transfer setter Brynja Rod-
gers have helped
make up for the
losses at those po-
sitions.
Anderson is
currently leading
the team in blocks
with eight and
cusack Rodgers is aver-
aging 21 assists
per match to help fill the void those
two left.
The Gators have also added a
year of experience that will especial-
ly help the five freshmen who were
part of last season's team.
"I think one thing that we lacked
last year was experience," Cusack
said. "We are starting to play more
together as a team because we have
played with each other for a yearnow."
Sophomores Kelly Murphy, Col-
leen Ward and Kristy Jaeckel have
proven to be three of the team's top
players this year. All three players
have already notched at least one
double-double in their first three
games of the season.
"A lot of times, players make the
biggest strides between their fresh-
man and sophomore years," coach
Mary Wise said. "They are more
physical, they are hitting the ball
harder and they are jumping high-
er."
Meanwhile, Stanford seems to
have regressed since its last match
with the Gators.
The Cardinal saw two AVCA
First-Team All-Americans, Cynthia
Barboza and Foluke Akinradewo,
graduate. Both players were alter-
nates for the United States in the
2008 Olympics.
Those losses have been huge for
the Cardinal this year, as the team
has already been pushed to five sets
by LSU and fell in straight sets by
Notre Dame.
TEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONS
GMAT GRE LSAT
MCAT DAT OAT PCAT
M= ,d t- -Ik If thl I, fQ- -1 es -I, t. 3'- -GRE M11 .1 C, '- I's .11, 11 'IS" 1.11- -11 --11.1,
TLI-11, , -I -- P-1, -I -- -, I b-Ile- Allg- 1E pt-- 15 2- C -h-, "'t, ;
ct e 'ff""at, P-,t, , th- K ,I , 1 11 2DO9 Ch- 1- El, -p , tC-i1-s ,d s , I -ppl, F,,-p -g .ztee elib 1, ,q, -t, , "t k.p_
Tt I I h t,, ppl- ,I t, Kp a, .lak l 11 1-pl-d It- t, U,, --d 31,ta, P,-- t, R- Z .d, M,.- h, U, Izd K,,gd- ,d F,-, GR -D
PREP SMARTER, SCORE HIGH ER-GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK.'
3, KICKOFF, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,2009
SEC TV deal steals spotlight TV Deals for BCS Conferences
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
College football is finally back, and the South-
eastern Conference hopes to keep its reputation as
the nation's best league.
With two historic television deals signed in the
offseason, the 12 teams will have plenty of chances
to make their case from coast to coast.
The SEC signed 15-year contracts with ESPN
and CBS -worth $2.25 billion and $825 million,
respectively -during the offseason to showcase its
athletes nationwide.
Florida coach Urban Meyer likes the fact the
Gators will be seen in even more places this fall
but guards against overextending their recruiting
focus.
"Our job's not to go on a national level and re-
cruit," Meyer said. "Now we'll cherry Spick, and I
tell our guys: It better be a first-rounder for us to go
do that because there's plenty of great football play-
ers within five hours of our school.
"I do believe [the TV deals] will help, but what
I don't want to have happen is [national recruiting]
be our focus because now all of a sudden we're on
TV somewhere."
The CBS deal extends its current status as the
national broadcast network and will show one SEC
game per week at 3:30 p.m. on Saturdays.
But now one 12:30 p.m. game per week will be
shown on ESPN Regional Television, which is syn-
dicated to more than 66 million households in 75
different markets.
The so-called SEC Network will be ESPN's
third-largest "channel" from noon to 3:30 p.m. on
Saturdays, according to a ESPN press release, avail-
able in more homes than ESPNEWS or ESPNU dur-ing that block. There also will be a new SEC-focused
pregame show at noon with Rob Stone and Matt
Stinchcomb. This SEC Network will debut with
Western Kentucky-Tennessee on Saturday.
Of the league's 12 season openers, only one will
be carried only on in-state pay-per-view (Missouri
State-Arkansas). Nine will be carried on ABC or an
ESPN network, including the first game of the sea-
son Thursday night (South Carolina-N.C. State).
"Opening games are really different," Auburn
coach Gene Chizik said. "It's almost overkill be-
cause you've got so much film you've watched over
the summer and in the preseason. You've watched
about every game you can watch, which some-
times is a little bit too
SOUTHEASTERN much."
Only four SEC
schools (South Caroli-
na, Georgia, Alabama,
COFERENCE LSU) are facing an
opponent from a BCS
conference in the first week, but two of those feature
premier matchups between ranked teams -No. 13
Georgia plays at No. 9 Oklahoma State on Saturday
at 3:30 p.m., while No. 5 Alabama plays No. 7 Vir-
ginia Tech in the Georgia Dome at 8 p.m.
Alabama coach Nick Saban said national expo-
sure was a big reason the Crimson Tide agreed to
play the Hokies in the neutral-site Chick-fil-A Col-
lege Kickoff. Last year, Alabama participated in the
same event, using a 34-10 upset over preseason No.
9 Clemson to make a statement en route to going
undefeated until the SEC Championship Game.
"I certainly think that last year our team prob-
ably didn't know how good they could be," Saban
said. "The national exposure that we get from play-
ing in games like this enhances overall exposure
and helps recruiting everywhere."c om p any l en g th a m t.
ESPN 15 yrs. $2.25 b
CBS 15 yrs. $825 m
ABC/ESPN 7 yrs. $258 m
Raycom 10 yrs. $300 m
__P R I41_
co pn legt amt.-
ABC/ESPN* 5 yrs.$125 m
Fox Sports 5 yrs. $97 m
ABC/ESPN* 6 yrs. $52.5 m
Source: Sports Business Journal_B flr_6TVE N
c om p any l en g th a m t.
Big Ten 25 yrs. $2.8 b
ABC/ESPN 10 yrs. $1 b
CBS 10 yrs. $20 m
ABC/ESPN 8 yrs. $480 m
Fox Sports 4 yrs. $78 m
c om p any l en g th a mt .
ABC/ESPN 6 yrs. $200 m.
*First ref. is football,
second is basketball
Jessica Warshaver Alligator Staff
U[T RATHIN
POCKE -51ZE CARD'im iI mIw,The new Trojan® 2GO* condom card. Two premium Trojan condoms,
one sleek package. Fits discreetly in your wallet. Available at checkout.
To find Trojan 2GO at a store near you, go to TroianCondoms.com
@2009 Church & Dwight Co, IncAny tiLe. iny where.
