the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 74 We Inform. You Decide.to
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
Students thank Tebow
0 CREATORS OF WEB SITE HOPE TO
GET 1,000 POSTS BY SUGAR BOWL.
By CARLY BLUSTEIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Student Body has a graduation
present for its beloved quarterback -a digi-
tal yearbook signed by 1,000 of his greatest
admirers in the form of a new Web site.
The site, which was launched by two UF
students, is called DearTimTebow.com, and
is a compilation of thank-you posts express-
ing gratitude toward Tim Tebow and all he
has done for the Gators over the past four
years.
After Saturday night's loss to the Univer-
sity of Alabama, Facebook lit up with bitter-
sweet statuses by UF students who wanted
to share their grief over the game and convey
their appreciation for the team's efforts.
Dozens of Facebook groups popped upin the aftermath of the game, including one
titled "We love you, Tebow, thanks for the
memories," which has more than 17,000
members. The group's wall is flooded with
warm wishes and romantic
confessions for Tebow.
Matt Hobbs, a senior
marketing major, snapped
out of the post-loss depres-
sion quickly enough to seize
an opportunity to provide a
cohesive medium for stu-
dents to post thank yous to
Tebow and the rest of the team.
Less than an hour after the game ended,
Hobbs bought the domain name and called
his friend Joel Hackman, a senior economics
major, to ask him if he would design the site.
Hackman is the webmaster, founder and co-
owner of Gator Tutoring.
Since Hobbs knew so many people idol-
SEE TEBOW, PAGE 5Library staff plans
oddly specific party
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@aligator org
Maybe it's because they work
at the No. 2 party school in the
nation, but UF's library staff takes
partying pretty seriously.
They almost treat it like a job.
In fact, they even form a com-
mittee each year whose sole pur-
pose is to plan the end-of-the-year
holiday party.
It's called, appropriately, the
Holiday Party Planning Commit-
tee. It has 10 members, including achairwoman, who meet a handful
of times from October to Decem-
ber.
And, just like any other com-
mittee, there's a des-
Local ignated note-taker in
News charge of recording
the discussions and
decisions of the committee so it
can be posted online for all to see.
One of the first topics to be
broached this year was food. The
members agreed that last year's
committee ordered too much.
This year, they pledged, will be
SEE PARTY, PAGE 5
Resident assistant gets unwanted visitor
A 19-year-old Tampa man visiting his friend at UF was
trespassed from campus Tuesday after he was found sleeping
in a residence hall assistant's room after urinating in the dorm
hallway.
The man told campus police when they met up with him
at Murphree Hall that he thought he had been sleeping in his
friend's room, which was one floor up, and said he relieved
himself in the corner of the hallway after wandering around
and trying to locate the bathroom unsuccessfully.
The police report noted that the man was intoxicated.
-THOMAS STEWARTN A Gainesville
business sells
"green" caskets to
help reduce the
impact of burials on
the environment
and to save people
money. See Story,
Page 9."Rock 'n' Roll Demo"
Ty Pennington, host of "Extreme Makeover: Home Edition" sings the song "Rock 'n' Roll Demo" in front of
the Wagstaffs' home on Northeast Seventh Street. Spectators dressed in rock 'n' roll outfits, crowd surfed
to the music and cheered while camera operators filmed the show.
0 Sophomore
point guard Erving
Walker (right) and
the No. 10 UF
men's basketball
team will face
No. 7 Syracuse as
part of the SEC-Big
East Invitational
on Thursday night.
See Story, Page 21.Today
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
16
17
21Thunder
storms
81/63
visit www.alligator.orgINTERNATIONAL
Mayor goes
to Denmark
By MARIA PIQUET
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pegeen has gone green.
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan leaves Friday
to attend the UN Climate Change Conference in Co-
penhagen, Denmark, along with 25 other members of
Green Jobs for Florida.
The conference, which started Dec. 7 and ends Dec.
18, brings together officials from more than 150 na-
tions to discuss reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Hanrahan is representing Green Jobs for Florida
and ICLEI -Local Governments for Sustainability,
a nationwide association of local governments whose
mission is to reduce emissions and improve local sus-
tainability. ICLEI is funding Hanrahan's trip.
"It's a great honor," Hanrahan said. "I'm really
looking forward to it."
"Florida is an ideally positioned partner in busi-
ness and investment in the interconnected global
economy," said Manny Mencia, senior vice president
of Enterprise Florida's International Trade & Business
Development division.
"The state is already recognized nationally as one
SEE MAYOR, PAGE 5-7
' Re 8
R
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Gator Citrus Club Citrus Sale
Today through Friday, 11 a.m.
to 6 p.m.
Fifield Hall
The Gator Citrus Club will be
hosting its annual citrus sale.
Grapefruit, oranges and gift
baskets will be available for
purchase. For more informa-
tion, please visit the club's Web
site at www.hos.ufl.edu/citrus-
club/.
UF MEISA Benefit Concert
Today, 8 p.m.
1982 Bar
Come celebrate the last day
of classes with music from UF
student bands. The Music &
Entertainment Industry Student
Association will be holding a
benefit concert on tonight at 1982
bar. Featured artists are Platine,
The Impossible Shoelace, The
Deviant Court and headliner
The Early Twenties. Tickets are
$6 over 21 and $8 under 21. For
more info, contact UFMEISA@
yahoo.com.
Museum Nights
Thursday, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Harn Museum of Art
This 1940s-themed evening
will feature the Florida Swing
Dancers, who will be giving les-
sons and demonstrating classic
moves. Remember times at the
soda fountain with ice cream
from the Sweet Dreams fire
truck and see classic cars on dis-
play. Museum Nights is an on-
going program made possible by
the generous support of the UF
Honors Program and Student
Government. Admission is free.
Girls Night Out presents: Bitch
(of Bitch & Animal), The State
Of, "Monster" of Dirty Fist
Friday, 9 p.m., 21 and up, $8
Brophy's Irish Pub
60 SW 2nd St.
For more information, visit
bitchmusic.com or thestateof-
music.com.
Difference and Diversity in
Europe: Sofia of the "Others"
photo exhibit
Through Jan. 4
Marston Science Library entry
display area
This exhibit features the work
of a young Bulgarian photog-
rapher, Dimitar Variysky, who
is showing perspectives on the
life of new immigrant commu-
nities in Sofia, the capital of
the ex-communist Bulgaria, a
country that recently also be-
came a member of the European
Union.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
Make sure all submissions are
formatted properly.FORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
81/63THURSDAY
RAIN
63/47FRIDAY
RAIN
63/55SATURDAY
RAIN
79/62a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 74 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University ofFlonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)SUNDAY
RAIN
78/58Mana
Managing
Assist
Assist
alligator
Assis
t
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
g Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
ant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
ant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
Sports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
tant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
he Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
STUDENT GOVERMENT
Senators pass resolution on Middle-East conflict
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
After several weeks of debate,
the Student Senate finally passed
a resolution related to the conflict
in the Middle East on Tuesday.
Senators joined Gators for Is-
rael's president Rafael Yaniz in
presenting a revised version of a
resolution affirming support for
the state of Israel. It passed 56-9.
A resolution is a piece of leg-
islation that states the Senate's
opinion but takes no action.
"While we're doing this we
could be discussing the Re-
itz Union fee. We could be
discussing student safety."
Jon Ossip
Orange and Blue Party Sen.
The original resolution, pre-
sented at the Nov. 3 Senate meet-
ing, asked the U.S. Congress to
oppose the Goldstone Report,
which accuses Israel and Hamas
of war crimes during last win-
ter's Gaza conflict.
Rafael Yaniz, president of
Gators for Israel, said the revised
resolution no longer contains the
clause regarding the Goldstone
Report.Instead, it now advocates a
two-state solution to the Middle
East conflict to be negotiated be-
tween Israel and Palestine.
Yaniz said the ability of thegroups to work together shows
the U.S. Congress and the com-
munity that students care about
international issues.
Alex Kattan, vice president ofStudents for Justice in Palestine,
said the group did not have a
problem with the content of the
resolution but felt the Student
Senate should not be voting on an
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Student Senators Alan Yanuck and Jesse Sherman stand with other authors and sponsors as they pres-
ent a resolution advocating a peaceful solution to the Middle-East conflict.issue with such vast international
implications.
He said the resolution could
lead students to draft similar res-
olutions about other states.
He said these other resolu-
tions seem unnecessary when it's
understood that students sup-
port the values of democracy and
freedom.
"We as a group are not sup-
porting the resolution," Kattan
said. "We are not opposing it ei-
ther."
Senators had mixed opinions
about voting on a resolution
about an international issue.
Orange and Blue Party Sen.
Jon Ossip, who represents the
Murphree Common Area, said
Senate should be voting on issues
that it actually has control over.
"While we're doing this we
could be discussing the Reitz
Union fee," Ossip said. "We could
be discussing student safety."
Unite Party Sen. Ben Meyers,
who represents the sophomore
class, urged senators to support
the resolution.
"It's inclusive and recognizes
the needs and desires of both Is-
rael and Palestine," Meyers said.
Meyers said the resolution will
be sent to Florida members of the
U.S. Congress.
ITALIAN 101
HELPS
STUDET
ORDET
PIZZA
RESTA
RANTwe time-warped into Italy or
something. The waiter came
over
(09OOanything, so I just stuck with
what I remembered. 'saluti,'
that
M -R ice,
M0H 11 the
iriends
d
It
tthey rec.
yone's sur
. re
been proud
should say
di me."
Wha'
dinin
turne 0yestet
Dann3E Trealize SGME (67463) 
rant th TEXT "UFLVIP TOM BACK WHEN
lunch. GET $10 EXTRA UR TEXTBOOKS
Italian- yoU SELL Y ----- IONS
Lo .---- -. wr me group, Panic struck
more . tocal Danny Rivers did. fraternities a
favorite Pizza Barn, the group "I've been taking Italian across the nat
had decided to venture out and 101 this semester," Danny when word sp
try a new place. explained, "so I was pretty number of uni
"I swear it was the comfortable in that environ- Greek letter co
scariest moment of my life," ment. in critical condi
Karl Winsey, a friend of Once I heard him say 'amici' I "Unfortuna
Danny's, recalled. "It was like knew he wasn't mad at us or induction ofVacanti
iN t~i
F T
R
INY
the heart of
nd sororities
ion this week
read that the
que remaining
nbinations was
tion.
ately, with the
our newestchapters, Mu Mu Mu and Psi
Phi Pi, we've exhausted just
about every option out there," AREA
said National Greek Board
President, Henry Boggins. SENIOR
"There were onl:
possible letter c4
begin with, so y(
it was coming."
The news
the Greek Syste
turmoil, as rum(
immediately. St
a move to a 4
while others qu
always to
think F"':wcheat
call
McGr
the
WE BUY BACK
1 11lalw RA TD
N 
E" o' ~ S TrO SERVE YOU'REE LocATII r 'Y g
U4 T. awE
2010 S sJTy
'N.2 t sTOR~o
i meaahis is
United States,
domestic country.and not get caught? Just
Craig 'CribSheet'
ott!"
Vhile some considered
slogan gimmicky, the
Is spoke for
And there's no
HMAN
REAL-
,N
10") 100
yest( "!_o_
really .r. Others
really good at tiny hanu-.t-
ing. That's my gift. Wanna.
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
Frozen yogurt shops draw students with healthier snack
By KATHRYN STOLARZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thomas Knight has gone to YogaBerry
nearly every day since it opened in mid-
September.
"It's totally, awesomely delicious," the
economics Ph.D. student said while eating
his typical order -a small, fat-free straw-
berry frozen yogurt.
Knight used to indulge in dessert once
or twice a month, but he doesn't feel guilty
frequenting the newest frozen yogurt place
in town. At YogaBerry, inside Target Copy
on West University Avenue, a small frozen
yogurt has no fat and 125 calories.
Knight is one of many Gainesville resi-
dents catching on to the national trend to-
ward frozen yogurt.
According to a 2009 Ice Cream Business
Trends report from Franchise Direct, the
snack has been gaining popularity.
"Tart frozen yogurts have made a ma-
jor come back. with a focus now on the
healthier aspects of the dessert," according
to the report. "These include lower levels
of fat, pro-biotic properties and 'healthy
toppings' like fresh fruits and cereals."
Gainesville has proven to be an ideal
breeding ground for the craze.
"College towns are much
Local more aware of health and
NewS nutrition, and [students are]
much more interested in
learning and taking care of themselves,"
said Verna Groger, a dietitian for Haven
Hospice.
Mochi opened in May, and three more
frozen yogurt shops are coming soon. A
second Mochi is scheduled to open in Jan-
uary in the new Hampton Inn and Suites
downtown, and another YogaBerry opened
in November in The Oaks Mall. Tutti Frutti
is scheduled to open soon at 1232 W Uni-
versity Ave. Lollicup, which opened in
2006 on Southwest 34th Street, also sells
all-natural, fat-free frozen yogurt.
All of these stores offer fruit toppings
and flaunt the nutritional benefits of their
yogurt on their Web sites.
YogaBerry claims to be "as tasty as it is
healthy." Mochi calls its nonfat, low-calorie
frozen yogurt a nutritional dessert alterna-
tive that promotes good health.
"I wouldn't say it's good for you, but
it's better as a dessert than so many other
things," Groger said.
While frozen yogurt contains live cul-
tures -good bacteria that boost your im-munity -Groger said sugar reduces im-
mune response for up to six hours after it is
consumed by promoting free radicals and
inflammation, canceling out the benefits of
the live cultures. Mochi has a lot of regular
customers and makes about 700 sales on a
typical Friday, which is higher than expect-
ed, manager Sarah Papa said.
"A lot of students have moved from
regular ice cream to frozen yogurt," Papasaid. "I think more people are being health
conscious because there is a rising rate of
obesity in the U.S., plus in Gainesville, col-
lege students want to look good."
After looking at the nutrition informa-
tion, Groger said Mochi and YogaBerry are
good alternatives to high-fat ice creams,
and they're a lot lower in calories.
"But you might caution that these aren't
healthy on their own," Groger said. "These
Danica Spears/ Alligator
Kyle Turner, manager of Yogaberry on University Avenue, finishes making a chocolate
smoothie with peanut butter and a banana for a customer Sunday evening.also still have a lot of sugar and are still
damaging to your body and promote heart
disease, among other things, and are best
for an occasional treat."
YogaBerry's small, 5-ounce serving has
125 calories and 25 grams of sugar, and
Mochi's 4-ounce serving has 110 calories
and 22 grams of sugar. Groger said the
calorie counts are reasonably low for a des-
sert, but the amount of sugar is relatively
high.
UF freshman Allison Archer goes to
Mochi once or twice a week. Although
she said she wouldn't eat two ice-creams
in one day, she wound up eating at Mochi
and Ben & Jerry's within a few hours of
each other because she considers Mochi to
be healthy.
"This is the bad thing about these plac-
es -they promote themselves as healthy,
but they're just healthier than the worst
thing," said Groger. "All these things are a
lot healthier than other alternatives like ice
cream, but they themselves are not health
foods. .they are healthier treats. If some-
one has a good diet and has one of these
treats one or two times a week, they are a
better option than ice cream."
But Gainesville residents haven't lost
their taste for traditional ice cream.
Pete Zimek, co-owner of Ben & Jerry's,
said sales for the University Avenue store
have remained the same and sales for the
Archer Road store have increased since last
year, despite Mochi opening up nearby.
He doesn't think Ben & Jerry's will be
driven out of business by the new frozen
yogurt stores because it serves a different
purpose.
"People come to Ben & Jerry's for that
vacation," Zimek said.
UF political science freshman Breanne
Palmer went to Ben & Jerry's with a friend
as a reward for studying before taking a
statistics exam. "We'll probably go into a
sugar coma (during the test)," she joked
while eating the Brownie Special.
But even Ben & Jerry's altered its menu
in response to customers' increased health-
consciousness. The store reformulated its
smoothie line in 2008, reducing the calorie
count to 250 calories or fewer per smoothie
and making them low- or no-fat.
Zimek said he discussed customers'
shifting demands toward wanting health-
ier options as a member of the Franchise
Advisory Council representing Ben & Jer-
ry's in the U.S. and Canada.
"It's definitely a global trend," he said.
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
Check it out atalagQQor'ports alligatorSports.org
or subscribe onTune in for the latest Gators sports iTunes.news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. alligatorLAPIES' NIGHT
Free Wells & Prafts 0
for Ladles3
Strtsat 6:00 pm
374-4984 1702 W. University Ave.4". Happy Holidays
Gainesville!
From:
h IETINGER
Acupoctur i Msage MiCA M. F /N
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
j Students 'represent' social issues for class
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writer
Zachary Merson paid homage to his girlfriend
and his chocolate Labrador retriever Tuesday
night through a performance that would have
raised the eyebrows of Tupac and Biggie Smalls
alike.
"My bitch is brown," he rapped, "but my
lady is white."
Merson was one of 10 performers at Hip Hop
Live & In Full Effect, a showcase of the final proj-
ects of the political science students enrolled in
Hip Hop and Western Political Thought.
The class aims to explore the political under-
tones of hip-hop, a concept professor Michelle
Smith described as an incredible force.
"Hip-hop becomes this kind of creative
force," said Smith, who teaches the course.
But when she's in the classroom, relaying
the themes from this international music scene
to her students, she also goes by MC Professor
Smith.
A disc jockey stationed in the corner of the
room laid down the beats to a crowd of about 60
as students spit out rhymes about soldiers over-
seas, the degradation of women in the hip-hop
scene, love and, of course, Labrador retrievers.
Josh Albert, who performed a series of songs
with an R&B flavor, said his decision to perform
in the showcase was a reflection of his passion
for music, the same passion that piqued his in-
terest in the course.
"Sometimes when I'm down, singing helps
me release emotion," the political science junior
said.
Student art projects lined the wall, each in-
spired by a hip-hop theme. From a graffiti-splat-
tered brick wall to a painting depicting the fe-
male stereotype of the culture, each visual was
accompanied by a paper explaining the message
of the piece.
And through whatever medium chosen,
Smith encouraged students to represent.Demetri Morgan reads his spoken word final project to a crowd during Hip Hop Live and In Full
Effect, the Hip Hop and Western Political Thought classes' final project presentation.
"Many rap songs start with an artist saying
'Represent, represent,"' Smith said. "It occurred
to me that they mean a lot of different things
when they say it."
This observation ties back to the course, where
students learn the implications of this concept.
"Representation is an incredibly important
concept in Western political thought and the
ways in which we think about government,"
Smith said.
In accordance with the class, the performanc-
es paralleled this theme."It's kind of like representing your commu-
nity, your culture, yourself," Albert said.
Josh Kelly, a political science senior, support-
ed his classmates from his seat in the audience.
While the long-time hip-hop fan wasn't ready
for his freestyle debut, he said the class has
helped him appreciate the culture behind this
genre.
"When most people think about hip-hop they
only think about rappers," Kelly said. "We spent
a lot of time learning about different artists, from
different regions, from different cultures."
Conference's goal is to
create Kyoto successor
MAYOR, from page 1
of the emerging leaders on
low-carbon economic devel-
opment initiatives."
"We need to act not just
because of the threat to our
environment and our climate,
but also because I believe
there are many opportunities
that will come of that action,"
Hanrahan said.
Hanrahan's goal at the
meeting is to learn about op-
portunities and business in-
terests that she can bring back
to Gainesville. She will also
communicate Gainesville's
sustainability achievements
to green industries that may
not have heard about such a
small city, she said.
"Gainesville has a wonder-
ful story to tell," Hanrahan
said.
The biggest project going
on in Gainesville is the re-synchronization of traffic sig-
nals in an attempt to reduce
congestion and travel time
through town, she said.
Once the project is com-
plete, a typical trip in
Gainesville is projected to
take 15 percent less time,
Hanrahan said. Traffic light
efficiency will lead to less
sitting at lights, which will
cause fewer carbon emissions
from cars.
"We're really committed
to. reducing carbon emis-
sions in our city," Hanrahan
said.
According to the EPA Web
site, the goal of the Copenha-
gen conference is to negotiate
a successor to the Kyoto Pro-
tocol, the first international
agreement to reduce green-
house gas emissions.
"It's not a matter of wheth-
er carbon will be regulated,"
Hanrahan said. "It's a matter
of when and how."Web site created to show support after loss
TEBOW, from page 1
ize Tebow not only as a football
player but also as a role model,
he wanted to create a global fo-
rum where people could share
their admiration.
"The world needs someone
to stand out and embody good
things," Hobbs said. "Tebow
represents goodness for TheGator Nation. He is a role model
to anyone out there who wants
to be a college football player."
The Web site is in early de-
velopment stages
Student and currently has
Life almost 100 posts af-
ter three days, but
the creators hope to reach 1,000
posts by the end of the Sugar
Bowl on Jan. 1.Their goal is to have Tebow
read the kind words of his class-
mates and fans after he plays
his last game as a Gator.
"I think he holds a special
place for seniors who have spent
all four years with him here,"
Hackman said. "Every fall was
defined by his performance. He
was a star freshman year, and
he's still a star today."
Unsliced ham causes great deal of struggle
PARTY, from page 1
different.
In another departure from last year's festivi-
ties, there will be no more chocolate fondue, the
committee decided on Nov. 5.
It was simply too messy. The ax fell on glitter
snowflakes for the same reason.
The holiday ham also proved to be a bit of a
problem, "because staff members spent a great
deal of time struggling to slice it," the minutes
from the Oct. 23 meeting read.
"As a result it was suggested that the extra
money be spent to purchase presliced ham," the
committee decided.
Another issue tackled by the committee was
whether the Gingerbread Centerpiece Contest
should require entries to have a certain percent-
age of gingerbread to be eligible.
The consensus was no. "[Alnything Ginger-
bread and edible," was the final edict.
Asked why a committee was necessary to de-cide these things, library spokeswoman Barbara
Hood said it's hard work planning a party for 200
to 300 people.
"It's just not the type of party one or two peo-
ple would plan," Hood said. She asked that the
location of the party -scheduled for Thursday
-not be disclosed because it is for library staff
only. She also said the $2,500
party budget comes from pri-
vate funds.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando
praised the open nature of the
planning process.
"There are no secrets, and
everybody knows what's going
Orlando on, he said jokingly.
He also said library staff were
providing a good example for students. With all
the planning that goes into the party, there's less
of a chance it will get out of hand, he suggested.
"I know you're not gonna see Jell-O shots
there, let's put it that way," he said.D
a
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
It's not only the end of the week here at the Alligator, but
the end of one great semester. We laughed, we cried. we
got called names, and we cried some more (Well, a few
made us laugh). But the saddest part of all is having to say
goodbye.
There's no reason to worry though; we promise we'll be
back in the spring to further enrage you with inflammatory
editorials, columns and letters. To hold you over until then,
we're happy to present you with a the-end-is-near-oh-no-
wait-here-it-is edition of.
Darts & Laurels
Because the end really sneaks up on you.
But sometimes you can see it coming. And that's exactly
what we did when we heard about the final projects of stu-
dents at UF's Intelligent Machines Design Laboratory: self
controlled robots. "Autonomous robots" plus "Missile and
Fire Control" at Lockheed Martin equals a swift, painless
death for us all.
For possibly securing UF a spot in the history books of our
future robotic overlords, we'd like to give a maybe-they'll-
spare-us-for-creating-them LAUREL to UF's mad scientists.
Thankfully, we were recently given a reason not to mind
our coming extinction. CBS has announced that it will launch
a syndicated court show in fall 2010, featuring Nancy Grace.
That should be reason enough.
But what followed this week was yet another reminder of
why we despise Grace to no end, and why the robo-apoca-
lypse is looking more and more appealing.
A new report by a Harvard psychiatrist claims that
Grace's relentless tirade against a Florida woman three years
ago directly contributed to her suicide. The woman's son
was missing, and she was named as a possible suspect in the
disappearance before appearing for a telephone interview on
Grace's show. The idea that her all-too-common horrendous,
berating accusations would lead to a woman's suicide is no
stretch.
For allowing this trash TV to be broadcast to an even larg-
er audience, we have to throw an as-if-"CSI-Miami"-wasn't-
bad-enough DART at CBS.
But for picking up the slack left behind by the departure
of Lou Dobbs, we'd like to present a thanks-for-giving-us-
another-outlet-for-our-rage LAUREL to Nancy Grace. Bitch.
Now, since it's the last issue and everyone's too busy with
finals to read it anyway, here's something we've been dying
to try all semester:
Lightning Dart Round!
Quit-killing-the-mentally-retarded DART to Texas. Yes,
they're still up to their old tricks in Texas.
Your-renovations-suck-and-we-hate-your-show DART
to "Extreme Home Makeover."
David-vs.-Goliath-never-happened DART to Graduate
Assistants United. Surprise: You lose (but we'll root for you
anyway).
We see why this wasn't implemented earlier -too many
darts on the dance floor.
To lighten things up, we would genuinely like to thank
everyone who shared their opinions with us this semester.
We appreciate the hate mail, and we live for those elusive
love letters. Thankfully, neither were in short supply.
We miffed the mayor, slandered Student Government,
raged against RTS and cursed the city council, but our fa-
vorite part was always printing their responses (or the letters
responding for them).
We even enjoyed printing letters from those consistently
unbearable College Republicans -at least they had the guts
to stand up for the stupid, unpopular crap they believe.
The Alligator loves unpopular views -and we'll be back
in force with plenty more come Spring semester. So with fi-
nals in mind, we're proud to give a keep-working-on-those-
opinions LAUREL to.
E: All of the above.
Have a great winter break!
a l l e independent fo rida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
SottY\It 6a
foA"J &awAetc
-
IS
-1
U F experiences hel p to prepa re for future
S unday morning, I woke up and started crying.It wasn't all about the game-which-shall-not-be-
named (Athough, don't get me wrong, football had a
lot to do with me being weepy all weekend.). It was about the
sudden reality of it all being over.
As I've repeatedly stated in this column, I graduate next
Saturday. As much as I would like to say that I'm completely
excited, I'm not.
I probably shouldn't be complaining: I have a job, I'm
staying in Florida and my entire insane family is coming to
cheer me on at commencement.
It's just so hard to say goodbye.
Intellectually, I know that all this nostalgia is stupid. I
remind myself of the many regrets I have about college. I
haven't been the perfect student or been bubbly all the time.
One semester my junior year was the worst four months of
my life. For a while, as a sophomore, I thought I had given
myself an ulcer from stress. I took math courses through cal-
culus three, only to eventually drop the major I was taking
those courses for.
It wasn't all football and parties.
So I'm not really sure why I've come down with this sud-
den case of arrested development.
I guess I don't want to have to figure everything out again,
to start from scratch.
I've spent the past four years changing everything about
myself, in my opinion for the better: I've become less type-
A, more goal-driven, more outgoing and less awkward. It
seems so unfair that just as college becomes routine, just as
I've cleared my schedule for tailgating and mid-week TV
watching, it has to end.
Everything is temporary. My uncle likes to say, "Wher-
ever you go, put up pictures, because otherwise everywhere
is just another stop on the road -nowhere ever becomes
home."I've been able to forget that at UF.
I've probably been brainwashed byfl, all of those "When did you first be-
' come a Gator?" campaigns.
In fact, I was on the phone with
my mom a couple weeks ago, and
Hilary Lehman she was talking about the newest
letters@alligatororg commercial for her alma mater, the
University of Missouri.
"It's a little like the Gator Nation one," she said, "Except
I almost think it's better because it has all these on-campus
landmarks, so it gives you a sense of place."
"But Mom," I said, exasperated, "That's the point. The
University of Florida is in Gainesville, The Gator Nation is
everywhere."
Maybe, in a desperate attempt to feel warm and fuzzy, I
will wear my Gators sweatshirt through the airport on my
next flight home and fish for "Go Gators" greetings from
strangers. Maybe I will actually donate to the money-grub-
bing alumni association, despite the fact that I can barely pay
for food.
I'll be OK. We will all be OK, seniors.
It's all over, and I'll probably burst into tears at random
moments during the next few weeks.
But I do feel that my time at UF, the friends I've made
here and even the really bad decisions behind me, have em-
powered me to live out the rest of my adult life. Sorry if that's
too sappy.
And, since this is my last column and I feel the need to
be controversial: Lady GaGa is the new Madonna, men and
women cannot be friends and people need to stop complain-
ing about stickers in Student Government elections.
Go Gators! I will miss so much about being here.
Hilary Lehman is a journalism senior. Her column appears on
Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Will you miss Monday's question: Have you
us? ever been read your Miranda
rights?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org21% YES
79% NO
52 TOTAL VOTES
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Point of Christianity is love, not judgment
I have been very upset lately by the people
supposedly "evangelizing" on Turlington Pla-
za. As I listen to them screaming judgments
and insults, it breaks my heart. I have been a
Christian for a few years now and while I still
have many questions, one thing I do know is
that the basis of Christianity is love. "For God
so loved the world." (John 3:16). "And do
everything in love." (1 Corinthians 16:14).
These people are in no way showing God's
love but are giving Christians a reputation of
being hateful and self-righteous. I am here to
say that what they are portraying is not Chris-
tianity! Whoever they claim to be witnesses
of is not Jesus because their teachings are not
rooted in love.
On behalf of them I am apologizing. Please
don't be deceived that Christians are malicious
and hateful. Don't misunderstand me, God
does hate sin because he knows the damage it
can cause in our lives, but please don't think of
this as another Christian cramming my beliefs
down your throat. Salvation through faith in a
God who loved us enough to send someone to
die to take the punishment of the world so we
don't have to, that is the point.
Hannah Banfield
UFstudent
Supporting Gators is job of fans
It is not the Alligator's job to support the
Gators. That duty is supposed to fall upon the
fans. It seems to me that Randall Lockhart,
who wrote yesterday about the sports section
not supporting the Gators, doesn't understand
the Alligator's role in covering UF athletics.
Many students are with him in expecting thepaper's staff to be a cheerleader for UF sports.
However, the sports guys are journalists,
as they should be, and not fans. The Alliga-
tor is not a UF publication nor should it be.
They have praised the Gators many times this
season -when it's deserved. But honestly, as
disappointing as that loss was for Gators fans,
there was really nothing positive to say about
the Southeastern Conference Championship
Game from UF's perspective. The journal-
ists who cover the team are no indication of
how fans feel about the team because they are
not fans. Fans can best show their support by
showing up and cheering on Saturdays; that is
not the role of the newspaper.
Ian Fisher
3LW and former Alligator Sports editor
Gators football season not over yet
Yes, Saturday's loss in the Southeastern
Conference Championship game was heart-
breaking. And yes, Florida's dreams of an
undefeated season were once again quashed.
But we must remember that the season is not
over yet. The Gators still must represent the
SEC in a New Year's Day primetime bowl
game against the undefeated Big East cham-
pion Cincinnati Bearcats. After the University
of Alabama suffered its first loss last year to
the Gators in the conference title game, the
Crimson Tide gave up on the season and got
thrashed by a determined Utah team out of
the Mountain West Conference. We must not
allow ourselves to suffer the same fate.
We must show the best senior class in con-
ference history that The Gator Nation is be-
hind them. We must show that Gators pride is
not dependent on success, but loyalty. Because
if one loss deters you from representing your
team when the eyes of the entire nation areupon us, you are not a Gator in my book. New
Year's Eve, you'll find me on Bourbon Street.
Patrick Annesty
First yearjournalism graduate student
Football loss can bring fans together
First and foremost, I am a huge supporter
of all Gators athletics, and nothing disheart-
ened me more than to see the team I root for
every Saturday of the fall semester come up
short in a high-stakes SEC Championship
game. There were no promises to be delivered
at the postgame press conference and there
are zero weeks left for us to exonerate our loss.
There will not be a new plaque to add to the
South Endzone of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
reading "SEC Champs 2009," Tim Tebow will
not be the quarterback that wins three national
championships and no one here in Gainesville
will be heading to Pasadena, Calif., in January,
unless they are visiting family.
It's time for students, alumni and fans to
rally together, like in the old days when vic-
tories were what meant everything, not losses.
Can we be disappointed about a 12-1 season?
Sure. Can we move on? We have to.
How many Facebook statuses after Satur-
day's game read something along the lines of
"through all kinds of weather." or "it's still
great to be a Florida Gator."? Even though
Facebook statuses generally do not have much
gravity, these rallying phrases epitomize atti-
tudes all Gators need to embrace. Saturday's
loss reminds us that we cannot take a single
victory for granted, and most importantly, that
we are proud students, faculty and alumni of
something bigger than a football field, heavier
than a Heisman Trophy and shinier than a
crystal football.
We have been reminded that we are allFlorida Gators -through all kinds of weather
-and that is worth more than any trophy. As
the game clock expired Saturday, something
was reborn in The Gator Nation.
Austin Shaw
Political science and English sophomore
U U U
Alligator distorts meaning of Rebel flag
The editorial "Road Rebel: Confeder-
ate plate no debate for state" struck me as a
skewed and misinformed perception of what
the Confederate flag or those who wish to fly
it believe in. The fact that someone is willing
to say "those who would buy it already have
jacked-up pickups with mud tires." shows
that the only reason the confederate flag be-
ing flown is frowned upon is because of a
large generalization to which the answer can
be found in a middle school history class. The
civil war was not fought on the grounds of
"racism, bigotry and backward thought."
In fact, it was fought over a constitutional
right, that of states rights. I am a ninth gen-
eration Floridian, and while my family has
never encouraged any kind of racism or big-
otry mentioned Monday it has encouraged
me to remember my roots. This is why you
can find my confederate flag flying just below
the American flag that I pledge allegiance to
today.
So when you see my non-lifted normal
truck without mud tires sitting in a parking
lot with a confederate flag license plate on it
maybe you should think twice about what you
stand for before you condemn those who have
pride in something different than yourself.
Ian R. Moore
UFstudent
DNCE ALIVE
N A TIO N AL B A LL ET
Nurmcm
NUTCRACKER
n 17&, t 730 2 A 1 ' A, o &
Sponsored by Shads Hekaltre
Chocolate& Champagne Holiday Gala
December 19 at 8pm
SponsondbyBlue WaterBay and JGJB TV2
Sugar Plum Tea
December19 &20 at 4PM
Spenond Saciianhik, Lloyd &Saliuwemk
Mommy & Me On Stage
December16 at 5PM
Spwnsored byM&SBank
All perormmas and events at the Phiffips Center for the Perfming Ats
Dance Alive National Ballet 352-371-2986 / www.danceativorg
at35 392-2787, Ticketmaster outlets & Phillips Center Box Office
DANB is funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 by the National
Endowment for the Arts, a federal agency in partnership with the Florida Department of State,
CAINE VILLE Division of Cultural Affairs and the Florida Council on Arts and Culture.
VISITGAIN E VILLE VISITFIOIDA
TARGET
&i- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----, I
JUST FOR GATORS!
Its graduation and you don't know what to do with your family! Here is a fun entertaining
thing to do with the whole family- plus let your family know that you're a Gator with culture!
Take younger sister or brother to the TEA and PERFORMANCE. Then you and your parents
take in the CHAMPAGNE GALA and PARTY! Use the coupon below to save $
$5 Discount Coupon Good for 4 tickets to Nutcracker Performance
Exchange ONLY at Phillips Center Box OfficePC & MAC sPlates Pastne a ML
A *F Downtown A os ma 8sec,REPAIR 371-2000 nent uLy Nes
IMPACT COMPUTERS a
CREEKSIDE MALL
I MILE FROM UIF IXYEAR GUARANTEE
NEXT TO GATOR TEXTBOOKSButler Plaza Newberry Suare371-1110 1232 332-3937
1Odconw 2@actc&L 2
Spring 2010
SIN Reach over 60,000 UF & SFC
students returning to school
Run Date:Tuesday, January 5, 20 10
Deadline: Friday, December I I, 2009
Save 10% on your advertisement in our
, Welcome Back Edition! Just reserve and
*.pay for your advertisement by
-* , ' / Wednesday, 12/09/09.
I I1
|
I/v
'OK
J
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
UF library embraces lesbian-themed children's book
0 'HEATHER HAS TWO
MOMMIES' DEBUTED IN 1989.
By JULIANA JIMENEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
"Heather's favorite number is
two. She has two eyes, two hands
and two knees. She has two pets:
her dog, Midnight, and her cat,
Gingersnap. Heather also has two
mommies: Mama Jane and Mama
Kate."
So begins "Heather Has Two
Mommies," a children's book about
a girl named Heather; her mom,
Jane, who gave birth to her after ar-
tificial insemination; and her mom's
same-sex partner, Kate.With increased mainstream ac-
ceptance of homosexuality, the
publication of similar books aimed
at an audience of children aged 3 to
6 years old, books such as " Tango
Makes Three," "The Different Drag-
on" and "Daddy's Roommate,"
have also increased.
And with the increase in popu-
larity of these books comes a deeper
divide between tolerant people
and those who aren't, said Linda
Lamme, a professor in the School of
Teaching and Learning at UF.
"Many churches preach against
homosexuality, which causes their
members to avoid gay people,"
Lamme said, "causing segregation
where it makes it virtually impos-
sible for them to become educatedon the subject."
Some academics, librarians and
teachers consider these books to be
highly beneficial despite other li-
braries' censoring of them.
"As parents, they have a right
to choose what they read and what
their children read," said Debbie
Lewis, librarian su-
Local pervisor for the Youth
News Services Depart-
ment at the Alachua
County Headquarters Library in
Gainesville. "But it's not our job to
limit access to material to children."
Some libraries have the books on
a shelf where only teachers have ac-
cess to them.
"Reading is intended to expand
children's knowledge and to getthem to think. Books about children
with gay parents should be in every
classroom because our classroom li-
braries should reflect all cultures."
Lewis said The Alachua County
Headquarters Library in Gainesville
offers several such books.
"We are a public library, and
we ascribe to the Freedom to Read
policy from the American Library
Association," Lewis said. "We serve
all members of our community, and
we live in a diverse community."
When the book came out 20 years
ago, "Heather Has Two Mommies"
was placed in the nonfiction section
of the library, where books dealing
with social issues are placed, she
said. This year, for the book's 20th
anniversary, they moved it to thepicture book section where most
of the staff thought it belonged, she
said.
The library carries between 10
and 20 picture books dealing with
homosexual characters or issues
aimed at an audience aged 3 to 5
years old, including "And Tango
Makes Three," which, according to
The American Library Association,
is the most banned book of 2009.
Lewis said in her five years at the
library it has had one or two chal-
lenges to the books every year.
"We feel it is important to have
these in the collection because there
are all kinds of families, and chil-
dren need to see their own life ex-
periences reflected in the literature
they read," Lewis said.
Cafe Gardens
For over a third of a century,
the Original World Famous Cafe
Gardens has been serving Gators
with delicious food and a large
selection of beers and wines.
Located just across from campus
near the Florida Book Store, this
quaint landmark establishment
with award winning courtyard
dining is perfect for any date
or gathering. For live music
schedule, call 376-2233. Hours:
Mon-Wed 1lam-Opm, Thurs-Sat
IIam-IIpm, Sun Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc.
Even create your own. Our
burgers are prepared daily and
cooked to order. Our fresh deli
sandwiches come with over
1/4 lb of meat. Check out our
full menu at GatorDawgs.com.
Several delicious vegetarian &
vegan options. We are located
at 1023 W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and Stacks.
The only way to describe the
Stack is that is outrageously
delicious! Its uniquely different
presentation- three 6 inch flour
tortillas stacked high with fresh
grilled ingredients and just
the right accent of cheese- is
strangely inviting to one's
palate. Come out & try our
1/3 lb Burgers, steak seasoned
Panchos, & Fresh Baked
Brownies. Many vegetarian
options available including the
Home Grown and Homemade
Black Bean Hummus! Now
serving draft and Red Stripe
beers! We deliver! Open late to
serve your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed: 11 am-3am. Thurs-
Sat: Ilam-4arn. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.comPeach Valley Cole
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and don't
forget to ask your server about
our shrimp-n-grits (wonderful).
We are located at 3275 SWV 34th
Street directly behind Hooter's
(352) 376-1834.
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (Behind
Hippodrome Theater Downtown)
Offering Asian Fusion Cuisine in
a relaxing atmosphere.
Wed and Thurs night $5
martinis.
Open for lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-
2:30 Sun 12-5 and dinner Sun-
Thurs 5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
David's BBQ
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner,
Eat-in, Takeout, Drive-thru,
Catering, or Tailgaiting.
Everyone loves David's BBQ
because, unlike ordinary BBQ
places, David's cooks over a
real wood fire! Eat where the
locals eat! Voted #1 BBQ in
Gainesville! Approved caterer
for UF's Emerson Alumni Hall.
Mon-Sat 7am -9pm. Sundays
open at 8am. Drive Thru until
9:30pm 7 days! 352-373-2002.
Have David's BBQ delivered
by Gatorfood.com. FREE WIFI.
5121 NW 39th Ave
www.davidsBBQ.comno Guio011 o alIIig ,at"or
JON
q M U M ~I1JEoptions at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
Bagels Unlimited The Yearling (next to the Hollywood Video)
Serving Gainesville for over Come taste the cuisine of old or at the Shoppes of Williston at
25 years. BU is a tradition of Florida! Try our traditional items S.W. 34th Street and Williston
sorts. We offer many breakfast including venison, quail, frog Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
platters cooked fresh, featuring legs, and alligator, as well as Find us on Facebook!
omelettes, eggs any style, large USDA Prime beef, seafood, grits,
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes, greens & hush puppies. Open Karma Cream
17 varieties of bagels and a large Thursday & Friday 5pm-lOpm, Serving ORGANIC and fair tradeassortment of spreads. Also Saturday 12pm-10pm & Sunday ice cream, coffee, desserts, loose
available are tofu and tempeh. 12pm-8:30pm. leaf teas, and beer, with lots
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces 14531 East County Road 325 of vegan options. Now open
are available for sampling. 352-466-3999 24 hours. Free WiFi! Located 2
1222 West University Ave. www.theyearlingrestaurant.com blocks east of campus at 1025
Open everyday from 6:30am- W. University Ave.
3pm. M M 505-6566
DntConnection Omi's Kitchen ohFrznYg tDonUt Gainesville's Best in Cuban, Mochi Frozen Yo Urt
Breakfast sandwiches, bagels w/ Italian, and Mexican Cuisine. Try our premium self-serve
cream cheese, fritters, cinn rolls, New menu items prepared daily: frozen yogurt as a healthy
and 30 varieties of donuts. Come try our famous Cuban dessert alternative. Our yogurt
Coffee by the lb. Best coffee in sandwiches and slow roasted has 0% fat and contains live
town. Enjoy our outdoor tables. pork. We cater 7 days a week! and active cultures. Choose
Open every day 5a-8p 375-0376 Visit us in the Tower Square 2 any combination of 8 different
5205 NW 39th Ave, Timber miles from Butler Plaza at 5729 flavors and over 30 toppings.
Village. Wholesale prices SW 75th Street. Everything for just 45 cents an
available. 373-0301 ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd (next
to Bento Red) Open from noon
to midnight daily!
Golden Udlha D'Lites Emporium Yogaberry
Where eating well means eating Healthy never tasted so good! OPEN LATE-ACROSS FROM
healthy. .Gainesville's best D'Lies has the lowest calorie ice THE UNIVERSITY IN TARGET
Chinese food. Now with more DLtshstelws aoi c OY oebidyusizs valalewit mrevean cream in Gainesville-REALLY- COPY! Come build your
sizes available with more vegan rand i GthelwlreAL healthy treat at Yogaberry! Our
options. As always, generous and is the only low-calorie yogurt is 100% fat free and
portions, fast service & super soft serve with NO artificial tel yogurt h% at frs mande
lunch/dinner combos. FREE sweeteners. We rotate over 100 the only yogurt that is made
DLucInERY cmbs. FE d'Iicious creamy flavors (see with real organic milk. Choose
DELIVERY. this week's at wwwatordlites from an array of fresh fruit
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or hsweksawwgardis. toppings cut daily, candies and
380-9076. Full menu and specials com) that are diet-friendly fun cereal. New flavors for you
@ Golden~udda~pecial~com without the diet taste. We also fucealNwfavrfoyu
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com feature a whole array of cookies, to try daily, and always free
chips, and various grocery treats samples! In addition, we have
that appeal to Atkins, Weight the finest organic, free-trade
Watchers&, and other dieters. coffee. Our coffee bar features
Our every day daily specials lattes, cappuccino's, espresso,
make shopping at D'Lites a cuban coffee's, yoga mocha's
special value! Come weigh your and much more!
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Burials in biodegradable caskets help environment
'Green' materials make funerals more affordable
By CARLY SANDERS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Many people practice environmentalism in
their daily lives. But now they can practice it
after they die, too.
The idea of going green after death is a
growing trend in the mortician industry in
Gainesville.
"Society has created a weird separation be-
tween life and death, making it something that
is handled by institutions instead of the family
coming together and bringing the body back
to the natural land," said Robert Hutchinson,
a board member of Conservation Burial Inc., a
group that provides a natural burial choice in
Gainesville. Abasic greenburial includes plac-ing the body in a biodegradable casket with-
out embalming it.
"But to take it to the next step of conserva-
tion burial, you take the sacredness of the buri-
al and use it as a way to permanently conserve
land while also protecting the environment,"
Hutchinson said.
Biodegradable caskets can include a
shroud, which wraps the body in fabric, paper
or cardboard caskets and wood caskets, a re-
newable source, he said.
Conservation Burial Inc. is not only trying
to protect the environment but is also trying
to make funerals as affordable as other forms
post-death treatments.
"Conventional burial costs between $8,000
and $10,000, and cremation costs between$2,000 and $5,000," said Susan Marynowski,
a board member of Conservation Burial Inc.
"The conservation price would be compara-
tive to the price of cremation, which is more
affordable, and the money will go into con-
serving land."
The group is also using bio-
Local degradable materials to make
News caskets.
Conventional burial includes
materials that do not decom-
pose, and regular caskets are made of import-
ed woods, toxic finishes, plastic and metals.
Conventional burial also requires a piece of
concrete called the vault, which encloses the
casket in the ground. This has the most harm-
ful impact on the environment. In fact, eachyear 1.6 million tons of concrete is used, which
could pave a highway from Tallahassee to Mi-
ami, Marynowski said.
Conservation Burial Inc. has not yet pur-
chased a site, but the site the group is look-
ing to buy is a semi-natural area that has been
logged and grazed heavily, Marynowski said.
Each time a plot is purchased, the group will
restore a piece of the site. But it will probably
take about 50 years to use all of the burial sites
and restore the entire piece of land, she said.
"We plan on purchasing the site sometime
in 2010 and turning it into a beautiful meadow
with trees and walking trails," she said.
Part of the money will go into a perpetual
land management fund to conserve the prop-
erty in the future.
For more information of environmentally
friendly funerals, visit conservationburialinc.
org.
Let's Eat Diner
The best kept secret
inGainesville, Let's Eat Diner is
a small diner just off the beaten
path on 39 Ave at NW 22 Dr.
Open Mon-Sat 7am till 8pm
serving breakfast, lunch, and
supper and Sunday lam till
2pm with a lunch buffet. We
serve home style cookin'. "Just
like Momma used to fix." 352-
378-0738 www.letseatdiner.com
Oh yeah, we also do catering!
DiDER 6E
Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized
in catering any group size.
Delivery available-free delivery
on any purchase over $25! Open
7 days Mon-Sat 11 :30am-9pm,
Sunday lpm-8pm. Call 352-505-
6200. 7625 W Newberry Rd
Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs IIam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat
llam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
great locations with outside
eating. Open every day for carry-
out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Now offering a new bistro
inspired menu.
Open for lunch and dinner.
Full martini and mojito bar.
Voted nicest outdoor dining.
COUPON -DATE NIGHT -COUPON
Choose 1 appetizer, 2 entrees, a
bottle of wine, and share a slice
of Key Lime Pie.
All for only $39.99 (expires
12/31/09)
2410 NW 43rd Street
Gainesville
352-377-3278
Please visit us online at
www.cabanacove.net for
additional savings and coupons.
WOW
The Olm Cafe
Mouthwatering, healthy Kosher
cuisine at affordable prices!
Daily $10 All-You-Can-Eat
Dinner Specials. Mexican, Pan-
Asian, Italian, Mediterranean
& American Deli! SUSHI night
every Wednesday at the low
price of $10! NEW this semester-
Schwarma & Falafel Station!
Fresh Salad Bar daily with over
50 + items! Take-out available.
Lunch Specials starting at $5
11:30-2:30 M-F. Dinner 5:30-8:30
M-Th. Located inside the Hillel
building across from O'Dome.
202 W University Ave. 352-248-
2606 www.theolamcafe.com
For event info:
www.myolamcafe.com
Green Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink + Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-lOpm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comTHE JONES
Gainesville's own independently
owned community restaurant
dedicated to bringing sustainable,
local, and organic food to the
table. Oh, and it's really yummy.
Herbivores, carnivores, & omni-
vores welcome! NOW SERVING
DINNER EVERY NIGHT! New
hours: open every day 8am-
10pm. Check out our facebook
page for specials and events. 401
NE 23rd Avenue. 352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Gainesville's Best Food!
We support LOCAL and
SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711 Free recipes and
cooking videos online at
mildredsbigcityfood.com
New Deal Caf6
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local Beef
Burgers! This l2oz. Goliath
is Naturally Aged and Fresh
Ground. MONSTROUS desserts.
HUGE Martini's. $5 glasses of
wine and 20 wines under $20!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm
Fri & Sat. Ilam-1lpm
371-4418
newdealcafegainesville.com
Located next door to Mildred's.
Keepin' it fresh -Keepin' it real!
Ti Amo!
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NOW OPEN SUNDAYS 5-9pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices & terrific
services.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307991MM
Boca Fiesta
Best Margaritas in Town!
Fresh-squeezed + all natural!
Tasty tacos, burritos, nachos!
Cheap beer, full bar, open late!
232 SE 1st St Downtown
336-TACO!
0ii9 @ffi@Ry
Kickin Devil Cafe
Restaurant
Gainesville's newest treasure.
Locally owned restaurant with
great Cajun and Caribbean
vegetarian food! Enjoy
jambalaya, gumbo, French
crepes, delicious salads and
much more! Groove to a
selection of eclectic music while
you settle in for an evening of
delicious food. Live music most
nights after dinner. It's 4 blocks
from Satchels in the industrial
park, 2 blocks west of Sonnys.
Five dollar lunches, buy 2 get
I free drinks, 4 course dinners
for 2 for $29.95 Open Tues-Sat
352-505-6660
Book your party here or let us
cater your event!New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian
Thurs 6pm.
MO-TH 10am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-8pm.
505 NW 13th St 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional
Vietnamese cuisine with
popular Asian favorites. Pho-
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Family owned restaurant. Next
to Holiday Inn. Vietnamese
subs-pork, chicken, & tofu.
Dine-in or take out. Catering
available. Mon-Sat 10:30am-
9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-9pm
374-0934
1228 W Univ Ave
vi fllroEMD V
aheingae.det. floria
10, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
Group remembers those who died in Gaza conflict
By JENNIFER BATE
Alligator Contributing Writer
There were 13 balloons float-
ing around the Plaza of the
Americas Tuesday, but nobody
was celebrating.
Each black balloon represent-
ed 100 deaths that resulted from
last winter's Gaza conflict.
The fatalities included about
1,386 Palestinian civilians, seven
Israeli soldiers and three Israeli
civilians.
"The conflict obviously in-
volved crimes against humanity,
and we wanted to commemorate
those that died in the tragedy,"
said Husam Wahdan, president
of Students for Justice in Pales-
tine.
"(The club) really strives to
increase awareness of political
and social justice awareness on
campus since there is no other
student group that does that," ac-
cording to the senior political sci-
ence major.
The student organization,
which started this semester, aims
to promote social justice and
awareness of the Israeli-Palestine
conflict, as well as human rights.The event included speak-
ers, symbolic balloons, fliers and
brownies.Addison Vawters, 21, said he Middle Eastern language and
stopped by Tuesday's event be- culture.
cause it relates to his major in He said he's studied Middle
Danica Spears/ Alligator
Jennifer Amores hands out free brownies to those who pass by the Students for Justice in Palestine's
Gaza memorial ceremony Tuesday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas.Eastern culture and Arabic for
three years and has even gotten
to know people close to the con-
flict.
"The conflict obviously
involved crimes against hu-
manity, and we wanted to
commemorate those that
died in the tragedy."
Husam Wahdan
Students for Justice in Palestine
president
"I think most people in the
United States don't see the con-
flict because it's between two
countries that we don't depend
on economically," he said.
Vawters also pointed out that
acknowledging the Israeli-Pales-
tine conflict is very important be-
cause it affects countries that we
have a vested interest in.
"I like that (the organization)
is making people aware," he said.
"It is one of the most complicated
and controversial issues today."
On Tuesday, the Student Sen-
ate heard a revised resolution
about the Gaza conflict and advo-
cating for a two-state solution.
LOCAL
Mechanic fixes scooters on the go
Services are available 24/7
By ERIN ROBERTS
Alligator Contributing Writer
New local business owner
Bobby Swan secures his toolbox
in the bed of his Chevrolet Colo-
rado and takes off to his ever-
changing repair shop, which
often resides in a customer's
driveway.
Swamp Life Mobile Motor-
sports Repair opened Nov. 1 and
is the first business to provide
mobile repair and maintenance
services for scooters and motor-
cycles in the Gainesville area.
"We don't have a shop; there-fore, I'm able to give substantial-
ly lower prices, and our services
are way more convenient," Swan
said. "With other repair shops,
you have to call and make an ap-
pointment then pay to have your
scooter picked up."
An air compressor, impact
drill, extra oil, cleaning supplies,
work lights and other equipment
necessary for repair are stored in
the Swamp Life truck. Services
are available 24 hours a day, and
Swamp Life also provides road-
side assistance in emergency sit-
uations.
Swan said he focuses his busi-ness on building relationships
with the customers and provid-
ing friendly services at a reason-
able rate.
"With us coming to you, the
customers are talking to us the
whole time and learning about
their vehicle," Swan said. "They
can see exactly what I'm doing.
Your vehicle never goes behind
closed doors."
Although the business is only
about a month old, Swan said
he expects to be a leading re-
pair company in Gainesville and
hopes to eventually expand it to
other universities in Florida.
"The first month of business
has been surprisingly good,"
Swan said. "We're here to stay."
People dodge balls to save lives
0 MONEY RAISED SUPPORTS CLINIC
IN TANZANIA.
By MELISSA QUINN
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Flavia, a young girl living in Tanzania,
was bitten by a rattlesnake, she had to have her leg
amputated above the knee.
Last year, five members of HOPE, a UF organiza-
tion that raises money for a medical clinic in Tanza-
nia, visited the clinic and met the young girl.
The members of HOPE spent eight weeks work-
ing at the clinic, during which Flavia received a
prosthetic leg.
HOPE raised more than $500 for her, and in the
spring the organization helped to provide her with
the new limb.
HOPE will be holding its third annual dodgeballtournament at Flavet Field Thursday to raise money
for the medical clinic in Tanzania.
The tournament will start at 11 a.m. and last un-
til about 3 p.m., said Joshua Wu, president of the
organization.
Teams may have up to seven players, and the
cost to participate is $5 per player.
Wu said the money raised will be sent to pay for
medical supplies and other equipment.
The club is partnering with AfricanOn Inland Mission to host the tournamentCampus and raise funds, he said.
About 12 teams played in the tour-
nament in 2008, and the organization is looking to
have about 16 teams register this year.
Over the past two years, HOPE has raised more
than $3,000 to send to Tanzania.
"By focusing on one clinic in one community, we
hope to see with our own eyes and touch with our
own hands those Tanzanians who our money and
time are saving," Wu said.SunRail system
to run through
Central Florida
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator ContributingWriter
The Florida Senate passed legislation Tuesday to create
SunRail, a $1.2 billion commuter-rail system in Central Flor-
ida.
Ending a special session that began Thursday, the Senate
passed the bill 27-10 less than 24 hours after the House voted
84-25 in support of the legislation. The project failed twice be-
fore.
The commuter rail will run from Deland through Orlando
and south to Poinciana. However, there will be no SunRail sta-
tions at Orlando International Airport, Disney or Universal.
The legislation included additional fund-
ing for the struggling South Florida commut-
er rail, TriRail, and makes the state eligible
for more than $2 billion in federal funding
for a high-speed rail project to connect Or-
lando, Miami, Tampa and Jacksonville.
Legislators representing Gainesville
were split on the rail project. Speaker Larry
Crist Cretul, whose district includes UT, voted for
the bill, and in a press release said, the proj-
ect will benefit residents and visitors throughout Florida.
However, Gainesville's other representatives, Rep. Charles
"Chuck" Chestnut IV and Sen. Steve Oelrich, who represent
all of Alachua County, voted against the legislation.
Oelrich said in a press release that he could not support the
bill at a time when the legislature was forced to cut education
and health care spending.
The SunRail project will become law with the signature of
Gov. Charlie Crist, who has been a strong supporter of the leg-
islation.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Help site answers UF students' questions via blog
Bloggers post
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
Students who like it fast and
easy now have a Web site de-
signed just for them.
UFHelp.com, a site launched
in October, allows UF students to
submit questions about anything
from coursework to clubs with a
few quick clicks.
The site is a project sponsored
by Gators of Tomorrow, an or-ganization that chooses 25 fresh-
men each year based on their aca-
demic excellence and leadership
abilities.
David Yakobovitch, sopho-
more finance major and one of
the site's founders, said students
can submit questions by clicking
the "Contact" link on the site or
by e-mailing help@ufhelp.com.
He said the site has a team
of about 30 bloggers who an-
swer each question and posts aresponse on the site within 48
hours.
Yakobovitch said the bloggers
provide their own unique stu-
dent perspectives on the issues
addressed.
On About 100 sets
Campus of questions and
answers have been
posted so far, including tips
about registering for season foot-
ball tickets, taking a class on a
pass/fail basis and figuring outresponses within 48 hoursLiberal Arts and Sciences, who
may struggle to meet with advis-
ers.
Husam Wahdan, a senior po-
litical science major and one of
the site's bloggers, said he wishes
the site was available when he
was a freshman.
Navigating through the UF
Web site to find resources for get-
ting involved on campus proved
difficult, he said.
"The way I look at it, it's like a
freshman survival guide," Wah-
dan said.
Copyrighted Material
Syndica nt
Available from Commercial News Providers
THE COST OF DUI IS SOBERING!
The absolute mandatory minimum costs for a first time DUI conviction:
$250.00 Fine
$385.00 Court Surcharges
$610.00 :1 Year Supervised Probation
$215.00 DUI School
$500.00: Bail
$225.00 : License Reinstatement
$150.00: Towing Charges
$100.00 Vehicle Impound
$600.00 Ignition Interlock Device
$3,035.00 TOTAL (plus attorney fees ranging from $2,500-$6,000)
A DUI conviction will stay on your driving record for 75 years.
Most insurance companies will drop your coverage or
increase your premiums up to $1,000 a year for three years.
Other consequences:
-complete 50 hours of community service
-license suspended for 6 months
-possible suspension or expulsion from UFC j:FFE2A2~;GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannotbecombined OneCouponpercustomer *
onflyS eals 7-0C E2/31/ 0n
It's Never Too Late
ror The Perfect Gift!
Spa Roale Now Does
INSTANT Online
Gift Ceri~cates!
Eas online appointments
avaiabe angtjmegou wish!
Mention This Ad And Receive
10% Off any Purchase of $50 Or More
618 N\ ( th Street. Suite B
352.333.5800 .fax 352.333.3984
www.sparoyald.netthe bus system.
Yakobovitch said he hopes the
home page of the site will evolve
to include a map displaying links
to the different categories of ques-
tions students have asked.
He said students of any age
can post questions.
Joyce Huang, a senior environ-
mental engineering major, said
the site will prove useful for stu-
dents unfamiliar with how drop/
add works.
She said it could also be help-
ful for students in the College of
12, ALLIGATOR 0 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
cafe
Happy Hour .
Every Day live Music
4- 7 p.m. on Deck
$1.50 Domestic Pints
$2.00 Margaritas Friday, December 11
2 for 1Wells/Wine 6pm -10 pm
$1 Off Calls/Premium
On Archer Rd., east of 34th St. (next to Bennig
tel: 352-872-5888Starting Dec 20
Hours: Iam- 11pm
Regular hours will
resume Jan 2
WWW.JDOOBIE5.COM.d hs
BE5T BURGER DEUVERY IN TOWNSake
405 NW 13th St 1620 University Ave. 1144 NE 16th Ave
352-264-0026 352-376-9611 352-338-0857Nobody Parties
Like CJ's.Unlimited
Nationwide talk, text,
int'I text and voicemail
Free
Bluetooth an anyph o purchase:
|with this ad Expirs 12/31 /09
-. _ _ _ _ -_ -_ -_ -_- _- _- _-_-.-
SW nAve -Gli-ack.net 7-67
The HoneyBaked Ham Co.
and Cafe 352-331-1253
Buy I sandwich get
the 2nd FREE
With the Purchase of 2 Drinks
kqul, r- ed k oly Moot pr nt roupn
re-ve offer One Coupot per ptr n per vis
cannot , be nbined with n1 0th,, ffr Vald at
$10.00 off any Bone-in 1
HoneyBaked Half Ham
Bring 1 Home for Mom and Dad!!!
atust present coupon to receive offer One Coupon
>er person per visit
cannot be combined with any other offer. Vald at
he Gainesville, L bt n ony toth t 131109 1
618 NW. 60th St. 352-331-12531232
:E. University Ave I26I
6
The Wine & Cheese Gallery
113 N. Main Street
Diewntown
372-8446
wineancicheesegolr o
hm
K
m
.1H
20!Hofifay Gift Cards:
Buy S100 or 1,fort,
jet 20% Bonus 'Free
ADVERTISE IN THE
EXTENDED SPORTS SECTION
OF SPRING WELCOME BACK
rri X rrTn IM nn n r xr n K'lfr5
FEATURING 200S UA TURS
FOOTBALL WRAP-UP
UELISHIN GJAN C
FEATURE STORIES * GRAPHICS * PHOTOS* COLUMNS
Breakfast Served Daily
startin @ 6:30 a.m.
352-338-9288Beef's Wings
"0" Brady Burger
Full Bar Available3ub
nes on
a TVs
1250 W. University Ave.
Located @ University ST'
13th @ the Holiday InnCentral Florida
gr1office
UL=mplus
Art & Drafting- Picture Framing- Printing
Copy Center .Oflice Supplies -Furniture
10 %OFF
An & Office Sutppealid ony with
COuIpii. Offer excILudes fri ture
drasetne board,. sale items ns.ttd
Jk reajed an pa sacsSee store tot
-"AKE CFOP YOUR
FIRST CHOICE!"
10 N\\ tit Strec-aet rrts\t11c. FL32601
352-378-2577 -S800-130-2367
str"Col ctp.lt.........".Hoop it Up
Deadline Extended -4 pm TDAY
WIN TICKETS!
Lower Level Sideline seats
6 WINNERS!
December 1 9, 2009 1 BankAtlantic Center I Sunrise, FL
ENTER TO WIN: www.alligator.org/app/orangebowlmetro
$5/mth
Unlimited
International
| Calling 
see store For details
Viva WirelessWelcome NCAA Volleyball players & fans!
Open 11-2 am
WACKY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
5 PM -12 AM 50c Oysters at the Oyster B.
$2 Domestic Bottles Buy'One 1/2 lb. Shrimp
$3 Side Salads -Tenders nachoss, Get One 1/2 lb. FREE
Cheesesticks & Mini Burgers
FRIDAY SATURDAY
99c Domestic $5 Domestic $5.95 Domestic Pitcher
Draft Pitchers $5 Jager Bombs
$5 Jager Bombs (10 p.m. -close) $2 Lemon Drops
$2 Lemon Drops 99c Margaritas34th Sweet Bay Plaza
672-61 11~ffL~3
ar
5
IFamily Sports P
C.111VIVO Come view the gam
49 leceo'7our twenty42"HI
4 iIIe n lam 90 0 0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0* * * *
l Gainesville, F octr onytr q11110
A
IWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 13
Gaie vlle FL lo tir onh thr h 1213119
Ai
14, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
Horticultural club offers holiday poinsettia variety
0 THE COST OF PLANTS
RANGES FROM $9 TO $28.
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writer
'Tis the season to be jolly -and
decorate accordingly.
UF's Environmental Horticul-
ture Club is holding its annual
Poinsettia Show and Sale Dec. 10
at the Fifield Hall greenhouses on
Hull Road.
Kara Monroe, the club's presi-
dent, said those looking to get
their annual fix of holiday cheerwill find more than the traditional
array of poinsettias.
"You can go to Wal-Mart and
buy a kind of junky poinsettia for
$3, but you get the real deal when
you come out here," the UF en-
vironmental horticulture senior
said.
The club will be selling more
than 30 varieties of poinsettias
from global plant breeders, rang-
ing from $9 to $28.
Monroe said the plants are
priced according to size and rarity
of the poinsettia strain.
The club has raised about 2,500
poinsettias since August, cultivat-"You can go to Wal-Mart
and buy a kind of junky
poinsettia for $3, but you
get the real deal when you
come out here."
Kara Monroe
UF senior
ing the plants from seedlings.
From deep orange to white
speckles, Monroe said there's more
to poinsettias than the traditional
crimson hue.
"Sometimes you just think of
the boring red, but there are somany different kinds to see," she
said. "It gets you out of that box."
Her personal favorite is the
Winter Rose, a variety of poinsettia
where the leaves are red and tight-
ly curved in a rose-like curvature.
The poinsettias will also be on
display in a neighboring green-
house at the event, and potential
shoppers can participate in a con-
sumer analysis study for a compli-
mentary poinsettia.
The sale will happen rain or
shine, and after the poor weather
at last year's sale, Monroe is hop-
ing for the latter.
Despite the rain, the club madeabout $15,000 at last year's sale.
"That's the nature of working
outside all the time," she said. "We
make do."
And it's this enthusiasm that
carries the sale each year as the
club's largest fundraiser.
"The best part of the experience
is to see the interest in the sale,"
Monroe said. "It's exciting to see
this work that you've done begin-
ning in August start to come full
circle."
The sale lasts from 8 a.m. to 4
p.m. There is a clearance sale Dec.
11 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the
same location.
4 *164 Wjrt Ofl 04aM "K1f% h ON 14 %d
C!ggted Material
ydcated Content
Available from.Commercial News Providers
Obarnim envov hopes N Koreas ogil taibk jsbout nukes
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Pr ~v ~ N # 0 *~ , $ r # t0 :
!~ ~I'
'
oprighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from.Commercial News Providers
for a swinging good time at this
1930s and 40s THEMED EVENING
with period dress encouraged.
N 9alce.
the night away, and learn from the
FLORIDA SWING DANCING CLUB giving
lessons and demonstrating classic moves.
times at the soda fountain with ice
cream from the SWEET DREAMS fire
truck, which will be parked in front of
the museum.
FREE ADMISSION www.harn.ufl.edu
Become a fan of the Harn on
Facehook or follow us on TwitterEUSELM
Close the day.
openyour mind
Museum Nights is an ongoing
program made possible by
the generous support of
the University of Florida
Honors Program sod
Student Government.
Specal thanks to
Florida Swing Dancing Club
Sweet Dreams
Ph ips Center for the
Performing Arts
Publix Supermarkets
Jim Liversidge, UF Speial and
Area Studies Collecions
Dave Hunkins and Bud StylesLeonardo's
Musical Instruments
Vintage New & Used
Stringed Instruments
Guitars, Banjos,
Mandolins and Ukes
302 Cholokka Boulevard
Micanopy, FL 32667 -352-450-0928
-Baby Alive Dolls
' -Florida Gators Gear
S -S porting, GoodsStudents for the
Performing Arts Circle
%\e O Ceneral Body Meeting
Thursday, December 10
Tr 4:30 p.m.
0 Plaza of the Americas
0oin the 5-udents for tre
Performing Arts on the Plaza for
holiday food and fun!% * 4
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
4-21-71-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
4-21-09-71-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
4-21-71-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF .com
4-21-09-71-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$250/MO
Fully Furnished Rms Avail. In 4BR,
Call Drew Richards, Campus Realty,
352-275-8555 4-21-71-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
4-21-09-71-1
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $800/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
1-5-09-40-1
0
creass ing
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
1 bedroom in a nice quiet NW 3/2 house, on
bus route to UF, parking. $500 utilities incl,
fenced backyard, wood floor, internet, W/D,
flexible term, visiting scholars or grads. 352-
281-4229 12-9-09-14-1
Will Consider Semester Lease! Oxford
Terrace-short walk to UF. Private room/bath
in 4/4, clean and ready to move-in. Includes
furnishings, utilities, wi-fi, cable and W/D. M
or F okay, No smoking or pets.
beweiss59@hotmail.com or 321-228-3379
1-6-09-10-1
Female wanted for 4/4 condo. Furn room
w/ private bath Clean, bus rte pool workout
room. Inc utilities cable internet wash/dry
$450/mth for spr sem $300 sec dep Jeff 904-
612-3944 or weeks63@comcast.net 1-20-
09-20-1
Jackson Square Spring lease $500/month!
for a 1/1 in a 2/2. Beautiful furnished apart-
ment with private baths.
3 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS!!!!!
561-706-2387 or bdegoufl.edu for info 12-
9-09-5-1
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate
Matching. Across the street from UF!
$479-$504 * All-Inclusive * Fully-Furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557
4-21-71-1
1BR/1BA MOBILE HOME
Completely furnished. Only big enough for
one person. Very quiet. Fenced pasture &
horse stall. 1 mile west of of 1-75 & Williston
Rd. $400/mo 372-0507 12-9-3-1
Scholars' haven in modern, elegant house
in woods 1 mi no of UF. Share w/ 1 woman
grad student. On busline. $400 + util. Jan 1+
mardavis03@yahoo.com 1-8-10-5-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA with indiv leases. $400/mo incl ca-
ble, internet & utils. Available Jan 1st, 2010.
Also avail summer & fall 2010. 239-250-6149
1-5-10-2-1
$522/lbr in a 2-2. SHORT TERM LEASE!!!
JANUARYTO JULY201OAT THE ESTATES.
FULLY FURNISHED, UTILS INCLUDED!
SW 20th Avenue, APT #1026A.
PLEASE CALL 205-834-5852 ASAP!!!
1-12-10-7-1
Rooms available in 4 bed 4 bath apt for
Spring move-in. Furnished or unfurnished.
Starting at $399/ month. Cable, internet, tile
floor, 24 hour amenities. Waived app fee.
(352) 380-9899 universityclubapts.com 1-8-
10-5-1
0FFor Rentunfurnihed
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 4-21-09-71-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
4-21-09-71-2
$99 MOVES YOU IN!
1 brs from $539
2brs from $599
3brs from $750
Wtr incl.*Pet Friendly*Spacious
1 mile from UF*Shands*Downtown
www.arborpark.com or call 335-7275
4-21-09-71-2Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
4-21-09-71-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/i BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! *Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 4-21-09-71-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
4-21-09-71-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 4-21-09-71-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-21-71-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
LEASING NOW AND FOR FALL
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-21-09-71-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
4-21-09-71-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
4-21-71-2A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
4-21-09-71-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
4-21-71-2
*IO LOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
4-21-09-71-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
4-21-09-71-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75 SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 4-21-
71-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
4-21-09-71-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
4-21-09-71-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
4-21-09-71-20 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
4-21-09-71-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
4-21-09-71-2
BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
4-21-09-71-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
4-21-09-71-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
4-21-71-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-21-09-71-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010
Utility Packages Available
*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
4-21-09-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
4-21-09-71-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
4-21-09-71-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 4-21-
09-71-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
4-21-09-71-2
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished 1n1nished
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $775/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
1-5-09-92-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr. from $363 $300 Amex card
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-25-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 4-21-09-71-2ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
4-21-09-71-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands 2336 SW 34th PI Apt D. $600/
mo w/stacking W/D. 1yr lease 352-372-3131
12-9-09-41-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 1-6-
09-44-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 12-9-
09-39-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ Summit
House across the street. $700/mo + $200
dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 1-29-47-2
I m
Copyrighted Materiale
Syndicated Content 1I
Available from Commercial News Providers 3
IIS
I'p-li,
I
- at
Id
IWWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
4-21-09-71-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2 & 3 bdrs from $709
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
1-5-09-92-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 1-5-09-22-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1Blk to UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 1-5-09-22-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 1-5-09-22-2
Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
* 3BR/1BA HOUSE
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 1-5-09-
18-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 12-9-09-17-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit complx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $635/mo Call 727-423-9463
SAlso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
1-19-09-23-2WALK TO UF. Avail in Jan:
* 2BR/2.5BA $800 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S Studio $475
1 yr lease, SD & NS. Call/Text: 352-870-7256
or gv1132601@gmail.com 12-9-09-14-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-6-14-2
WALK/BIKE TO UF/SHANDS! Campus Edge
1 BR/1 bath, washer/dryer, stove,dishwasher,
pool,gym,no pets,$550/m,2360 SW Archer
Rd.561-313-1549 Owner agent 1-11-09-
15-2
NEED A CHANGE?
Rooms for rent, 5 blks from UF. Indiv leases,
no redec fees, utils incl. A few left for Dec or
reserve yours for Aug. Call today 226-4111
12-9-09-10-2
FIRST MONTH FREE or $600/MO! (original
price $660) Bright 2/1 apartment on the sec-
ond floor. Short walk from UF/Shands/RTS
13,16,17. This is a lease transfer. Available
Dec. 1st. Hurry! Call 407 922 0029 12-9-
9-2
MOVE IN JAN. Room in 4b/3b house share
bath. Easy walk to campus. No pets. No
Smoking. 500/mon incl. util. 250/sec dep.
kmtheo@hotmail.com or 352-262-2710/514-
4570 1-5-09-10-2
LARGE 1BR HOUSE
Urban loft design -fully remodeled. Very
nice. Backyard, trees, downtown, big city
cracker. 316-6667. $670/mo. Available now.
1-5-09-10-2
STEPS TO LAW SCHOOL
* Large 1 BR/1 BA $475/mo
* 1BR in 4BR/2BA house $350/mo
Clean, quiet, split utils. W/D. Call Tom 954-
529-4031, www.pleasantstreet.net (for pics)
1-6-09-10-2
Nice 2 BR near UF, restaurants and shop-
ping. Large utility room with WD Connections,
Dishwasher, Additional private storage, Pool.
$620 per month. (352)870-5815/(352)333-
7721 1-5-10-2
$99 Moves-U-IN! $299 + 75 utility package.
Downtown Vintage room, or 34th st condo
room w/private bath & walk-in closet. 352-
226-3535, 713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-2
3/1 Vintage House! $900/month Walk to UF!
Porch, w/d hook-ups, central AC 352-226-
3535, 713-705-6279 517 NW 8th St 1-7-
09-10-2
4 Bed/2 bath Vintage House $990/month.
Walk to UF! Univ/by Leo706. 818 SW 3rd
Ave. Central A/C, porch, w/d, and close to
downtown too. 352-226-3535, 713-705-6279
1-7-09-10-2
Serene Living at Magnolia Manor Apts
All 2BR/2BA units. W/D, mirrored wall, sky-
light, alarm. Starting at $640. Model open
daily. Call Maribeth 352-317-8150 12-09-
6-2
2BR/2BA Condo
1 Mile from Campus
Call 352-516-2545. Pets ok. 1-5-09-7-2
LARGE 2/2 PETS OK
Fenced in backyard, W/D hook-up, plus stor-
age, central heat & AC, Master bdrm has 3
closets, apt just painted, new carpet, new
frig. Now available, rent $650. Sec only $100
with reference. Call Mr. Kristoff 352-332-
5030 1-5-09-7-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
1-5-09-7-2
DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA 1200 sq ft townhouse. Amazing
location. Tile floor, new countertops. Blocks
to downtown. Available now. $850/mo. 508
NE 4th Ave. 379-4952 1-5-09-7-2DUCKPOND
Stone cottage studio. Small but cute. Good
sized kitchen. Blocks to downtown, restau-
rants. Available now. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th
St. 379-4952 1-5-09-7-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home. Shady lot.
From $345-$375/mo. Inc water. No pets.
Last month free. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887
1-5-09-6-2
BLOCKS TO UF
Available August 2010. Now showing
multiple houses. 2BR/2BA, 3BR/2BA,
4BR/3BA, 5BR/3BA. www.dalyproperties.
com or call Carol 359-3341 1-5-09-6-2
Beautiful &Affordable Townhouse w/fireplace
in SW Gville! Laminated wood downstairs &
carpet upstairs. 2BR/1.SBA near UF, Butler
Plaza, 1-75 & Oaks Mall. Short leases avail.
Great deal! Don't miss it. 352-262-2828
1-5-09-6-2
Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750 per month. Call 317-5060
1-5-09-6-2
Relocated. Assume my lease. Dec rent paid.
No 1st, last, or security deposit 950.00/mo
2BR/2BA townhome, W/D hookup. Arlington
Square,downtown, walk to the Hipp, on bus
line, alarm system included. 863-258-6350
12-9-09-5-2
Move-In Now & Walk to UF
Dorm style $509 * Studio $720 * 1BR $675
2BR $338/br * Roommate Matching Avail
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-21-71-2
100+ apts: Live by UF
* Affordable & Luxury * 4BR $479/br
3BR $550/br * 2BR $420/br 1 BR $689
Studios $605 * Virtual Tours Avail Fall
352-376-6223 * www.LiveNearCampus.com
4-21-71-2
$600/per mo. 2 br/2 baths. Close to U.F. & on
bus line. Amenities include clubhouse, exer-
cise room & 2 pools. Lots of upgrades, some
new appl; includes washer/dryer in unit. Non-
smokers only, U.F. student preferred. Call:
352-494-9724. 1-5-09-5-2
Affordable, clean NW 1br on busline,
near shops $ UF,& dwntwn
$495 mo, inclds some util.
see our webpage or call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Cypress point-3/2
near Oaks Mall, hospital, & UF
$725 mo,
see our webpage special or call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Treehouse Village-2/2, new carpet & vinyl
$595 mo.
See our webpage special or call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Whispering Pines-2/2, two years new, w/d,
monitored alarms
$800 mo, see our rebate special or
call 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
Monticello-NW 3/3.5, fresh paint, w/d, walk-
in closets
$1100 mo, call us at 375-7104
Edbaurmanagement.com 1-5-09-5-2
MOVE NOW! RENT-FREE TIL JAN '10!
2 Story 2Bd/2Bth + Loft New condo in NW
Gnv. Near UF, Shands, GHFC. Quiet up-
scale nghborhood, perfect 4 grads + pro-
fessionals + small family! Huge Bdrms
and Kitchen, Wood/Tile, W/D, Microwave /
Dishwasher, Lots of storage spces + tons
more! MUST SEE! $1150/mth Negotiable
Tony 352.682.3043 12-9-4-2
$900 / 2br -BRAND NEW CONDO. WALK
TO UF / SHANDS 2BR/2BA brand new
condo unit available now. Approx 1100 sq
ft. Campus View South Condos at 1185 SW
9th Road. W/D/parking incl. 352-337-1760.
1-5-10-4-2
18, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
OIFF n V7 Subleases Roommates Roommates Furnishingsunfrn she
2BR/2BA, kitchen, living room, loft, laun-
dry, patio, large 6 ft fenced backyard, small
pet allowed; excellent, clean; minutes to all
shops & UF. $800/mo. Call Hal at 653-281-
7414 or 800-248-7788 1-13-10-10-2
HOUSE avail Dec 15th. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles
to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus
rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace,
cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call
327-2931 or 376-6183 1-8-10-7-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
1-5-10-4-2
2BR/1 BA HOUSE
Wood floors, back porch, cent H/AC. 611 NW
34th Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. Fenced
yard, W/D hook-up. Available now! $725/mo
352-318-8822 1-5-09-4-2
Two Blocks from UF Stadium
1 Person Studio Apartment
Available Jan. 1 352-377-2930 1-5-09-3-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 1-29-10-20-2
Luxury Student Condos Close To Campus
Includes internet and utilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol Park Realty (352) 367-2669
1-29-09-20-2
$355/Mo Newly Remodeled. Pvt BR/BA.
10 min to UF. On Bus Rte. W/D, Furn Com
Area, Secure WI-Fl, Pool & MORE! OPEN-
MINDED. 954-854-9445. UTGCondos.com
1-5-10-2-2
Luxury student condos close to calmus.
Includes interent & tuilities
From $385 per month each.
Please call us for the details.
Bristol park Realty 352-367-2669 1-29-10-
20-2
2BR/1 BA w/ small study near Shands. Large
screened room w/ W/D hook-ups. Available
now. $650/mo. Sec dep $650. Pets ok 3300
SW 23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 leave
message. 1-15-10-10-2-
Townhouse 2BR/1.5BA, WD hook-up. New
kitchen w/ private courtyard. $700/mo, Sec
dep $700. Pets ok. 4007 B SW 26th Terr.
Call 352-371-3473 leave message 1-15-
10-10-2
2/2.5 Beacon Hill Condo. 1400sgft built
in 2006. 1.5mi to Shands/UF. Jet tub in
Master bath with dual sinks. Balcony in 2nd
bedroom. pets ok. $800/mo. 352-256-0639
or gqgator07@yahoo.com
1-11-10-6-2
1BR/1BA apt for rent. Nice, tile floors, off
Tower Rd. $425/mo $300 dep. Call 352-356-
2563 or email snapjacksboss@yahoo.com
Section 8 accepted. 1-5-10-2-2
-subleases
$385-Room available for Spring 2009 in 4/4
University Terrace Condo. Fully furnished,
utilities included, W/D, on bus routes 12 and
35. Call Anu @ 352-262-0628 12-9-9-3
Release Spring 2010, UClub Apts.
I'LL GIVE YOU $350 FOR THIS APT.
$555/mo. all inclusive; 1 bdrm.,
private bath; female roommate
email: cmm616@ufl.edu 1-5-09-10-3
$280/mo+util.Sublease nxt spring/sum.Lg 1
br/lba in 3br/3ba Stoneridge apt.Inc:wash/
dryer,dshwshr,all essentials!Lg walkincloset!
Walk to Butler plaza.2 bus rts 12&35.Gym,
pool, bball/tennis crts also. 813-909-6447
12-9-5-3OSOSIGNING BONUS!!0l@
Avail Jan 1st (or before) thru spring semes-
ter. Great Deal -Great Location. 2BR/2BA in
The Palms (originally $1250/mo) Downtown
Near Everything! Call 305-924-0955 1-5-
09-5-3
Master bedroom in a 2/1 house across the
street from the stadium! Perfect location to
walk to class and bars. $500/month. Can be
furnished if needed. Available Jan 1st. Call
(813) 610-8671 or email bwilks09@aol.com
12-9-09-4-3
room at ivy house for spring & summer2010!
$150 loft bed incl. fully furnished all girls
dorm style, friendly roommates. just steps
from campus, very safe loc. on sorority row.
all inclusive rent! call 727 271 9268 12-9-
09-4-3
Female Sublease. 1 BR of 2/2.
CANOPY APTS.
-Brand New Unit, Furnished
-$700/mo for top story, pool view!
-Free 1st month; Utilities/Internet Included
-Please call me at 772 349 0570 12-9-09-
3-3
3 rooms Spring 2010 sublease, in 6 spacious
bdrm house. Awesome Location! 2 min. to
walk to campus, 5 min. walk to Sor. Row.
FREE Designated Parking Spot, wood fIrs. 2
kitchens, front porch & fire place
Call Ansley (772)216-5773 aplatts2@ufl.edu
1-6-5-3
Female. 1/1 in a 4/3 unit for $450/mo. at
Gateway at Gainesville. January-May lease,
move in as early as Dec. 10th. All inclusive
rent, fully furnished, laundry room, pet friend-
ly. Bus route 12. 24/7 fitness center, pool, vol-
leyball/basketball courts, ample resident and
visitor parking. Contact Jackie at (941)356-
3956 orjpmuha@ufl.edu 12-9-2-3
Sublease for Spring 1/1 in a 3/3 (Dec Paid)
READY TO MOVE IN
$395/month reduced rate (all included)
Campus Lodge Apts
contact 954-235-4893 12-9-1-3
FIRST MONTH FREE
1/1 in a 4/4 in Gainesville Place $399/mo all
inclusive -best deal in town!
AVAILABLE ASAP
(727)804-4765 or smithse@ufl.edu 1-8-5-
3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-21-71-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 12-9-09-62-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
12-9-09-40-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-
$800/mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer
Rd. yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566
1-5-10-32-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 12-9-29-4Female roommates needed. Live in a big
new house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax
area, fenced yard,private pool. 480/month
all inclusive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see
House Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 12-9-09-
23-14
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
Room for rent. Master bedroom w/
private bath. 3/4 mile from stadium.
Quiet neighborhood. Split utils. 352-281-6618
1-5-09-9-4
Roommate wanted in Jan or Aug. 2000 sq
ft. 2 women looking for 3rd roommate. 3BR -
comes fully furnished, W/D, internet, TV. 3rd
& 2nd Ave. $600 + 1/3 utils. 561-281-9274
1-5-09-9-4
Roommate wanted. Large 3/3 house w/
2 grad students in NW. Close to UF, SFC,
shopping. $375/mo, $200 dep. Lease til 7/31.
Large room, low utils. Call Evan 352-428-
0500 1-5-09-9-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 12-
9-09-8-4
Luxury House -room, $500 incl. utilities.
W/D, ceramic tile, micro, etc. Looking for
graduate/professional for nice place & likes
small pups. Williston/SW 23rd St. 352-226-
3535/713-705-6279 1-7-09-10-4
Roommate needed in Rockwood Villas spa-
cious room and private bath in a 3/3. $400.00/
month plus a 1/3 of the utilities 352-538-7521
1-5-09-8-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 1-12-12-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
1-5-09-7-4
1 bed/private bath in 3/3 at rockwood villas.
$450 inc. utilities (cable, wireless internet).
Washer/Dryer in unit and plenty of parking.
On UF and Sante Fe bus route. Call Jerry for
more info. 407.403.0656. 12-9-09-6-4
Looking for one male to share 3BR/2BA
house close to campus. Common areas fur-
nished, W/D, new tile & carpet. $425/mo +
elec. 918 NW 10th Ave. Call 561-706-5378
1-5-09-5-4
Bedroom for rent in a 3/2. $400/mo. Own
bath, carport. Females only need apply. 4
Blks from stadium. Call 692-1958 for appt.
1-5-09-5-4
Roommate wanted. 1/1 in 2/2
2 Blocks North of Library West
Unfurnished BR, shared spaces furnished
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, wireless internet
$600/mo + half util. Call/txt 813-468-1071
1-5-5-4
3 blocks from UF Campus
1 bedroom in 3/1 house for rent
$425/mth + 1/3 util/cable/int
Available ASAP please call now! 850 529
2717 or email kalon77@ufl.edu 1-5-09-5-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room -utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd FIr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814 1-5-09-3-4
Roommate needed for 2BR Apt. close to
UF. Bus Stop Right Outside. $350/Mo. Plus
Utilities.Call Kyle at 954-907-8538 or email
me at kylefranzone06@yahoo.com .1-5-
09-3-4
2BRs in 4/2 house $375 ea. (or $700 both)
+ share util/cable/DSL + dep. Craigslist
ad: http://gainesville.craigslist.org/
roo/1495891104.html. 352 376-9200 1-8-
10-5-4$355/Mo Newly Remodeled. Pvt BR/BA.
10 min to UF. On Bus Rte. W/D, Furn Com
Area, Secure WI-Fl, Pool & MORE! OPEN-
MINDED. 954-854-9445. UTGCondos.com
1-5-10-2-4
1-2 Roommates needed for 4br/4ba $385
Fully Furn Condo. ALL UTIL Inc., Pvt. bath
walk-in closet, w/d, pool. Short ride to UF on
2 bus routes. STUDENTS ONLY, non-smok-
ing 954-593-3063 1-8-10-5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Bilks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 4-21-71-
5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
4-21-71-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
4-21-71-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOTWITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Great for Students 1 BR/1 BA.
Walk to Campus. Only $49,900
Gore-Rabell Realty 378-1387 4-21-75-5
Homes From $199/mo! 1-4 Bedrooms Avail
From $199/mo! For Listings (800)350-4142
12-14-1-5
Won't Last
3/2 -Great Community
Owner Financing
$650.oo/mo
352.378.4411 12-9-09-1-5
3 and 2 beds avail/low down/low monthly
Call today! 352.378.4411 12-9-09-1-5
2 & 3 bdr's
>From $599.00/month
Owner Financing
Low down
352.378.4411 12-9-09-1-5
Move In Ready
3/2 Adorable
>From $99.00/mo
Westside/owner finance
352.378.4411 12-9-09-1-5
OWNER FINANCING
3 & 2 bedrooms avail
Great Locations
Call 352.378.4411
today! 12-9-09-1-5
Up to $8K tax credit
For 1st time home buyers
3 & 2 bdrs avail
WE FINANCE
Call today! 352.378.4411 12-9-09-1-5
TOWNHOUSE 2BR/1.5BA. W/D hook-ups.
New kitchen w/ private courtyard. $88,500.
4007 B SW 26th Terr Call 352-371-3473
Leave message. 1-5-10-10-5
LAND OR DEVELOPMENTS WANTED. We
buy or market development lots. Mountain or
Waterfront Communities in NC, SC, GA and
FL. Call (800)455-1981, Ext.1034 12-9-1-5BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 4-21-09-71-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 4-21-09-71-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 4-21-09-71-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
4-21-09-71-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 4-21-
71-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 4-21-09-71-6
-BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW-
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 4-21-71-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
4-21-71-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 4-21-09-
71-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 4-21-71-6
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Laptop Chargers. Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
computers For Sale Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Wanted
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/un-
plugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID.
Certified MCSE Technicians. 352-338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
*KALEV ON KALLOI come to your location
All PC and Networking Problems
@ 352-262-6704 0 Only $25 per hour s
1-5-09-14-7
CERTIFIED MCSE COMPUTER TECH
Office or Home. Fast professional services at
reasonable rates. Services include network-
ing, security, data recovery, virus removal.
352-275-3036 www.indiecomputer.com 12-
9-09-10-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
JLU L*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-21-09-71 -10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
4-21-09-71-10
Top of the line gator pool table! Solid slate,
8ft.,gator blue felt, gator billiard balls, gator
cover $1800 OBO. MUST SELL! call 352-
372-6533 12-9-09-5-10
CHRISTMAS TREES!
Potted Leylands, Arizona Cypress, & Red
Cedar; Table-Top to 10 ft. $7-$69. 209 NW
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 1-5-09-6-
10
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warranty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 col-
ors in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
12-9-1-10
Get Dish -FREE Installation-$19.99/mo HBO
& Showtime FREE-Over 50 HD Channels
FREE Lowest Prices-No Equipment to Buy!
Call Now for full Details- (877)227-2998 ALL
CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 12-9-1-10
PUBLIC AUCTION 150+ FEMA Mobile
Homes & Campers All selling no reserve
DEC 12th Livingston, LA www.henderson-
auctions.com (225)686-2252 la lic 136-09
12-9-1-10
-a .L. aja
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
6
0-a
a. S.* 0
1A4***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
4-21-09-71-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-21-09-71-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 4-21-09-
71-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-21-09-71-11
***www. BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 4-21-09-71-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
4-21-09-71-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 4-21-09-71-11
Discount Motorcycle Gear
www.turn2co.com. Up to 75% off original
MSRP. 904-294-8344 Turn 2 Gear 1-5-
09-9-11
Honda Shawdow Spirit 750, yellow Exell.10K,
shield, bags, custom canvas cover, $3500,
call Paul 352-514-6227 see it Newberry Rd.
Imports, 7349 W Newberry ask Andy 12-
9-09-5-11
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 4-21-71-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-21-71-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
4-21-71-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
12-9-09-57-12*@WE BUY JUNK CARS@
CALL US! TOP DOLLAR PAID!
Fash Cash -Free Towing Cars, Trucks, RVs,
Motorcycles 386-365-1855 or 386-234-0075
12-9-09-12-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
94 Chevy 1500 $999 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $1499 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $1499 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
95 Dodge Ram PIK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PIK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 4-21-71-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
203Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 4-21-71-12
Cars from $29/Mo!
Hondas Chevys Jeeps and
More! 0$ Down 36 Months @
8.5% apr for listings Call
800-366-9813 ext 9765 4-21-71-12
2000 Honda Civic $800! 2001 Nissan Altima
$350! 2000 Acura Integra $500! POLICE
IMPOUNDS! for listings call (800)366-9813
ext 9271 12-9-1-12
L Want d
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 4-21-
71-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-21-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 1-8-09-71-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 1-8-
09-71-13
WJ HelpWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 4-21-71-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 4-21-09-71-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
4-21-71-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 4-21-71-14
20, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
UF HelpWanted HelpWanted 7 services Services nertainment
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 4-21-09-71-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 4-21-09-
71-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-21-71-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 4-21-
09-71-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
Full time NANNY needed for Jan: M-F
toddler $10/hr; must have newborn exp
grad students welcome; exp req;
Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume, photo,
short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
NANNY ASAP for adorable 1yr old:
3 full days/ wk; 25-30hrs; $9/hr;
starts asap or Jan.
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED Jan
6:30am; 15hrs/wk average (days vary)
3 yr old twins + lyr old;
must be avail thru August 2010
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com 1-5-09-
10-14
University Athletic Association
Accounting
We are currently seeking a flexible indi-
vidual to fill the position of part-time (OPS)
filing clerk. The duties include but are not
limited to data entry and filing. Experienced
in Microsoft Excel and good organizational
skills are required. This is a minimum wage
position averaging 20 hour per week. If inter-
ested please fax resume to (352) 375-5182.
If you have questions regarding this ad,
please contact me in the Human Resources
Department at 375-4683 x6301.
Thank You,
Brenda Lembo
Coordinator Recruitment 12-9-09-8-14"Have Bad Credit?
Want to make $1,000s for doing nothing?"
Call (877) 465-8463 for more information.
1-5-09-6-14
PROJECT COORDINATOR: All aspects of
psychologist's private practice, training insti-
tute with online studies. Need very strong or-
ganizational skills, extensive computer skills,
able to master complex software. Fun job!
will train. Honors BA or MA. 28 Hr/Wk. M-Th.
$11.00 hr. Alachua location. Email resume/
reference list to RobertGlazerPhD@gmail.com
1-5-09-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM 1-8-09-8-14
SAT Coordinator
Immediate full time/part time opening for
a person with SAT tutoring background
to help develop a new program at Gleim
Publications. Great opportunity and experi-
ence for a "go getter". Please send your re-
sume to hrgleim.com or apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com. 12-9-09-4-14
Need mature, reliable, dedicated, full-time
live-in caretaker for elderly mom to help with
daily personal care, companionship, cooking,
and house cleaning. $41,000/yr, full benefits
pagkage, appreciative family. 3+ yrs expe-
rience, excellent references, background
check required. Contact
lewjufa@gmail.com 1-5-09-5-14
Live in companion needed for disabled
woman. Light housekeeping asset, vehicle
needed. Experience req. background check.
send resume to vendorslynz@gmail.com
1-11-10-8-14
HIGH-END NIGHTCLUB OPENING
Now hiring: Bartenders, Barbacks, Security,
VIP, Go-Go Dancers, Door People, Bathroom
Staff. Some exp req'd. Call 239-910-1235 or
email rupkey@gmail.com 1-5-09-3-14
lowiGotAnA U
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers & office staff
for spring '10. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
1-8-10-6-14
Experienced Horseperson: Still looking! Need
someone to live rent free in mobile home on
small horse farm 12 miles from the University
in exchange for 40 hours work/month. 386-
462-3725 1-5-10-2-14
Archer Road Pet Resort
Hiring all positions
Exp. Preferred
16011 SW Archer Rd
arpetresort@aol.com 1-5-10-20-14
Need 50 typists/transcriptionists to start
January 2010. Must type minimum 65 wpm.
Create your own work schedule, but you
must maintain 16 hours a week between
7am-midnight, M-F. Need impeccable
English skills. Ideal for PT and Students.
Productivity based compensation, profit
sharing, close to campus. Contact now to
reserve a spot for January training sessions.
gnvjobs@uigfla.com
1-8-10-5-14
RV delivery drivers needed. Deliver RVs,
boats and trucks for PAY! Deliver to all 48
states and Canada. For details log on to
www.RVdeliveryjobs.com 12-9-1-14
Travel, Travel, Travel! $500 Sign-on-bonus.
Seeking sharp guys and gals, Rock-n-Roll
Atmosphere, Blue Jean Environment! Call
Ally (800)716-0048 today. 12-9-1-14
PTL OTR Drivers. NEW PAY PACKAGE!
Great Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months experi-
ence required. No felony or DUI past 5 years.
(877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 12-9-1-14
Become a Foster Parent. Celebrate the
meaning of the Holiday Season by giving an
adolescent hope, help and a loving home.
For information contact Florida MENTOR at
(800)910-7754 or www.thementornetwork.
com 12-9-1-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 4-21-71-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 4-21-71-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 4-21-09-71-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 4-21-71-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31 st Aye; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl~gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 12-9-
57-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout
Florida. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put
us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.
florida-classifieds.com. 12-9-1-15
BIG PLANS Being Held up by the Economy?
Turn Court Settlement, Annuity, or Lottery
Winnings into the Cash You Need. Call Chris
(816)582-1193 or chris@yourcashout.com
12-9-1-15
Get Dish -FREE Installation-$19.99/mo HBO
& Showtime FREE-Over 50 HD Channels
FREE Lowest Prices-No Equipment to Buy!
Call Now for full Details- (877)416-0191 12-
9-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 12-9-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 12-9-1-15WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
1 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
8-16-09-25-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
4-21-10-71-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Gentle Women.through the lens of
Douglas J. Nesbitt, newly released book
now available for holiday gifts!
www.gentlewomen.us
1-11-09-10-21
Tickets
FHealth Services _
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 AvailableLOYAL GATOR ALUMNI NEEDS SEC TIX,
WILLING TO PAY GOOD MONEY $$$ FOR
TIX. 352-283-2495. CASH PAID 12-9-09-
12-22
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com i0 1
4-21-71-16
THE TRUE YOU! GMG TRANSPORT
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Only $119! Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Gain muscle while you lose fat Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Groups forming now. 339-2199 Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
12-9-74-16 charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-21-71-23
OF Personals S
HIV ANTIBODY TE STING MF Pets
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-21-71-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
J COnnections I
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
QtEvent Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
We need volunteers and stray/feral cats to
fix! On Sunday, Dec 13th, we will be spay-
ing/neutering homeless cats to increase their
quality of life and to save lives. You can help
make a difference in your community- join
us! No matter what your talent is we have
ways for everyone to get involved. Trap a
stray, volunteer your time at the clinic, do-
nate a lunch item, or help spread the word.
Join our Facebook group, Operation Catnip
Gainesville Chapter, or tweet with us at www.
twitter.com/operationcatnip. For more infor-
mation: (352)380-0940 operationcatnip@
nmhp.netwww.nmhp.net 12-9-9-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: MEN'S HEADWARMER-BLUE
& GRAY CAP & BLACK GLOVES
in the Dept of Geography. Come to 3141
Turlington Hall to claim items. 12-9-3-25
Sports
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF faces Syracuse in top-10 matchup
0 THE TEAMS WILL SQUARE OFF IN TAMPA ON
THURSDAY.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
It's the top-10 showdown nobody saw coming.
Florida and Syracuse began their seasons unranked and
with unclear expectations, both seemingly somewhere in
the rebuilding process. But each has reeled off huge non-
conference wins and worked its way into the top 10 just four
weeks into the season.
The two surprise successes will meet Thursday in Tam-
pa, as the No. 10 Gators (8-0) will take on the No. 7 Orange
(8-0) as part of the Southeastern Conference-Big East Invita-
tional in the St. Pete Times Forum.
"We definitely know we're not the greatest team in the
world, and we even feel like we haven't even come close
to playing our best ball," sophomore point guard Erving
Walker said. "It would be foolish to think like that, especial-
ly playing a team like Syracuse who has done just as much
as us right now, if not more."
Syracuse edged out Florida 89-83 last season in Kansas
City, Mo., but both squads are vastly different than the ones
that met over a year ago. UF is without guards Nick Cal-
athes, who scored 19 points and added seven assists against
the Orange in 2008, and Walter Hodge, while Syracuse lost
starters Jonny Flynn, Paul Harris and Eric Devendorf.
The Gators have since added guard Kenny Boynton and
transfer center Vernon Macklin to help ease their losses,
and the Orange brought in a transfer of their own to fill the
void in junior forward WesleyJohnson, who is averaging 17
points, 7.3 rebounds and 2.6 assists per game for Syracuse
after spending two years at Iowa State.
UF coach Billy Donovan said Johnson's talent and versa-
tility will present a unique challenge to forwards Dan Wer-
ner and Chandler Parsons, who will likely match up with
Johnson on defense.
"He's a terrific player, but the one thing that's been good
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 22IIkw
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF point guard Erving Walker had 13 points and five rebounds off the
bench during Florida's 89-83 loss to Syracuse last year.
Meyer faces challenge in making bowl seem sweet
My biggest knock on Pete Carrollover the years has been his in-
ability to get his team mentally
prepared for playing lower-quality teams
throughout an entire season.
It seems every year USC is a favorite
to win the national title and every year it
loses to a team it shouldn't, and I blame the
coach for not having his players ready to
go in a game it should win easily.
It's easy to get your team ready for ri-
valry games and other big-time matchups,
but making sure your team doesn't get
caught looking ahead in a trap game takes
great leadership from the coaches.
Urban Meyer has been able to keep his
team from suffering too many letdownsover the years. Only
the loss to Missis-
sippi last season was
a game that Florida
shouldn't have lost.
Bobby, Callov He could face his
biggest challenge as
Bobby's World a motivator in the
bcaIlovi@aIIigator org weeks leading up
to the Sugar Bowl,
which is basically a consolation game for
the Gators.
They wanted to win the Southeastern
Conference Championship Game, not just
get there, despite what they said before the
season.
They wanted to win that game becauseit meant a return trip to the BCS National
Championship Game.
Now, despite only losing one game all
year, UF has to settle for a trip to New Or-
leans.
Just look at last season for how difficult
it is to get a team that was thinking nation-
al title to be up for playing in another bowl
game. Alabama suffered its first loss to UF
and went to New Orleans to take on a Utah
team that wasn't as good as UA but had a
lot more to prove.
The Utes dominated the Crimson Tide
31-17 in the Sugar Bowl to finish the season
undefeated.
And Cincinnati is a team that has a lot
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 23
STRONG TO LOUISVILLE?
U ESPN.com is reporting UF defen-
sive coordinator Charlie Strong will
likely be named Louisville's next
head coach, and the announce-
ment could come today.Florida will
try to snap
PSU streak
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achi ang@a IIigator org
This season, Florida's unprec-
edented 18-year streak of confer-
ence dominance was snapped. On
Friday, it will try to return the fa-
vor and end another team's historic
run.
Penn State has won 98 consecu-
tive matches and is in position to
become the first women's volleyball
team to win three straight national
championships.
But the No. 14 Gators (25-5) can
end all of that Friday as they take
on the No. 1 Nittany Lions (34-0) in
the third round of the NCAA tour-
nament at 6 p.m. in the O'Connell
Center. No. 10 California (20-10)
will square off with
Baylor (24-9) at 3:30
p.m. to kick off the
Gainesville Region-Volleyball al.
"There are many
who think that this
[Penn State] is the best women's
volleyball team of all time, and
that's who we get to play Friday
night," coach Mary Wise said.
Penn State has not lost a match
since September 2007 and has only
dropped five sets all season.
It features senior opposite hit-
ter Megan Hodge, who averages
4.7 kills per set, and six players
who own a hitting efficiency higher
than .350. The only UF players who
boasts such a percentage are soph-
omores Cassandra Anderson (.360)
and Kelly Murphy (.351).
"The core of Penn State is the
future of our Olympic team," Wise
said.
While watching tape of the Nit-
tany Lions, Wise has had a hard
time finding holes.
"There are no weaknesses," she
SEE VOLLEY, PAGE 23
U Fourteen weeks of picks weren't enough
to decide a winner, so writers Kyle Maistri
and Bobby Callovi will pick the five BCS
games as a tiebreaker. You can follow our
bowl picks on alligatorSports.org.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
E When I'm playing a game, I like to know the rules, especially if it could cost
me a win. Colt McCoy, however, did not know the rule when he threw the ball out
of bounds at the end of the Big 12 Championship Game, almost costing him a
trip to the BCS title game. .I don't care what other programs the government
fails on -if it can force college football to have a playoff, I won't complain.
22, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
Florida hopes to snap out of slump aga
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Staff Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF guard Steffi Sorensen is the team's third-leading scorer at 7.8 points per game but has struggled to
find her shot behind the 3-point arc, connecting on only 27.4 percent of her attempts.Eight games into the season, Flor-
ida isn't where it would like to be.
The Gators (3-5) have dropped
consecutive games for the second
time this season and have yet to win
back-to-back games.
"Has it been a rough start? Yes,"
senior guard Steffi Sorensen said.
She attributed part of the bumpy
start to a tough schedule that includ-
ed then-No. 13 FSU and a Pittsburgh
team that is now ranked No. 15, as
well as playing a Rutgers team in
Piscataway, N.J., on ESPN2.
Sorensen is hoping the experi-
ence from those games -all losses
-pays dividends in future games
and makes the team more composed
in tightly contested ball games.
For a team that was expected
to shoot the lights out this season,
so far the squad has been shooting
blanks.
"We haven't shot the ball well all
year," coach Amanda Butler said.
In Monday night's game against
Rutgers, Florida was the victim of
poor shooting due to an ineffec-
live post game early on as well asinst ODU
the 1-3-1 zone defense the Scarlet
Knights applied against the Gators
that forced pressure, pushing UF
farther away from the 3-point line
and forcing the team to float around
the perimeter.
The second half of that game saw
UF play more to its up-tempo style.
The Gators did shoot marginally
better in the second half and out-
scored Rutgers 24-23 after intermis-
sion.
"There's definitely a sense of ur-
gency," senior guard Susan Yenser
said. "I don't see our team spiraling
or even showing signs of spiraling,
but this is the time where we have to
keep it from spiraling out of control
because our schedule doesn't get
any easier."
With UF set to start Southeast-
ern Conference play Jan. 3, the team
has winter break to find its shooting
stroke beginning with a trip to Old
Dominion on Friday.
"It's not like we're a bad team,"
Yenser said. "We're a good team
playing bad.
"At some point in time during
the season, we're going to be the
team that we're supposed to be, be-
cause right now we're not."
Loss makes Tebow human
O ne of my TV-watching habitss rather quirky.
See, I'm a huge fan of ES-
PN's "Pardon the Interruption."
But with the schedule I've kept
this semester, PTI hasn't always fit
into my daily schedule.
So I catch up on my DVR when-
ever possible. It's weird to hear pre-
views of events that already hap-
pened, but it's also quite fascinating
to see how some things were pre-
dicted. On Tuesday, I got a chance to
watch Friday's episode, including a
segment previewing the SEC Cham-
pionship Game.
Unsurprisingly, much of Tony
Kornheiser's reasoning for picking
Florida to win had to do with Tim
Tebow at the helm. One particular
quote stuck out to me.
"I love the fact that every time
they have to win, they win," Korn-
heiser said. "And they have to win
this one."
I had a similar sentiment before
the game. Whenever I sat down to
decide who had the matchup advan-
tage, Tebow kept coming to mind.
The guy just didn't lose.
I feel like I've written that sen-
tence a hundred times -and felt
corny doing it every time -but it's
remarkable how much that legacy
seems a little lessened today.
Florida won 22 straight games
before being taken out behind the
woodshed by Alabama. Before then,
it seemed like no matter what hap-
pened, Tebow would will the Gators
to victory.
The very idea of that sounds ab-
surd, of course, since Tebow plays
one of 11 offensive positions, never
lines up on defense, and I haven't
seen him run back kicks or take field
goals yet.
But in a way, Saturday's loss
made Tebow seem even more im-
pressive to me.
Sure, he'd walked off the field in
defeat before -but never on a stagePhil Kegler
Phil on the Hill
p kegler@a lIigato r orglike the SEC
Champion-
ship Game
on Saturday.
T e a r s
f l o w e d ,
and anyone
who has
ever wanted
something
so bad knew
exactly how Tebow felt at that mo-
ment. Everything he worked toward
for a year was lost in a single night.
But I came away with an even
greater respect for him, because he
didn't make history.
Think about it -if Florida had
won another national title, Tebow
would've left Gainesville a winner
in 24 straight games. He would've
uttered The Promise after the Ole
Miss loss, ran off a perfect record
and then waved goodbye at his third
national title celebration ceremony
in four years.
That isn't real -it's fantasy. It's
Hollywood. It's perfect.
He would've been remembered
as a mythical figure -and right-
fully so -but who can really asso-
ciate themselves with someone who
doesn't fail?
Saturday's loss made Tebow 100
percent human. It made him real.
The best player in Florida football
history failed in a way, and it made
me appreciate him more.
His defense gave him no sup-
port. His coaching staff didn't give
him much help. His running backs
never got the chance to lend him
a hand. But Tebow, in his typical
fierce competitor style, will likely
only remember that he didn't get it
done on a national stage.
And that failure should make
everyone realize just how great his
other successes were.
Even if it took a four-day-old PTI
broadcast to make that obvious to
me.Syracuse mixes man, zone defenses
HOOPS, from page 21
with Dan and Chandler is both
guys do have range and size,"
Donovan said. "Dan has played
post defense throughout his ca-
reer here. Now, being more of a
small forward, he's had the op-
portunity to play a lot of guys
on the perimeter.
"Dan's gonna need help
from the rest of the guys on our
team, but he's a guy that can do
it in a lot of different ways."
Werner and the rest of the
Gators, who have built their
identity around their defense C i M rso far, will face their biggest test
yet against an Orange team av-
eraging 90.4 points per game. dictated ContentSyracuse has been nearly as
impressive on defense, howev- Available from Commercial News Provideer, only allowing its opponents
to score 61.6 points per game
compared to Florida's 57.9. The
Orange's combination of man
and zone defensive schemes
has given Donovan plenty to
prepare for during his team's
longest layoff so far.
"We're gonna have to do a
good job playing against man
and zone on the offensive end
of the floor, make sure we've
got good ball movement,
good spacing," Donovan said.
"Against a lot of zones, you can
get caught just shooting 3s. I
think we're gonna have to shoot
3s, but we're gonna have to find Syracuse forward Wesley Johnson (4) leads the team in scoways to get the ball into the ng, averaging 17 points per game.teeth of their defense as well."rs
Ir-
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
UF-Penn St. matchup boasts NCAA Tournament's top two hitting teams
VOLLEY, from page 21
said. "We are looking for
cracks, but there are none to
be had."
Senior libero Elyse Cu-
sack believes too many errors
could spell the end for the
Gators.
So far, that has not been a
problem for them.
UF has a tournament-best
hitting efficiency of .424 in
the first two rounds, while
Penn State sits with the sec-
ond-highest percentage.
"We know that we aren't
going to be able to make the
little errors we got away with
earlier in the season," Cusack
said. "Playing a great team
like Penn State, you can't
make unforced errors like
that."
The surface the teams play
on will be different than the
hardwood the O'Connell Cen-
ter usually features. NCAA
rules force all of the sites to
put down a sport court sur-face for any match beyond
the second round.
"You can slide better on
it," Cusack said. "I like it
for defense because you can
dive, and you don't stick and
you don't get the court burns
that I usually get on the hard-
wood."
The thin layer of extra
cushion it provides should
work in Cu-
sack's benefit
. as she looks
to become the
Volleyball Southeastern
Conference's
all-time digs
leader.
She is just four away from
breaking the record.
With the record in reach,
the tougher task will be to get
past Penn State.
"This women's volleyball
team of Penn State is UCLA
when they had Lew Alcindor,
and you know what? No one
got UCLA during that stretch
-so it's quite the challenge,"
Wise said.UF libero Elyse Cusack knows her team must limit its unforced errors if the Gators want to knock off the top-
ranked Nittany Lions on Friday. Penn State has lost just five sets all year.
BOBBY, from page 21
to prove. It is in a BCS conference and still
did not get any consideration for the BCS
title game despite finishing undefeated like
Texas and Alabama.
A win over the Gators would strengthen
the Bearcats' argument that they should
have played for the national title.Florida will likely have to do most of its
gameplanning for Brian Kelly's high-scoring
offense without defensive coordinator Char-
lie Strong, who will likely be preparing to
take over as Louisville's head coach, which
will require him to be on the road recruit-
ing.
Strong has been the leading force in mo-
tivating one of the nation's best defenses all
season, with his unit's one hiccup coming inthe biggest game of the year.
His replacement is likely to be a combi-
nation of Dan McCarney and Chuck Heater.
Both are excellent coaches, but it is hard to
tell how either will do in getting the defens-
es to rebound after the embarrassing perfor-
mance against the Crimson Tide.
Let's face it -none of the players want
to be playing in the Sugar Bowl when they
could have been attempting to establishthemselves as the greatest team in college
football history.
Obviously they are going to want to win
the game, but how badly is the question.
Meyer's job is not just going to be fixing
the flaws that cost his team the SEC Cham-
pionship but also getting his team hyped up
for a game no one really wants to play, and
that might be one of the toughest challenges
of his career.
24, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9,2009
End of NCAA football season not end of the world with basketball underway
F orida still has a Sugar Bowl to play, butthe mood around Gainesville is college
football season is pretty much over.
It was fun while it lasted, but now we can
immerse ourselves in my favorite sport: col-
lege basketball.
With UF off to a surprisingly good start and
a top-10 ranking, it's time we turned our atten-
tion to roundball, especially with a matchup
with Syracuse just around the corner.
I know football is the king of college ath-
letics, but here's the top-10 reasons why I love
college basketball:
10. EARLY SEASON TOURNAMENTS: Most
of them are over by now, but the only rea-
son we get to watch Florida and Syracuse go
head-to-head is because of the SEC-Big East
Invitational. The tournaments give us tons
of great nonconference matchups, and a win
in the Maui Invitational (Gonzaga), Coaches
vs. Cancer Classic (Syracuse) or NIT Season
Tip-Off (Duke) can propel your team into
conference play with confidence and provide
the marquee victories needed to get into the
NCAA Tournament in March.
9. THE BIG EAST: Conferences get the word
"Big" in their name for no good reason these
days, but the Big East is exactly that. It's the
SEC of college basketball -if the SEC had
16 teams instead of 12. Sure, there are a few
bottom feeders (Rutgers, USF, DePaul, Seton
Hall), but what conference doesn't have a fewbad teams? ESPN shows plenty of the action
each year on Big Monday, and the Big East
Tournament always provides classics like last
season's Syracuse-UConn six-OT title game.
8. "ONE SHINING MOMENT": Don't worry,
March Madness gets its own paragraph, but
"One Shining Moment" is cool enough to be
a separate thought of its own. Watching the
montage at the end of every NCAA Tourna-
ment while the new champion celebrates on
the court in its corny locker room victory gear
is a must for anyone who loves college sports.
It shows the ups and downs of the six-round
tournament and puts all the memorable mo-
ments to an even more memorable tune. One
of my guy friends cries every time he watches
that year's edition for the first time, and none
of us make fun of him. That's how cool "One
Shining Moment" is.
7. COACHING ACTUALLY MATTERS: For the
most part, coaching matters more in college
sports than pro sports, but that dichotomy
is most obvious when comparing the NBA
to college basketball. NBA coaches do pretty
much nothing. They stand on the sideline, yell
at the refs, draw up plays during timeouts and
try not to mess things up. With the NCAA's
35-second clock, compared to the NBA's
24-second clock, it allows for more strategy
on both ends of the floor and therefore more
coaching. Zone defenses are more prevalent,
and college kids are still exactly that -kids.U
Kyle Maistri
Kyle Points
kmaistri@alligator orgMost of them want to
be coached.
6. MID-MAJORS:
Small conference foot-
ball schools exist only to
get pounded on by big
college football schools.
In basketball, the small
schools occasionally do
the pounding, and it's
fun to watch. The Cin-
derella potential for a team like George Mason
is something you can't get anywhere else.
5. MID-MAJORS THAT AREN'T MID-MAJORS:
Gonzaga, Butler and Xavier all play in mid-
major conferences, but none of them are really
mid-major schools. Somehow, they have been
able to establish themselves as annual powers
in a system where big schools have every ad-
vantage when it comes to recruiting. It could
be compared to Boise State and TCU in foot-
ball if Boise State and TCU were actually al-
lowed to, you know, COMPETE AGAINST
THE BIG SCHOOLS at the end of the year.
4. DICKIE V: Dick Vitale is a legend, and
anyone who says otherwise is a Satan-wor-
shipping bastard. His voice is as identifiable as
his many catchphrases, and his enthusiasm for
the game is a breath of fresh air considering the
increasingly corporate nature of college sports.
Quite simply put, Dickie V is awesome, baby!
(All right, maybe he's a little corny, too.)3. WHITE GUYS: Basketball has become "the
black man's game," and that's perfectly fine
with me. The best athletes in the world play in
the NBA, which is more than 80 percent black,
and that's my favorite league of all, college or
professional. But as a white kid whose game is
reliant on deft passing and outside shooting,
I like to watch some guys who look and play
like me every once in a while, and college bas-
ketball provides that. I like watching guys like
J.J. Redick, Lee Humphrey and Stephen Curry
-wait, he was black?! -even if those same
guys go on to sit at the end of an NBA bench
and get dunked on by LeBron, Kobe and D-
Wade at the next level.
2. DUKE VS. UNC: I hate North Carolina.
I hate Duke more. But man, I really love the
Duke-UNC basketball rivalry. For my money,
it's the best rivalry in all of sports, and it's No.
1 on the list of nonchampionship sporting
events I want to attend in my lifetime.
1. MARCH MADNESS: The NCAA Tourna-
ment is the exact opposite of the BCS system.
It is quite possibly the most perfect and en-
tertaining postseason of any sport out there.
Nothing is better than skipping class for a cou-
ple days while you glue yourself to the couch
and watch the first weekend, which somehow
always lives up to the hype. And most impor-
tantly, the last team standing earned its cham-
pionship -something we're not always able
to say about college football.
Smile.
'V7
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
From Nature torbfe
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431CURRENTLY
ACCEPTING
APPLICATIONS
FALL 2010!
Visit
www.cse~usf~edu
for additional informationUNIVERSITY OF
SOUTH FLORIDA
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
