Sthe independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 29 We Inform. You Decide.-0
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
ON CAMPUS
Campaign promotes helmets
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
The helmet sat under her
scooter seat, but Ashley Groves
decided not to wear it.
She didn't know that a short
scooter ride would end in an
accident, a coma and head in-
juries that could have left her
dead or disabled.
Groves, a senior health edu-
cation major, is fully recovered
from her November 2007 acci-
dent. She shared her story with
a crowd of about 100 Thursday
night at the Reitz Union Am-
phitheatre during the kickoff
event for the Scooter-Helmet
Awareness Campaign.
The weeklong campaign,
sponsored by health educa-
tion student organization Eta
Sigma Beta, seeks to encourage
students to wear their bicycle
and scooter helmets, as well as
educate students about scooter
laws.
During the event, local
group The Chris McCarty
Band performed. Student Body
President Jordan Johnson and
UF President Bernie Machen's
wife, Chris, also spoke. The
Dazzlers, Albert and Alberta
also stopped by.
Machen walked up to the
stage doing the Gator chomp
as the Gator Marching Band
played. She carried an orange
and blue scooter helmet with
the word Gator on it.
"This is my husband's hel-
met," Machen said. "He never Rayiaz Khan / Alligator Staff
gets on the bike or the motor- Chris McCarty performs at the Reitz Union Amphitheater to promote scooter safety. The event,
SEE HELMET, PAGE 9 organized by Gator Watch, kicks off its campaign, which runs from Oct. through 8.
Local band to perform for Jimmy Fallon
By ANNIE BOGGS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local band The Ettes will make an ap-
pearance on "Late Night with Jimmy Fallon"
tonight.
The punk-rock trio recently celebrated
the release of its third album, "Do You Want
Power?" on Sept. 29 and are on a month-
long national tour with fellow artist Juliette
Lewis, which kicked off on Sept. 17 in Bos-ton.
The band includes former UF students
Coco Hames on vocals and guitar, Jem Co-
hen on bass and Poni Silver
National on drums.
News "I left when I was a ju-
nior and have been taking
correspondence via the [Di-
vision of Continuing Education] when I can.
I'm close," Hames said of graduating from
UF. Though the band started in L.A., theynow live mostly on the road, with frequent
stops in London, Berlin, North Carolina and
Nashville.
Schooling has been put on hold for their
music career. The Ettes recently finished
a tour with the Grammy award-wining
band Kings of Leon and have also toured
with the Black Keys and the Detroit Cobras.
Their new 13-track album, produced by ga-
rage legend Greg Cartwright, sets of a new
SEE ETTES, PAGE 9Fox plans
'Texts From
Last Night'
TV show
By ASHLEY HORN
Alligator Contributing Writer
"Remember that text you
shouldn't have sent last night? We
do."
This tagline belongs to the popu-
lar student Web site Texts From Last
Night, where students share embar-
rassing text messages from the night
before.
"We seem to have a fascina-
tion with the private details
of celebrity lives."
Don Kershaw
UF junior
Students may soon find their re-
grettable scenarios aired on national
TV because Fox Network adopted
this for a new show.
Fox announced the sitcom's
launch Sept. 9.
"We seem to have a fascination
with the private details of celebrity
lives," said Don Kershaw, UF his-
tory junior. "So I guess it was only a
matter of time before that fascination
bled over to the general public."
The Web site, which launched in
February, boasts nearly four million
hits a day. Visitors have a chance to
rate each text as a "good" or "bad"
night, illustrated by the thumbs-up
or thumbs-down icon.
Kershaw has never used the site
and thinks it's a sad example of the
country's nosy attitude.
Steve Holland, the writer of the
new comedy, will use fictional,
20-something characters for the real-
ity show. It will highlight racy com-
SEE TEXTS, PAGE 9
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 15PartlyCROSSWORD 20 cloudy
SPORTS 2 88/66
visit www.alligator. org* Coach Mary Wise
(right) had never
lost to Kentucky
until last year. This
time, the Wildcats
come to Gainesville
ranked No. 15 in
the country, and
they haven't last a
set in SEC play.
See Story, Page 21.e 8
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Gainesville Benefit to Build
Hope House
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Randy Batista Gallery,
21 SE Second Place
There will be a screening of
Academy Award-Winning doc-
umentary "Born into Brothels,"
speakers, art, food and raffle.
This is a fundraiser to build
Hope House for children of
Sonagachi in India. For more
information, visit gainesville-
hopehouse.blogspot.com/.
Young Professionals Meeting
Monday, 6:15 to 7 p.m.
Matherly Hall, Room 103
All majors are welcome to learn
about professionalism and
make connections. For more
info, contact Christine Shoup at
YoungProfessionalsUF@gmail.
com
TRiP New Leader Info Session
Monday, 7 p.m.
Orange & Brew
Come learn about the Travel
and Recreation Program (TRiP)
and how to become a student
'Deliious loma b
Snacks and Beer
b San Plates Pastrie a morel
Aontw m 8 sec,371-2000 ne*M" y aNelIs
Tuner uinessrIthe1223 W.Univers
pirtuts LivewEver-ybody MiUSIC!!
'Wr iers nNow Hiring Stylists* .uniss 352-336-0599 99
all' g4g ports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
or subscribe oniunes.-FORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/66SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/67
leader. Food and prizes will
be available.
Sierra Club Fall Cleanup of
Lakeshore Drive on Newnan's
Lake
Saturday, 8:45 a.m. to 11:45
a.m.
Meet at Palm Point Nature
Park parking lot. Call Robert
Fisher at 352-514-7674 for
more information.
Florida Education Association
meeting
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Terrace Room
Guest speaker Kim Anderson
from the National Education
Association will be conduct-
ing an interview and resume
workshop. There will be food
and giveaways. For moreSUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/69MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/69TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
90/71
information contact Laura
Roberts at laura.roberts@ufl.
edu.
CORRECTION
An article in the Avenue sec-
tion of the Oct. 1 edition of the
Alligator incorrectly reported
that five members are needed
to commit to a location and
building for a new community
grocery market. Five hundred
members are needed.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
HIPP FOOD, INC.satrday t 2:30ci n em a TRU LOVED Vist thehipp.org for showtimes.
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPP.ORGa the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 29 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor AndrewStanfill, astanf//@a//igator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@a//igator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@a//igator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Joe Holzer, Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, George Pappas,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
AdvertisingAssistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, Alex Olmetti
Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
MaxWeissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncBleSsing of the Pets
This Sunday October 5th, EARTH PETS will be hosting a
Blessing ofthe Pets" with Sister Doreen Lynch IHM. Sister
Doreen will BLESS your pet with HOLY WATER, you will
receive a signecl certificate at no charge, and phOtOs will be
avilable for a nominal fee. Come and celebrate the annual
Festival of Saint Fran cis of Assisi with EARTH PETS. This is
a Non-Denominational event, and everyone is welcome!
E EPH T500 NW 60th 9t
H PETS Gainesville, FL 32607
Natural Pet Market 352-331-5123
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
STUDENT LIFE
UF entrepreneur cleans up as maidt
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Chris Stephens, a UF electrical engineering senior, polishes a
floor during a house cleanup for Student Maid Inc. Thursday.By MOLLY LARMIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Kristen Hadeed start-
ed cleaning houses two years
ago, it was a way to earn a little
extra money on the side.
Her clientele grew, and oth-
er students began asking her
if they could earn a little extra
money on the side, too.
In the spring of 2009, Ha-
deed, 21, a UF finance senior,
said she enrolled in an entre-
preneurship class, where she
began thinking seriously about
expanding her cleaning circuit
into an incorporated business.
In late July, Paradigm Prop-
erties, a company that owns
24 apartment complexes in
Gainesville, offered Hadeed a
contract. They needed a busi-
ness to help with clearings dur-
ing turnover, the period of time
in between residents.
With a $3,000 investment,
Hadeed incorporated her busi-
ness, Student Maid Inc., and
coordinated the cleaning of six
Paradigm complexes.
Her small-scale cleaning
operation ballooned from eight
students to 60 licensed and
insured employees protected
with workers' compensation.
Hadeed works from home
and estimates she puts in more
than 80 hours a week.
Student Maid Inc. headlinesin residential and commercial
cleaning, but employees can
also be hired to assist clients
with party preparation and
cleanup, Hadeed said.
Hadeed said the company's
Web site, studentmaid.com,
will soon allow potential clients
to type in basic information
about the service they require
and receive a quick estimate of
the cost.
Chris Stephens, a 21-year-
old UF electrical engineering
senior, began working for Ha-
deed over the summer and now
cleans four to six hours a week.
"The good thing about the
job is that Kristen understands
if I have a big test or a project
due," he said. "She knows how
it is to be a student, and she lets
me work around my sched-
ule."
Student Maid employs more
than 45 UF and Santa Fe Col-
lege students, and Hadeed is
hiring more employees to fill
the demands from her clients.
Hadeed plans to expand
her business after she gradu-
ates in the spring. She hopes to
franchise Student Maid Inc. in
other college towns throughout
Florida.
"You don't have to be a ge-
nius or a millionaire to start
a business," she said. "If you
have a good idea, anything is
possible.", 11
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Local poet's book success helps her fight poverty
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
Marcee Winthrop just wants to
smile again.
But Winthrop's constant struggle
against poverty has changed nearly
every aspect of her life, including
her smile.
"I used to smile so much people
called me 'Smiley,"' Winthrop said
as one of her last remaining teeth
wiggled from the inside of her
mouth like an autumn leaf waiting
to fall from a branch. "I used to have
a beautiful smile."
Dressed in a vibrantly colored
floral-print blouse, Winthrop, 54,
said she's lived in poverty for two
decades following a string of poorly
selected husbands and an inability to
find a job, a problem that Winthrop
said stems from her appearance.
But that's all about to change.
Winthrop published "Poverty
Revolution Part One: Skimming the
Surface" in May as part of her New
Year's Resolution to her daughter,
Maralisa, to get out of poverty be-
fore the end of the year.
Since its publication, the book has
sold more than 50 copies at about
$20 a piece, and Winthrop said she's
on her way to keeping her promise
to her daughter.
"We can see the light at the end of
the tunnel," Winthrop said. "We're
just not there yet."
As a result of her first book's suc-
cess, Winthrop plans to write at least
five more in a "Poverty Revolution"
series.
The second of the series, "Pov-
erty Revolution Part Two: In The---a-l --e 5atuf --11.
Marcee Winthrop shows Kenny Frechette, 18, a theater and business freshman, her book "Poverty Revo-
lution Part II: In the Depths" at the Reitz Union Amphitheater on Wednesday.
Depths," is already in the works and Winthrop said of "Part Two." "I
should be published just in time for want people to be faced with the re-
Christmas, she said. ality [of poverty]. People shouldn't
The actual publishing date of be lied to. I think they've been lied
Winthrop's second book may vary to enough."
depending on if Winthrop's first Winthrop said her sequel will
book makes enough money by contain poetry and commentary,
then. putting an emphasis on the harsh
"This one's going to have what realities of poverty.
I call 'the classic bag [lady] blues,"' "Book One puts food on our ta-bles, pays our rent, keeps the electric
on and there's not much left after
that," Winthrop, who is adamantly
opposed to entering the "Band-Aid
cycle" of Welfare, said. "I think we
may just get over the edge, we might
just hit middle class," she added
about "Part Two."
Winthrop said she began writ-
ing for her second book, which willinclude about 12 poems and com-
mentaries, last week and has written
three poems already.
"I want the books to be short so
people will actually read them," she
said.
Winthrop, whose 14-year-old
daughter is president of her fan club,
said that the majority of her fans are
UF students, especially those who
have heard her presentations.
"When I see people react posi-
tively to the books, it gives me en-
couragement to keep on writing
these books and to get myself out of
this mess," Winthrop said.
Her daughter has noticed a few
changes since "Part One" was pub-
lished, as well.
"She's a big role model for me
now," Maralisa said. "Some people
pick Hannah Montana or The Jonas
Brothers. I pick my mom."
Perhaps the biggest change for
Winthrop since the publishing of
her first book was an offer from a
local dentist to remove her nine re-
maining teeth for free, a procedure
that would normally cost close to
$2,000, according to Winthrop.
The dentist promised to then
work out a payment plan with Win-
throp to be fitted for dentures, which
she hopes "Part Two" will be able to
pay for.
"She's in the process of metamor-
phosis," Maralisa said. "She's turn-
ing into a beautiful butterfly."
Winthrop will be a panelist for a
Poverty Housing Discussion Panel
in UF's Marston Science Library on
Thursday from 6:30 to 9 p.m., and a
book signing will be held at Goer-
ings Bookstore on Oct. 25 at 2 p.m.
Experts suggest simple steps to combat big bills
* SET THERMOSTATS TO 78
DEGREES UNTIL WINTER.
By KATHERINE EMMETS
Alligator Staff Writer
Now that the first electricity bill
of the new leasing year has made its
way to the mailboxes, students are
scrambling to figure how to lower
utilitycosts. Mostpeopleknowabout
using fluorescent light bulbs and not
leaving windows open while the air
is running, but some tips go beyond
the obvious energy-saving strategies
to keep bills at bay.
Heating & Air Conditioning
Gainesville residents should
have their thermostats set to 78
degrees in summer months and
68 degrees during the winter, said
Kik Koppitch, Gainesville Regional
Utilities senior account manager.
Each degree of increase during the
winter and decrease in the summer
can result in a 4 percent increase in a
monthly bill.
For a typical resident who uses
about 1,000 kilowatt-hours per
month, the deviation from the rec-
ommended temperatures can result
in a $4 to $5 increase per degree, Ko-
ppitch said.
To keep the cost from fluctuat-
ing, he recommends the use of ceil-
ing fans instead of reaching for thethermostat first.
Although fans don't actually cool
the air, Koppitch said when the air
from the fan hits your skin it gives
the impression that it is between 2 to
4 degrees cooler in the room. If you
like the temperature at 75 degrees
in your home, you can have the fan
running and still be able to turn the
thermostat up to the recommended
78 degrees.
"It will still feel like it's 75 de-
grees in the room when the fan is
on," he said.
Hot Water Heater
According to Anna Prizzia, direc-
tor of the UF Office of Sustainability,
hot water heaters are the second big-
gest energy hog in houses and apart-
ments. Prizzia said although stu-
dents have little to no control over
when landlords replace the appli-
ance, they can be proactive in reduc-
ing the amount of energy it uses.
First, Prizzia said she recom-
mends that students buy an insulat-
ing blanket for the heater, available
at local hardware stores for about
$20. The blanket can remain on the
heater year round, reducing the
amount of heat lost by the appliance.
This allows it to work more efficient-
ly and use less energy.
Also, Prizzia said that if you are
going out of town for a few days
or more, you should switch your
hot water heater setting to vacationmode to reduce the amount of en-
ergy spent heating water that will
not be used.
Water-saving Tips
Watching water usage can save
on power bills too. Prizzia said
that laundry or dishes should only
be done if the appliances have full
loads. This can save up to 1,100 gal-
lons of water each month. If you
time your showers to keep them un-
der five minutes, you could save up
to 1,000 gallons of water per month,
which will drastically reduce energy
usage by using less hot watter.
Electronics
Even when their switches are
turned off, many electronic devices
are still using energy when plugged
in. Prizzia said she suggests buying
a power strip with multiple outlets
for items such as televisions, lamps
and computers.
The items are then controlled
by one switch on the strip, which
makes it easer to turn everything
off at the same time. Prizzia said the
power strips cost between $5 to $10
and can be found at any local hard-
ware store.
Instead of going to Lowe's or
Home Depot, Prizzia said she likes
to shop at local hardware stores like
Zell's Ace Hardware, located at 3727
W University Ave.
"Putting money into local econo-
my is a great way to be sustainableas well," she said.
If you don't want to spend mon-
ey, however, Prizzia recommends
unplugging items such as coffee
pots and printers that are used infre-
quently.
"You can save up to $100 a year if
you shut your electronics off by us-
ing a switch on the wall or unplug-
ging them," she said.
Refrigerator & Freezer
Having a good seal on your
refrigerator and freezer is key to
conserving energy in the kitchen.
Koppitch said that letting the least
amount of cold air out of the appli-
ance will minimize how long and
how hard its compressor will work
Energy-Savng
>Set thermostats to 78 degrees
and 68 degrees during the winto replace that cold air to make sure
the door seals are up to par, place a
dollar bill in the door while closing
it. If the appliance does not hold the
dollar firmly, the seal needs to be re-
placed.
Also, Prizzia said the more items
you have in your refrigerator and
freezer, the less the appliance will
work to make the temperature cool-
er.
"If there are already cold things
in the freezer, it will not use as much
energy to pump cold air," she said.
Prizzia recommends filling up a
water jug and putting it in the freez-
er. It will turn to ice and help keep
the temperature down.
in the summer
ter
>When leaving town, switch hot water heaters to vacation
mode to reduce energy use.
> Reduce shower time to under five minutes.
>Unplug electronics when they are not being used.
>Make sure refrigerators and freezers are sealed tightly.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Turlington missionary raps about faith, struggles
By ALISON SCHWARTZ ceived from the UF Student Body. his faith came to him later in life. grown up around it, but it was fi- mark, and Sy thinks he's bring
Alligator Writer Brought to UF by the Fellow- "We were only Christmas-Eas- nally made personal for me." something new to the scene.
One year ago, Miko Sy was
working at a Big Four account-
ing firm, raking in $65,000 a year
and enjoying extravagant business
trips on his boss's tab.
Now Sy, 27, is standing in the
heart of Turlington Plaza, spitting
out rhymes about love, God and
his commitment and struggles
with his faith.
"I took a $50,000 pay cut," he
said. "People thought I was crazy.
They said, 'What are you doing?
You're giving up such a comfort-
able lifestyle."'
But Sy promises he's not crazy.
After gaining campus infamy
as a rapping missionary, the only
thing he thinks is crazy is the
overwhelming response he has re-ship of Catholic University Stu-
dents, Sy raps every Thursday on
Turlington Plaza.
"This is very exciting," Sy said.
"I'm very passionate about my
music, and I'm just trying to get it
out there. I just love entertaining
people."
Sy has been entertaining the
masses since he was a child.
"I was 5 years old and, I was
already rapping," Sy said. "I just
feed off the energy of performing
in front of people."
Born in the Philippines but
raised in Chicago, Sy would per-
form his rendition of Michael
Jackson's "Man in the Mirror" and
"The Super Bowl Shuffle" at fam-
ily parties.
However, Sy's commitment toter Catholics," Sy said. "I had been
raised Catholic, but we weren't ac-
tually practicing our faith."
I was 5 years old, and I
was already rapping. I just
feed off the energy of per-
forming in front of people."
Miko Sy
rapping missionary
That was about to change
When Sy was 15, he attended
a Catholic retreat, with the sole
intention of impressing a girl.
Sy likes to think God had other
plans.
"It was just this beautiful, ful-
filling message," Sy said. "I hadWhile Sy embraced his new-
found faith, he hadn't thought to
combine it with his passion for
music. Influenced by hip-hop art-
ists such as The Notorious B.I.G.
and Nas, he noticed something
was missing.
"Their musical styles inspired
me, but eventually over time, their
message just didn't resonate," he
said.
He also was having difficulty
relating to the hip-hop scene.
"I used to do battle raps," Sy
said. "I wasn't passionate about
it because I wasn't passionate
about putting other people down.
I didn't walk away feeling victori-
ous. I just felt bad."
The marriage of his two pas-
sions quickly became his trade-ing
"I don't rap about the cheesy
messages people sometimes asso-
ciate with Christianity," Sy said.
"I actually rap about my struggles
with faith. I write about the joys,
the struggles and the tears."
The tears aren't just his.
"When I perform, some people
cry tears of joy because a message
just really hits them," he said.
"People come up to me and say
that was the first time that they
ever heard the Gospel that way."
For now, Sy isn't hung up on
record deals and has no plans to
go back to his job as a CPA.
"Hip-hop is such a great way to
connect to people," Sy said. "It's
the one genre that can really reach
the masses. I felt it was a door God
put in my path."
UF students provide company for hospital-bound teens
Streetlight volunteers bring video games, magazines
By ANNA QUINTANA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Decorated tiles hang on the ceiling of the
fourth floor of Shands at UF Children's Hos-
pital, adding color and life to a usually dreary
hospital hallway.
Many teenagers with chronic illnesses are
stuck in hospital rooms every day with no one
to talk to.
That is where Streetlight comes in, a non-
profit organization that revolves around peer
support groups for adolescents with chronic
illnesses.
"Being a teenager is difficult enough," said
Rebecca Brown, the director of Streetlight.
"Add a chronic illness and it's really a tough
time."Brown said teenagers are beginning to de-
velop their identities and starting to plan their
futures.
"When diagnosed with a chronic illness,
everything of value is stripped away," she
said.
The 60 volunteers of Streetlight spend time
each week with teenagers who suffer from
cancer, cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease and
other life threatening illnesses.
"Just talking to them makes a difference,"
said Deevee Sanchez, a volunteer for Street-
light.
Fariza Alendy, also a volunteer, agrees.
"They have a lot to teach you about life,"
she said. "With Streetlight, you get to a pure
level with the patients.
"It has made me a better person and givenme perspective about life as a whole. I will al-
ways have that when I look back at this experi-
ence.",
With Streetlight, patients are able to get
movies, magazines, video games and board
games to pass the time as well as spend time
in the teen lounge with others their own age.
Streetlight relies on donations from outside
sources to provide theses activi-
Local ties for patients in the hospital.
News However, it is sometimes
difficult for patients to open up
to volunteers.
"These aren't children," Brown said. "It
takes more than crayons and toys for them to
talk to you. Many of these teens feel they are
self-sufficient and do not need anything else."
Sanchez agreed, but said eventually manydo open up and build bonds with the volun-
teers.
"They surprise you every day," Sanchez
said. "They are in their hospital beds writing
music, writing poetry or forming organiza-
tions to raise awareness."
It is also extremely difficult when patients
pass away.
"I have to try to make sure that volunteers
do not cross the line, getting too attached to
patients," Brown said. "You make friends and
you lose them; it can be really hard."
Brown hopes one day Streetlight will be
available in more hospitals around the coun-
try.
"Not very many hospitals have organiza-
tions like this, working strictly with adoles-
cents, and I feel it is very important," she said.
"A patient has more than medical needs as an
adolescent, and Streetlight addresses those
needs."
Cover Your Cough!,
Manage
your stress.
Get enough
rest. Wash
your hands
frequently.
Disinfect
surfaces.
392-1161, ext.4281 http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell
Sta wel duigfuesnGet Your Property on the Boards
Don't let the competition pass you by!
Student Living Guides'L--_ -_ -_-_-_-_-
By advertising in the Alligator, you
will reach over 50,000 readers who
are looking for new apartments,
condos, furniture, appliances,
household items and much more!
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2009
DEADLINE: October 29
RUN DATE: November 4
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 14
RUN DATE: January 20
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 24
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 7>
Ce
Call your rep
today!
352-376-4482
allikir IThat way, Tom can be there
Support the
Red Cross
Services
to Armed
Forces and
change a life, starting with
your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
American
Red Cross9
L
Jessica is there for Tom's
wife and kids.
F
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009
In case you've been sequestered in your house with a case
of the swine flu (or "bacon fever" as we like to call it), it's
gotten noticeably cooler outside, not to mention noticeably
quieter.
It seems like cool air and a peaceful campus have waxed
while the sun and those Student Government campaigners
have finally waned. In honor of these recent developments,
we're delighted to present you with this week's our-walks-
to-class-have-finally-stopped-resembling-our-own-personal-
version-of-The-Trail-of-Tears edition of.
Darts & Laurels
However, we'll miss telling Unite Party volunteers we work
for the Alligator. Quickest way to end a conversation, ever.
If you haven't already seen the YouTube video of a Danish
woman looking for the father of her child, don't bother. Danish
newspaper Ekstra Bladet has discovered the video was a hoax
by Denmark's tourism agency, VisitDenmark. Apparently the
agency thought the promise of beautiful blond women will-
ing to have one-night stands with anonymous foreign tourists
would bring more foot traffic to its country.
For belittling the plight of single mothers, not to mention
for almost tricking us into auditing a Danish language class,
we'd like to throw a what's-next-telling-us-that-"Temptation-
Island"-was-a-sham-elaborately-planned-by-producers-for-
ratings DART at VisitDenmark.
We'd also like to use this as an opportunity to throw a DART
at our parents for letting us watch that show in sixth grade. Just
because it came on right after "Survivor" didn't make it OK.
A mother in Michigan is being threatened with jail time if
she doesn't stop watching her neighbors' children before their
school bus arrives. According to the Michigan Department of
Human Services, Lisa Snyder is violating the law for holding
an "unlicensed day care service."
For punishing a good Samaritan, we'd like to throw a last-
time-we-checked-making-Pizza-Rolls-for-a-bunch-of-7-year-
olds-wasn't-a-crime DART at Michigan for its ridiculous,
overly broad law.
On the other hand, a woman in Iowa City has finally been
brought to justice. Elizabeth M. Weiss, of Iowa City, rented
"Biohunter," "The Devil's Advocate" and "U-Turn" in 1998
and never returned the tapes. She is now being charged $231.97
for the value of the movies and late fees.
For thinking an Oliver Stone movie was worth $77.32, we'd
like to throw a not-even-"Midnight-Express?"-really? DART at
the past-due woman who apparently doesn't know that VHS
tapes cost, like, free now.
Ten-year-old Zoe Pemberton of Essex listed her grandmoth-
er on eBay, but the listing was taken down due to the site's
policy on human trafficking. For describing her grandma as
"annoying and moaning a lot," we'd like to throw an if-only-
mechanics-could-be-this-honest LAUREL at the fully disclos-
ing granddaughter.
If you thought the "birther" movement was dead, you
thought wrong. Liveprayer.com is currently running a 28-min-
ute infomercial in several southern states that demands Barack
Obama produce his birth certificate. For proving how ridicu-
lous the movement is, we'd like to present a we-didn't-know-
you-could-make-a-film-that-looks-like-it-was-made-in-MS-
Paint LAUREL to Liveprayer.com.
For a $30 donation, you too can have your very own "Got a
Birth Certificate?" bumper sticker.
Everyone knows moving targets are worth extra points.
As a closing note, we'd like to throw a huge DART at the
Student Body for not getting out to vote. We're not surprised,
but we're pretty disappointed.
Thanks all for this week. Stay sane, and go Gators!
0the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
-H INS portE r/NK 6F W H EN CAgIcq "6ToeS Do I T-vITF%
%+AEIR MTS ON "O2)JD PyfPUIA/2mTK
5v SBear Poo%
.\-OV INF[W6
) i WL
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Today's question: Do you study Thursday's question: Did you 41% YES
with a helmet on? vote in the Student Government
elections?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
59% NO
269 TOTAL VOTES
Letter supported ignorance
I wholeheartedly agree with Michelle Is-
gut. The Alligator shouldn't report the facts
in the public record.
What business is it of ours if the people
running for an office that controls millions
of our dollars happen to be convicted crimi-
nals? Who cares if these same people who
claim to represent our best interests get ine-
briated and decide to drive around town,
possibly mowing down their constituents
along the way?
Instead, the Alligator should be support-
ing these people, some of whom have been
convicted of the same crime multiple times
because it is clear they are turning their lives
around. I find it refreshing that someone
is willing to stand up and demand that we
remain ignorant of pertinent factors in de-
ciding who should represent us in Student
Government.
So, good for you, Michelle Isgut, of the
Gator Party, for demanding that a newspa-
per stop reporting the truth, good for you.
Chris Marth
4AG
SG controversy triggers deja vu
While I was reading the letters to the edi-
tor today, I read the article about the Unite
Party members who were stealing all of the
newspapers from the Graham area on Tues-
day morning when the Alligator announced
that several of the current senators of the
Unite Party have criminal records, includ-
ing Student Body President Jordan Johnson.
I felt like I was suffering from a terrible case
of deja vu as I recalled last fall when mem-
bers of the then Gator Party stole newspa-
pers from different campus locations when
the Alligator broke the story of e-mails be-
tween top Gator Party members discussing
how they were going to keep the Orange
and Blue Party out of critical positions in
Student Government.
As if this wasn't bad enough, one of the
other letters in Thursday's edition of the Al-
ligator included a letter written by a former
Gator Party senator claiming that this paper
constantly bashes the majority party.Needless to say, this got me a little miffed.
This paper can't be faulted for doing good
reporting; the Alligator was merely bringing
to light the facts about the students who are
currently in control of our government.
More importantly, if the majority party,
whether that be the Gator Party of old or the
Unite Party of today, has to steal newspa-
pers to deflect some bad press, maybe they
should re-evaluate their actions.
All that said, I'm excited to sit in our new
$56 million student union. Three cheers for
reckless spending.
Greg Ramos
2LS
Article revealed disappointing trend
The paper was right to have published the
news about the students and their personal
records. It just seems to be a trend that we
have seen in the paper the last few weeks: a
student arrested for a DUI, an entire group
of people that was investigated for a large
party consisting of underage drinking, and
much more. All this happened within the
last few months.
If they plan on turning their lives around,
I suggest they attempt to do that before tak-
ing part in school organizations.
Chris Moody
3EG
Students should plan for post-graduation
I found Hilary Lehman's column to be
particularly poor advice for students.
An unstable economy does not excuse
failing to plan for the future. Students
should be thinking more about what they
are going to do with their degrees when they
graduate, especially if they will be graduat-
ing with loans.
Instead of telling students not to worry
about things they can't control, why not en-
courage them to use the resources on cam-
pus that can help them plan for the future?
If you don't know what to do with your
major or your life, visit the Career Resource
Center. I suggest doing a Google search ofthe "Occupational Outlook Handbook" to
learn more about careers and to see if your
career choice is actually in demand.
I believe we are selling ourselves short
to accept Lehman's claim that "success has
been redefined." As someone in gradu-
ate school who has also seen many friends
graduate and enter the workforce, the peo-
ple who had to move back in with the par-
ents are the ones who didn't plan and think
about the future accordingly.
Jaela Dahl
2PH
Timing of story shows Alligator bias
For about 20 percent of the Student Body
here at UF, the Student Government election
season is exciting. Let's count within that
group the Greeks (myself included), His-
panic Student Association, Black Student
Union and other large to semi-large student
groups that make up the majority coalition
party in SG. Pepper in the socialists, pro-
gressives and random concerned students
who make up the two minority parties and
boom -we have all of the students who are
currently giddy with excitement or abso-
lutely irate over the election results. These
students know (or are told) who they are go-
ing to vote for each and every election. Re-
gardless, their votes are set.
The issue is with the other 80 percent of
students who would vote or do occasion-
ally. Many of them become politically "in-
formed" from this very publication. They
read its endorsements and, more impor-
tantly, its articles. Now, I have never taken a
journalism class, but I was always under the
impression that an article in any newspaper
was supposed to have its biases removed by
the writers, and then from the editors.
However, the front page of this newspa-
per on Tuesday morning demonstrated oth-
erwise. The Alligator can no longer consider
itself politically unbiased. Its disposition for
the minority parties in SG has crept into its
news pages, and that is truly troubling.
Let me begin by saying that I don't takeFRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
issue at all with the content of the front-page
article claiming that the Unite, Gator and In-
dependent (Independents in Senate are in-
evitably Unite Party senators in all but the
rarest cases) senators and Cabinet secretar-
ies have criminal records.
Senators and Cabinet officials are pub-
lic officials charged with using millions of
our Activity & Service Fee dollars, and their
criminal records should be of concern to us.
As a check and balance, the Alligator there-
fore has the duty to report such transgres-
sions to the voting public.
However, it is the manner in which it was
done that proves the Alligator's clear SG bi-
ases.
Dropping this story on election day is
clearly irresponsible, especially when it is
the largest single article of the year and is
front and center in the morning's paper.
The timing was clearly meant to skew the
election results, otherwise Thomas Stewart
would have published his article weeks or
months ago.
How can I say that? Stewart reported on
criminal records as far back as 2006. While
it certainly qualified as news then, Student
Body President Jordan Johnson having a
house party three years ago is clearly irrel-
evant now. The same goes for all of the past
criminal records, especially because many
of the named individuals aren't even up for
re-election.
The Alligator ignored its journalistic duty
of remaining unbiased by publishing this
article on election day. Not only that, it de-
layed the reporting of news until it decided
it was relevant and served it politically.
I don't care if you don't like the voting
boards that Greeks use to coerce voting or
the way they slate candidates to satisfy each
house or student organization within their
coalition umbrella. I don't like it either, and
I am part of the process. But Stewart and
the Alligator editors should have retained
an unbiased stance outside of the opinions
pages.
Kyle Robisch
2PH
$300 REI 1TIRI)
During the past month, five of The Independent
Florida Alligator news racks have been STOLEN. We
are offering a $300 reward for information leading
to the ARREST and CONVICTION of anyone who has
either taken or participated in taking a rack, or who
has a rack in their possesion.
CONTACT:
ALACHUA COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS DIVISION
(352) 367-4000alliga t o"i r
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009
Local female artists to perform at 'Girls Night Out'
Event was formerly called Gainesville Dyke Night
By MARIA PIQUET
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tonight is ladies' night.
Brophy's Irish Pub, 60 SW Second St.,
will host Girls Night Out, a live music
event that features women artists and per-
formers, at 10 p.m.
"We're trying to showcase the really
talented female bands," said Sarah Nel-
son, coordinator and co-founder of the
event. "This night puts a spotlight on fe-
male artists."Originally targeted at the gay commu-
nity when it launched in 2007, Girls Night
Out is open to people 21 and older of any
gender or sexuality.
"Anybody's welcome," Nelson said.
"I'd definitely love it if everybody of all
everything came out."
Local girl-and-banjo setup Lonesome
will kick off the night playing music in-
fused with the sound of the banjo. Other
local bands The Rochevanies, whose Fa-
cebook page describes their music as "riot
grrrl, country, we're not sure," will playpunk rock, and the State Of will end the
night with dark indie pop mixed with elec-
tronic and plenty of '80s covers to keep it
fun, Nelson said.
"We have some really great groups
Around playing so hopefully
Gainesville people will come out
to see them, and if they
haven't heard of them
hopefully they'll just trickle in," Nelson
said. "It's good music."
Girls Night Out, formerly called
Gainesville Dyke Night, has been happen-ing in Gainesville since 2007.
Nelson said she and Steph Taylor start-
ed it because there really wasn't anything
fun going on for women.
Now, the event is held every few
months.
With the Pride Parade this weekend,
the crowd is expected to be larger than
usual, Nelson said. About 150 people are
anticipated.
"With the festival, people will be a little
more excited about going out," Nelson
said. "And Brophy's is like a magnet for
these kinds of events."
Girls Night Out starts at 10 p.m. and
costs $5.
LOCAL NEWS
UF sustainability club to tour Gainesville's green locations
By ANDREW NORRIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
For many, the sun is seen as an inconvenience during a
trudge to class or a reason to tan instead, especially during
Florida's seemingly endless summer.
This Saturday the UF Chapter of the American Solar Energy
Society is hosting the Central Florida Alliance's Gainesville So-
lar Tour. Gainesville is the third and final leg of a three-day 0
tour that aims to promote solar and sustainable energy.
The tour, which starts at 9 a.m. on the Plaza of the Americas,
will have guest speakers, a sustainability expo and a physical
tour of Gainesville. f
Jennifer Crews, a member of the UF chapter of the Amen- DeG of Er
can Solar Energy Society, said various speakers will talk about TOllen e }
how solar energy works and how to finance it.
The physical tour will visit local homes and businesses that DEF iTMENT OF use solar energy and other "green" practices, Crews said. F
The event will also feature the Pure Energy Solar Power \
Tower, a generator powered only by solar energy, Crews said. S R G Y
"This is going to be an educational and engaging way for the
people of Gainesville to learn about solar energy," Crews said.
"We hope this is something Gainesville can benefit from."
Richard Schackow, a real estate agent and developer in 00 Ne
Gainesville, is letting the tour use a recently completed home
in his development, Forest Creek. rid
The house, along with the rest being constructed, does not
use solar power, but it was built to be as energy efficient as
possible.
All of the homes Schackow builds will be tested for energy
efficiency by the U.S. Department of Energy. Schackow's first
house passed with flying colors. (b.
"With our depressed economy, this is something that is one Thomas Plevik/ Alligator
of akind. [It] will conserve energy and save money," Schackow Real estate developer/realtor Richard Schackow stands in front of energy-efficient houses that are under construc-
said.The tour is free of charge and open to the public. tion in the new Forest Creek subdivision on Northwest 34th Avenue. Schackow and the Department of Energy areFor more information, go to www.ufases.org. developing a "one-of-a-kind" energy-efficient community in north central Florida.
Filmmaking duo describes struggles of immigrants in NY
0 PERFORMANCE INCLUDED
ANECDOTES, SLIDE SHOW.
By DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Through a sea of emphatic hand mo-
tions, exotic accents and first-person ac-
counts, one woman spoke for thousands
Thursday at UF's Constans Theatre.
Judith Sloan, an actress and artist who
helped conceive the Crossing the BLVD
project, which portrayed through multime-
dia the trials and tribulations of the people
who live, work and sleep in the most ethni-
cally diverse locality in the United States -
Queens, N.Y.
Sloan and project co-director Warren
Lehrer fused a series of anecdotes with a
rolling slide show of the characters to show
their differences and give a sense of hope
that people can overcome their fears andlive peacefully together.
"You can be phenomenally expanded
by people who are very different from
you by just figuring out how to engage in
them," Sloan said. "I think the profundity
of some of the people we interviewed blew
us away."
One Arab man they interviewed owned
a coffee shop shortly after Sept. 11.
One night, six men trashed the store,
smashing mirrors and breaking chairs and
tables. When the police came and hand-
cuffed the culprits, the shop owner said he
would not press charges because he under-
stood the men's frustration.
The police were forced to let them go,
and a few hours later the men came back
and apologized. The shop owner and the
men talked around a coffee table through
the night and came to appreciate each oth-
er's differences.
Lehrer and Sloan started the project in
1999 and worked on it for three years. They
listened to hundreds of immigrants' storiesand took pictures of each subject.
"I was always interested in people that
come up from the bottom and pull them-
selves up from nothing," Sloan said. "Peo-
ple were surprisingly cooperative, and they
received so many stories that they had to
turn some people away."
"I think there is so much miscommu-
nication, especially with
people who are refugees
who fled," she said. "They
wanted to have their sto-Uries told."
Sloan said Crossing the
BLVD is the only project
of its kind whose footage
Sloan stretches before and after
Sept. 11.
The attacks marked noticeable changes
in people's attitudes, Lehrer said.
Another story they told was about a man
who fled the Democratic Republic of Congo
after his wife and daughter were murdered.
The man could not get a passenger flightout of the country, so he was forced to ride
in the cargo hold of a plane to an unknown
destination.
When he arrived in Queens, the man
was horrified to learn about the detention
centers set up after Sept. 11.
Although Lehrer does not like to travel,
he said he loves that in Queens you can go
"around the world" with a subway pass.
There are 138 languages spoken in
Queens, Sloan said.
"The airports are now the main ports of
entry for immigrants and refugees from all
over the world making Queens a modern-
day Ellis Island." she said.
Sloan and Lehrer are performing Cross-
ing the BLVD: Strangers, Neighbors, Aliens
in a New America across the country. They
also have a traveling exhibition, a book and
an audio CD.
They are each working on their own
projects now, but in the future they hope to
do another joint documentary on the Amer-
ican's sense of home.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
LOCAL
Bus routes change for parade
By LYNETTE ZILIO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents looking for a
quick ride may encounter delays dur-
ing Saturday's Pride Parade.
RTS Routes 15, 400 and 410 will
have detours from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m.,
bypassing University Avenue between
Southwest 10th Street and Southwest
First Street.The routes will detour their 12:30
p.m. departures from the Gainesville
Mall, Oaks Mall and Santa Fe College
respectively. They will be reversed for
their 1:30 p.m. departures.
Chip Skinner, RTS senior market-
ing and communications specialist,
said that only two buses on each route
would be affected during the hour-long
event.
Riders should plan accordingly so
that they will arrive at their destina-tions on time.
"People just need to be patient with
us that we'll get them to their destina-
tion," he said. "We always try to keep
our buses on schedule and cross-ref-
erence with ongoing construction on
Main Street and Depot Avenue."
RTS will have detours again for the
homecoming parade on Oct. 16.
For more information on specific
RTS route detours or schedule changes,
visit go-rts.com.
Riders under 21 required to wear helmets
HELMET from page 1
cydle without one."
Machen also helped out with the raffles at the event. Five
scooter helmets and two pairs of sunglasses were handed out
to members of the crowd.
Holly Turner Moses, an undergraduate adviser for the de-
partment of health education and behavior, said coupons for
helmet and local restaurant discounts will be passed out dur-
ing the week to encourage students to wear their helmets.
Banners reminding students to wear helmets will also beposted at heavily trafficked scooter parking lots, Moses said.
Wendy Alderman, president of Eta Sigma Beta, said the
Alachua County Sheriff's Office, the Gainesville Police De-
partment and the University Police Department will also
be enforcing scooter laws, which require riders under 21 to
wear helmets.
Alderman said she was involved in a scooter accident last
spring. Although she only had bruising and muscle damage,
the accident scared her. Alderman teamed up with Groves
after hearing the story of her accident.
"What she has been through is what really keeps me go-
ing" Alderman said.
Band's music to be featured in Barrymore movie
ETTES, from page 1
direction for the band. The new album
includes '60s girl pop, early punk and,
surprisingly, country, Hames said.
"[The songs] should make you want
to dance, make out or cry," she said."
Then we've done our job."
She added that the bands constant
touring makes a good environment for
creativity."If we didn't constantly get the itch
to keep moving,
we wouldn't get as
much done," Hames
said.
Starting with a
self-financed trip to
record at London's
Toe Rag Studios in
Barrymore 2005, where they
worked with the
producer of the White Stripes and theKills, the band really hasn't taken a
break, with three albums and expan-
sive U.S. and European tours, Hames
said.
The band's music will be featured
in an upcoming episode of HBO's
"Entourage" and on the soundtrack
to "Whip it!" the new roller derby film
directed by Drew Barrymore, who will
accompany the Ettes on Jimmy Fallon's
show tonight. More information can be
found at myspace.com/theettes.
352-378-7033
The- 1718 W. Univ. Ave.
Bar & Grill
HOUSE Saturday
Free BeerLi V6WL1 ~~ or
HOMECOMING 2009
00%0 A II D
Saturday, Oct. 24th
400 NE 16th Avenue
Registration at 7am
Walk begins at 9am
For rnore information contact
(352) 376 6866 x5O53 or
sandygolden@cancerorgName, premiere
date not announced
TEXTS, from page 1
munication and scandalous situations, like getting
drunk, high or engaging in sexual activity.
"I think it's fitting that cable news outlets like
Fox are promoting this type of garbage," Kershaw
said. "After all, they do the same thing this Web site
does but to a grander, national audience."
UF psychology senior Nancy Carney uses the
Web site regularly, she places her favorite text en-
tries as her Facebook status and even makes a few
entries of her own.
"Knowing my texts may end up on television
won't change my mind about submitting them,"
Carney said. "I am not ashamed of anything I have
submitted."
National The site is free to use and con-
News ceals all identities. The texts are
listed by the area code from which
they were received, making it user friendly and
anonymous. Texts From Last Night has also created
applications for cell phones like the BlackBerry and
iPhone, allowing owners to automatically connect
to the Web site from their handheld device.
They also have an online store, a Facebook page
and a Twitter site.
"I love the Web site and have the BlackBerry
application for it," said Lindsey Gatling, a nursing
senior. "I think it's funny to read the witty things
people have to say or the stupid things they do with
themselves."
Fox predicts the show will reach top ratings. The
name of the show or the premiere date has not yet
been released.
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
VerI0ntwireless
Take theInternet.
Leave the bulk.
The HP Mini netbook. Connected. Portable. Affordable.
Introducing the ultra portable HP Mini netbook with America's Largest and Most Reliable 3G Network
built-in. Loaded with an 80GB hard drive, webcam, and Windows* XP, it's anything but small.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with a l- or 2-yr. agreement.
HP'Mini netbook
NOW $1 99ONLY 199
$299.99 2-yr. price, less $100 mail-in
rebate debit card with 2-yr. activation
on a Mobile Broadband plan from
$39.99 monthly access. Activation fees,
taxes & other charges apply.*
.Windows
Switch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249) Click verizonwireless.com/getdiscount Visit any store
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Open 7 days a week.
Technicians available at select locations
LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwy. 27/44
LAKE CITY Lake Cty Mall 386-
LEESBURG Lake Square Mall 3
OCALA 2613 S W 19th Ave. Rd, Ste. G. 352-35
19-2173
,2-787-2449
352-620-002530-2861 OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave.
OCALA WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
1-800-899-4249
In Collaboration with
Alcatel-Lucent 0Visit verizonwireless.Com
to find a Club near you.CLERMONT 14
GAINESVILLE
Oaks Mall
3401 SW
3626 SW3401 SW Arc
Kiosk 352-33
Archer Rd 35
Archer Rd. 15352-243-6826
her Rd 352-378-882l
1-0379
2-378-8828
2-491 -200
Aceptams La
Matricula Consular
* Our Surcharges (incl. Fed. Univ. Svc. of 12.9% of interstate & int'l telecom charges (varies quarterly), 7C Regulatory & 92( Administrative/line/mo., & others by area) are not taxes (details: 1-888-684-1888); gov't taxes & our surcharges could add 7% -27% to
your bill. Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Ag mt, Data Plan, credit approval & rebate form. Up to $175 early termination fee, up to $.10/MB after allowance. Mobile Broad band is available to more than 280 million people in the U.S. in 259 major metros. Offers & coverage
not available everywhere. Rebate debit card takes up to 6 wks. & exp. in 12 mos. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. 2009 Verizon Wireless. NETS
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
SPECIAL REPORT
Friction, time critical
for handwashing
By BRIDGET HIGGINBOTHAM
Alligator Contributing Writer
It's that life lesson that came
right after potty training: how to
wash your hands.
In the wake of the HINI swine
flu outbreak, the most basic form
of personal hygiene is being
stressed more than ever.
Maxine Hinze, faculty coor-
dinator of the Fundamentals of
Nursing course at UF, says most
people don't wash their hands
properly.
"Some people think they wash
their hands, but really they just
pass them under water," she
says.
But simple steps can make the
difference between rinsing and
washing.
Move your jewelry
Push your watch up your arm.
Hinze said health care workers
are encouraged to not wear jewel-
ry to keep from trapping germs.
Wet your hands and then
use soap. Run your hands un-
der warm water before applying
soap.
Scrub all surfaces
"Friction is important," Hinze
said. Rub your hands together
in circular motions, like you're
making a figure 8. Interlace your
fingers to make sure you clean all
sides. Be sure not to touch the in-
side of the sink at any point.
Pay attention to your fingers
Because your fingertips are the
most contaminated, keep them
angled downward.
Hinze's students use a powder
called Glo-Germ to see what ar-
eas they might have missed while
cleaning and under a black light.
Around and under the nails tend
to glow the most. You might want
to consider keeping your natural
nails short and not wearing fake
nails because they can harbor
bacteria.
Sing your ABCs
Washing your hands should
take about 20 seconds. To make
sure you're scrubbing for long
enough, sing the alphabet song
in your head.
Use paper towels. After rins-ing your hands, dry them with
a paper towel. Hinze and other
health care workers say to use a
fresh paper towel to turn the wa-
ter off to prevent from touching
the unclean faucet.
"It's just automatic with me,"
she said.
Don't depend on substitutes
While the ethanol in the in-
stant hand sanitizer gels is a
good disinfectant, it does not kill
germs immediately, according
to Paul Gulig, course director of
Medical Microbiology and Infec-
tious Diseases at the UF College
of Medicine.
Gulig recommends people
wash their hands and then use
hand sanitizer, if they'd like.
.I would have people
stay home when they're
sick because of respiratory
spread of the virus."
Paul Gulig
course director of Medical Micro-
biology and Infectious Diseases
at the UF College of Medicine
"Get rid of the dirt and bulk of
germs first by washing, and then
the sanitizer will have an easier
time finishing off the rest," he
said in an e-mail.
Wash them frequently
Always wash your hands after
you go the bathroom and before
you handle food.
The Centers for Disease Con-
trol's site on handwashing also
recommends it after touching
trash, animals, diapers and sick
people. If you blow your nose or
cough or sneeze into your hand,
you should wash your hands as
well.
While proper handwashing is
essential, it is not the most impor-
tant part of preventing the spread
of viruses like swine flu. Infected
people should stay home, and
everyone should be vaccinated,
Gulig said.
"If I could snap my fingers
and change human behavior to
deal with this epidemic," he said,
"I would have people stay home
when they're sick because of re-
spiratory spread of the virus."Copyrighted Material
e" e A b n Coate Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Pomeranian hopes to win $1M
* OWNER WILL DONATE AT
LEAST HALF OF WINNINGS.
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Contributing Writer
If presented with $1 million,
most people wouldn't spend half
their winnings on a fire hydrant-
shaped chair or arboreal d6cor for a
cat-petting room.
Amber Stovall would.
Stovall, 24, a who studies busi-
ness management at Santa Fe Col-
lege to work toward a degree from
Saint Leo Univerity, pledged to do-
nate $500,000 to the Alachua County
Humane Society if her dog Bella
wins a "Cutest Dog Competition."
Bella, a 1-year-old purebred Po-
meranian, is in the running for a
contest sponsored by All American
Pet Brands' Grrr-nola line of dog
food.
"I just did a quick search online
and saw how big this contest was,"
Stovall said. The online contest is in
its ninth week out of 12. Every week,
voters choose their favorite dogs
from a series of owner-submittedphotographs to advance to a semi-
final round, after which one winner
will receive $1 million.
A new voting week starts each
Saturday, and Bella has yet to be
elected as a semifinalist.
Stovall said that her current un-
employment has prevented her
from donating to the Humane Soci-
ety, but that this contest offers peo-
ple in similar situations a chance to
help out.
Around "A vote is aGainesville great way, if you
can't afford to
donate, to participate and help raise
some money," she said.
Although Stovall has already
pledged to donate half of any win-
nings, she said she may give more.
"Honestly, if she does just make it
to semifinals, I would probably just
give them the $500 because I want to
give as much as possible. It's all real-
ly based on getting your community
together. If I could get 1,000 people
to commit to voting every day, that's
7,000 a week."
Stovall particularly hopes she
and Bella can contribute to the Hu-
mane Society's fund to renovate thebuilding they recently purchased at
4205 NW Sixth St.
Executive Director Kirk Eppen-
stein said that the new facility, which
will cost approximately $2 million,
is designed to house more animals
and shorten their stay. Eppenstein
said that the maximum capacity will
increase from about 250 animals at
the current location to more than
500 at the new building. He empha-
sized new features such as tempered
glass dog doors instead of chain-link
fences, an increased number in cat-
petting rooms and odor control.
"We're making it very whimsi-
cal. .we want it to portray the hap-
piness of the animals finding a for-
ever home," Eppenstein said of the
new building, which is expected to
open in March.
"We're trying very hard to ask
people to help us with donations
with this project. We're not quite
ready but in the very near future
we'll have people sponsor rooms
with a price list for the sponsorship
of each room," Eppenstein said.
Until then, people who want to
help Bella can vote for her through a
link at alachuahumane.org.How
to II UuI'Ji [, MyU
& Take off or move jewelry
t Wash hands with soop and water
t Scrub all surfaces
t6 Clean under nails
& Wash hands for 20 seconds
t Dry with a fresh paper towel
12, ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
2
The Wine & Cheese Gallerv
Patio and Bistro luncheon daily
11 -2:15
Sat. Brunch 12 -3:00
Extensive wine and Food Store
open daily 10 -6:00
Drink a bottle in our restaurant
at retail prices
Friday Happy Hour From
5 -8:00 drink specials
113 N. Main Street Downtown
wineandcheesegallery.com
372-8446#9 $ , # # 2t% It~q f~ , INew Class.
Not So Much Cash.
body Parties Like CJs
FRIDAY SATURDAY
9DomeiSc S Domesti ( S 95 Domestic Pir her
Drat Pitchers 6 ) ger Bombs
S e slmh 0 10 p.m. 0-5los) 2 Lemon Drops
Lmnop, 9c Margaritas
TUESDAY
College Night All \oIl Ca eat wing $8,95
Ladies drink free well drinks $1.30 Domestic Bottles
w/school ID $5 Jager Bombs 3
375 -BEER -3501 SW 2nd Ave 9 CalicoJacks.net 0 371-1675
__ 10
Student SpecialsAt daq 7 dags a we&
StudeAt ID ieqed
la eoalyOLpIZ.aptus.coM
Medium 14" Pie: $6.99
2 Slices Cheese Pizza and l6oz
Soda -$4.99
Stromboli or Calzone
with I topping. additi topping 50t
and I6oz Soda -$5.99
GaitesttMe Locatio490 -AfS *id AL e~ue952-276-9444z
LI,
Suburban
HeightsIShadow
Lawn
EstatesT4i
Lnf
10 E 23r
Lr
NW16th Ave. NE 16th Ave(
NW 8th Ave.
w.University Ave7
University of8
f FL
-ak26
Belv ille
Heights 3
9
Ka aIF
'1PEACH VALLEY
-C -A -F ',--
Sister restaurant of
I- N stonewood GrilI & Tavern
" Breakfast, lunch, and
dinner served anytime
-Full menu take out
-Catering
"Experience The Freshness"
3275 SW 34th St. (Behind Hooters)
(352)>376-1834
Open Daily 7am-8pm
- S"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
%s ; f%-
RIE
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily circulation of 35,000
and a daily readership of 52,000
reach the Gainesville college community.
Contact us at [352] 3764482. allig o-rthe Guide
to dining out
atli ao..
* *
** .FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 13
C2 I
2
-
--Banii
L
',,,g ppplx-0000,07 .xc\. -, h xx 5tox,AW:
, , , *
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009
NATIONAL
'Call to Action' urges students to march for gay rights
By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
Richard Aviles spent his promnight march-
ing rather than dancing.
He said he could dance anytime he wanted
to, but this six-day march from San Francisco
to Sacramento, Calif., in the aftermath of Cali-
fornia's controversial approval of Proposi-
tion Eight, a state amendment that once again
made it illegal for gays to wed, was for his ba-
sic human rights.
Aviles, 18, now a student at St. Olaf Col-
lege in Northfield, Minn., is just one of the
thousands of students and concerned citizens
who will swarm to Washington D.C. and the
lawn of the Capitol on Oct. 10 and 11. They'll
demand equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
Transgender and Queer/Questioning peo-
ple in America during the National Equality
March.
"This is the civil rights issue of our gen-
eration," said Keeanga Taylor, Northwestern
University student leader.
The march's "Call to Action" is an appeal
to students across the country urging them to
take part in the march. It has hopes of "ending
the United States' system of inhumane segre-
gation that continues to discriminate against
LGBTQ Americans," and has been signed by
more than 100 Student Body presidents andstudent leaders across the country.
UF Student Body President Jordan Johnson
could not be reached for comment.
A major facet of the march is what organiz-
ers describe as a consistent violation of the 14th
Amendment's Equal Protection Clause, which
those involved with the marchbelieve LGBTQ
citizens have not been protected under.
"We believe there needs to be a national
message," said Kip Williams, co-director of
the National Equality March. "And that mes-
sage is equality in all matters governed by civil
law in all 50 states."
The march is largely being mobilized by
social media, including blogs, links on the
march's Web site and through the event's Fa-
cebook page, which as of 9:45 p.m. Thursday
had 46,854 fans.
Dave Valk, a recent graduate of UCLA and
the national student outreach coordinator for
the march, said more than 2,000 student lead-
ers from across the nation have also been con-
tacted to mobilize students to act.
"Our goal is to connect people, to create
open communication with students across the
nation to share resources," Valk said.
About 30 UF students crowded into a small
classroom in Anderson Hall Thursday night
at a meeting for those interested in joining the
march.
UF freshman Corey Davila decided hewanted to travel to Washington D.C. to be part
of a bigger movement.
"There's no way I can miss this," Davila
said. "I'm so excited."
"We believe there needs to be a
national message. And that mes-
sage is equality in all matters gov-
erned by civil law in all 50 states."
Kip Williams
National Equality March co-director
The march this year holds an even greater
significance, three days after the National
Equality March will mark the 30th anniver-
sary of the National March on Washington for
Lesbian and Gay Rights, which an estimated
100,000 people attended.
"We're not willing to wait another 30
years," Williams said. "We want equality, and
we want it now."
Davila believes the media touts gay mar-
riage as the most critical issue facing the LG-
BTQ community, but it is not necessarily the
most important.
"I think it's more important to be able to
live every day without having to worry about
getting fired from your job and just being dis-
criminated against on a day-to-day basis," Da-vila said.
Taylor compared the National Equal-
ity March to the 1963 March on Washington,
where Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his
famous "I Have a Dream" speech. He said it
will not necessarily end discrimination in one
weekend but will bring LGBTQ issues into the
national eye.
"For LGBT people who are tired of being
treated like second-class citizens, last Novem-
ber was about enough is enough," Taylor said,
referring to Arizona, Florida and California's
approval of amendments to ban gay marriage
and Arkansas' ban on allowing unwed cou-
ples to adopt.
Churches and community centers across
Washington D.C. have volunteered their floor
space for those attending the march who need
a place to sleep.
Williams was quick to emphasize that this
march is not an endpoint. The march, accord-
ing to Williams, is the first step toward build-
ing a national grassroots campaign to achieve
equality.
"It's a crucial time for LGBT students,"
Aviles said. "We're here to tell you not to live
afraid. That's why this march is so impor-
tant."
For more information in how to participate
in the National Equality March, visit equality-
acrossamerica.org.
P.wnger c heer Go% Mir Ic pilot% reunite for i ght
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Availableafrom Commercial News Providers"
IIpwrparri ?(sY~bsr pJ~gn for IOr rnp'er d 1ride-11
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1&Theft24
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 10-9-20-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
Univ Terr Gville 3921 SW 34th st 1st fIr 4bd
/4ba, cent A/C, cable, W/D, full kitch, Sept
rent free! $300/mo/ea, $25/person finders
fee, owner/manager/gville. Immed occupan-
cy. Non-students welcome. 352-472-9778
10-5-09-10-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils ind $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 10-
7-09-5-1
Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-408-
4330 -305-962-2525 -c2000_1@msn.com
10-9-09-7-1DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 10-15-09-10-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 *2BR $539
No Move In Fees! Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3s! madisonpointe.org
Garages Available!
Enormous Screened Patio!
$266-$1092
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neigh-
borhood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood
floors, fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $1000/
mo. $30/mo ontime discount. 773-407-
1774. 10-20-09-41-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-212-
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor-
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by4 pm will appear two publica- rections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after the first
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
16, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
Rent For rrRent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
53-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
47-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-2-09-46-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
39-2We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
35-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-28-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-33-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-33-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
33-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1bth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
a
aWE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-331-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA The Oaks Condo by Oaks Mall.
$650, screened-in porch, W/D, community
pool & gym, water & trash included. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 10-26-
09-40-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking,dog walk area,quiet
1.5miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
S
1 B
0"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentU Rniumuesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
*@@@$550 2BR Washer/Dryer provided;
upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer
grad student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown NW 10th St
352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
Large 2BR/2BA gated golf community condo
end unit with garage. Enclosed porch/alarm
system/appl/washer/dryer. Lg.TV, queen
beds avail. at no cost. The Greens $800, call
352-262-3746 10-19-09-21-2
AVAILABLE NOW 2BR/1BA CTL heat/Air
W/D Hookups, Fridge, Stove, Dishwasher
and Icemaker $600/mo first and last $300
sec. 1523 NW 7th St. Gainesville, FL Phone
352-376-0071 or 352-494-4598 10-5-09-
10-2
3/2 House $700 per month! Carport, dish-
washer, washer/dryer hookups, lots of living
space, screened porch, lot backs up to Lolby
Park. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals@campusrealtygroup.com 10-12-
09-15-2
New Condo for rent. 2 bedrooms/2.5 baths.
Granite countertops, tile floor, and spacious
garage. Quite/Safe neighborhood minutes
from UF campus. Great location. Luxurious
college living at reasonable price, please call
Bosshardt reality at 352-371-2118 ext 403
10-6-09-10-2
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo, 1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
10-6-09-5-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1 .5BA, 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D. Great location -508 NE 4th
Ave. Available now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
10-6-09-10-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 10-9-12-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 10-7-09-20-2
% A.4- s I2 BR 1.5 BA Townhouse.
Tile floors downstairs & carpet upstairs, new
appliances, master bedroom overlooks a
large pond. Mill Run subdivision- $700/mo.
Call 871-7801 10-2-09-5-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Tiled floor in liv area
Carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans All new
bath New Kit w/stainless appl W/D Cent H/A
Internet/cable avail Near bus rte $685/mo
Call 727-423-9463 10-8-09-8-2
Treehouse Village 2/2, new crpt/vinyl, many
amenities, close to UF, 1 mo free! $650/mo.
109-Q301 SE 16th Ave
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Tiffany 2/2, Irg mstr bdrm, w/d, w/in clsts,
scrnd prch, near bus stop on Glen Spogs Rd
3059 NW 28 Circle. $700/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Whispering Pines 2/2, on UF bus routes, wd,
ask about special, 3443 SW 24th St. $800/
mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Monticello 3/3.5, fresh paint, community
amenities, 3 parking spaces, 1700+ sq ft,
522 NW 50th Blvd, $1100/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
4BR/2BA HOUSE
Great open living area, fenced backyard,
W/D, close to UF & downtown. Pets ok.
$1000/mo. Contact 352-672-1767 10-5-09-
5-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
2 Rooms Available, Wooden Floors, Nice
Windows, Pool and Jacuzzi in Backyard,
Brunswick Pool Table inside. 5 minutes to
campus by bicycle. $415.00 per month NOT
incl util. Near $550 altogether 321-960-7944
10-13-10-2
a a S
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"3/2 house in Gainesville. Fireplace, firewood,
screened patio, fenced backyard, living/din-
ing room, large master bedroom. All Electric
Appliances. Two car garage. Located in
Northwood Oaks. No pets. (772)332-2323
10-6-09-5-2
2/2.5 beacon hill townhouse 1.5mi from
Shands/UF on williston & 16th ave 1400sqft
built in '06 jet-tub in master bath *must see*
$800/month contact 352-256-0639 or
email gqgator07@yahoo.com
10-9-09-5-2
Updated 3/2 1225 sq. ft. in quiet NW neigh-
borhood. 4 mi. from campus on bus rte. 8.
Private backyard. 1 mile to Publix, Lowes,
Sams and Walmart. Ready now. $1050.
Ryan 850-261-3571
palusak99@yahoo.com 10-7-5-2
Villages @ Santa Fe- 2/1- Across from Santa
Fe College $575/mo. 1 MNTH
FREE!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Cricket Club 11-2/2- upgrd kitchen, w/d. many
amenities. 7180 SW 4 rd.
$900/mo 1 mnth free!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Greenleaf- 2/2.5- new paint/carpeting.w/d
hkps. 4303 SW 69 terr.
$750/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
3/2.5 near off NW 13 St. Walk to UF/midtown.
3 off strt parking. New stove. 626 NW 13th
terr. Reduced rent $850/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Looking for an affordable/spacious place to
live in SW Gville? Renovated 2BR/2BA apt
Archer Rd near UF, Butler Plaza, 1-75. Tile
fir in living/dining rms, kitchen & bath. Carpet
BRs. Short leases avail 352-262-2828 10-
7-09-5-2
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 10-15-09-10-2
2BR/1 BA townhouse -Tower Oaks area. 900
sq ft, pvtfenced backyard, freshly painted, vi-
nyl in BRs, ceramic in living areas. W/D, DW,
$650/mo $600 dep (payable in pmts) 386-
496-1058, 386-266-9810 10-8-09-5-2SMALL CABIN 2BR/1BA, 20 ACRES.
Watermelon Pond views. 27802 SW 120
Lane, Newberry. Horse pens, dog door.
Needs work. $575/mo. $750 move-in. 330-
329-8834 10-8-5-2
t-subleases
WALK TO UF/DOWNTOWN BARS
Luxury 1BR/1BA Apt. wood Floors & patio
$970 All Inclusive: Cable W/HBO, power/wa-
ter, wireless, fully furnished w/ washer/dryer,
parking decal. Pool, Fitness center. Sw 3rd
ave & Sw 5th st Avail. Now thru Aug '10
904-571-1550
10-8-6-3Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
10-7-09-10-4
Townhome to share. 1BR/pvt BA in
2BR/2.5BA, minutes from UF & Archer shop-
ping. Clean & private. Fenced patio. $350/
mo + 1/2 utils. Available Oct 1st. Call 850-
209-2783 10-5-09-5-4
Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone. Furn rm
avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo or $100/
wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc avail.
Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to vacate.
Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 10-5-5-4
Real Estate
OF toommaeG1
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-30-09-47-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male preferred. Share 4BR/4BA Countryside
condo. Own bathroom, W/D, hi-speed in-
ternet, on bus rte. Utils included. $400/mo.
863-634-1893. Available immediately. 10-
8-09-35-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house,
great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
10-7-09-20-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
HUD HOMES! 4bdr 3ba $217/mo! 3 bdrm
only $199/mo! Stop Renting! 5% dw, 15 yrs
@ 8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext
5669 10-2-1-5
VIRGINIA MOUNTAIN LAND Auction, 15
Acreage Tracts, Absolute/Reserve Lots,
Cove Creek Community, Tazewell County,
VA, October 17, 2009. Iron Horse Auction,
VAAL580, (800)997-2248. www.ironhor-
seauction.com 10-2-1-5
4Bdrm 3Ba Foreclosure! $11,500! Only
$217/Mo! (5% down 15 years @ 8% apr.)
3 Bdrm $199/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783
ext 5798 10-2-1-5
6Br 4Ba Foreclosure! $29,900! Only $225/
Mo! 5% down 30 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 4
Br $269/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext
5760 10-2-1-5
Owner Must Sell. 4+ acres- $57,300 Nice
oak trees, private access to lake. All utilities
in. Ready to build when you are! Financing
avail. Call now (866)352-2249. www.fllandof-
fer.com 10-2-1-5
Unbelievable LAND BARGAIN! 13.5 AC-
only $49,900 FREE BOAT SLIPS (Was
$129,900) Once- in- a- lifetime opportunity to
own big acreage lake property w/ free boat
slips on private recreational lake in Tenn.
Completed roads, utilities, more. Excellent
financing. Call now (888)792-5253, x3243
www.indianlaketn.com 10-2-1-5
NEW RETIREMENT COTTAGE ready for
your finishing touches! Fabulous golf com-
munity in Carolina mtns. Short drive from
Asheville. Just $199,900. Call (866)334-
3253, x 2315. www.scgolfhome.com 10-2-
1-5LEA oVER THE COMP OPEMIL"
"oTl ouRt flItL~~ IEI
FALL 2009
(ALL YOUR ALLIGATOR
REPRESENTATIVE TODAY AT
Run an ad within 5 publishing 76-4482
days of another and receive the
following discounts:
1st ad: Normal Rate
2nd ad: 15% discount
3rd ad: 20% discount
4th ad: 25% discount
5th ad: 25%discount theindpeden1 floridaal ligator
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,2009
Real Estate Furnishings Motorcycles, Mopeds Motorcycles, Mopeds Motorcycles, Moped
North Carolina Mountains NEW! E-Z Finish
Log Cabin Shell With Loft & Full Basement in-
cludes acreage $99,900 Financing Available
(828)247-9966 Code: 68 10-2-1-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
COrn PU T E RS
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Bicycles
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
M l For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
A Brand New Amazon Kindle 2 (latest
Generation) wireless E-book reader for sale,
$275. Holds over 1,500 books and Over
350,000 books available. More features see
Amazon.com. Call 352-214-4127. John 10-
6-09-6-10
Grand Finale Estate Sale
FurnitureAntiquesHoliday Decor
Willow Walk Business Center
4Mi. West of 1-75 on Newbery Road
Oct3-4,Sat:9-5,Sun:12-5(look4Signs)
09-2-1010-2-
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warraty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 colors
in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
10-2-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 10-2-1-10***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***Www.B3uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11GATORMOTO Gvilles #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
'0~Guid"l
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
New Life Community
Chapel
International Day: Celebrating
Our Uniqueness
Sunday Oct. 18: 10:30 AM to
NOON
International Dinner, guest speak-
ers and music
All are welcome, but space is
limited.
RSVP by Oct 15
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Creekside Community
Church
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 1 0:30am
For more info email Mary at
madmadamoo@gmail.comChabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Livel
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
The Spirit of Yahweh
Got truth?
The Gospel: Raw Uncut &
UNHEARD!
Bible Study Every Saturday
www.yahshuah.com
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11 am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
located 104 NW 14th Street.
For full schedule of events visit
gatorwesley.com
Southwest United
Methodist Church
Open and inclusive, Family away
from home, Informal Worship,
Classes and activities will be
planned using student input.
Sunday worship 1 0:45am
2400 SW Williston Rd
352-378-4931
Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11 604 SW Archer RoadFor info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
1 Oam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.1stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-1 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 1 0:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meeting at P.K. Yonge school
1080 SW 11th Street
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-8127"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Autos Autos Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
*Running or not!O
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @352-672-5048 10-14-10-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
Acura Integra 98 $500! Honda Civic 00
$800! Nissan Altima 99 $500! Toyota Corolla
02 $1000! Police Impounds! For listings call
(800)366-9813 ext 9275. 10-2-1-12
2000 Honda Civic $800! 2002 Toyota Corolla
$1000! 2001 Honda Accord $750! POLICE
IMPOUNDS! for listings call (800)366-9813
ext 9271 10-2-1-12
Just.a, d ~r,2oLOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 10-9-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 10-
9-09-74-13
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
0 the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
__ __ over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
4 f l cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 10-7-09-2-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Looking for front desk/medical asst. Busy
medical office looking for receptionist &/
or medical asst to help in front desk duties
answering phones & scheduling appts, as-
sist physician w/charting of patient infor. HS
diploma reqd, med terminology in anatomy &
physiology pref. Flex hrs, PT/FT avail. Salary
neg. Fax resume to 352-377-4816 or email
jere.scola@gmail.com 10-9-09-15-14
Mandarin speaking childcare helper needed
for part-time help in private home. Please
contact (352)219-8104. 10-5-09-10-14
PT- Lead generation, work from your loca-
tion, day & evening options. Hourly rate plus
bonuses. Includes paid training. Prefer some
phone experience, but not required.
Call 450-1737- 24 hour info line. 10-6-09-
10-14SOFTWARE -Hypercube, Inc. (www.hyper.
com) has local part-time jobs for energetic,
capable students interested in making con-
tributions to a well-know international soft-
ware company. Knowledge of Computer
Science, Chemistry, or Business is essential.
Resumes to employment@hyper.com 9-20-
09-5-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
P/T Hotel Front Desk Employee needed.
M,W,F 7AM to 3PM. Cabot Lodge 3726 SW
40th Blvd. 375-2400 10-8-10-14
HIRING EXPERIENCED KITCHEN HELP,
WAIT STAFF & HOSTESSES.
Apply in person 39th Ave by Santa Fe & NW
10th Place off Newberry Rd.
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT 10-
8-09-10-14
Running computer software and office ad-
min support work for ocean wave analy-
sis. Will train. $15/hr 20 to 30 hrs/week.
waves.job@gmail.com 10-5-09-7-14
Giggle Magazine ad sales reps
needed for local parenting mag
100% commission flexible hrs
check us out www.gigglemag.com
send resume sirving811@yahoo.com
10-2-09-5-14
Five Star Pizza Downtown
is now hiring for managment positions
must have energy must multitask. fun
atmosphere. apply in person only. @
210 sw 2nd ave ask for Matt.
10-6-5-14
Looking for door to door sales rep who can
sell our new wireless item that has a Florida
Gator Logo on it- Easy sale and big profits -
www.socketpocket.com email
eric@cfapromo.com 10-7-09-3-14
Need ASAP 30 Typists for Transcription
(65+wpm). Self Scheduling, minimum 16
hours per week. Open M-F, 7am-midnight.
Production based compensation up tp $12
per hour, and quarterly profit sharing. Close
to campus. Ideal for PT and Students.
Email with interest to: gnvjobs@uigfla.com
10-7-09-5-14
Students Needed -full or part
time. Earn $10-$15/hr.
352-505-1322
10-7-5-14
PTL OTR Drivers. New Pay Package! Great
Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months experience
required. No felony or DUI past 5 years.
(877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 10-2-1-14
Help Wanted. No Truck Driver Experience-
No Problem. Wil-Trans will teach you how
to drive. Company sponsored CDL Training.
(800)610-3715. Must be 23 10-2-1-14
Help Wanted. Join Wil-Trans Lease or
Company Driver Program. Enjoy our Strong
Freight Network. (800)610-3715. Must be 23
10-2-1-14
OPS AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN 11
Temporary position, up to forty (40) hours
per week, inspecting citrus nursery stock
and other plant material at retail locations
throughout north Florida for pest of economic
importance. Requirements: High School
diploma. Valid FL Drivers License, satisfac-
tory work history. Experience in plant patho-
gens, insect identification, agriculture and/or
biological science. Salary $10.13/hr. Apply in
person, Florida Department of Agriculture &
Consumer Services, 1911 SW 34th Street,
Gainesville FL. If questions contact Christine
Zamora (352) 372-3505. Deadline to apply:
October 9th, 2009. EOE/AA/ADA 10-5-2-
14
WF Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
Services Services Persoas Entertainment Tickets
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250 x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassador's Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-7-
15-15
FULL HORSE BOARD
Stalls, paddocks, pasture. Reasonable. West
of 175. Alachua. 386-462-3479 10-2-09-5-
15
From BRAZIL and NEW YORK- I have all
new trends for hair-DRY CUTS SAHAG
STYLE- BRAZILIAN KERATIN treat. NO
MORE FRIZZ HAIR-by CONCY STIMAC-
call(352)514-0957-1 0%off with this add
10-19-20-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
For thorough and dependable cleanings for
your home, office, or apartment please call
J & B Cleaning (352) 278-8571
10-15-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
10-6-5-15
TENNIS LESSONS!!
Experienced instructor. Cheap private/
group lessons. No equipment needed. It's
never too late to learn! Call 618.203.2721.
10-8-09-5-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers! One Call -
One Order -One Payment The Advertising
Networks of Florida -Put Us to work for You!
(866)742-1373 www.national-classifieds.
com, info@national-classifieds.com 10-2-
1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 10-2-1-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
FREE PRESCRIPTIONS FROM DRUG
MANUFACTURERS! You or a loved one
may be eligible for assistance. EVERYBODY
eligible for FREE review, even if insured.
PATIENT ADVOCATE (800)538-9849 10-
2-1-16
Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
a Event Notices
Race for Grace 5k Run/Walk Event
Saturday, Oct. 10th
Westside Park (1001 NW 34th St)
Registration 7:30am race begins at 8:00am
http://raceforgrace5k.eventbrite.com/ 10-
6-09-7-20
Gainesville SCUBA Club
Come to our first meeting Wednesday,
October 21 7:00pm at Water World
Go to www.gainesvillescubaclub.com for
more info 10-20-09-16-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. M -R, October 5-8 from
5:00 -7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W;
Math sessions are T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register. 10-5-5-20
GatorNation "2009 Gator Chomp Dance
Video Contest"! Best choreographed rou-
tines will be chosen for "Gator Chomp" Video
For complete details visit www.dothegator-
chomp.com 10-2-1-20
I MOTNTEDE
Mark Joseph
Justice
White Male
(DOB 04/25/88); 5'07",
165 lbs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Violation of Probation for
Possession of A Controlled
Substance Without A Prescription
and Reckless Driving
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21Wanted
2 LSU Football Tickets
Call 404-391-6935 10-7-4-22
Buying FL vs GA Tlx
Top$$ Paid- LocalPick-up. 1-877-596-1234
10-30-09-21-22
WJL Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
l Tickets Lost & Found
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 10-14-09-
28-22
* * r *o* -ftew 4FOUND:
GLASSES & CONTACTS
Near Soccer Field & FD Precinct #19, SW
20th Ave. first part of Sept. Call to identily
352-404-2419 10-4-3-25
*.0e 0 0
"Copyrighted Materiai~
Syndicated Content,
Available from Commercial News Providers"A
SBg
W I
-FpI
r
p m
II5-
I
Sports
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.a II igator.org/sports
Picks
Column
TAT A
SITE: Neyland Stadium, Knoxville,
Tenn., (cap. 104,079)
KICKOFF: Saturday 7:45 p.m.
TV: ESPN
In the past, UF bye weeks have also
meant a week off from the alligator-
Sports Brand Picks Column.
This year, we're committed to going
hard every week, so you get yet another
chance to see us fail miserably at pick-
ing 10 games. But first, we've got Phil
Kegler and Bobby Callovi debating one
of the SEC's best games this weekend,
Auburn at Tennessee.
AUBURN WILL COVER THE +1.5 POINT
SPREAD BECAUSE .The oddsmakers
must have been on some hard drugs
when they made this line, and Tennes-
see has a quarterback who shouldn't be
starting even if he was playing JUCO
ball. I think Jonathan Crompton cele-
brates when he eclipses 100 yards pass-
ing, something he couldn't do against
mighty UCLA. Meanwhile, Auburn
-yes, Auburn! -is tied for first in the
SEC in total offense, racking up more
than 500 yards a game. The Tigers may
have gone 5-7 last season, but they are
going to run up and down Neyland Sta-
dium, leaving UT D-coordinator Monte
Kiffin to ask for volunteers to stop the
bleeding.
-PHIL KEGLER
WHY TENNESSEE WILL WIN BY MORE
THAN 1.5 POINTS .In this battle be-
tween two coaches new to the South-
eastern Conference with bad quarter-
backs, it will come down to running
the ball and playing defense. As Ten-
nessee safety Eric Berry proved against
Florida, he is the best defensive player
in the country, and more importantly,
he doesn't have to worry about tack-
ling Tim Tebow this time. Also, this is
a game in which UT coach Lane Kiffin
can just try not to getblown out and still
have a chance to win as long as Cromp-
ton, his quarterback, can complete a
few passes. -EBOBBY CALLOVI
SEE PICKS, PAGE 23UF will meet
biggest threat
to SEC throne
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise is 38-1 against Kentucky during her 18 years as UF's coach. The
Wildcats beat Wise and the Gators in Lexington last season.In the span of a season, one of Florida's oldest vol-
leyball rivalries has changed from a traditionally lop-
sided affair into a battle for conference supremacy.
Entering last season, UF held a 37-0 record against
Kentucky under coach Mary Wise. The Wildcats got
their first victory against the Gators in 18 years with a
3-2 decision in Lexington and came within two matches
of winning the regular-season Southeastern Conference
title.
In the end, Florida won its 18th straight conference
championship by defeating South Carolina, and Ken-
tucky lost any title hopes in a loss to Tennessee.
So far this year, the No. 15 Wildcats (13-1, 3-0 SEC)
have proven they can remain a con-
tender in the championship run, having
not dropped a set in conference play
and sweeping an Ole Miss team that
Volleyball took the Gators to five sets.
No. 5 Florida (10-1, 4-0 SEC) will
take on Kentucky in a top-15 show-
down tonight in the O'Connell Center. UF will then
host Tennessee (9-4, 2-1 SEC) on Sunday to round out
what Wise has called the toughest two-match weekend
of the season.
Even during her time serving as an assistant at UK
from 1986-90, Wise said she knew the Wildcats could
hold their own against tougher competition, so their re-
cent improvement hasn't come as a shock to her.
"It's not surprising, as good as they are. It's one of
the highest-octane offenses in the country," Wise said.
"They could easily be undefeated right now. This is a
regional championship-quality team we're playing Fri-
day night.
"This is Kentucky's year. I think the only surprising
thing for us is that they're not ranked even higher."
UK's only loss was in a five-set road match against
SEE VOLLEYBALL, PAGE 23
Several sports fighting for spot in America's heartO n Thursday, my esteemed colleague that all seem to be jock- CONS: Whiny country club types who "retire
Phil Kegler examined the lack of a eying for position and in the third set with leg cramps. Lord of th
fourth-best team in college football. television dollars once Rings-long matches. Capris for men.
Today, I want to examine the lack of a we move past the big BEST AMERICAN ATHLETE: Andy Roddick.
fourth major sport in this great, football- three:
crazed nation of ours. GOLF
Hockey used to be the fourth major sport Kyle Maistri TENNIS FLAGSHIP ORGANIZATION: PGA Tour
in America, but a lockout and Gary Bettman, Kyle Points FLAGSHIP ORGANIZA- PROS: Watching regular guys like a bee
the only commissioner somehow worse than kmaistri@alligator org TION: ATP drinking, chain-smoking John Daly in th
'dC~I ' J1 eiIdCIUIt 1~Ky[ U iLiwleleel~y i gig111V lbaseball s Bug Selig, have reduced hockey tonothing more than a weekly game and a few
finals games on TV every season.
Now, hockey is just one of a few sportsPR-mu: Great individualcompetition between
guys with names like Rog and Rafa. A com-
petitive female circuit. Maria Sharapova."
e
r-
e
90s and, more recently, an aging Tom Wva-
son legitimately have a chance to win. "Get in
the hole!" calls. Tiger Woods.
SEE KYLE, PAGE 22
E The UF men's golf team will com-
pete at the Gary Koch Invitational in
Tampa on Saturday and Sunday.
Check out alligatorSports.org for a
full preview.* Kyle Maistri and host Adam Berry wel-
come special guests Ben Volin, Palm Beach
Post beat writer and Fantasy Challenge
participant, and Ed Aschoff, Gainesville Sun
recruiting writer. Check it out on iTunes.* ESPN aims to break the record for most mentions of Brett Favre on a TV show
with its SportsNation program Monday. To verify it, the people from Guinness
World Records will break the world record for actually watching an episode of
that show all the way through. .Los Angeles is one step closer to building an
NFL stadium, so Tim Tebow is one step closer to his destiny as an L.A. Jaguar.
22, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
UF heads to Notre Dame meet
0 THE NO. 15 WOMEN WILL
FACE NINE RANKED TEAMS.
By JESSICA ETTER
Alligator Writer
With both teams having wins
under their belts, UF's men's and
women's cross country squads are
hoping to finish strong against na-
tionally ranked teams at the Notre
Dame Invitational, which begins to-
day at 4:15 p.m.
The No. 15 women's team will
face the defending national champi-
ons, No. 1 Washington, along with
No. 3 Florida State and seven other
ranked teams during the 5K run.
"Washington is going to be there,
and they have a lot of returners,"
junior Charlotte Browning said. "It
will be very exciting to see how we
will finish compared to all of the
great teams who will be there this
year."
Browning, who finished first in
UF's meet on Sept. 18, said she is
more fit this season, and the wom-
en's team has been training hard for
the tough competition it will face.
The unranked men's team, which
finished tied for sixth last year at this
event, will be facing eight ranked
teams at the invitational on a five-
mile course. The five teams that fin-
ished ahead of the Gators last year,
along with Notre Dame, which tied
with UF, advanced to the NCAA
Championship. Florida did not.
Justin Taylor, who finished in
15th place last season at Notre Dame,
said he hopes for the men's team to
end up in the top three.
"We have a solid team who can
get the job done," Taylor said. "I
don't think finishing top-three is
unreasonable. I think it is pretty do-
able."
Taylor did not compete in the
Mountain Dew Invitational due to
an Achilles tendon injury from lastAndrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF junior Charlotte Browning won the Mountain Dew Invitational two
weeks ago.
season that flared up a few days
beforehand. He will compete in the
five-mile course in South Bend, Ind.
Anthony Morales, who finished
second at the Mountain Dew Invita-tional, said he was sick with the flu
following the race. Morales credits
the nasal-spray flu vaccine given to
both teams for keeping the majority
of the runners from becoming ill.
G NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannotbecombined OneCouponp customers o
#"3914 SW Archer Rdc o e B only avallab e at Butler Plaza location
s WITH OUR EXPANDED AUDIENCE!
DyslexiaKYLE, from page 21
CONS: Doesn't exactly connect with young, hip American
culture. Sometimes less exciting than watching paint dry.
Whispering announcers.
BEST AMERICAN ATHLETE: Tiger Woods.
HOCKEY
FLAGSHIP ORGANIZATION: NHL
PROS: Tough-as-nails eastern Europeans checking each
other into the boards and dropping the gloves. Fast-paced
action. Incredibly impressive to watch in person. Barry Mel-
rose's mullet. Osama Bin Laden-style playoff beards.
CONS: Toothless smiles. Postgame interviews filled with
"aboot" and "eh?" Two halftimes. The same lack of diver-
sity as a frat guy's wardrobe (I imagine their closets look just
like Doug Funnie's. Hm .boat shoes, khakis, Easter egg-
colored polo and Croakies it is!)
BEST AMERICAN ATHLETE: Mike Modano.
NASCAR
FLAGSHIP ORGANIZATION: Sprint Cup
PROS: High speeds and violent crashes. Milk, beer and Pep-
si showers in the winner's circle. Angry rednecks who take
road rage to the next level.
CONS: Left turns followed by left turns followed by more left
turns. The car is more important than the skill of its driver.
Makes hockey look as diverse as Turlington on a weekday
afternoon.
BEST AMERICAN ATHLETE: Jimmie Johnson.
SOCCER
FLAGSHIP ORGANIZATION: English Premier League
PROS: The most global sport of them all. Passionate fans.
Uninterrupted action with a definite amount of time you
need to watch an entire match.
CONS: Ties. As American as sushi, Borat and BMW. Fewer
goals than a high school dropout. Obnoxious fans who act
as though Americans are beneath soccer.
BEST AMERICAN ATHLETE: Landon Donovan, Jozy Altidore.
MMA
FLAGSHIP ORGANIZATION: UFC
PROS: Quick fights with lots of bloodshed and knockouts.
Watching different fighting styles clash. Perhaps the most
diverse sport of all. Joe Rogan. Dana White.
CONS: Perhaps too violent for mainstream America. Great
title fights can be infrequent. Cauliflower ear. Dana White.
BEST AMERICAN ATHLETE: Brock Lesnar, B.J. Penn.
---
Advertise in the Alligator's
2009 Souvenir Homecoming Edition!
More than 60,000 people come to
Gainesville during the weekend-long
events. This is the time to promote your
business to readers who need places to
eat, celebrate, shop and sleep. Several
thousand copies are distributed along the
parade route.
Call today to secure your spot!
352-376-4482
Deadline: Friday, October 9
Run date: Friday, October 16 alli"U_-
Congratulate ons!
alligator
We Inform. You Decide.-Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
Years of gain inweeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesvillefor over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Gators look to continue conference success on road
* UF WENT 0-2 ON ITS LAST
ROAD TRIP.
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens @a ligator org
If the light is just right, you tilt
your head a bit and squint, you may
be able to catch a glimpse of it.
A freshly furnished bull's-eye
on the back of the UF soccer team.
That's what happens when you
go undefeated in conference play.
After finishing 11-0 in the South-
eastern Conference in 2008, the No.
7 Gators (8-3, 2-0 SEC) look to con-
tinue the trend as they go on their
second road trip this season -this
one against SEC foes in Mississip-
pi.
The soccer team traveled to
Starkville and will play Mississippi
State (8-2, 0-2 SEC) tonight and Ole
Miss (7-2, 1-0 SEC) on Sunday in
Oxford.
The Gators went 0-2 on their last
road trip, but success breeds confi-
dence. UF is a confident team after
its three-week home stint.
"We've experienced loss on the
road, and we don't want to feel that
again," junior Nicky Kit said.
UF went 5-1 at home in Septem-
ber, losing to No. 5 FSU 1-0 in over-
time.
"The more experience you get,
especially with a young team, the
better you're going to get," UF
coach Becky Burleigh said. "But Ithink that our team understands
that there's such a small margin of
victory or defeat."
Freshman Holly King said her
newfound experience is reflected in
her game."I feel more composed and defi- end triggered a new mindset for the
nitely more confident now that I've Gators: It's a new season, forget the
gotten the experience to play the past.
big teams, so I know what to ex- So far, UF is repeating its history
pect," she said. and has continued its SEC domi-
The start of SEC play last week- nance, starting out 2-0 this year in
Rayiaz Khan/ Alligator Staff
Junior Nicky Kit and the Gators have won 22 consecutive regular-season conference matches dating
back to Oct. 7, 2007. UF's last SEC loss came in a 2-0 decision against Tennessee in Knoxville.conference play with wins against
Kentucky and Vanderbilt.
The team even had a meeting
where older players reminded the
younger players about the signifi-
cance of netting three points for
every conference win and going
undefeated again.
"Every team wants to beat us,
and because we are the top dogs
basically, other teams always want
to see Florida lose," senior Jessica
Eicken said.
It may be in the Gators' favor
that MSU made up a rained-out
game Tuesday night, meaning it'll
be playing on three days' rest. MSU
lost 1-0 to Alabama and dropped to
0-2 in the SEC.
With forecasts in Starkville
showing thunderstorm show-
ers Thursday night and morning
showers today, the players could be
playing on a huge slip n' slide.
Too wet a field would slow the
ball down and risk cleats getting
stuck in the mud. If it's milder, the
rain may make the ball skid more
on the grass, which would be to
the Gators' advantage with their
speedy team and keep-away play-
ing style.
Rain, shine, humid or dry, UF
will look to dampen MSU's bid to
bring down the Gators from the
SEC soccer summit tonight.
"People are tired of Florida win-
ning," Kit said. "They don't care
who it is (winning) -they want
someone else, as long as it's not
Florida."
PICKS, from page 21
Now, on to the picks!
Spending yet another week in the No. 1 spot with a 22-17 record is Mike "Wait, was I sup-
posed to say something?" DiFerdinando, who inexplicably went silent during one of his later
takes for our commercial Thursday. DiFer must have been daydreaming about Washington
quarterback Jake Locker in his unmentionables.
Continuing the excellence by people named Mike in second with an 18-21 record is Mike
"Soccer mom" McCall, who had such fun driving all of us around during the Kentucky trip that
he now has a strong desire to use a similar form of transportation to the remainder of UT's road
games. He felt so embarrassed when the UT football team didn't want his orange slices and juice
boxes.
Checking in at third with a 17-22 record this week is the Miami Herald's Joe "They're just
making all this flu stuff up" Goodman, who was playing conspiracy theorist early in the Ken-
tucky game and wondering if Tim Tebow really had the flu. We're not really sure how serious
he was, but Tebow's concussion was believable enough for Joe.
Leading a three-way tie for fourth at 16-23 is Ed "Back procedure expert" Aschoff, who must
be the only one on the planet still wondering when wide receiver Carl Moore and cornerback
Jeremy Brown will return to the playing field.
The middle part of the tie is Bobby "Seriously, I have to poop" Callovi, who spent more time
in restrooms across the southeastern United States last weekend than he did actually consuming
food. McCall offered to fold down the back seat and change his diaper right there in the Sienna,
but Bobby's been potty-trained since freshman year.
Wrapping up the logjam at fourth place is the Orlando Sentinel's Jeremy "Did Tim Tebow
just sneeze?" Fowler, who might be giving his most comprehensive coverage of an injury since.
well, a few weeks ago when Andre Debose went down. Call him a lot of things, but incomplete
isn't one of them.
Beginning a two-way tie for seventh at 15-24 is the Florida Times-Union's Mike "Head-to-
head doesn't matter, right?" DiRocco, who inexplicably has undefeated Houston five spots be-low one-loss Oklahoma State in his most recent AP poll ballot, despite the Cougars' 10-point
road win over the Cowboys on Sept. 12. Then again, memory loss is a key sign of aging.
Also sitting in seventh place is Kyle "Wait, where is everybody going?" Maistri, who will be
the only one of the five football writers staying in Gainesville this weekend because he doesn't
have a girlfriend. He's doing the next best thing -covering UF's volleyball match with beat
writers Adam Berry and Anthony Chiang.
Having moved out of the cellar but still sitting in ninth at 13-26 is Phil "What? I can't hear
you" Kegler, who has perfected the art of using headphones to avoid unwanted conversation in
the office. What he doesn't know is that we're never talking to him anyway.
In dead last place with a piss-poor record of 8-31 is the Palm Beach Post's Ben "George
Costanza" Volin, who has gone a miserable 1-18 in picking games the last two weeks. Ben, pre-
tend like picking these games is the same as picking up freshman girls at a bar -if your intuition
says you have a chance, just go the other way.
MDF MM JO EA BC
USF (-6 5) AT SYR USF USF SYR USF SYR
FSU (-4 5) AT BC FSU BC FSU BC 3C
BAMA (-16) AT UK BAMA BAMA UK BAMA BAMA
MISS (-9) AT VAND MISS MISS VAND MISS MISS
LSU (+3)AT UGA UGA UGA UGA UGA LSU
GT (-6) AT MSST GT MSST MSST GT GT
OU (-7) AT MIA OU OU MIA OU OU
PSU (-7) AT ILL PSU PSU PSU PSU PSU
AUB (+15)AT TENN TENN TENN AUB AUB TENN
USC (-5) AT CAL USC USC CAL CAL USC
USF (-6 5) AT SYR
FSU (-4 5) AT BC
BAMA (-16) AT UK
MISS (-9) AT VAND
LSU (+3) AT UGA
GT (-6) AT MSST
OU (-7) AT MIA
PSU (-7) AT ILL
AUB (+15) AT TENN
USC (-5) AT CALJF
USF
FSU
BAMA
MISS
LSU
MSST
OU
PSU
TENN
USCMDR
SYR
FSU
BAMA
VAND
UGA
GT
MIA
PSU
AUB
CALKM
USF
FSU
BAMA
MISS
LSU
GT
MIA
PSU
AUB
CALPK
SYR
BC
BAMA
MISS
LSU
GT
MIA
PSU
AUB
USCBV
SYR
FSU
BAMA
VAND
LSU
MSST
MIA
ILL
TENN
CAL
Wildcats feature reigning conference player of the year Rumely
VOLLEYBALL, from page 21 success to her leadership. this weekend will be comparable to UF's a lot better with our consistency, so this is
As a team, Kentucky leads the SEC in early season matches against Stanford and just another big test for us."
in-state rival Louisville on Sept. 16. hitting percentage, assists and kills per set Washington, two ranked opponents. With the Florida football team on a bye,
The Wildcats are led by senior setter and ranks in the nation's top 10 in each cat- Florida split the two matches, taking Wise said she hopes Gators fans will turn
Sarah Rumely, the reigning SEC Player of egory. down then-No. 11 Stanford in five matches their attention just across the street from
the Year. Rumely's 11.86 assists per set put The Gators have cruised to victory in and getting swept by No. 3 Washington. The Swamp this weekend.
her first in the conference and seventh in their last three matches, giving every eli- "Our [nonconference] season helped us "We'd like to think that Friday and Sun-
the nation, and Wise attributed part of UK's gible player time on the court at one point, prepare for this with some tough competi- day, the happening place is in the O'Connell
but sophomore setter Kelly Murphy said tion," Murphy said. "I think we've gotten Center," Wise said.
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2009
Universals
HALL OWE EN
I4ORRORNIGflH
FLORIDA RESIDENT TKKETS
AS LOW AS $3999*
(Original Price $69.99)A
~1SAVINGS OF $30 Sun.-Thurs. event nights
SAVINGS OF $20 Fri. event nights
SAVINGS OF $10 Sat. event nights
Save on advance ticket purchase with promo code from specially-marked cans of Coca-Cola",
Diet Coke, or Coca-Cola Zero or promo code from participating BURGER KING restaurants.KAftsfYJ
