* Tim Tebow has the
chance to become the
third quarterback in SEC
history go 4-0 against
Tennessee, joining
former Gator Danny
Wuerffel and Alabama's
Jay Barker.
See Story, Page 28.
I
MNd
the independent floridaalligator
fIEOfiMPE N
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Photo AP Photo, Alligator File Photo; Design by Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, September 18, 2009
Rocky
"Copyrighted Material
gD yndicated ContentDog Available from Commercial News Providers"
Kiffin will make Swamp debut
By PHIL KEGLER perceptions while ensuring every
Alligator Staff Writer Florida player, coach and fan has
pkegler@aIIigatororg had the Sept. 19 showdown circled
months in advance.
Lane Kiffin and Tim Tebow have From his playful jab during his in-something in common. troductory news conference to falsely
They both have made unprompt- accusing Meyer of cheating, Kiffin
ed promises to fans. hasn't backed down from arguably"I'm not promising how many the top program in the nation.wins we're going to have, how many Calling out Meyer hasn't sat wellchampionships," said Tennessee's with UF's players.
first-year coach during his introduc- "I don't like anyone talking about
tory news conference. "I can't do that. coach Meyer," Tebow said. "I tryI don't know that. There's too many to not let it affect me, although youvariables within that. know I always have coach Meyer's"But I can tell you this right now: back in anything because I knowNo one is going to outwork us, no what type of a person he is, and Ione is going to outworkkme as a head know what he believes in and I know
coach and no one is going to outwork what he stands for."
our staff that we put together. That's Offensive lineman Maurkicethe promise I'm giving you. The wins Pouncey added: "Coach is our fam-
will come after that." ily, man. We came here, he broughtTebow's vow ended with confetti us here, put us under our wing, andand a national championship. Many we're going to put him underneath
say Kiffin will have to fight to make ours."the Volunteers bowl-eligible in 2009. Still, Kiffin didn't pass up the op-When the two cross paths Satur- portunity earlier this week to take
day, everyone will be watching. a dig at UF's spread offense and its
ability to prepare receivers for the
RE-IGNITING THE RIVALRY NFL. Former Pahokee High wide re-
The Florida-Tennessee rivalry ceiver Nu'Keese Richardson elected
is traditionally a matchup between to attend Tennessee at the last min-two of the Southeastern Conference's ute this spring instead of coming topowerhouses and typically has post- Florida.
season implications -in the 17 years "The only time I really see themsince the SEC split into two divisions, lose kids, is because kids want tothe Gators or Volunteers have repre- play in a pro-style offense," Kiffin
seated the East all but three times. said. "It's such a great place to playBut while the UF-UT all-time se- and they do such a good job of coach-
ries stands tied at 19 apiece, Smokey ing, but you see some kids that don'thasn't had a lot to cheer about in want to play in that system because arecent times. The Gators, who have lot of times it hurts them going to thenever led in the rivalry's standings, next level for their draft status."have won 17 of the last 23 meetings, Florida, coincidentally, sent outincluding four straight under Urban a press release Tuesday afternoon
Meyer. ("Gators in the NFL -Week 1") that
The team's last matchup in The included a chart that listed collegeSwamp (2007) featured UF's largest programs by receivers drafted sincemargin of victory in the series, a 59- 2006. Florida is tied for the lead with
20 blowout. six, while Tennessee has one.Kiffin is doing his best to changeTennessee coach Lane Kiffin takes the traditional Vol Walk before the game against Western Kentucky on Sept. 5 in Knoxville, Tenn. Kiffin is 1-1 in his
first season as the Volunteers' coach.
None of this would appear to member from the 2008 season.
make Gators fans any more enam- In fact, Kiffin has tried to assembleored with Kiffin, who makes his de- an all-star cast around him, and it's
but in The Swamp on Saturday as a costing the Volunteers' athletic de-
four-touchdown underdog. partment more than $5 million this
But Tennessee safety Eric Berry re- fall. Father Monte Kiffin, longtime
spects his new coach for sticking his defensive coordinator of the Tampa
neck out. Bay Buccaneers, moved toIKnoxville
"Our situation last year was kind to fill the same role and will make
of different because, in a way, we $1.2 million for the 2009 season.
didn't know who had our back as far Aside from Monte Kiffin, Tennes-
as from a coaching standpoint or any- see's staff mostly consists of coaches
body because of the season we had," plucked from other SEC programs.
Berry said. "So him coming in and Recruiting coordinator and assis-
saying what he said,no I wouldn't do tant head coach Ed Orgeron was the
it personally, but A head coach at Ole
the way he did it, Coach is our family, man. Miss from 2005-07
it showed us We came here, he brought us here, he put us under his wing, b e -
he had and we're going to put him underneath ours.,, fore
our back -spengui Pnundeney u s ding
and he believed in us." -Maurkice Pouncey 2008 as a New Orleans Saints
"It just showed us that he had con- assistant. Running backs coach Ed-
fidence in us. That really just made us die Gran spent five years at Ole Miss
want to play that much more forhim, (1994-98) before becoming an Au-
made us want to give it up for him burn assistant from 1999-2008. Quar-
and just really put it on the line. So terbacks coach David Reaves had
in a way, I wouldn't call out anybody been on South Carolina's staff from
or anything like that, but it did help 2002-08 before leaving for Knoxville.
us from a team standpoint as far as Linebackers coach Lance Thomp-
how close we bought in to what he son arrived from Alabama after a
had to do and what he brought in to two-year stint. Wide receivers coach
this program." Frank Wilson was on the Ole Miss
staff from 2005-07 before spending a
REPLACING A LEGEND year at Southern Miss then coming to
It is clear that this is Kiffin's pro- Tennessee.
gram now. "It's our first year," Lane Kiffin
Tennessee's 10-man coaching staff said. "There's a long-term plan here
doesn't contain a single returning that we're getting done."
statistical breakdown
TENNESSEE UF
39 Points Per Game 59
13 Points Allowed Per Game 4.5
185 Passing Yards Per Game 313.5
247.5 Rushing Yards Per Game 330
75 Passing Yards Allowed Per Game 147
59.5 Rush ing Ya rds Allowed Per Ga me 84
11/25(44%) 3rd Down Conversions 16/23 (70%)
4/25 (16%) 3rd Down Defense 10/36 (28%)
11-13 (69%) Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %) 9-10 (90%)
4-4 (50%) Red Zone Defense (TD%) 1-3(0%)
-3 Turnover Margin +1How much patience Tennessee
fans have remains to be seen.
The Volunteers faithful ran long-
time coach Phillip Fulmer out of town
after a 5-7 record last season despite a
career record of 152-52 in 17 years as
head coach.
"You know everybody has the
chance to do things their way," said -
Fulmer, who is now an analyst for OL Jt
CBS. "We were very pleased with WR(what we were able to accomplish OL Cduring the majority of ourtime, and OL Vwe did it without having to be brash OLJand so on. But this is his style, what
he thought he had to do.
"We didn't have a very good sea-
son last year. I certainly take full re-
sponsibility for that. And now, it's his
turn to do it as he thinks he needs to
do it. But the problem in this league m 01
is you'regoing to play great football WRC
teams every week once you get into CB J
the Southeastern Conference sched- S Do
ule. So if you're going to be brash,
you'd betterbe able to back it up." m
SLOW START LB B
Kiffin's hiring spruced up Ten-
nessee's offseason and brought a lot M PF
of hope to Knoxville. It has been less WRDthan a storybook beginning, with WL
UT losing 19-15 to UCLA last week, DTLa
a game the Volunteers entered as LBJe
9-point favorites. The Bruins were
slated to finish seventh i the Pa-
cific-10 Conference in the preseason -
media poll.
"It's sort of what Sarah Palin did
for the Republican ticket. Maybe not
get moreevotes, buteniergzethe base 11
of the RepublicanPaety,"saidlonig- 1Ln
time CBS analyst Tim Branido. "It
doesn'tmeanthatit's necessarily go-
ing tobe successful,but if that's what 2
(Tennessee) wanted to do when they
hired Kiffin, that's what he was able
to accomplish in the offseason. Now, In
we'll see how much staying power 7 Ah
he has and how successful he can be. tie
He's got a long way to go, in my view,
to be as successful as Phil Fulmer."
The success orfailure of Tennes-
see's third coach in 33 years won't be
decided Saturday.
But his first chance at living up to
his pledge will come against a quar- .191terback whose vow is etched on the
side of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Kiffin can only hope his promise 17willbe asprophetic.IINJURY
REPORT
PROBABLE *
osh McNeil (knee)
Gerald Jones (ankle, wrist)
ody Sullins (shoulder)
ladimir Richard (Achilles)
acque McClendon (ankle)
INJURY
UT
Carl Moore (back)
eremy Brown (back)
rian Munroe (knee)
DOUBTFUL .
rendan Beal (neck)
PROBABLE -
Deonte Thompson (hamstring)
awrence Marsh (ankle)
elani Jenkins (ankle)
JMBERS
0
4
e e
Jeff Demps Tim Tebow
Brandon Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Carl David Nelson Riley Cooper
James Hernandez Gilbert Mike Pouncey James Johnson
Pouncey Wilson
Gerald Wes Dan Chris
Williams Brown Williams Walker
LaMarcus Nick Rico
Thompson Reveiz McCoy
Eric Berry Janzen JacksonMarsalous
JohnsonJanoris
Jenkins
(m
Quintin
Hancocko 9 Will Hill Major Wright
eB eLB
Ryan Brandon A.J.
Stamper Spikes Jones
8
Jaye t Carlos
Jermaine Howard Lawrence Dunlap Joe Haden
Cunningham Marsh
Chris JCody arrod Luke Stocker
Scott Vladimir Sullins Jacques Shaw Marsalis
Richard McClendon Teague
Jonathan
Crompton
: _ Kevin
Cooper
Montario
HardestyBarry
ValcinIUF offense vs. Tennessee defense IUF defense vs. Tennessee offenseI1990,
1990,
0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 19 We Inform. You Decide.-
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
Gators home games boost local business
By DAVID TINTER
Alligator Contributing Writer
For a few days in the fall, Cody Atkinson's
job gets a little crazy.
Atkinson, an employee of Gator Shop in
UF plaza, works every Game Day.
"It's a mad house in here," he said. "The
whole staff has to work. It's hard to even
walk."Gator Shop, like most of the stores and res-
taurants near UF, sees a huge boost in busi-
ness on days when the Gators play at home.
According to Gator Shop manager Joi
Bass, the store does about 60 percent of
its business for the entire year on the six
or seven days of Gators football games.
Gator Shop makes most of its money selling
T-shirts, but the store also has a variety of
souvenirs and other merchandise.
Even with the rain Saturday, the store hadlots of business.
"The rain [doesn't] hurt us at all," At-
kinson said. "People need ponchos and still
come in to shop."
But the demand doesn't stopLocal at orange and blue shirts andNews fan hands.
According to barista Mary
Holden, Leonardo's by the Slice doubles or
triples its normal business on game days.
"We're always slammed on game days,"she said.
With Gators game attendance nearing
100,000 at times, Gainesville is flooded with
hungry and souvenir-seeking fans on game
weekends. But it's hard for economists to
measure the true effect on the local econo-
my.
UF economics professors Roger Blair and
Mark Rush are trying to figure it out.
SEE ECONOMY, PAGE 15
Volunteers give meals, hygiene kits to homeless
By KATHRYN RANHORN said, though the most important
Alligator Contributing Writer services were still available this
4 year.
Nearly 800 local homeless peo- Volunteers served bacon, eggs,
le showed u to the Bo Diddle rits muffins and donuts for
Community Plaza Thursday
morning for the 11th Annual
Breakfast on the Plaza and Home-
less Service Fair.
The fair, sponsored by the
Alachua County Coalition for the
Homeless and Hungry, provided
free services including ID cards,
health screenings, haircuts and
bicycle repairs.
Coalition director Jon DeCar-
mine said the fair, which featured
about 25 organizations, was espe-
cially helpful to those new to the
streets.
Alachua's homeless popula-
tion has increased by 70 percent
over the past two years to nearly
1,600.
Unfortunately, the coalition's
funding has decreased, DeCar-
mine said.
"We're running on 20 percent
of last year's budget. This is a real
stripped down and bare-bones
version of the fair," DeCarmineg ,Ibreakfast at 8 a.m. They served
about 550 people, and more than
90 identification cards were re-
issued.
The home-cooked breakfast
was provided and served by Fire
of God Ministries.
"I was scared to death. I'm
55 and have no income."
Jonah Rails
resident of St. Francis House
Jonah Ralls, who has been
homeless for the past year, said
he came mainly for the hygiene
products.
Ralls has been living at the St.
Francis House, a local homeless
shelter, and heard about the ser-
vices through friends.
"I was scared to death. I'm 55
and have no income," Ralls said
about losing his business and
SEE HOMELESS, PAGE 15
NATIONAL
Federal act could send $40B into Pell Grant funding
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
In an effort to take some pressure off students' wallets, the
U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation Thursday that
will help provide easier access to financial assistance for col-
lege.
The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which
passed by a vote of 253-171, is considered the largest federalinvestment in education in American history.
The act, which will be presented to the Senate by the end of
the month, will pour roughly $40 billion into Pell Grant fund-
ing, raising the maximum annual awards to $5,550 in 2010 and
eventually to $6,900 by 2019.
Other initiatives include providing roughly $2.5 billion to
historically black colleges, bolstering programs that aim to help
students finish school and simplifying the Free Application For
Federal Student Aid process.The bill also aims to save taxpayers about $87 billion over
a 10-year span by switching the administration of loans from
private banks to the Federal Direct Loan program and avoiding
bank subsidies.
The legislation also aims to keep loan interest rates low,
which are expected to increase to 6.8 percent by 2012.
"This is a very thrilling and very historic moment for our
country," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters in a con-
SEE FUNDING, PAGE 15
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 16
ThunderCROSSWORD 19 storms
SPORTS 22 89/72
visit www.alligator.orgAna uoni-Lessan/ Aliigator bian
Diane James, 49, gets her hair cut by Melissa Greenwell of Elan Hair Studio at the Alachua County Coalition
for the Homeless and Hungry fair on the Bo Diddley Downtown Community Plaza on Thursday morning.
0 Junior Emmanuel
Moody fumbled
on his only carry
in UFs 56-6 win
over Troy. Running
backs coach Kenny
Carter said Moody
is working to
regain the coaches'
trust in practice.
See Story, Page 22."7
Re 8
7t
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
News Today
WHATS HAPPENING
Student Government Image
Agency Applications
Image is accepting applications
for directors and vice chairmen.
Applications are due Friday at
4 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room
305. Potential applicants can
also visit www.sg.ufl.edu.
High Holiday Canned Food
Drive at Hillel
Running through Sept. 28.
Drop off cans at Hillel, 2020 W
University Ave. Contact ufhil-
lel.tzedek@gmail.com for more
information
"A Streetcar Named Desire"
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Constans Theatre
Presented by the School of
Theatre and Dance. The play,
written by legendary play-
wright Tennessee Williams,
will run from Sept. 18 to Sept.
27. Tickets for students, faculty,
staff and senior citizens are $13.
Tickets for the public are $17.
Call the University Box Office at
352-392-1653 for more informa-
tion. Tickets can be purchased
at www.ticketmaster.com.
Rosh Hashana (Jewish New Year)
Hillel
2020 W University Ave.
Today, 7p.m., Saturday, 10 a.m.
Sunday, 10a.m.
Rosh Hashana begins with ser-
vices(ConservativeandReform)
on Friday at 7 p.m., followed by
dinner at 8:30 p.m. Both ser-
vices continue on Saturday at
10 a.m., followed by lunch at
2 p.m. Only Conservative ser-
Smile.
W7
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please heLp us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
WireLess Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
A Biotest
from Nature For Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431FORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/72SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
90/72
vices will be held on Saturday
at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 10
a.m. Students can register for
meals at www.ufhillel.org.
Chabad Jewish Student Center
Rosh Hashana & Shabbat
services and meals
Today, Saturday and Sunday
2021 NW Fifth Ave.
All events are free
Today: Evening service at 7:30
p.m. followed by Holiday
dinner. Saturday: Service at
10 a.m. followed by Mussaf
and Kiddush lunch. Service
at 8:30 p.m. followed by holi-
day dinner. Sunday: Service
at 10 a.m. and Shofar blow-
ing at 12:30 p.m. followed by
Mussaf and Kiddush lunch.
Tashlich Waterfront service
at 5:30 p.m. at the campus
Baughman Center. Visit
www.JewishGator.comor call
352-336-5877 for more info.
Gainesville Area Humorous
Speech and Evaluation Contest
Sunday, 1 to 3p.m.
Room 1031 in the Entomology
and Nematology Department
Come see Gainesville's top
humorous speakers compete
for No. 1. There will be a raf-
fle and refreshments will be
served.SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/72MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
89/72TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/72
Florida Alternative Breaks
Student Panel Discussion
Sept. 24, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
At this panel discussion, FAB
students will share experiences
they had during their travels.
Learn to Row event
Sept. 25,6 to 8 p.m.
Newnan's Lake Boathouse,
7300 E University Ave.
Hosted by the Gainesville Area
Rowing Club. The Learn to
Row course is an introduction
to rowing and includes indoor
machines, sweep rowing and
sculling. Participants should
expect individual attention and
time rowing on the water.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line
and an event synopsis.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
-PEACHJ6VALLEY
C+ A -F -E
BREAK AST LUNCH e DINNER Sister restaurant of
Stonewood Grill & Tavern
* Breakfast, lunch, and dinner
served anytime
* Full menu take out
Catering
3275 SW 34th St. (Behind Hooters)
(352) 376-1834"Experience The Freshness"
Open Daily 7am-8pma the independent florida
Not off icill
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 19 ISSN 0889-2423
Notofficiallyassociated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor AndrewStanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorsports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
George Pappas, Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncGerard donated inhis9ohrs ae
)I i' _4His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fire.
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. T Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.
LOCAL
'Treebow' forced to get makeover
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
Unless Tebow has changed his
number to seven, Treebow is no
more.
The seven-and-a-half-foot-tall
wood carving outside Ballyhoo Grill,
located at 3700 W University Ave.,
that used to look like Tim Tebow has
gotten a makeover at the request of
the University Athletic Association.
Instead of Tebow's No. 15, the stat-
ue now wears No. 7.
The Bible verse
printed on the stat-
ue's eyeblack has
also been painted
over.
A manager at Bal-
lyhoo said he wasn't
allowed to comment
Tebow on the statue, but an-
other employee said
she thought the changes were made
Monday.
Chris Fragale, Ballyhoo's owner,
could not be reached for comment.
Steve McClain, spokesman for the
UAA, confirmed that the athletic as-
sociation worked with Ballyhoo Grill
over the past few months to resolve
the issue.
According to National Colle-
giate Athletic Association rules, if a
student-athlete's likeness is used to
promote a commercial product, the
student or the university has to take
action to stop it.The UAA deals with six to eight
cases involving the rule a month, ac-
cording to McClain.
Recently, the association sent
cease- and-desist letters to a children's
mental health organization that had
placed a turtle bearing the likeness ofTebow in downtown Jacksonville and
a Fort Myers baseball team attempting
to hold a "What Would Tim Tebow
Do?" night.
The turtle's jersey number was
changed from No. 15 to No. 1, and the
baseball team's night was renamed.
Harrison Diamond and Thomas Stewart / Alligator Staff
The "Treebow" carving at Ballyhoo Grill is seen in January shortly after its
completion (left), and the altered sculpture (right) on Thursday.
mTHIS WEEK THEY LEARNED THE IMPERFECT VERBS IN ITALIAN,
STUD IED THE' POLI TI cS OF THE EU., WOKE NA
FO0UR-C0H E E SE S AU CE.-LITStone Creek
GOL01F C1IXJR$25OOtax 9
Includes Golf Cart
Mention this ad and receive free
range balls with purchase ofI your 18 hole green fees I
L -- -- ----
* Features Champion Bermuda Greens
-Your best putting surfaces in Central Florida
-Championship golf course at a great rate
-Stone Creek -Your best Gator pregame option for golf
* Stay and enjoy the Grille's breathtaking view & exceptional cuisine
Call for a tee time today -352-854-1272 -www.stonecreekgolfocala.com
WHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS WEEK? COs RcUUSAC3 O
Discover where you'll study abroad at usac.unr.edu i (A -u,
Lost & found?
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FINDarngEiirONE YEAR ANNIVERSARY
CELEBRATION OFFER*
.FREE brownies
or
draft beer
with the purchase of 0 Stock or wrp
*In-5tore Only, 1i an -midnight
2 4 3'4th 5t. in 5WEETBAY PLAZA
THU-5AT 10-L AM I 50N-WED 10-3 AM
WEDELUVER 67a-6111
JDOOBIE5.COMFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
SG official
resigns after
DUI arrest
By CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Staff Writer
ckeenan@alligator org
William Stewart Sedgwick IV, who was
arrested early Wednesday morning for
driving under the influence of alcohol, re-
signed his position as Student Government
Finance and Fees cabinet secretary Thurs-
day.
Student Body President Jordan Johnson
said Sedgwick handed in a formal letter
of resignation and an
Student apology.Government "I obviously have
taken a major stance
about how I feel about drinking and driv-
ing," Johnson said. "The group of people
who work alongside me are the first peo-
ple in line that are supposed to further my
agenda."
Johnson said Sedgwick's decision did
not only reflect poorly on SG but on the UF
Student Body as a whole.
"Any time a Gator makes a mistake, it
looks bad for all of us," he said.
Applications to fill Sedgwick's position
are available today on the third floor of the
Reitz Union.
The applications are due Sept. 25.
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
ON CAMPUS
Board serves
breakfast to
early birds
By ANNIE QUINTANA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Walking through Turlington Plaza will soon
leave you with something other than coupons and
fliers in your hands.
Starting Monday, Wake Up With RUB, provided
by Reitz Union Board Entertainment, will be on
Turlington Plaza at 8:30 a.m. with free breakfast
prepared for all who stop by.
"There will be coffee, juice and all sorts of
breakfast pastries available to everyone
to help get a jump start on the week."
Kate Morrison
Co-director of promotions for RUB
"There will be coffee, juice and all sorts of break-
fast pastries available to everyone to help get a
jump start on the week," Kate Morrison, co-director
of promotions for RUB Entertainment, said.
Breakfast will be provided every other Monday
until Nov. 16.
"Breakfast hits people when they're most recep-
tive," according to Amy Marty, co-director for RUB
Entertainment.
RUB Entertainment is a student programming
board that provides free events in and around the
Reitz Union almost daily.
The board hopes breakfast will get people talk-
ing about events taking place on campus through-
out the semester and will get more people involved
in those activities.
"RUB events feature comedians, local and re-
gional bands and karaoke nights," Morrison said.
Wake Up with RUB hopes to inform the com-
munity of the events they sponsor on campus. But
at the end of the day, its goal is to provide breakfast
to the many college students that could really use a
coffee on Monday mornings.
"Who doesn't love free cookies and coffee?"
Morrison asked.
For more information on RUB events, visit its
Web site at www.union.ufl.edu/rub, follow them
on Twitter or join the Facebook group.Religious Rap
Miko Sy, 27, speaks to a student after rapping on Turlington Plaza Thursday afternoon. Sy is a Catholic mission-
ary working with St. Augustine's Church. For a video of his rap and an interview, see alligator.org/multimedia
Campus celebrates Constitution Day
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
It's been a few years since the U.S. Con-
stitution was signed -222 to be exact.
But James Madison would have been
proud as UF celebrated the ratification of
the legendary document Thursday.
The UF Levin College of Law hosted
the UF Constitution Day Program, stream-
ing the presentation on the law school's
Web site for those not in attendance.
The program explored the polarizing
topic of U.S. immigration policy.
UF freshmen Paola Rodriguez and
Rocio Granela attended the presentation.
"We're both immigrants, so it's veryimportant to us," Granela said. "People
have a surface image, but you have to live
it personally to understand it."
UF law professor Juan Perea discussed
"The Devil's Highway," a book that fol-
lows the brutal journey of 26 South and
Central American immigrants.
"Some of the Consti-
On tution's most importantCampus phrases and clauses protect
persons, not just citizens,"
Perea said. "We should be celebrating im-
migrants. This has always been a nation of
immigrants."
Perea said immigration issues tie back
to the blurred lines of the Constitution.
"Everyone seems to agree that there issome kind of immigration problem, yet I
find it pretty hard to understand what that
problem really is," Perea said. "One of the
things that seems to be happening under
the Constitution is that there's a real lack
of clarity to the degree of rights undocu-
mented immigrants are entitled to."
The UF College Republicans tabled
on Turlington Plaza, handing out pocket
Constitutions to passing students.
Carly Wilson, UF sophomore and
vice chair of public relations for College
Republicans, estimated the organization
handed out about 175 Constitutions.
"It's a living, breathing document.
Anything that we're doing has its roots
within the Constitution," Wilson said.
E5PN GAME DRY M
V A CH ALL THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION-
Feel like you're at the Gator Games
with our BOSE SPEAKERS
bringing you all the action
Game Time Specials: $2 Domestic Drafts
$4 Jager Shots
All Game Day $3.50 Bourbon Meyers
Visit our website for additional specials.
Wings, burgers, gator bites, and more.1. Reduce Waste with Reusable Plates, Cups and Utensils
2. Recycle Aluminum Cans, Plastic and Glass Bottles
3. Dispose of Trash in Proper Receptacles
i_- I'RT7 i !tkNEW STUDY AID*
" Energy drink with a
mind boost and no
crazy buzz.
-Official energy drink
of AVP PRO BEACH
VOLLEYBALL tour.
: Portable and Natural
" Not Sold In Stores
www.AchevLiftOff.com
336-0004 -Gainesville
888-332-0334
*Teestatements have no ben evaluae by the Foodand Drug Ad"Ii rai our This product is not intended to7=
0
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Jews balance holiday, game
1I
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
352-378-7033
T 1718 W. Univ. Ave.
bar & Grill
HOUSE Saturday,
Free Beer
LiveBy DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tennessee fans won't be
the only ones praying this
weekend.
People all over Gainesville
will be seesawing between
faith and football Saturday as
they choose between observ-
ing the Jewish new year and
watching the Gators host the
Volunteers in The Swamp.
"People always ask me,
should I [TiVo] services or re-
cord the game," joked Rabbi
Berl Goldman, co-director of
the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish
Center.
Goldman said he would
like for them to observe Rosh
Hashana, but it's possible to
get some football in as well
-Rosh Hashana services at
Chabad start at 10 a.m.
UF junior Adam Bernatsky
said the university should
have considered making Sat-
urday's face-off an evening
game.
"We have one of the larg-
est Jewish populations in the
nation," he said.
Bernatsky said he usu-
ally starts tailgating for big
games by 10 in the morning.
On Saturday, he will miss
most of the tailgating to go to
services and rush back beforethe game.
"It's annoying, but I'm
so excited for this game," he
said. "Nothing can ruin the
day -except a loss."
UF's schedule is set by
the Southeastern Conference
years in advance, said Greg
McGarity, executive associ-
ate director of the Univer-
sity Athletic Association, and
television networks deter-
mine the time of the game.
"We have one of
the largest Jewish
populations in the
nation."
Adam Bernatsky
UFjunior
"You basically have 13
weeks to schedule 12 games,"
he said. "You run into some
difficulty to avoid this date."
Gators fans are not the
only ones running into
scheduling conflicts with the
Jewish holidays this year.
According to the Associ-
ated Press, the New York Jets
complained to the NFL about
having consecutive home
football games scheduled on
Rosh Hashana and Yom Kip-
pur.
Despite the holiday, UF's
game against Tennessee is
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK; -T
THE FIRST 20 PEOPLE TO BRING IN THIS
COUPON ANYTIME AFTER THE GAME
IF THE GATORS BEAT THE TENNESSEE VOLS
GET A FREE LIMITED EDITION
4 i ~ORANGE AND BLUE BIKES & MORE T-SHIRTHH
I I
37365 4 3NW6H Tsold out, according to the
University Athletic Associa-
tion.
Goldman thinks that this
Saturday's services will be
packed, as well.
"Our phones have been
ringing off the hook with
alumni calling to say they
are coming into town," he
said. "They're coming for the
game but still want to cel-
ebrate Rosh Hashana prop-
erly."
Goldman said that they
are expecting more than 600
people to attend services
and more than 1,000 to come
to Chabad throughout the
weekend.
Services are held in the
backyard of his house on
Northwest Fifth Avenue, and
they will be setting up a sec-
ond tent to accommodate the
crowd.
"We have the benefit of be-
ing five blocks from the stadi-
um," Goldman said. "We can
hear every announcement
and every touchdown."
Goldman said he won't be
watching the game but will
be praying for the Gators to
win.
"What better way to start
off the new year than to win
three games in a row?" he
said.
Put Your Fork Down!
Wh Ie you may lave food, it's not
worth your life, If you're dining at
a restaurant, and the fire alarm
sounds, putyourforkdown ard
exit the bu hiding Immediately!
+
NFPA
FI
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"111111111111a -dki awl 11WIIIII
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
ou're all revved up and ready for your first real foot-
ball game of the season, and it's sure to be a good 'un.
We know you're already parked on the couch with
your Gators Snuggie and have your first pre-kickoff drink
in hand -and we're happy for you, and we're gonna let
you finish -but not before we present you with this week's
edition of last-week's-Darts-&-Laurels-was-one-of-the-best-
Darts-&-Laurels-of-all-time edition of.
Darts & Laurels
In case you missed the MTV Video Music Awards and
have avoided the latest Internet meme, that was a reference
to Kanye West insulting Taylor Swift on Sunday. West's log-
orrhea wasn't the only outburst to make headlines this week,
though. From Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) to Serena Williams,
we're sick of reading about people who can't keep their
mouths shut. For speaking out at inappropriate times, the
Department of Darts & Laurels would like to send a but-seri-
ously-Beyonc6's-video-was-better DART to sassy bitches.
Speaking of sassy bitches, UF officials have sent a cease-
and-desist notice to Ballyhoo Grill for its display of "Tim
Treebow," an artistic rendition of Tim Tebow that literally
makes his already massive neck into a log. National Colle-
giate Athletic Association rules dictate that no one can capi-
talize off a college player's name, but it's unlikely that people
are going to Ballyhoo's Grill specifically to pray at the feet -
or roots -of the wooden behemoth. For having a stick up
its proverbial ass, we'd like to send a wooden DART into the
shriveled, black heart of the NCAA.
While Ballyhoo Grill isn't making bank off of Tebow's
perfectly sculpted body, one girl shared at PostSecret cre-
ator Frank Warren's speech Tuesday night how she profited
from her dad's collection of adult magazines. For having the
gumption to sell her dad's Playboys for ice cream money,
we'd like to give a that-sure-beats-selling-lemonade LAU-
REL to little entrepreneur girl.
The girl probably couldn't get that much money from a
gaggle of middle school boys, but she probably raised more
than Wolf Blitzer on "Celebrity Jeopardy!" Thursday night.
Going into Final Jeopardy!, Wolfie was more than $4,000 in
the red and was given $1,000 just so he could compete in the
final round. For faking us out with the sense of authority he
displays as a TV newscaster, we'd like to send a we-thought-
you-were-smart DART at Blitzer.
We sometimes get angry at Alex Trebek's smugness (he
acts like he knows everything but really just reads off of a
card), but Blitzer is sure to infuriate us next time we hear him
read off a teleprompter on CNN.
Moving from wolves to coyotes, Jessica Simpson's pet
maltipoo was snatched by a wild coyote on Monday. For of-
fering a reward upon the return of her dog, we'd like to send
a LAUREL to Simpson for her unrelenting optimism. Maybe
the coyote really is reading her frantic Twitter updates.
But seriously, someone should tell her what happened.
Finally, four UF employees resigned this week after they
were accused of using UF purchasing cards to buy items for
personal use. For abusing the system when the university
is already in Budget Crisis 2K9, we'd like to send a looks-
like-you'll-have-all-the-time-in-the-world-to-learn-the-se-
ductive-art-of-belly-dancing-now DART at the fraudulent
four.
Obviously what they are accused of is wrong, but we can
only puzzle over the fact that the same person supposedly
owns "Sex and the City," "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas"
and something called "Perfect Hips Belly Dance Workout."
That's all for this week. Go Treebow?
0l the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University A e, or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aliigator.org/opinions
EkSt COA C
ps ; i:-r34
Cot
TootN PA +E
West outburst not worthy of attention
t began as any standard Sunday night would. I head-
ed over to a friend's house to grab some food, sip a
cold beer and watch "Entourage" with the boys.
As is usually the case, I was expecting Ari Gold to
provide me with the day's quota of arrogant, self-cen-
tered humor. But about an hour before Drama, E, Vince
and the rest of the crew graced my television with their
presence, I quickly learned that I was going to receive
an extra helping of a conceited, overbearing, superstar
talking just a little bit too much.
Yes, by now we all know that I am talking about none
other than Kanye West and his antics Sunday night at
the MTV Video Music Awards.
There is no need to recount the story, as we have all
inevitably heard about it from a friend or seen the clip
on YouTube. Or, like me, you were on Facebook right
after it happened, and every single one of your friends
posted an obligatory I-Hate-Kanye-West-and-Love-
Taylor-Swift status, along with an explanation of the
grave injustice he committed.
To be sure, President Barack Obama's description
of West as a "jackass" is certainly adept. And if his
drunken antics and blatant disregard for Swift's mo-
ment aren't enough to move you to tweet your support
for Swift and let everyone know you stand in solidar-
ity with her, this should. West interrupted "Entourage"
night. Simply unacceptable.
Joking aside, what is our obsession with this 30-sec-
ond sound bite?
Celebrities pull ridiculous stunts like this all the
time, and rarely do we pay homage to them with our
collective Facebook and Twitter statuses. And usually
CNN doesn't bother interviewing two "experts" (I wasKyle Robisch
Ietters@alligator orgunaware that one could be an ex-
pert on rappers yelling drunken
shenanigans in public) to report on
such issues.
West has certainly done dumber
things -remember when he falla-
ciously claimed to be the "voice of
this generation"?
Whatever the reason may be,
our ire is extremely misplaced. On the scale of injustice,
this falls somewhere in between shooting a spitball at
your little brother and forgetting to take out the trash
last night.
Yes, West was a pompous ass as usual, but why are
we up in arms about this minor outburst, yet larger is-
sues such as health care reform, poverty and war barely
register a tick on our radar? Hell, after Rep. Joe Wilson's
(R-SC) outburst during the president's health care ad-
dress, I counted maybe three Facebook statuses either
for or against it. The next day most students seemed un-
aware that it had even happened and didn't know who
Rep. Wilson was.
The fact is, we are Florida's brightest and best. A
little obsession with celebrity gossip is understandable
and probably even healthy. But the extent to which we
are possessed by an irrelevant rap star's diatribe at a B-
list award ceremony speaks to the fact that we need to
readjust our priorities and concerns.
There are bigger, more disconcerting transgressions
occurring in the world every single day. At least West
was drinking Hennessey and keeping it classy.
Kyle Robisch is a political science and economics junior.
His column appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Should the NCAA Thursday's question: Are you
leave "Tim Treebow" alone? sellingyour football ticket for
more than $100?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org22% YES
78% NO
147 TOTAL VOTES
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Jesus neither liberal nor conservative
In response to Paul Murty: Like most fair-
minded people, Jesus was both a liberal on
some issues and a conservative on others. He
felt a great drive to understand and help the
poor. He also spoke of his admiration and
respect for soldiers in service of their coun-
try. He tells us to "render unto Caesar what is
Caesar's and render unto God what is God's."
Here we can see a broad range of reasonable
views emphasized to different degrees by
both liberals and conservatives.
On the other hand, Jesus was not a social-
ist. He believed in the power of the individual
through faith in the Lord and in his fellow
man for positive change, not in the power of
an overbearing state. And Jesus was especially
not a communist, considering he did not be-
lieve in the bloody overthrow of the estab-
lished order, and considering that as he was
the son of God, he probably didn't think that
belief in a higher power was, as Marx put it,
the misguided 'opiate of the masses.
Considering how many Christians and
other people of faith were murdered for their
beliefs by socialists and communists in the last
century; calling Jesus either defies common
decency and common sense.
Warren Rhea
4JM
Gardasil necessary in an unideal world
I felt a responsibility to address the mis-
guided information given by Caitlin O'Conner
on human papillomavirus and Gardasil.
According to the Guttmacher Institute,
HPV is so common that it has been described
as a virtual "marker" for having had sex. TheCenters for Disease Control and Prevention
estimates that 20 million people are currently
infected with HPV and at least 50 percent of
sexually active individuals will acquire the vi-
rus at some point in their lives.
Yes, Gardisil protects against sexually
transmitted strains. However, HPV spreads
through genital-to-genital contact, which can
occur even without "having sex."
O'Conner thinks it's easy to prevent HPV
infection, presumably through abstinence
from the waist down. Even if a girl is complete-
ly abstinent until marriage, she has no way
to guarantee that her future husband had no
genital-to-genital contact with females before
her. She also has no guarantee that she won't
be date-raped or molested at some point in her
life. It is naive to suggest that it is "a new level
of wrong to vaccinate 11-year-olds." They are
vaccinated because they will most likely have
sex someday, and the key is to prevent infec-
tion before children become sexually active.
If the chicken pox vaccine is now required,
I think Gardasil should be too. Ideally, though,
women would educate themselves about
sexually transmitted infections and be more
realistic about their own sexual health before
denouncing a lifesaving vaccine.
Rebecca Theobald
4LS
Marketplace of ideas good for society
Hilary Lehman's article on Wednesday
was the epitome of journalistic arrogance.
She argues that facts are "undebatable," and
despite your opinions, some things cannot be
questioned. Is this why we came to college? To
accept what we're told? Or was it to learn howto think critically?
After all, how can somethin
fact unless it is tested? The pu
have known that H.R. 3200 do
coverage to illegal immigrants if
Rep. Joe Wilson's (R-SC) false sta
Who draws the line between
ion? There is evidence (or lack
against the validity of everything
son evaluates that evidence and
whether to accept the idea as fa
Lehman's arrogance is that she v
that evaluation for us.
Plagiarism scandals and ideo
what damaged the news industry
gests. Rather it has been the med
that it has to reach conclusions
cause they're too stupid to do it
It's obvious journalists are fru
free flow of information that is de
monopoly on "the facts." But I
in a marketplace of ideas than
some things aren't allowed to b
So bring on the conspiracy theor
The truth stands on its ow
afraid of debate.
ACORN rotten with corruption
I find it rather shocking that
Board of the Alligator so casually
the actions of ACORN -the A
Community Organizations for
-in their Thursday column and
to vilify the filmmakers who bro
ation to light. The Editorial Bo
ACORN's actions as explainingrg be called a
blic wouldn't
esn't provide
it weren't for
tement.
fact and opin-
of it) for and
ng. Each per-
then decides
ct or reject it.
ants to make
logues aren't
y, as she sug-
ia's insistencea brothel of underage 'women of the night'
while evading the federal government."
The board should have been more explicit
in their video descriptions. In the Baltimore
office, the journalists claimed the girls were
mostly 14 years old and from El Salvador. The
ACORN employees then proceeded to explain
how they could claim up to three of the girls as
dependents and receive child tax credit.
What's more is that the Editorial Board
claimed the "gotcha" journalists went to San
Diego and were unsuccessful in their attempts.
To the contrary. After airing videos from D.C.,
Brooklyn, and San Bernardino, a newly aired
video from the San Diego ACORN office
shows an ACORN employee who is actually a
'or people be- Mexican trained attorney advising the duo on
n their own. how to traffic El Salvadorian prostitutes aged
strated by the 13 to 15 to the United States through Tijuana
stroying their because "he has contacts there."
'd rather live By labeling these videos as "gotcha jour-
in one where nalism," the Editorial Board did a disservice to
e questioned. the community and to the paper's credibility
ies. by brushing off the gravity and severity of the
n and is not situation these videos bring to light.
The fact that there are five videos being
Josh Burkard aired now, and probably more waiting to be
4EG released, is only more evidence that this is
no isolated incident. This type of corruption
clearly goes beyond what the board described
as the actions of a "handful of employees"and
is seemingly woven into the fabric of the
the Editorial ACORN organization on a countrywide scale.
y brushed off Freezing funds is just the beginning, and the
ssociation of government should go beyond a mere inves-
Reform Now tigation of the offices in question as the board
were so quick advised on Thursday. They should investigate
ught the situ- the entire organization nationwide.
ird described David Drescher
g how to run UFalumnus
00 BEYOND THE GRIDIRON
I -, A 1 0 - OI (W Y- 111c -SIT
~2 miles"4V4,_-frm UFrds
Must reads for every Gator fan
Available nowWHAT IT MEANS TO BE A
GATOR
URBAN MEYER
AN I IORIDAS GRFATFST PLAYFRS
MARK SCIIIABACiH
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Event to benefit historic house
By MARIA PIQUET
Alligator Contributing Writer
There's a somber view of a gray,
desolate house with a weakening
tin roof on Northwest Eighth Av-
enue.
The Smith-Griffin house stands
amidst throngs of weeds and trees
as a memory of a family's past
and as a reminder of the neighbor-
hood's history.
"We're trying to preserve his-
tory, and we need a place to put it,"
said Melanie Barr, the Smith-Griffin
House chairwoman and Pleasant
Street Historic Society correspond-
ing secretary.
"The best thing to do is have a
museum where people can donate
their artifacts."
In order to make a dent in the
$250,000 it will take to restore the
home, the Pleasant Street Historic
Society will host Rock the House,
a 1960s- and 1970s-themed benefit
with live music, food and people"We're all about downtown
revitalization, historic pres-
ervation and preserving the
history of the neighborhood,"
Melanie Barr
Smith-Griffin House chairwoman
dressed in tie-dye clothes.
The event will be held Sunday
at the Thelma Boltin Center, 516
NE Second Ave., from 7 to 10 p.m.
Tickets are $25.
Guests are encouraged to wear
bell-bottomed pants, tie-dyed shirts
and headbands. Mike Boulware
and the Boltin Bad Boys will play
songs from the 1960s and 1970s.
There will also be a silent auc-
tion with donations from down-
town restaurants, the downtown
Hampton Inn and the Magnolia
Plantation Bed and Breakfast Inn,
Barr said.
"We're all about downtown re-
vitalization, historic preservationand preserving the history of the
neighborhood," Barr said. "When
people's grandparents die, if you
didn't ask the right questions, your
history's gone. We don't want
that."
Built in the 1870s by the last resi-
dent's grandfather, the house was
home to the family until Claronelle
Smith-Griffin, the last descendant,
passed away in 2003.
In her will, Smith-Griffin donat-
ed the house to the Pleasant Street
Historic Society, an organization
that preserves the history of hous-
es in the area north of downtown
Gainesville, in hopes that it would
be turned into a black history ex-
hibit.
But before any restoration is
done, the society needs to raise
money.
The house can't be opened to the
public until central air, insulation,
new wiring, new plumbing and
a new roof are all installed, Barr
said.
$23 Student Special
(includes golf cart)
Valid: Mon-Thurs (All Day)
Fri-Sun (After 11am)
Not Valid Friday 9/11 & 9/18
IRONWCDD
Call 334-3120 For Your Tee Time Today
2100 NE 39th Avenue
F'jvs II et/I/I 4'
Stop by the Verizon Wireless Gator FanFest located outside of Gate 2 of the O'Connell Center. See the
Gator Radio Network pre-game show live! Win prizes, play games, get autographs from the Gator
Men's Basketball and Women's Tennis teams and more! FanFest starts at 11 a.m. and goes until kick-off!
Dntforget to
bring cannot goods to FanFest
Gor the Gator Canned Goods
Challenge for Kids!
ororro'' I" SNamP, o
\jo unteers a ce
I U Gators. Onl 9prt6mns~
ac10 t ~8P, _ rbI and ' k s kin 'a"
gnd 0 jpec a3nd tt' our stude 6 p- 8
mand 8PPreclake
p ro u d sv a n tfo tnkas, tpsreIs W an Veff20 wireless
~ntie swmp have unfl.u-
IA~ -A TU Z S.&977Researchers
cure monkeys
colorblindness
Researchers at the University of Washington and
UF just spent 20 weeks monkeying around.
The team of researchers used a form of gene ther-
apy to restore color vision to a pair of squirrel mon-
keys, which are naturally colorblind from birth.
Jay Neitz, a professor of ophthalmology at UW
and one of the researchers who conducted the ex-
periment, said his team conducted
U F the experiment by inserting a spe-
Research cific color-detecting gene into the
monkeys.
After 20 weeks of testing, the monkeys could sud-
denly discern new colors almost overnight, he said.
However, Neitz has higher goals in mind.
"The whole reason we embarked on this adven-
ture was to cure all genetic disorders of the eye," he
said. "Clinical human trials are a long way down the
road. There are a lot of roadblocks to making sure
that the gene therapy is safe for humans."
-ANDREW WYZAN
AVMED
Health plans with
your healthin mind.
* Expanded provider network
* No deductible/no co-insurance
* No referrals
* Retail Clinic Care -Pay your PCP
co-payment at AvMed-participating
clinics in Florida
* 24/7 Member Services and
24/7 Nurse On Call
* Worldwide emergency coverage
* Weight WatchersTM Reimbursement
program
* Discounts on gym memberships,
massage therapy, yoga and more
For more information,
call 1-888-762-8633
or visit AvMed's Web Site at
www.avmed.org/go/state/welcome.asp
AvMED
HE A L T H P L A N SP
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
L ab tech charged with
Yale student s murder
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Ih41-&
Sunday vs. Eastern Kentucky
Bring your Tennessee Football
t cket to the match to enter for
#7 Gators vs. #5 FSU a chance tow n tickets to the
Arkansas Footba game and
James G. Pressly Stadium
First 1,000 fans will receive a Beat FSU --A Admission is
t-shirt courtesy of Gatorade " FREE!
Pick up your Chili's coupon for free Chips
and Queso! %
First 250 UF students with a Gatori will
re c e iv e fre e p izz a a n d c a n e n te r to w in a J._ _ica _Eck _n _---_ -"
free TV and more'
0
Mark Bostick Golf Course
at the University of Florida$1.00 off Ice Cream Sandwiches
I xc. 9/27114 113N.Main downtown
Z 372.8446
0 The Wine & Cheese Gallery i
PRE-GAME TASTING
* 6 wines FREE *
g with BRUNCH 12-3pm
with this coupon, expires 9/26 I
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
Do whatever it takes.
GT Motorccc"Q01.,I I
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Student Discounts Available I All Insurance Claims Welcomed
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215FLt-; U:jp
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
Unive _S
ENJJA LOWE-H TJjUH'S PREWER HIALLOWEEN-EVENT -----------------I HA I ' il; --mooff- -__ -I _' I , -7j!'
FLORIDA RESIDENT TKKET$
AS LOW AS $3 99*
(Original Price $69.99)SAVINGS OF $30 Sun.-Thurs. event nights
9 SAVINGS OF $20 Fri. event nights
SAVINGS OF $10 Sat. event nights
Save on advance ticket purchase with promo code from specially-marked cans of Coca-Cola*,
Diet Coke, or Coca-Cola Zero or promo code from participating BURGER KING restaurants.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
SG parties debut platforms for fall elections
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
The Orange and Blue Party wants Student Government
to share the wealth.
Its party platform offers a plan for eliminating what it
identifies as wasteful spending in SG, including parking
decals and cell phone reimbursement plans given to SG
officials.
Policy and Communications Director Ben Cavataro
said his party wants SG money to be used on things like
the readership program, concerts and speeches, which
will benefit all students.
"I would say that the overarching theme is working for
students, not just ourselves," he said.
Cavataro said the platform features ideas for a scooter
repair shop similar to the bicycle repair shop located at the
Reitz Union.
o & B In addition, Cavataro said the Orange and
Party Blue Party favors switching from WebMail
to Gmail.
Students can keep the same e-mail ad-
dresses but use the Gmail interface, he said.
The Orange and Blue Party also advocates working
with the Reitz Union Board of Managers to provide more
affordable food options at the Reitz Union for students.
Orange and Blue Party President Kyle Huey said an-
other idea involves creating separate parking decals for
students who come to campus to use the gym.
The decals would be cheaper than normal parking de-
cals, Huey said.
He said his party differs from the others because it has
a proven track record of getting things done.The Progress Party doesn't want students to feel iso-
lated from the workings of Student Government.
Progress Party President Dave Schneider said he sym-
pathized with students who chose not to vote in previous
elections because they didn't know about the issues their
senators advocated.
"That is a moment where I feel alienated by the pro-
cess, and I feel very alienated by the system," he said.
Schneider said the entire Progress Party has signed
waivers allowing its voting records to be released online,
so students can know more about the decisions the party's
elected officials are making.
Those running during the fall election plan to sign sim-
ilar pledges next week, he said.
Schneider said the party platform advocates online
voting, which would save money during aProgress time of budget cuts and make it easier forParty students to vote.
The party platform also disagrees with
the need to use $15,500 to hire a consulting firm intended
to conduct research for SG projects.
Instead, the party favors bringing in public relations
and business administration students to accomplish the
same goal.
The Progress Party also hopes to add more paper recy-
cling bins to Turlington Plaza to keep up with the heavy
traffic of students, according to the platform. The party
also hopes to work with engineering students to create a
more efficient campus sprinkler system.
He said SG has been seen up to this point as an under-
graduate resume-builder.The Unite Party wants to hear what students have to
say.
Jason Yoepp, Unite Party spokesman, said the party
plans to increase the number of comment boxes available
around campus and add new comment boxes to off-cam-
pus apartments.
Party officials will collect the suggestions and review
them every two to four weeks, Yoepp said.
The Unite Party is also hoping to gain student input on
the creation of a new, more modern student union, Yoepp
said.
"We want to make sure this is more catered to what stu-
dents want than what Aramark or the university wants,"
he said.
The new union could be constructed with-
in the next couple of years, and $15,500 fromUnite the budget will be used to hire a consultingParty firm to help poll students and find out what
students want the new building to look like,
Yoepp said.
He said the Unite Party is also concerned with issues of
health and safety. It plans to improve the lighting at Re-
gional Transit System bus stops and add more emergency
call boxes around campus, especially after Gainesville's
recent increase in crime.
Feedback from students remains one of its top priori-
ties, however.
"A lot of students feel Student Government is not ap-proachable," Yoepp said. "But, with respect, a lot of stu-
dents never take a moment to say to their Student Govern-
ment, 'Hey, here's what I want to do."'
Cut Student Government executive perks
Fight Aramark price gouging and push for
affordable dining options
Support expanded scooter parking and a free
repair shop
I Expand free printing in Reitz and across campus
I Promote and reward recycling
Demand that UF eliminate financial aid delaysI Improve student life on campus
I Achieve real transparency and responsible
governance in Student Government
I Pursue sustainable policies at all levels of UF
"Insource" projects within the University of
Florida Student Body
y Advocate on behalf of graduate students
a Demand that UF eliminate financial aid delays
Did You KnowP
City of Gainesville Ordinance #4-4B3
prohibits possession of opened bottles
or cans, flasks, cups, or glasses containing
any amount of alcohol on all city streets,
sidewalks, or parking lots, including the
entire University of Florida campus.
This includes tailgating on
game dav.
Thank you for your cooperation!FREE
4-session
Self Defense
Course for Women
Beginning September 20th
Classes are held on Sundays
from 4:30 -6:00 p.m.at
Renshinkan
Martial Arts Academy
4000 W. Newberry Rd.
For more information,
contact Jason Dodd at 3 71-1007
This paper
has been done RECYCLE
before. YOUR NEWSPAPER.
alligaosprULUJL~IEE
I Improve lighting at bus stops and increase
emergency call boxes
a Plans to create a 24-hour study center at Hub
A Supports more parking on campus
a Plans to increase comment boxes on campus to
give students more of a voice in SG
a Plans to make students aware of the more
lenient attendance policy due to Swine flu111111l 11 Il 11 11 1 1 11 ill IIIIIII IIIIII ! ! l I
I
12, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
RESEARCH
UF scientists develop camera to study black holes
By MOLLY LARMIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Black holes can't be seen with
the human eye, but the UF Depart-
ment of Astronomy is looking any-
way.
After seven years of construc-
tion, UF has designed the Flamin-
gos-2 camera and spectrometer.
The device produced its first imag-
es of space at the Gemini South tele-
scope, located on Chile's 9,000-foot-
tall Cerro Pachon mountain.Last Thursday and Friday, Fla-
mingos-2, which stands for Florida
Multi-object Infrared Grism Ob-
serving Spectrograph, captured im-
ages of the Milky Way galaxy, team
leader and UF astronomy professor
Stephen Eikenberry said.
Once it is sufficiently tested,
Flamingos-2 will operate in near-
infrared light just beyond the
human-eye range to study black
holes, Eikenberry said.
"In the center of the Milky Way,
there is a super massive black hole
that is 5 million times the mass of"In the center of the Milky
Way, there is a super mas-
sive black hole that is 5
million times the mass of
the sun."
Stephen Eikenberry
UF astronomy professor
the sun," he said. "There are hun-
dreds of smaller black holes, too."
Eikenberry said the Flamingos-2
will also collect images of older,smaller galaxies that formed in the
early stages of the universe to get a
better understanding of the forma-
tion of larger galaxies, such as the
Milky Way.
"If you look far away in the uni-
verse, you are also looking far back
in time," he said.
Design and construction of Fla-
mingos-2 cost $5 million, most of
which was provided by funds from
the federal government, Eikenber-
ry said.
The project involved more than
30 UF scientists, engineers, stu-dents and staff.
Because Gemini South is one of
the world's largest and most sought
after telescopes, observatory time
is difficult to secure, Eikenberry
said. But the instrument's presence
in Chile will ensure UF at least 30
nights of observation per year.
Eikenberry added that Flamin-
gos-2 joins another UF instrument
at Gemini South: the T-RECS mid-
infrared camera.
The T-RECS camera is used
to view cooler objects like young
forming stars and planets.
Faculty voice concerns about ending sick leave payouts
* ENDING PAYOUTS COULD SAVE
$2 MILLION TO $4 MILLION FOR UF.
UF faculty expressed their concern over the
proposal to end sick leave payouts in response
to budget cuts at Thursday's Faculty Senate
meeting.
Currently, faculty can convert unused sick
leave into paychecks when they leave UF, but
the proposed policy would end that practiceas of Jan. 1, 2012, said UF provost Joe Glover.
Tom Auxter, a faculty senator, called the
proposal "shocking."
"They would like to collect the tiny benefit
you get after being $20,000 behind your coun-
terparts at other universities," Auxter said.
UF plans to cut $16.6 million from its bud-
get this year, and officials predict the move
could save between $2 million and $4 million.
The proposal seems like a fair way for fac-ulty to help with UF's budget troubles, Glover
said.
"It seems like everybody would contribute
a little bit to closing the budget gap," he said.
Glover also an-
U F nounced details ofAdministration two other proposals
at the meeting.
Under one plan, UF would standardize
the pay rate for summer classes to $5,000 for athree-credit-hour class. Deans could raise the
amount if necessary, he said.
Under another plan, UF would offer vol-
untary retirement plans to employees 65 and
older. They would have to decide by January
and leave UF by the end of June, he said.
Those who choose this option would re-
ceive one year of salary in return. It's unclear
how much this program could save UF.
-THOMAS STEWART
Career Showcase
September 29 & 30 1 9a.m. -3p.m. I O'Connell Center
More than 300
employers are hiring.
They're coming
meet Candidates.
You should be 1 of them.
See positions they're hiring for and get preparation tips at
www.crc.ufl.edu/showcase s%
Career Showcase is for UF students and alumni only
Sponsored By
Career Resource Center
UFUNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
First FI-ir J. Wayne Reitz Union wwwcirc-fledu 1392-1601 Division of Student Affairs I Educating Leaders for a Glob[al CcmMunty
all."gato report sTHE PODOAST
Tune in for the latest Gators sports )
news and analysis from our beat
writers and columnists. C
Check it out at f
alligatorsports.ory
or subscribe onalligiator "I--Choose Your
MCAT Edge
.and save a total of $699!
So where do you need
an Edge?
Are you a physics whiz, but
feel a little anxious about the
Verbal section?
/ Verbal Edge
Do you have the orgo down, but
want a refresher on physics basics?
&/ Physics Edge
Got a handle on the Verbal section,
but a little fuzzy on orgo concepts?
&/ Organic Edge
Enroll by September 30th to get your free Edge and save $200-a total value of $699!
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/freeedge
-MAT is aeg -erd tra lr of the A-- -ala --Ar -rca M.-dIc C.llegesi "Tis, -e -pp1- rnhy t. MACAT Ciasroo C.ur., L-v Onr-n Tunng -n
d2; ; , ,t,,, e hth ~l,12009 'Ch-,seY.urEdg' carpi ^-Cnd, ,sad restu-tonapply Fr corple gu.ran- ehgii(A P L A N
TEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONS
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
VerI0ntwireless
Take theInternet.
Leave the bulk.
The HP Mini netbook. Connected. Portable. Affordable.
Introducing the ultra portable HP Mini netbook with America's Largest and Most Reliable 3G Network
built-in. Loaded with an 80GB hard drive, webcam, and Windows* XP, it's anything but small.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with a l- or 2-yr. agreement.
HP'Mini netbook
NOW $1 99ONLY 199
$299.99 2-yr. price, less $100 mail-in
rebate debit card with 2-yr. activation
on a Mobile Broadband plan from
$39.99 monthly access. Activation fees,
taxes & other charges apply.
.Windows
Switch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249) Click verizonwireless.com/getdiscount Visit any store
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Open 7 days a week.
Technicians available at select locations
LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwy. 27/44
LAKE CITY Lake Cty Mall 386-
LEESBURG Lake Square Mall 3
OCALA 2613 S W 19th Ave. Rd1, Ste. G. 352-31
19-2173
,2-787-2449
352-620-002530-2861 OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave.
OCALA WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
1-800-899-4249
In Collaboration with
Alcatel-Lucent 0Visit verizonwireless.Com
to find a Club near you.CLERMONT 14
GAINESVILLE
Oaks Mall
3401 SW
3626 7W3401 SW Arc
Kiosk 352-33
Archer Rd 35
Archer Rd. 35352-243-6826
her Rd 352-378-882
1-0379
2-378-8828
)-491 -200
Aceptams La
Matricula Consular
* Our Surcharges (incl. Fed. Univ. Svc. of 12.9% of interstate & int'l telecom charges (varies quarterly), 7C Regulatory & 92( Administrative/line/mo., & others by area) are not taxes (details: 1-888-684-1888); gov't taxes & our surcharges could add 7% -27% to
your bill. Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Ag mt, Data Plan, credit approval & rebate form. Up to $175 early termination fee, up to $.10/MB after allowance. Mobile Broad band is available to more than 280 million people in the U.S. in 259 major metros. Offers & coverage
not available everywhere. Rebate debit card takes up to 6 wks. & exp. in 12 mos. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. 2009 Verizon Wireless. NETS
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
Gazns irmpro iw to honor Rinjadan tr editions
'copyrighted Material
SAyn'dicatedCoitIn't
Available from Commercial News' Providers"
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
About 800 attended
HOMELESS, from page 1
moving to the streets.
One organization at the fair offered free legal consulta-
tion.
Daniel Kahn, a lawyer for Three Rivers Legal Services,
Inc., helps the homeless with legal issues involving income
and assets, contracts and disability.
Kahn believes Gaineville's active homelessness advocacy
is due to its "passionate and progressive social sentiments
combined with its strong emphasis on economic growth."
Michelle Zukarfein has been homeless for many years
and said the fair's services are helpful, but they
Local won't solve Gainesville's homeless problem.
News "The city's main problem, however, is afford-
able housing," Zukarfein said.
Most advocates and fairgoers echoed her con-
cern -the city's shelters only offer 400 beds to accommodate
the 1,600 homeless, including more than 500 children.
"We are trying to solve a national issue with a local bud-
get," DeCarmine said.
The fair also offered health screenings and health care re-
ferrals, basic pet care and food, counseling and victim ser-
vices, food stamp registration and free blankets and hygiene
supplies.
Tom McCament, a homeless man who spends his after-
noons praying for families and children on the streets, said
he hoped the event fostered more community involvement
with the homeless.
"With more unity, it could all change in the blink of an
eye," he said.
Miller: Bill will help Fla. school system
FUNDING,from page 1
ference call. "It's fiscally responsible and the
best investment we can make in our nation's
future."
George Miller, a democrat from California
who serves as the chairman of the Committee
on Education and Labor, said the bill was a re-
sult of a strong bipartisan effort and support
from banks -an unlikely suitor considering
the revenue they anticipate losing when bank
loans switch to Federal Direct Loans.
"At the end of the day, the banks just
couldn't justify $8 billion to $10 billion of
profit for a product [bank loans] that wasn't
superior," said Miller, who believes the bill
will have no trouble passing through the Sen-
ate. "They did what they thought would be
best for students and their families."
Critics of the bill say it will stifle competi-
tion, place a burden on the middle-class tax-payers and cripple banks that rely on student
loan interest payments.
The bill's supporters argue that the flow
of finances into the American system will ac-
tually save taxpayers money by cutting out
government subsidies toward the banks that
make the loans.
Millerbriefly addressed
specific examples of states
that are taking scalpels to
educational programs in
an effort to save money.
In regard to Florida's situ-
ation, he said new pro-
Pelosi grams made possible by
the bill will help strength-
en state institutions while alleviating tuition
costs, which have increased in the past year.
However, Miller was quick to point out that
the programs will not be simply handouts.
"Governors are going to have to compete
to make sure they get these funds," he said.Night games best for business
ECONOMY, from page 1
According to Blair, national studies
show the impact game days have on the
economy is not as significant as people
think.
Blair said a large portion of the mon-
ey spent ends up leaving the local area.
"Say you fill up your tank with gas
for $3 a gallon," he said. "The guy who
owns the station paid $2.90 for it, and
that money goes back to Jacksonville or
wherever it came from."
However, because Gainesville is so
small, all businesses are still better off
on game days, Blair said."People are milling around, walk-
ing around, buying souvenirs, going to
lunch and having a great time," he said.
"Clearly people are spending money."
"If 60,000 people go into New York,
it doesn't make a dent," he said. "But in
Gainesville the percentage increase in
population is enormous."
For the Gator Shop and most other
stores, night games are the best, Bass
said. Big games, rivalry games and es-
pecially the Florida State University
game are always huge moneymakers,
too.
Without fail, game days are always
successful -even when the Gators are
not doing well, Bass said.
-College-sponsored study abroad
opportunities in Paris, Madrid, Rome and London
-Ideal for business majors and minors; all majors
welcome
" Participate in an international internship in
London
A Exchange programs in Europe, Latin America,
and Asia
-Apply Bright Futures and Florida Prepaid to
program expenses during fall and spring terms
Joe Rojo, Director
joe.rojo@cba.ufl.edu
(352) 273-0165-One year Master's degree in International
Business (MAIB)
-Designed for business majors and minors
-Semester exchange opportunities with more
than 34 outstanding global business schools
-Practical one-week Study Tour to foreign
businesses
-Bachelor's/Master's Combined option for
current UF students
-No professional work experience required
International Programs
U F Warrington College of Buzsiness Administration
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDAMindy Kraft, Director
mindy.kraft@cba.ufl.edu
(352) 273-0343AA
PooeeTru Spling99 'Keg Cuts'
FREE BEER w/ct1,4Ae cly ONLY
The Moris te Inc.
Dyslexia
-Slow Reading?
-6Poor Comprehension?
-Poor SpelIisng?
Years of gain inweeks of treatment!
Sevn Gainesville
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comMarching to a Cleaner Beat
The Pride of the Sunshine Fightin' Gator Marching Band practices its recycling bin piece on Norman
Field on Thursday for the upcoming "Green Show" during half-time at Saturday's football game.
Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1(~The kul
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fIr., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-18-09-36-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
2BR/2PVT BA AVAILABLE IN ROCKWOOD
VILLAS 3 BR unit- $400 per room plus 1/3 of
utils. FREE Internet and Cable! W/D in unit.
On bus route close to Oaks Mall. 352-514-
0372 or email Carmen4909@yahoo.com
9-25-09-19-1
2/2 gated townhome with attached ga-
rage, cable w/hbo,sho,alarm. Close to
Shands.$980 mo. furn.opt.321-698-7579
myhomesoon@gmail.com. 9-25-09-17-1
Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-
408-4330 -305-962-2525, 305-408-4330 -
c2000_1@msn.com 9-18-09-6-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 9-25-10-1
Room For Rent in a clean, light 2/1 apt. on
2nd fIr. Short walk to UF, RTS 13, 16, 17.
$330/mo includes water, sewer, trash.
Laundry, 2 pools, gym on property. Students
only. Call 407 922 0029 9-24-5-1
Duck Pond Area, 905 NE 3rd Ave.,
Gainesville. Quiet, bike to campus. Nicely
renovated in historic home. Furnished 1-BR
plus study. Washer, dryer and dishwasher.
$500 monthly plus $100 for utilities. Move in
for $500, 352-494-7837 or
chriseversolel@gmail.com. 9-22-09-3-1
Carriage House Lane townhouse, 2 BR/BA.
Furnished, W/D, 2 parking. Close to campus.
$795/month; $650 sec. No pets, no smoking.
Call: 352-359-2243; 352-359-1261. Available
Oct 1. 9-25-09-6-1
For FRentF Unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-21, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Affordable Living -Convenient to Everything!
Spacious 2/1's Available Immediately
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Garages Available!
Enormous Screened Patio!
$266-$1092
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
*IO LOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
*379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
* UPPER WEST SIDE *
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
Rent For FrRent For Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished furnished nffrnished furnished
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
48-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
* 3BR $99 Moves you in! $750
Walk to UF, cent AC, WID, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904 9-21-09-45-2
@ 4/2 $99 Moves U in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, WID
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
@2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
9-21-09-45-2
*Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
9-21-09-45-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
42-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
44-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-2-09-46-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
34-2Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-22-33-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
30-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-23-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-
09-28-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-18-09-
28-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $392* 2/1s from $491
(Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/1s from $491* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
2/2s from $605* & 3/2s from $695
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1/1s from $472* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $384* 1/1s from $425*
(Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-21st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!!
1/1s from $401* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees
*$507 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
No Move-in Costs! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1/1s from $417* (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
9-30-09-25-2
RI I I .\A N
S I
$99 Moves You In!
1, 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo ind water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW or JAN 1. 3BR/2BA nice
house. Pets ok, washer/dryer provided. Quiet
dead-end road. 4100 NW 14th Pl. $975/mo.
Fenced yard. 352-339-2342 9-21-09-15-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-332-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA 1 month FREE. Oak Condo by
Oaks Mall. $695, screened-in porch, W/D,
community pool & gym, water & trash includ-
ed. 321-948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com
9-28-09-20-2
4 bd/ 4 ba condo at Countryside, only $850,
1200 sq ft. Rented furnished or unfurnished,
washer & dryer incl, Community pool, fitness
center and basketball courts Call Bosshardt
Property Management Today! 352-371-2118
9-24-09-15-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-22BR1.5BA townhouse for rent near UF,
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fireplace, en-
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 904-524-3063
9-30-09-18-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 9-22-09-10-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
MOVE IN NOW -1BR/1BA condo walk to
UF $850 with utilities, cable, & Internet or
3BR/2BA home with large yard & carport
$850 Keller Williams Realty 352-240-0600
Tiffany McKenzie, Realtor @ 352-871-3890
9-25-09-15-2
1BR/1BA EFFICIENCY
with A/C, $320/mo. No pets. Year lease.
Shady lot. 1022.5 NW 4t Ave. 352-376-5887
9-25-09-13-2
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-15-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
2/2 Condo 2508 SW 35 PI
Gated Comm.w/Pool Near University
$750/Month Call Mike 786-299-4403 9-18-
09-7-2
*2 MONTHS RENT FREE*
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesville 1 mile from campus.
Includes washer, dryer, dishwasher, balcony,
pool, and alarm. Available now. Call 561 827
5358 or email zurich7@ufl.edu 9-18-09-6-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $650/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 9-25-09-11-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $500/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 9-25-09-11-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 9-25-09-11-2FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking,dog walk area,quiet
1.5miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2
1BR/1BA POLOS. 3mo lease
avail/can renew. Oct 1st
move-in W/D, on bus route
24hr study room and gym.
petsok 847-722-0171 $729 9-22-09-5-2
Utilities Included! STUDIO (no bedroom!) for
rent $600 month $1000 security 2490 Sw
14th Drive Available Oct 31 386-527-6923
9-22-09-5-2
*Spacious new 2BR/2.5BA Townhouse near
UF. Apple. AC/Heat, Alarm Sys. Internet for
only $875/m @ 885 NW 21st Ave. Call 954-
805-7827 or 561-912-6223,
dennismiller@tycoint.com* 9-30-09-11-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
$599. 1 BR w/ large study, Washer/Dryer
provided;upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet,
prefer grad student or professional; green-
space, parking, close to UF/downtown 1822
NW 10th St 352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
4BR/2Bath condo only two blocks from UF.
Rent includes all utilities, cable tv and inter-
net, pool, laundry room, bbq/picnic area, on
bus stop. Great deal at $1,500/mo. 352-378-
4626 / 262-4290. 10-1-09-11-2
HOUSE avail now. 4BR/2BA, 1.5 mis to UF,
near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte. Bike
to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent H/
AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1000/mo. Call 376-
6183 or 327-2931 10-1-09-10-2
-subleases
Spring 2010 College Park 1BR/1BA Studio
Apt Sublease. Walking distance to campus
and unfurnished. Rent is $625/month. Call
321-223-7867 or kmurph@ufl.edu 9-22-09-
15-3
1BR/1BA $550/mo. Unfurnished.Spring 2010
Walking distance to campus.1 Month Free.
Move in October 2009. Call 352-870-7947 or
e-mail jihyun@ufl.edu 9-21-09-5-3
Sublease available immediately
Free-first month rent
free furniture & household stuff over $500
At 2811 SW Archer Road, Brandywine
Apartment
call at 352-213-1448 for more discounts
9-22-5-3
sRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
Or Roommes Real Estate Furnishings Furnishings Furnishings
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$415/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-24-09-25-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
9-21-09-15-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4
2BRs available for serious students, each
with private bath in completely remodeled,
fully furnished mobile home. 6 mins to UF -
Archer & 1-75. Very clean. $325/mo each +
1/2 utils. Call 352-256-0999 9-21-09-10-4
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 395/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930
9-21-09-5-4
BARGAIN Share furn T/H w/ UF U/G.
3BR/2.5Ba M-M lease. Screened pa-
tio.Pool.$200 or $300 for Lg. Upstairs.
CasaBlanca West. (786) 299-8626 or
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-23-09-6-4
Roommate wanted for 3/2.5 BR Condo.
Pools, Tennis. Unfurnished. 265+util. Close
to UF and SFCC. First + last month + $200
deposit. Call 352-363-0144 or email
monikawaelder@gmail.com. 9-25-09-6-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house,
great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
9-24-09-5-4
F Real Estaite
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
Architect's house for sale -Walking distance
to SFCC. Lots of glass, sunroom, high ceil-
ings, large yard, big deck, new roof. Nearly
1,600 sf. $183,900. Villages of Santa Fe.
7605 NW 31 Ave. Call: 352-215-2860. 9-24-
5-5
4Br 2Ba Foreclosure! $11,500! Only $217/
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 3
Br $199/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext
5798 9-18-1-5
6Br 4Ba Foreclosure! $29,900! Only $238/
Mo! 5% down 30 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 4
Br $269/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext
5760 9-18-1-5
Owner Must Sell. 4+ acres- $57,300 Nice
oak trees, private access to lake. All utilities
in. Ready to build when you are! Financing
avail. Call now (866)352-2249. www.fllandof-
fer.com 9-18-1-5
LOG CABIN ON 5 ACRES with Dockable
Lakefront only $69,900. 1791 sf log cabin kit
on 5 acres with dockable lake frontage on
12,000 acre recreational lake. Boat to Gulf of
Mexico. ALL amenities completed! Excellent
financing. Call now (866)952-5339, x1589
9-18-1-5
NC MOUNTAINS -Brand New! $50,000
Mountain Top tract reduced to $19,500!
Private, near Boone area, bank financing,
owner must sell, (866)275-0442 9-18-1-5
ORTEGA LANDING Waterfront condos and
marina on Ortega River in Jacksonville, FL.
3 bedroom, 3 bath condos approx. 2,600
SF from $999K. Private elevator access,
covered parking, GE Monogram appliances,
9 ft ceilings. Marina slip memberships and
leasing available. (800)800-0895 or www.
visitortegalanding.com 9-18-1-5
FFurnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
Friends don't let friends drive drunk.
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6QUALITY MATTRESSES at GREAT prices!
FREE delivery available. Try out your new
bed, in our brand new, family owned & oper-
ated showroom, at 3741 W. University Ave.
Call 352-505-6551 for more information.
www.gatormattress.com 9-18-09-5-6
O -computers
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
" U I d -s
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
New Life Community
Chapel
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 1 0:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
Phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Creekside Community
Church
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 1 0:30am
For more info email Mary at
madmadamoo@gmail.com
Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.comThe Spirit of Yahweh
Got truth?
The Gospel: Raw Uncut &
UNHEARD!
Bible Study Every Saturday
www.yahshuah.com
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Officesity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
1 Oam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
located 104 NW 14th Street. www.1stpc.org
For full schedule of events visit Sunday Worship:
gatorwesley.com Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-10:55am Sanctuary
Southwest United
Methodist Church
Open and inclusive, Family away
from home, Informal Worship,
Classes and activities will be
planned using student input.
Sunday worship 10:45am
2400 SW Williston Rd
352-378-4931
Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11 604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-College Ministry:
College Caf&Following 1 0:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meeting at P.K. Yonge school
1080 SW 11 th Street
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-
8127
4
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
L Imputers Bicycles For Sale Autos Help Wanted
09 Brand new 49cc gas motorized bicycle. ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a W E BUY JUNK CARS
never used, must see to appreciate. Red w/ day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
lots of extras, papers, $550 obo call 352-495- (888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
0770 or email bobbytrek@yahoo.com 9-21- will not be undersold! 9-18-1-10 12-9-75-12
09-5-9
DOLLAR & DOLLAR PLUS, MAILBOX, 1999 Volvo S-70 = $3,500. 95,000 miles,
PARTY, DISCOUNT CLOTHING OR TEEN Dark Blue, 4 door, leather, power windows/
For Sale STORE FROM $51,900 Worldwide! 100% locks, cruise, cd, all receipts since pur-1. TURNKEY CALL NOW (800)518-3064 chased. Many recent new parts including
WWW.DRSS6.COM. 9-18-1-10 brakes, belt, and battery. 727-415-3993. ja-
*@@ PARKING@@@ cobfyda@gmail.com 9-21-09-3-12
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF cycles, Mopeds
Reserve now? Reasonable rates. 352-538- I LoJ IPIVflAPgRTP (fVg-0
C 0Pi P UTE R 5
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
OFjBiccles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
-. * 6 Je
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
m a
tee.
I
-UI
IF
I2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-21-10
METAL ROOFING. 40 yr Warranty-Buy di-
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock,
w/all accessories. Quick turn around.
Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg,
(888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com
9-18-1-10
* 0 0e - 0.***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2001 Suzuki MarauderVZ800. Well cared for,
good condition. 800cc, custom Cobra pipes,
15,500 miles. Jacket, new helmet, motorcy-
cle cover, and 3 heavy-duty locks included.
Original exhaust included. Asking $2500 or
best offer. Email UF1853@msn.com with
"Motorcycle" in subject. 9-21-4-11
W lAutos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12Call Anytime 352-339-5158
9-30-09-10-12
Buy Police Impounds!! 00 Honda Civic $800!
01 Honda Accord $750! for listings call
(800)366-9813 ext 9271 9-18-1-12
$500! Police Impounds! cars, trucks, suv's
from $500! Honda, Toyota, Chevy and more!
for listings (800)366-9813 ext 9499 9-18-
1-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED
BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free
Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.
ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible,
Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.
9-18-1-12
W Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-25-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-25-09-74-13
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-13
SILENT PARTNERS and INVESTORS
Sought for Record Label,
Recording Studio, ( 10 ) Acts,
Hip Hop, R&B, Comedy, etc.
CD Sales, Concerts, Marketing!
CONTACT: 352-870-1892
9-18-09-5-13
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13
[YHelnWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetingsthe mdepednt fkoidaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
F Help Wanted Help Wanted 7 services Services nnections
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-30-09-20-
14
BOOKKEEPER/RECEPTION IST/
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Attention Smokers! Smokers are needed
to participate in a smoking cessation study.
You will be compensated for your participa-
tion. If interested, call the UF Smoking Lab
and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or email us at
ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 9-22-10-14
Embroidery Machine Operatorexperience
req.Design & produce emb designs & logos.
Knowledge of computers & digitizing pro-
grams. Able to stand for long periods of time.
call 352-226-8868 M-F 7AM-4PM 9-21-09-
8-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Babysitter/Childcare Needed in my SW home
M-F. 8 am- 5 pm.
Approx. 20 hours a week
Must have own transporation and references
$8/Hr. (352)494-8848 9-18-6-14
A Cash Machine $1000 cash paid daily for
returning phone calls. Easy to do, no selling,
not mlm, strong residuals.1-800 662 1961
ext. 8610 9-18-09-5-14
Seeking part time telemarketer for veterinary
division. Flexible schedule, $10/ hour, work
from home with company provided phone.
Please send resume to
michael.mumaw@pulevet.com 9-18-09-4-
14
Great student job!
Exciting opportunity
to work as a luxury sedan chauffeur.
Interested? Please send your resume to
Jeremy@FabulousCars.com.
9-22-09-6-14
FT Office Assistant/Executive Assistant with
heavy emphasis on mail duties. Experience
is required. Email resume to
Stephanie@holbrooktravel.com 9-22-09-
6-14
HOUSEKEEPER 12 HRS/WK.
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES.
RESPOND TO
housekeeper.clean@gmail.com
9-29-09-10-14
NANNY requested p/t M-F 1:30-4:30,
Wednesdays 12:30-4:30 until Mom & Dad
get home. Own transportation required, ref-
erences please. Great neighborhood.
505-4535. 9-24-09-7-14
FARAHS on the AVENUE
Now hiring cook & busser. PT only. Please
apply 1120 W. University Ave. 9-21-3-14
Babysitter needed in High Springs Area!Fri
and Sat.9:15 pm until 03:15 am.Kids will be
in bed prior to your arrival. Must have own
transportationbe reliableand have refs.
Please email babysitter replies@yahoo.com
9-23-5-14We are currently looking for ambitious, posi-
tive attitude, energetic, friendly and outgoing
people to perform face-to-face sales with re-
tailers. Submit your resume to
job@dsrgroupinc.com 9-24-09-5-14
WRITERS NEEDED: We are looking for en-
thusiasts or experts across 24 categories to
write for our online Gainesville Edition. Work
from your location. Professional writing not
required. Email amy@fitzdrakesearch.com
for more information. 9-28-09-7-14
Help wanted for one serious hardworking
and trustworthy UF student. Gen or const
labor, exp with electrical & plumbing, carpen-
try, chainsaw & heavy lifting. Part time flex-
ible hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 376-6183 or 327-2931
9-21-09-2-14
Heating/Air Tech Training. 3 week accelerat-
ed program. Hands on environment. State of
Art Lab. Nationwide certifications and Local
Job Placement Assistance! CALL NOW:
(877)994-9904. 9-18-1-14
PTL OTR Drivers. New Pay Package! Great
Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months experience
required. No felony or DUI past 5 years.
(877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 9-18-1-
14
Looking for front desk/medical asst. Busy
medical office looking for receptionist &/
or medical asst to help in front desk duties
answering phones & scheduling appts, as-
sist physician w/charting of patient infor. HS
diploma reqd, med terminology in anatomy &
physiology pref. Flex hrs, PT/FT avail. Salary
neg. Fax resume to 352-377-4816 or email
JAS3FL@aol.com 10-9-09-15-14
Local programming/design company seeking
a highly motivated individual to design and
build websites. HTML, CSS, Action Script,
Photoshop, and Flash experience required.
Joomla CMS experience is a plus. Must be
able to learn quickly. 15-40 hours per week.
Flexible schedule. Email resume and portfolio
to jobs@theginsystem.com by Wednesday
9/23/09 9-23-09-4-14
LF Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-15
STRINGING -Best machines in town. Huge
selection of strings -Ready in 24 hrs or free.
The same day service available and/or 1
hour. It is the EZ Thing 372-2257 9-30-
17-15
For Thorough& Dependable cleaning ofyour
Home, Apartment or Office
Please call J&B Cleaning Services
at (352) 278-8571
9-22-09-7-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
Premed in Physics 2053?
Professional Exam Review. (Space limited.)
VegaPhysics.com
9-18-09-3-15
Oak Glade Apts Its about 2 mins away from
Archer Rd 1BR1 BA Monthly Rent is $515.00
Please contact me to make leasing arrange-
ments 352-262-1860 9-30-10-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-7-
15-15ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 9-18-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 9-18-1-15
1 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
E3Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
FREE OVERGRIP with any stringing. Free
can of balls with purchase $20+. Lowest
prices on everything we sell. Where? At EZ
Tennis 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order any squash racket, check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. If any store can go lower, EZ 10-s can
go lower 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order badminton rackets check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. Yes, we will match & beat any lower
price. 372-2257 9-30-17-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18
EVICTIONS
Sharon Ruth, Esq.
352-494-8848
9-28-14-18
Free beer if Gators beat Tenn. at Lux Bar.
211 W. Univ. Ave. Starting one hour after
game until Keg is empty. Other specials.
theluxbar.com. 9-18-09-2-18Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Secret Girlfriend for 39 blond male with a
carribean hook bracelet.Harry's between 2-3.
Mon. thru Friday. 9-18-5-19
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Bring any lower price u-find on any racket,
EZ Tennis will match & beat that price. And
yes, including e-bay buy it now. Please bring
the print-out. 372-2257 9-30-17-21
We're looking for Title -Town's Top Talent!
The Gaineeville Civic Chorus wants singers,
dancers, musicians, actors and magicians
to participate in a showcase for individuals
and ensembles. The show will take place on
Friday October 23 in the Oak Hall Auditorium
at 7pm. Prizes include a studio quality CD or
DVD and a television appearance.For details
on registration and auditions visit
www.gcchorus.org 9-22-09-5-21
COMIC BOOKS!
Low price & huge selection. New comic sub-
scription service. Hoyt's Cosmos of Comics.
501 NW 23rd Ave. 352-378-0182.
cosmosofcomics.com 9-18-1-21
Tickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 9-30-09-
18-22
o il Rides
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL /
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
WEIZets
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Lost & Found
FOUND: WATCH
In Tigert Hall parking lot very early on Fri
9/11. Call to idenify 273-2818 9-18-3-25
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 21
UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators to open SEC play
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
Before their last match against No. 3
Washington, coach Mary Wise said the
Gators aren't used to playing as the un-
derdog as they did in a loss to the Hus-
kies.
That unusual circumstance was short-
lived as UF heads into league play shoot-
ing for its 19th straight conference title.
No. 5 Florida (6-1) will look to con-
tinue its dominance of the Southeastern
Conference tonight as it will begin league
play on the road against Ole Miss (6-4) at
8 p.m. before facing Arkansas (6-5) at 2
p.m. Sunday.
After a tough nonconference schedule
that featured three ranked opponents,
the Gators view league play as a chance
to start fresh.
"This weekend, everybody starts on
common ground, we are all 0-0," coach
Mary Wise said. "Before, any win just
bettered the league. Now, you have to
hunker down and just take care of your
own."
The Gators will continue their lon-
gest road trip since 2003 and play their
first two conference matches away from
Gainesville for the first time in three
years.
Tonight's road match against the Reb-
els might prove to be one of the tougher
ones they will see in the SEC, not only be-cause of Ole Miss' scrappy nature, but in
large part because of the unusual venue
they will play in. The volleyball court at
the Gillom Sports Center is located at the
end of a field house and has very little
room to chase down balls.
"It's a pretty unique place to play in,"
senior libero Elyse Cusack said. "It's a
small facility and it can get super loud.
You just have to keep the communication
up and try to calm the crowd down."
As if that didn't pose enough of an
obstacle already, UF will be sure to get
Wisethe best effort from Ole
Miss or any other SEC
team they face.
"Winning 18 straight
conference titles is a big
deal, and we know that
we are going to get ev-
ery team's best shot on
the road," Cusack said.
But if history repeats itself, the Gators
will have a successful weekend. The
team has won its first two games against
SEC opponents in 10 of the last 11 sea-
sons and has won all 18 league openers
under Wise.
While UF may have already faced the
toughest opponents on its schedule, the
team will have to overcome another ob-
stacle in the SEC.
"The difference in league play is there
are no secrets," Wise said. "That target
on our back hasn't gotten any smaller,
but that's what we've become used to."Recruiting'
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
For Kayla Bala, tonight could have
been the first time she played in James
G. Pressly Stadium.
Bala, a freshman from Lakeland,
went on an official visit to Tallahas-
see last year. If things went differently,
she might be sporting garnet and gold
when No. 7 Florida (5-2-0) hosts No. 5
FSU (6-1-0) at 7 p.m.
Maybe not.
"I didn't like (Tallahassee) as much
as here, and I didn't like the colors that
much," Bala said.
Bala is one of many players who
chose between the Gators and the Semi-
noles as high school seniors.
"We're looking at the same play-
ers. .Florida gets some of the kids; we
get some of the kids," FSU coach Mark
Krikorian said.
For those players, the annual rivalry
lets them prove they made the right
choice, and Krikorian suggested that as-
pect fuels the fire.
Krikorian came to FSU in 2005, and
the Seminoles have been the state's pre-
mier team since.
Florida State reached the College Cup
three of the last four years, including a
national championship game appear-
ance in 2007. During that same stretch,
coach Becky Burleigh's squad has not
advanced past the round of 16.fuels rivalry
However, the Gators hold the upper
hand in head-to-head matchups. Flor-
ida's seniors are 2-1 against the Semi-
noles, with every match decided by one
goal.
Burleigh said the FSU game is typi-
cally more physical, something she
likes.
"It's a fun game to play. It's why
people come to UF -to play rivalry
games," Burleigh said.
Perhaps the Gator most anxious for
kickoff is senior Angela Napolitano,
who was tackled hard by an FSU player
in the 85th minute and hyperextended
her knee last year. The in-
jury kept Napolitano out
of practice for a week.
"I'm ready to play aSoccer full game against them,"
she said.
Last year, a shutout from goalkeeper
Katie Fraine and an early goal from Tah-
nai Annis gave Florida a 1-0 victory.
The year before, then-senior KeLeigh
Hudson's 83rd-minute goal helped the
Gators steal a 2-1 win.
In 2006, the Seminoles won at home
1-0 front of more than 4,000 fans -3,000
above their stadium's listed capacity.
Like this year, FSU was the higher-
ranked team in those games, but Napoli-
tano said that never matters.
"When it's a rivalry like this, rank-
ings go out the door. Those things don't
matter because everyone plays their best
game."
VE
TOMORROW
AT 10:00 AMBOADCAST
(ACROSS FROM THE STADIUM)
SHANE MATTHEWS
LIVEMUSIC
CBSCOLLEGESPORTS.COMLIonsol.-
r-GROM
*Now
*T"w V, LG
Sports
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks
Column
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m.
TV/RADIO: CBS/ WRUF AM 850
Few college football programs have
as polarizing of an effect as the mighty
Pirates of East Carolina. It's no surprise,
then, that the ECU-UNC contest pro-
duced a five-five split in the votes this
week.
We left it up to Mike McCall, lover
of all things Purple and Gold, and Mike
DiFerdinando, hater of all that is good,
to settle the debate in the alligatorSports
Brand Picks Column.
WHY UNC WILL COVER TH E SPREAD.
After all these years, McCall is still
clinging to some disillusioned notion
that ECU football is relevant and
legitimate.
It's OK, Mike. I know you bleed Pur-
ple and Gold.
But that doesn't change the fact that
the only thing more pathetic than your
beloved Pirates in the city of Greenville
(and I use the term city loosely) is the
mediocre chicken restaurant that you
so desperately defend.
Just like Bojangles, ECU is average
at best. Butch Davis and Greg Little
should have no problem putting away
a team that plays in a conference whose
main TV contract is with CSTV.
The only thing more ridiculous than
the notion that East Carolina Teachers
Training School (as it was originally
known) has a chance against UNC is
the Pirates' earring-wearing mascot.
-MIKE DiFERDINANDO
WHY ECU WILL COVER THE 7.5-POINT
SPREAD. There are only two things
that make Mike DiFerdinando happy:
listening to Anthony Bourdain ramble
and making people miserable.
He routinely leaves the pressbox
to go running through the stands and
knock ice cream out of the hands of
children.
He eats at Panda Express, which
means he's eating your lost pets.
Once a week, he sells counterfeit
tickets to hospital patients, then takes
the cash downtown and lights it on fire
in front of homeless people.
SEE PICKS PAGE 24Moody works to regain trust after fumble
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
Running back Emmanuel Moody is still
working to regain his coaches' full trust after
turning over the ball last week.The junior coughed up the ball on his first
carry against Troy and didn't touch the ball
the rest of the game.
"I don't know where he stands in his mind-
set, but he knows where I stand in my mind,"
running backs coach Kenny Carter said. "You
can't turn the ball over.
N
~1
nt
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF running back Emmanuel Moody fumbles the ball on his only carry of the Gators' 56-6
win against Troy in The Swamp on Sept. 12."We have things that we do to take care of
that when they do fumble. He knows why he
fumbled, that's the No. 1 thing."
Now, Moody has to fight to get back into a
rotation with two other talented backs, soph-
omores Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey. Moody
was second on the team in rushing -nine
carries for 86 yards -in Florida's opener.
"He has to get himself in a position where
he earns our trust again and he will," Carter
said. "Unfortunately those
things happen, but there's a
price to pay for it.
"You're always going to
Football hang on that one time when a
guy fumbles. You have to con-
tinue to be diligent in practice
and prove that it was an accident."
DEBOSE HAS SURGERY: Wide receiver Andre
Debose underwent successful surgery Thurs-
day to repair a torn hamstring tendon in his
left thigh. Full recovery is expected to take
four to six months.
Coach Urban Meyer said he gave his
prized recruit the same speech he gives to all
players dealing with a serious injury.
"It's not the injury to the athlete that mat-
ters, it's the reaction to the injury," Meyer
said. "We don't have a player on the team
that's not been banged up or hurt. That's part
of the game. It's the reaction. If you go in the
tank, fall behind in school, act like you're
miserable, don't take advantage of an oppor-
tunity to get bigger and stronger, that's the
reaction."
Meyer, Gators fans should heed Timberlake's advice
s contemporary poet Justin Timber-lake once sang, "What goes around
comes around / You should know
that.
"Don't want to think about it (no) / Don't
want to talk about it."
While I'm sure JT's muse was some girl who
did him wrong in the past, he might as well
have been talking directly to Florida coach Ur-
ban Meyer and the thousands of bloodthirsty
Gators fans who will be on hand to witness
what will likely be a public shaming of the Vol-
unteers and coach Lane Kiffin on Saturday.
Much like Timberlake, Meyer doesn't want
to think about it (no) and certainly doesn't want
to talk about it, but eventually, some of these ri-
valry games have to start going the other way.
Meyer was asked if he thinks the balance of
rivalries tends to be cyclical in nature, and if he
is at all surprised by the resounding success he
has had against Tennessee, Georgia and Florida
State during his time in Orange and Blue.
His response was that of a man without kar-
ma on his mind.
"You're asking a lot of questions I don't
think about," Meyer said.
And who could blame him?Since taking over asrehead coach at Florida,
Meyer has gone 11-1
against UF's three rival
schools, with the only
loss coming against
Kyle Maistri Georgia in 2007.
Kyle Points The Gators' 2007 59-
k yalestri@aIIigator org 20 drubbing of the Vol-
unteers was Florida's
biggest win in the ri-
valry. Last season's 49-10 beatdown of Georgia
was the worst loss of coach Mark Richt's career
and the second biggest margin of victory for UF
in the series' history. And the Gators have dis-
mantled the Seminoles by a combined score of
90-27 in the last two meetings.
With that recent success, I doubt that any UF
fans are thinking about what might come back
around over the next couple of years.
It would be foolish to think the Vols, 'Dawgs
and 'Noles will all be down for any significant
amount of time, so Florida fans should enjoy
Meyer calling timeouts at the end of last year's
Florida-Georgia game and whatever comes
about in Saturday's second half in retaliation
for Kiffin's offseason behavior.Without question, this is the best time in his-
tory to be a Gators fan, but who knows what
will happen after Tim Tebow and Brandon
Spikes leave Gainesville.
This must be how fans felt about UCLA bas-
ketball in the '70s, Miami football in the '80s and
Duke basketball in the '90s. When you're sitting
on top of the mountain, it's hard to imagine the
long tumble down to the bottom of the slope
and the tough climb back to the peak.
For at least the rest of this season, however,
Meyer and UF fans have little to worry about.
The Gators will, in my opinion, sweep their
rivals and cruise through their schedule, yet
again finding themselves as one of two teams
selected by the BCS to play for a national title.
But one day, it won't be that way.
And if Meyer is still around, he will be
forced to think about the days when games
against Tennessee, Georgia and FSU were noth-
ing more than an opportunity for fans to make
a killing on betting Florida to cover.
Whenever that time comes, you, the fan, will
still be here even if Meyer has since departed.
So act respectfully toward your fallen foes
this season, because karma's a female dog (and
so is my editor's Puritan censorship).
UT-UF LIVE CHAT
* If you're too poor to afford
scalped tickets to the game or
somehow snuck a laptop into The
Swamp, join our football writers in a
live chat at alligatorSports.org.alligatorSports Podcast
U Kyle Maistri, Mike DiFerdinando and Mike
McCall join host Adam Berry for the show's
50th Episode Extravaganza!!! The gang will
preview the UT game, complete with the
usual banter. Check it out tonight on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
U Instead of his egotistical rambling at the HOF induction, I wish MJ had just
stood up during C. Vivian Stringer's speech and said, "C-Viv, I'm really happy for
you, and I'mma let you finish, but I'm the greatest basketball player of all time.
All time!". The NCAA is a darker place without Myles Brand, who managed to
make me feel a little better about the business that won't call itself a business.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 23
UF CROSS COUNTRY
Gators look to win opener for fifth straight year
By JESSICA ETTER
Alligator Writer
For the past four years, the men's
and women's cross country teams
have won their first meet, and this
year looks to be no different.
After placing 17th at the NCAA
Championship in November, the
No. 14 UF women's cross country
team begins the season tonight at
the Mountain Dew Invitational.
"Of course there are some ex-
pectations on the women's team,"coach Todd Morgan said. "But we
haven't even done anything yet.
We haven't even run one race."
Sophomore Genevieve LaCaze,
who won the invitational last year,
said the new freshmen and gradu-
ate student Stacey Johnson have
added a new level to the women's
team.
"We know deep down that
we have a truly great team," said
LaCaze, the 2008 SEC Freshman of
the Year. "We have many returning
athletes and a couple great new ad-
ditions to the team."While many of the women re-
turned this season, the unranked
men's team,
which missed the
cut for the NCAA
Championship
last season, will
run in its first
meet without All-
American Jeremy
Morgan Criscione, who
used his fourth
year of cross country eligibility last
season.
Even though there are 12 under-classmen on the men's roster, se-
nior Justin Taylor said some of the
athletes are stepping up to fill the
shoes of Criscione.
"The older guys on the team
are trying to set examples for the
younger ones," Taylor said. "For
the last two years, we have been the
first team out of the race to nation-
als, and it has been devastating. We
sat down with the freshmen last
week and told them all of this."
Before the UF teams run, high
school students from Florida will
run 5,000 meters beginning at 4:30p.m.
Morgan said having high school
runners at the meet will allow the
teenagers to see what cross country
is like at the next level.
The women's team will run its
5K at 6:30 tonight, and the men's
team will run its 8K at 7 at the Mark
Bostick Golf Course.
"It's our first meet, and it will be
a good way to kick the season off,"
Morgan said. "This meet is defi-
nitely going to affect my decision
on who I will run in two weeks at
Notre Dame."
No. 9 UF men face talented field in season's first tourney
Florida lost three-time All-American Horschel
By KELSIE HOECHERL
Alligator Writer
The UF men's golf team will open its sea-
son in Olympia Fields, Ill., this weekend at
the Olympia Fields Country Club/Fighting
Illini Invitational.
"Being the first tournament of the year, I
think that everyone is excited and ready to
go," senior Tyson Alexander said. "I think
we're starting a little later than we did last
year, and so everyone is a little bit more anx-
ious. I really don't have any expectations
[about how we will perform]. We lost BillyHorschel, who was a first team All-American
three years, and now we have no one that's
pretty proven like that. I'm just kinda going
in with no expectations and seeing how we
stack up at the end of the tournament."
Alexander will be teeing off for the
Gators, joined by senior Tim McKenney,
juniors Andres Echavarria and Bank Vong-
vanij and sophomore Max Kieffer in the
starting lineup.
Coach Buddy Alexander determined
which five players would represent UF in
the first tournament after the players shot
seven qualifying rounds.Five of the 11 players on the Gators' ros-
ter are underclassmen, with three freshmen
and two sophomores, but age is not neces-
sarily an indicator of talent.
"They bring a lot to the ta-
ble. They are really talented.
Going into this first qualifier,
I don't think anyone knew
Golf who was going to qualify. It's
that wide open, and it will be
until we get down to the end of the year,"
Alexander said. "We have the five that we
are going with this week and next week it
could be a totally different five; that's howgolf works, and that's how young people
work. Sometimes they're good one week
and inconsistent [the next]. We'll just have to
find our best five and keep getting better."
No. 9 Florida will face stiff competition
from a field featuring seven of the preseason
top 12, including No. 1 Oklahoma State, No.
3 Georgia and No. 5 Stanford.
"Golf is an individual sport wrapped in
a team concept in college, so they all want
to beat each other but they also realize that
they are all teammates and they support
each other," assistant coach Steve Bradley
said. "There's no doubt in my mind that
they all wanted to beat each other while they
were out there."
Coeepeine a FRE hadso semna
Saturday, September 26 GAINESVILLE TARGET RANGE
8:00a~m. 12:0 pm., :30 ~m.1610 NW 65th Place8:00 a.m., 12:00 p.m., 3:30 p.m. www.gainesvilletargetrange.com
Preregistration required:
352-359-2864
wwwinstshots.org A
First Shots is a program of The National Shooting Sports Foundation
FIGHT YOUR GAINESVILLE TRAFFIC TICKET
ST GatorTrafficDUI.com
The hiring of an attorney is an important de-
cision that should not be based solely upon
advertisements. Before you decide, ask us to
send you free written info about our qualifica-
tions and experience.
(888)384-0352
THE FLORIDA DEFENSE FIRM
CRIMINAL JUSTICE & TRAFFIC ATTORNEYS
Opus Cafe %
Coffe e B a r
1620 West Univ. Avenue
(next to Gators Plus and Planet Smoothie)
Gainesville's largest and best locally owned coffee shop
offering specialty, iced, and frozen coffees
and breakfast bagels
www.opus-cafe.com
Open Early Open Late
Locally Owned Free Wi-Fi
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
PICKS, from page 22
And he insults my beloved Pirates and favorite restaurant
in the hopes that I'll spend my nights the same way he does,
crying into a pillow.
But it won't work, because ECU is going to Paint it Purple
this weekend in Chapel Hill.
By that, I don't mean win, but I do mean lose by a touch-
down or less.
I have a sixth sense for how much the Pirates will lose by
(last week I bet them to lose by 15 or more to West Virginia, and
they lost by 15), and this game will be close, just as ECU's 34-31
win over the Tar Heels in 2007 was. -MIKE McCALL
Editor's Note: DiFer agreed a month ago to accompany Mr.
McCall to a Thursday night ECU game in November.
Now, on to the picks!
In first with an 11-9 record is Mike "I've got something in
my front pocket" DiFerdinando, who in a stunning departure
from his Butters-like self, tried to make his father pay to park at
his house for a game despite the fact that his pops pays the rent.
You're grounded, mister!
Tied for first with an 11-9 record is the Miami Herald's Joe
"You look like Jodie Foster" Goodman, who will be celebrating
an anniversary Saturday: two years of avoiding getting bashed
in the face on back-to-back Fridays and showing up to gameswith a busted nose.
Sitting in a tie for third at 9-11 is Bobby "Skeets" Callovi,
who got to see how grown-ups live for a few hours Thursday
after his girlfriend lent him her car. No doubt he returned it
full of empty juice boxes and half-chewed McDonald's Happy
Meal toys.
Also tied for third at 9-11 is Mike "Yeezy did what now?"
McCall, who is too cool to know what is going on with any-
thing on MTV yet can name and recite character traits for all
eight of Jon and Kate's kids.
Beginning the three-way tie for fifth at 8-12 is Kyle "Mike
Piazza's just in touch with his emotions" Maistri, who doesn't
often find himself speechless, but Jeff Demps interviews al-
ways do the trick, when he closes his eyes and dreams he's on
a 75-yard piggy-back ride.
Also tied at 8-12 is the Orlando Sentinel's Jeremy "Please
call Lane Kiffin a bozo" Fowler, who would give all the trendy
golf shirts in his wardrobe for 15 minutes alone with Andre
Debose's hamstring.
Also at 8-12 is the Florida Times-Union's Mike "The Zooker
gets a bad rap" DiRocco, whose blog, "Piece of Di Roc," hasn't
been updated since Dec. 1. It's not his fault, though. Grandpar-
ents are never good with computers.
Starting the three-way tie for last at 7-13 is the Gainesville
Sun's Ed "My uncle's in town, I can't work" Aschoff, who car-
ries a jar of Vaseline and a pocket pack of tissues just in case
Urban Meyer singles out Adrian Bushell for his special teamsefforts.
Tied for last place at 7-13 is Phil "Not in my paper" Kegler,
who believes our readership can handle nothing more vulgar
than language he would use around the Pope.
In dead last place -thanks to the alphabet -with a piss-
poor record of 7-13 is the Palm Beach Post's Ben "OGIO till I
die" Volin, who spent the week in Knoxville chasing Lane Kif-
fin and taking his sexual frustrations out on various livestock.
MSU (+10)-ND
ECU (+7 5)- UNC
Cal- Minn (+14)
T (+17 5)-UT
Tulsa (+17)-OU
USC- Wash(+20)
FSU (+75)-BYU
WVU (+7)-AU
UGA)+ 1)-Ark
Tenn (+30)-UF
MSU (+10)-ND
ECU (+7 5)- UNC
Cal- Minn (+14)
TT (+17 5)-UT
Tulsa )+17)-OU
USC- Wash(+20)
FSU (+75)-BYU
WVU (+7)-AU
UGA)+ 1)-Ark
Tenn (+30)-UFMDF
ND
UNC
Minn
UT
oU
Wash
FSU
AU
UGA
UF
JF
MSU
UNC
Cal
UT
OU
Wash
BYU
WVU
UGA
UFJG
ND
UNC
Cal
UT
OU
USC
BYU
AU
Ark
UF
KM
ND
ECU
Cal
UT
OU
USC
FSU
WVU
Ark
UFBC
ND
ECU
Cal
UT
OU
Wash
BYU
WVU
Ark
UF
EA
MSU
UNC
Minn
UT
Tulsa
Wash
FSU
WVU
UGA
UFMM
ND
ECU
Cal
UT
Tulsa
Wash
FSU
AU
Ark
Tenn
PK
ND
ECU
Cal
UT
Tulsa
USC
BYU
WVU
Ark
UFMDR
ND
UNC
Minn
UT
Tulsa
Wash
BYU
AU
Ark
UF
BV
ND
ECU
Cal
UT
Tulsa
USC
BYU
WVU
Ark
UF
DOWNTOWN 
70ABR l'fHOPg
University Ave.UF15 W. University Ave. -(352) 373-4841
o. M -F-9 an~6pm
www.DTBarbershop.com
rLA"n >49 _
'Snacks and Beer \
Cuban Sandwichue, Plaisfe.sset, andi morel
Downtown Acrossfrom 8 No,371-2000 nexttoDurly Nel s
* Gator Gifts
* Gator Accessories
9 Gator Stationery
* Pandora Jewelry
-Vera Bradley
Mon -SatlOAM -7PM Sun 12PM 6PM
201 SE 2nd Place Suite 112
DowntownGainesville
352-376-3266
HUMuAllne of Sundlance Special Jury Prize
.IPP "One of the best indie films of the year." -NY Daily NewscinemaC 6:30 & 8:30pm I Sat 4:30, 6:30 & 8:30 | Sun at 2:30, 4:30 & 7
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPP.ORGrestaurant & bar
Where Food & Love Meet!
Downtown at 12 SE 2"d Avenue
352-378-6307
tiamogainesville.com
Late Night Dining:08 Seconds
Thursday Night
College Night
* Ladies Drink Free
-$1Q Longnecks for Everyone
Friday
-$3 Jack and Jager
ELXs tmliuj M~fbrt MMl~ EBrThril
Saturday
-$2 Longnecks
-$4 U-Call-It
RfJBr tf.fblio 3i.
H01 W. University Ave.
28, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Tim Tebow will try to become only the third SEC quarterback to go
4-0 against Tennessee. Former Gator Danny Wuerffel also accomplished the feat.Tebow looks to go 4-0
* THE SENIOR STARTED HIS LEGACY
AGAINST THE VOLUNTEERS IN 2006.
By BOBBY CALLOVI
Alligator Staff Writer
bcallovi@alligator org
Just less than eight minutes remaining,
down 20-14 at Tennessee facing fourth-
and-1 on Tennessee's 28-yard line, and
Florida coach Urban Meyer calls a timeout
to discuss what to do.
But there was no doubt in his mind
what he was going to call. Meyer would
send in his then-freshman quarterback to
run the ball with the game on the line.
"There was really no hesitation. When
I said it over the headset, it wasn't, 'Hey,
whoa, whoa, whoa,' and sometimes that
happens, but it was just an unbelievable
moment for Florida football," Meyer said.
That's how quarterback Tim Tebow's
now-legendary career began, with a
2-yard rush to pick up the first down late
in the game in front of a packed Neyland
Stadium back in 2006.
The Gators finished off the drive with
the game-winning touchdown and left
Knoxville with a 21-20 victory on their
way to the BCS national championship.
Since then, Tebow and the Gators have
not had any problems with the Volunteers,
handily beating them in the next two meet-
ings 59-20 in 2007 and 30-6 in 2008. Tebow
had a very successful 2007 outing, throw-
ing for 299 yards and two touchdowns
and one interception 14 of 19 for 299 yards
and rushing for 61 yards and two touch-downs.
He didn't have to do much last year,
completing 8 of 15 throws for 96 yards and
two touchdowns while adding 26 yards on
12 rushes.
The senior signal caller will look to fin-
ish his career unbeaten against the Vols on
Saturday in The Swamp. He would join
former Gator Danny Wuerffel and former
Alabama quarterback Jay Barker as the
only Southeastern Conference quarter-
backs to go 4-0 against the Volunteers in
their career.
"It's been a big game (to me) ever since I
was 5,6 years old, watching (Peyton) Man-
ning and (Danny) Wuerffel and all those
guys play in this game," Tebow said. "To
finish off undefeated would be special."
There has been no question in anyone's
mind whose hands the ball would be in
when the Gators were facing any type
of short-yardage situation ever since his
emergence in his first game against Ten-
nessee.
The 2-yard run was just a glimpse of
what was to come from Tebow in the fu-
ture.
"It was one of the beginnings to see
what he was like in clutch situations,"
Meyer said. "That was the first real one he
was in where he had to go make the play
to help us win the game, and he did."
Tebow has not disappointed, playing
his way to a Heisman Trophy in 2007 and
leading UF to its second national champi-
onship in three years last season.
It all started with a fourth-and-i run in
Knoxville.
He hasn't look backed since.
Save on great tailgating items each week, only at your neighborhood Publix.
For you, the tailgate party is the truest measure of your Gators( pride. The bigger, juicier, and tastier
the food, the more instinctive your allegiance. At Publix, we get that. That's why we have everything
you need for game day, all in one place. We call it The Ultimate Tailgate Party. You get in, get what
you need, and ultimately, Rule the Lot.
Prices effective Thursday, September 17 through Pub lix
Wednesday, September 23, 2009. Proud Sponsor of the University of Florida Gators@Boar's Head Turkey Publix Deli
Breast Meal Wheel. 399 Homestyle Red
Bratded Egg Bread Stacked With Turkey Potato Salad 399
Breast Then Garnished With Your Choice For Fast Service, Grab & Go!,
of Toppings, Serves 4 to 6, each Located in the Publix Deli, 32-oz cant
SAVE UP TO 3.00 SAVE UP TO 1.00
(Publix, each .11.99)
Publix
Tortilla Chips.
Assorted Varieties, 9-oz bag
SAVE UP TO 1.18 ON 2Publix Thick400 & Chunky Salsa FOR
Or Southwestern Medium Black Bear &
Corn, Assorted Varieties, 16-oz jar
SAVE UP TO .98 ON 2
Two Dozen Cookies FOR500
Oatmeal Raisin, Chocolate Chip or Sugar,
Baked Fresh in Store, From the
Publix Bakery, 16-oz pkg.
SURPRISINGLY LOW PRICEGlac6au 10 00Smartwater FOR 10
Electrolyte Enhanced Water, 1-L bot.
SAVE UP TO 6.90 ON 10
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA vs. TENNESSEE
Saturday, September 19th, 2009
Visit theultimatetailgateparty.com for your next play.4
