Sthe independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 26 We Inform. You Decide.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Records reveal SG
criminal charges
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@a IIigator org
Driving under the influence, bat-
tery, assault, public urination, mari-
juana possession and underage alco-
hol consumption.
Not exactly what comes to mind
when you think of Student Govern-
ment.
However, a criminal records search
of UF SG members and candidates
shows they've racked up a total of 37
criminal charges, one code enforce-
ment violation for public urination,
and a lawsuit for unpaid rent and
damages-all in Alachua County.
One senator has at least six arrests
for charges that include underage pos-
session, assault, driving under the in-
fluence and battery while trying to il-
legally buy pain pills.
The charges fall unevenly across
party lines, with Unite Party senators
or candidates taking home the lion's
share -17 charges, a code enforce-
ment violation and one lawsuit.
Cabinet officers appointed by the
Unite Party tallied another 12 charges.
One Cabinet officer, William Stew-
art Sedgwick IV, resigned earlier this
month after he was charged with driv-
ing under the influence.
Independent senators or candi-
dates-or those with unknown affilia-
tions-have seven charges against them
in the county and at least one else-
where in Florida.
The Gator Party had one charge. It
stemmed from an arrest for underage
drinking at The Swamp Restaurant
last fall that also involved other Gator
Party members, including one former
senator.
Senators and candidates with the
Progress, Orange & Blue and Keg par-
ties have not been charged with any
crimes in the county.
After being presented with informa-
tion about the criminal activity in their
party, Student Body President Jordan
Johnson and Unite Party spokesman
Jason Yoepp vowed to take a closer
look at future candidates for Student
Senate and Cabinet positions.
In an e-mailed statement, SG press
secretary Eric Conrad said Johnson'sadministration currently does not in-
vestigate the criminal histories of its
Cabinet appointments, but he said that
will change.
"Charges like driving under the
influence and battery conflict with the
very strong stances the Johnson admin-
istration has taken against drunk driv-
ing and for increased public safety and
will therefore be taken into account for
possible appointments," he wrote.
In an e-mailed statement, Yoepp
said it's also important to keep in
mind that SG members are students,
not seasoned politicians and should be
allowed to make mistakes.
Ben Cavataro, Policy and Com-
munications Director for the Orange
and Blue Party, said the differences in
criminal histories between parties is
telling.
"Today's [revelations] confirmwhat
we already knew:
The Unite Party can-
not provide honest
and capable leader-
ship for UF," a state-
ment from Cavataro
reads.
"While some mis-
Johnson takes by individuals
maybe unavoidable,
a pattern of criminal activity is cause
for alarm."
Dave Schneider, Progress Party
president, said he wasn't surprised
to learn his senators and candidates
lacked criminal records in the county.
Comment could not be obtained
from the Gator Party.
The SIG member with the most ex-
tensive record is Joseph McCabe, a
District B senator with no listed party
affiliation, though he was a Gator Par-
ty senator in 2008.
McCabe's troubles with the law
started with two underage alcohol
possession arrests, one in 2006 and one
in 2007.
Then, last September, he was ar-
rested for driving under the influence
after the UF-Miami football game.
The arresting officer stated McCa-
be was clocked going 50 mph in a 35
mph zone on West University Avenue
when he began tailgating other cars
SEE CRIME, PAGE 5-1
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
Ana Goni-Lessan Alligator Staff
Puppy Politics
UF senior Natalie Giron plays with a puppy wearing a Unite Party campaign sticker
on Turlington Plaza Monday afternoon. The puppy, Bella, is owned by Ailen Garcia, a
Unite Party volunteer.
Credit applicants must be 21
0 THE LAW WILL TAKE
EFFECT IN FEBRUARY.
By ROBERT HILSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students applying for cred-
it could soon hear a familiar
motto: 21 means 21.
Beginning in February
2010, a federal law will pro-co-signer or proof of sufficient
income.
The changes stem from the
2009 Credit CARD Act, a mea-
sure that will
National tie lenders to
News responsible
practices and
full disclosure.
It could ultimately end up
tying the hands of financially
strapped students.hibit those under 21 from ac- According to The Wall
quiring a credit card without aStreet Journal, credit card is-
suers have already begun to
increase interest rates and an-
nual fees in anticipation of the
changes.
In addition, credit will be-
come more expensive as laws
force lenders to be more selec-
tive in choosing clientele.
"You know, it's hard right
now," said Tarin Acaron, a
marketing officer for Campus
SEE CREDIT, PAGE 8
0 Quarterback
Tim Tebow (right)
showed the "fenc-
ing response" after
his hard hit in the
Kentucky game
Saturday night. UK
researchers have
shown that is a sign
of a concussion.
See Story, Page 14."Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"TOday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9Sunny
CROSSWORD 13 88/59
SPORTS 14
visit www.alligator.org7Re 8
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
UF MEISA Meeting
Today, 6 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Come to the second meeting
of the Music Entertainment
Industry Student Association.
They will be holding officer
elections and brainstorming
for fall semester events.
RA/RCA Information Session
Today, 6 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 346
Are you interested in being a
resident assistant or residen-
tial college adviser for Fall
2010? Attend the informa-
tion session tonight to learn
more. Applications are avail-
able at www.housing.ufl.edu
and are due Oct. 5.
Undergraduate Philosophy
Society Social Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Starbucks, in the Reitz Union
There will be a quick intro-
duction to a few of the most
common ethical theories and
have a discussion of the mer-
its of each. The atmosphere
will be relaxed and everyone
is welcome. Food and drink
will be provided.
UF Amnesty International
meeting
Today, 7:20 p.m.
New Physics Building, Room
1011
The group will be discussing
its Day of Action, genocide
awareness film screenings,
Sweat Shop Free Gators cam-
paign and upcoming volun-
teer opportunities.
UF Fall of the Wall film series
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Auditorium
Free entrance for the screen-
ing of "Berlin -Schoenhauser
Corner" (1957) by Gerhard
Klein.
Gainesville Handweavers
Guild meeting
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship guest speaker
Juanita Bagnall will be talk-
ing about "Crazy Quilts."
Beyond Boards General Body
Meeting
Thursday, 6:15 p.m.
Florida Gym, Room 230
all'g%4 r41Ora11qCA., ports.
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news.
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.FORECAST
TODAY
I
SUN NY
88/59WEDNESDAY
SUN NY
83/58THURSDAY
'1
SUN NY
85/62
Come out and get infor-
mation on this semes-
ter's upcoming events.
Skateboarders of all levels
and types are welcome.
Sierra Club Program
Meeting
Thursday, 7:30 p.m.
Entomology/ Nematology
Building, Room 3118
The Inner City Outings
Program for kids is starting
with the local Suwanee-
St. Johns Sierra chapter.
You may get involved as
children chaperones dur-
ing hikes in natural areas,
parks, wild areas, swamps,
or biking and kayaking.
UF Wind Symphony and
Symphonic Band Concert
Thursday, 7:30 p.m.
University Auditorium
Sierra Club Fall Cleanup
of Lakeshore Drive on
Newnan's Lake
Saturday, 8:45 a.m. to 11:45
a.m.
Meet at Palm Point Nature
Park parking lot. Call
Robert Fisher at 352-514-
7674 for more information.
Florida Education Association
meeting
Oct. 6, 7 p.m.
Terrace Room
Come to FEA's second
meeting of the semes-
ter. Guest speaker Kim
Anderson from the National
Education Association will
be conducting an interview
and resume workshop.
There will be food, fun
and giveaways. For more
information contact Laura
Roberts at laura.roberts@
ufl.edu.
"Coprighted kaerial
Syndicate COWt~
Available from Commercal News Providem"FRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/67SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/68
a.
"-
0
L-
o E
L.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the Endependent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 26 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor AndrewStanfill, astanf//@a//igator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bca//ovi@a//igator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@a//igator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@a//igator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, George Pappas,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara lIngebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, Alex Olmetti
MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, e//ight@a//igator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
U The
Guzick defines evo
integration vision
Building A lb
blocks. *
They represent A M
new beginnings,
and strong, long-
lasting founda- c Behind
tions -especially peshgoza
relevant as we es- plush suits
tablish new homes there lies a
for important David Guzick
components of UF guess that
and Shands HealthCare. Soon we will antlers an
open three major buildings: the Shands Americans
Cancer Hospital at UF, the Biomedical Moose act
Sciences Building and the Emerging and blue.
Pathogens Institute. More than just the man b
bricks and mortar, the facilities represent Carolina P
our commitment to offering the best as an inter
medical treatments, to improving scien- Florida.
tific and scholarly research collaboration One fo
and to ensuring excellence in education Athletic A
across the health sciences. three form
They open their doors at a time are now pi
when we are implementing our vision coordinate
of an integrated academic health center, Amerks an
bringing together the Health Science
Center and Shands such that the whole
is greater than its parts. In doing so,
we'll better position ourselves to define
our niche in the marketplace, maintain
our national leadership status in the The all
realms of research and education and was ch
continue to excel in delivering topnotch as the
patient care. This strategic synergy will UFpropel us forward. MascI'm excited about what we will ac-
complish. The building blocks are in in
place. Let's move ahead together.
David S. Guzick, M.D., Ph.D.
UF Senior Vice Presidentfor Health Affairs "I'll ne
President, UF&Shands Health System come the
In com
UFCC seeks online pledges hockey are
The Gator Nation has a long history Hill Griffi
of caring and compassion. Giving back to He ma
our community is as much a University of Some 0
Florida tradition as graduating future lead- season-tic
ers and winning national championships. "I open
"This year more
than any other, our i Read
community needs
the Gator Nation's
help," said Levin
College of Law Sept. 29-3Dean Robert Jerry. UF Career
Jerry is chairman 0' Connel
of the UF Com- D Sept.30
munity Campaign GATIL History of
(UFCC). CHAMPIONS: man Andr
Last year, Giving for a Greater Cause Oct. 9
faculty and staff School of
contributed more than $1 million to the Auditoriu
UFCC. Funds assist in healing illnesses, Recurring
helping families in financial crisis, feeding Florida M
the homeless, giving babies a healthy start, Art," on d
saving lives and more. to 5 p.m.;
Donations are accepted through payroll University
deduction, cash, check, debit or credit card. through 0
Visit www.ufcc.ufl.edu for more informa-
tion and to pledge online until Oct. 23. This is a s
For a
U F UNIVERSITY of clickSFFLORIDA VThe Foundation for The Gator NationVlution of
ert the
gator
some of the most
le professional mascots
and painted mesh,
Gator.
ely would never
under his big yellow
I giant-size Rochester
hockey jersey, The
ally bleeds orange
Or you may not think
behind Sir Purr of the
anthers got his start
n at the University of
rmer University
association intern and
er Albert mascots Tony Cajiga, The Moose mascot for the Rochester Americans,
ofessional mascot previously served as UF mascot Albert.
rs. In addition to the
d Panthers, Gators are
part of the Seattle Seahawks and Miami Dolphins.
Tony Cajiga served as Albert from 2001 to 2004. He is now a
mascot for the Rochester Amerks, in addition to his other job
as an engineer in New York. He said he never imagined he
would be a professional mascot. Even trying out for Albert
was someone else's idea.
"Somebody in my dorm saw an ad in the student
newspaper for Gator mascot tryouts and told me I should
give it a shot," he said.
As Albert, Cajiga participated in numerous events, such
as the Outback Bowl, dedication of the Albert and Alberta
statues at Emerson Alumni Hall and the filming of a CBS
Sports commercial. The most exciting part of being Albert was
performing in front of all the football fans, Cajiga said.
ver forget the feeling the first time I stood at the 50-yard-line and heard, 'Heeeeeeere
Gatorss' over the PA system," he said.
parison to being Albert, Cajiga said the biggest difference is the size of the crowd. The
na holds about 12,000 fans -considerably less than the 90,000-plus capacity of Ben
n Stadium.
be The Moose, but Cajiga definitely has not lost that Gator spirit.
f the Rochester fans know he is a Gator and they do the Gator chomp. One family of
ket holders once got him a special present.
ed it up and it was a Florida Gators BCS Championship T-shirt," he said.
By Allison Simpson
more of this story at www.insideuf.ufl.edu
0
Resource Center presents Career Showcase, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.,
I Center.
Science Society presents "Following the Fossil Trail: Roy Chap-
ews' Life with Dinosaurs," 3 to 4 p.m, Pugh Hall, 210.
Music presents UF Orchestra Concert, 7:30 p.m., University
n.
Events
useum Exhibit: "Butterflies and Moths in Contemporary Zuni
display through Jan. 3, 2010. Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m.
Sunday 1 to 5 p.m.
Galleries Art Exhibit: "Alagarto: UF Printmakers," on display
ct. 23, Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Focus Gallery.
ampling of events from the electronic UF calendar.
ore event details, or to submit an event to the calendar,
"UF Calendar" at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.Your
campus
news
source
Produced by the
University Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
September 29, 2009
Walk from NYC to The Swamp
Join other walkers on virtual walking trips from New York
City to The Swamp. Six various routes, meeting at different
locations every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, lead walkers
through NYC, Richmond and Charlotte. Walkers receive bi-
weekly e-mails about the miles they have traveled and facts about
each city they are "visiting." For more information, visit
http://healthygators.hhp.ufl.edu/WalkingGators.
Faculty, staff may make benefit changes
The University of Florida's 2009 benefits open enrollment
period runs through 5:30 p.m. on Oct. 9. Each year during the
open enrollment period, eligible faculty and staff have an op-
portunity to make changes to their benefits, which are provided
through a combination of state- and university-sponsored
programs. For more information, visit http://hr.ufl.edu/benefits/
openenrollment/news.asp#annual
iew these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.igator
osen
1911
4, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
lam eGAiNESVIL LE
By LEORA ARNOWITZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
As buses circle around campus flashing
Gators-themed messages in bright-orange
digital letters, William Petrak slouches in the
cushioned driver's seat of a chunky turquoise
bus whose sign reads "125 Lakeside" in pale
gray letters.
"This is an old bus," he explains. "It don't
do fancy things like that."
But Petrak, 60, is content behind the over-
sized steering wheel of this or any bus, he
said, because it's where he's been for the past
22 years. Monday through Friday, starting at
6:35 a.m., Petrak chauffeurs students around
campus, from the Hub, past Fraternity Row to
the O'Connell Center and back again.
He's happy to do it, he said, because he
gets know the students and talk to the few
who care to talk to him.
In a khaki RTS hat and uniform navy shirt,
Petrak flashes a smile at riders in the front
seats. With just a few yellowed teeth on the
bottom row of his mouth, he lisps greetings.
"I don't have any teeth," he declares when
a girl asks him to repeat what he said.
"You probably have trouble hearing me.
The dentist pulled these teeth out," he rasps,
flashing the naked gums on the bottom row.
"They weren't no good."
Petrak said he let a dental student who
rode his bus perform the procedure at Shands
at UF.
"They have to learn how to do it somehow,
right?"
Petrak admits that his memory is a bit
fuzzy. He squints as he recalls the days before
he drove a bus, when he worked in the steel
mills of his hometown, near Pittsburgh, Pa.
"I put the steel in the furnaces," he boasted.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
William Petrak drives his RTS bus along the 125 Lakeside route on Thursday after-
noon.
"You have to put the steel in the furnaces to
heat it up. They use it to make razor blades
and buildings. Now they make all of that in
South Korea."
As he talked about the steel mill, he pointed
to the buildings near Turlington Plaza, illus-
trating what his work could have been used
for. But when the steel mills closed in the '80s,
Petrak found himself out of work. He came to
visit his parents in Florida and got a job driv-
ing trucks.
Petrak, who lives alone, says one of the
perks of his job is getting to know the students.He has a daughter and four grandchildren, but
they live in Toledo, Ohio.
He was married once, he says, but it didn't
work out. She was his high school sweetheart,
and he is reluctant to say why the marriage
crumbled.
Now alone, he spends his days circling
campus with a constantly shifting collection
of passengers. He never planned to be a bus
driver, but the job fell into his hands. While
living in with his parents near Tampa, he was
looking for work, and RTS was looking for a
driver. For a few years, he commuted an hourand a half to Gainesville, and eventually, after
his parents died, he moved.
Petrak has a house, but he thinks of it as a
work in progress. He spends much of his free
time painting and fixing it up. The rest of his
time is spent golfing, he says.
"Ocala has a lot of nice golf courses," he
says animatedly. "I try to make it out there
at least twice a month. I've made friends on
the golf course. We mostly just see each other
there."
Other than that, he's not very social. Petrak
chuckles at the thought of going out to bars
these days, but when he was younger, he was
no stranger to nightlife. Recalling those days,
he raises a big thumbs up.
Now, he's in bed most nights by 9 p.m. But
soon, his routine will change.
Next year, he looks forward to no more 5
a.m. wake-up calls and days without lunch
breaks. Next year, he plans to retire.
"In one year, I'll have the house paid off,"
he muses. "And I will be 62. At 62, you get so-
cial security. That's what I'm waiting on. See,
the same year the house is done, I'll get social
security. It was just supposed to work out that
way.
He anticipates days filled with golf, long
visits to see his grandkids, the occasional fish-
ing trip and a finished house. He says he will
miss the bus rides, but he is ready to go.
"You get tired of it," he sighs. "Not of the
job, or of the kids, but just of sitting. And driv-
ing. I'm tired of driving."
He turns the wheel and pulls up to a stop.
As he opens the door he "hellos" as the stu-
dents get on and clicks the counter as each one
passes him. After the stream of students pass,
he pulls a lever to close the door and starts to
whistle and indistinct tune. He peeks in his
rearview mirror, straightens up and drives.
UF students' music-streaming site reaches I million users
0 THE WEB SITE DEBUTED IN 2006. Sam Tarantino, CEO of Grooveshark, 2006, allows users to search for and play
came up with the company one day while more than six million songs on its Web
By JULIA JACOBO on his way to donate plasma. site, Grooveshark.com, for free.
The economics major passed by a re- For $3 a month, users can
Alligator Contributing Writer cord store with a sign that said "Buy, Sell Local upgrade to Grooveshark Pro,
or Trade CDs." He said he wanted to repli- News which has no advertisements
Grooveshark, the music-streaming cate the philosophy and apply it to digital and gives users access to
brainchild of three UF students, has more music. Grooveshark Mobile for their cell phones
than a million users -and counting. Grooveshark, which debuted in March with Windows Mobile.
The site hit the landmark on Sept. 24.
Godfather's
PIZZA
Dyslexia
Slow Reading?
Poor Comprehension?
Poor Spelling?
Years of gain inweeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesvillefor over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com4Josh Bonnain, Grooveshark spokesman
and UF senior, said the Web site gained
popularity the same way Web sites like
Facebook and YouTube did -through
natural growth.
"People either find out about these
things on their own or from other people,"
he said. "Hitting a million users was awe-
some."
cooking for experience and internship credits?
The Independent Florida Migator is looking for 2009 fall and 2010 spring interns to work
in the Promotions Department. Gain experience in event planning, newsletter copy writing, and
much more.
Candidates must: HIRING NOW
Be degree-seeking public relations student, / Have experience with Adobe InDesign,
Have excellent written/oral skills, V Have reliable transportation,
Be able to plan promotional events, / Be dependable and timely,
Be proficient with Microsoft Office, / Have a GREAT attitude!
The experience you will gain with the nation's largest student
newspaper will be invaluable! Please e-mail a complete resume withd li m ina toem cover letter to: jmooore@alligator.or , or drop off your materials at
the front desk of The Alligator office, 1105 W. University Ave. from g 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. See you soon!ATTENTION:
ith rs $299 Seeking Public Relations Majodrink purchase
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Assault charges, public urination among offenses
CRIME, from page 1
and weaving from one side of the lane to the
other, striking the curb multiple times and
nearly striking several pedestrians.
He had trouble performing field sobriety
exercises and also refused to take a breath
test, according to the police report.
McCabe, 20 at the time, lost his license for
six months, paid almost $1,000 in fines and
court costs and was put on probation for a
year. Under the terms of his probation, he was
not allowed to consume alcohol or drugs.
Earlier this year, during spring break, Mc-
Cabe was arrested again after a bar fight in
Key West. He was charged with assault after
punching the bar's bouncer repeatedly, ac-
cording to a police report.
He admitted to drinking alcohol before
the incident. As a result, McCabe was arrest-
ed again in April for violating his probation,
received another fine and more community
service.
He was also ordered to complete an anger
management course and attend weekly Alco-
holics Anonymous meetings.
Earlier this month, he was arrested once
more after attacking a man inside M & M Up-
holstery on Northwest Sixth Street, according
to a police report.
McCabe was invited into the business in
the early morning hours to use the phone be-
cause he was intoxicated and staggering in
the street, the report stated.
He asked the man who let him in if he
could buy any pain pills from him, the report
stated. The man said no and told him to call
someone for a ride.
Then McCabe punched the man in the
face, knocking him to the ground, according
to the report. The man ran out to get help and
when he returned, McCabe-who was hiding
behind a door-tried to ram him with an en-
tertainment stand.
The man stepped aside and McCabe broke
through a wooden railing on the back deck,
crushing the stand, the report stated.
After being read his rights, McCabe admit-
ted to police he had been drinking and was in
the area trying to buy pain pills because he
has a habit. He denied hitting the man or try-
ing to ram him with an entertainment stand,according to the report.
McCabe's term ends after this week's elec-
tions. He is not running for re-election. Nei-
ther McCabe nor his lawyer could be reached
for comment.
The only other member of the Senate
charged with a violent crime is Sam Lip-
shutz, of the Unite Party, who was arrested in
March for striking a man in the face, accord-
ing to police.
According to the report, his victim, who
appears to be another UF student, suffered
damage to a tooth and his bottom lip.
Lipshutz entered into a deferred prosecu-
tion agreement in May and was ordered to
pay $1,900 in restitution to the victim. His
term ends in the spring.
Another Unite Party senator, whose term
ends this fall, was arrested in February for
disorderly conduct and resisting an officer
without violence. Like many of the others
charged with crimes, he entered into a de-
ferred prosecution agreement. The agreement
ends in October.
He is one of four SG members currently
on probation or in the middle of a deferred
prosecution agreement.
Another senator was charged with us-
ing someone else's handicap parking permit
earlier this month. According to the State At-
torney's office, the senator thought he had a
condition which justified the use of a permit.
The judge dismissed the charges because he
felt being towed and appearing in court were
enough punishment.
Most of the other charges involve alcohol.In all, 15 senators, Senate candidates or
Cabinet members have been charged with
underage alcohol possession 18 times, with
three double offenders. In addition, three
members were charged with open container
violations and one with an open house party.
Jordan Johnson, Student Body president
and Unite Party member, is among those
with alcohol offenses. He was charged with
holding an open house party with underage
drinking in 2006 and, in another incident later
that year, with an open container violation
and underage alcohol possession.
"Everybody makes mistakes," Johnson
wrote in an e-mailed statement, "but I think
that these youthful indiscretions have helped
me to see the consequences that can come
with drinking. This is why some of my big-
gest policy initiatives have been focused on
decreasing related offenses like DUIs and
pushed for more personal responsibility
when it comes to drinking."
In another case, Jillian Rogers, director of
AAREST, an SG Cabinet, was charged in July
with underage alcohol possession, an open
container violation and resisting an officer
without violence. She gave her sister's name
and told the arresting officer she was 23, ac-
cording to a police report. Her sister's ID was
found in her purse.
She did not return a request for comment.
Of the current candidates running for of-
fice this week, three have criminal charges in
the county. One was nabbed for underage al-
cohol possession, one for driving with an ex-
pired license, and another for three separate
Student Government Members with Criminal Records in
> Unite Party
> SG Cabinet
> Independent
> Gator Party17
12
10
~1
> Progress Party El 0
> O&B Party o//
/>1")
(")
3CIcrimes.
In January, Unite Party candidate Kyle
Allbright was found asleep at the wheel near
P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School.
His car was running and his headlights were
on.
Nineteen at the time, he was found with
a bottle of whiskey, a bag of marijuana and
a multicolored pipe, according to a police re-
port. He was charged with underage alcohol
possession, possession of marijuana and pos-
session of drug paraphernalia.
He entered into a deferred prosecution
agreement and charges were dismissed ear-
lier this month.
He did not return a request for comment.
Though members of the Unite Party said
they would check future candidates' crimi-
nal backgrounds, it's not clear how current
senators and Cabinet officers can be removed
from office if they are arrested or convicted of
serious crimes while in office.
The Senate has an impeachment process
and Cabinet members can be asked to leave,
but there seems to be no formal way in which
SG learns about arrests, which may explain
why McCabe was able to stay in office.
Sandy Vernon, an office manager, said she
has worked in SG since 1992 and cannot re-
member a senator being removed from office
for criminal charges.
She said the office does not check the crim-
inal histories of candidates because the rules
don't mandate it.
However, she said candidates on conduct
probation with UF are ineligible to run for of-
fice or serve.
Chris Loschiavo, director of Student Con-
duct and Conflict Resolution, said his office
is responsible for notifying SG if a member is
on probation.
But, he said, if a student is arrested off
campus, his office might never deal with it.
As a result, students arrested or convicted
of crimes could continue to serve.
Loschiavo said it's up to SG to decide if it
wants to monitor the criminal records of its
members.
"If their leadership isn't representing
them in a good way then they need to come
up with a mechanism to find out about that,"
he said.
Score C!
WITH OUR EXPANDED AUDIENCE!
Advertise in the Alligator's
2009 Souvenir Homecoming Edition!
More than 60,000 people come to
Gainesville during the weekend-long
events. This is the time to promote your
business to readers who need places to
eat, celebrate, shop and sleep. Several
thousand copies are distributed along the
parade route.
Call today to secure your spot!
352-376-4482
Deadline: Friday, October 9
Run date: Friday, October 16 alligatorFGet Your Property on the Board EYE
Don't let the competition pass you by! EX A M S
(by Indpendent Optmri)Student Living Guides ' 3 Coeof
L-------J I NW th St.
- -& 39th Ave.
By advertising in the Alligator, you Near Publix
will reach over 50,000 readers who Nea r Publi
are looking for new apartments, I I EXPRESS Icondos, furniture, appliances, (352)375-6133household items and much more! > L ------
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2009
DEADLINE: October 29 t
RUN DATE: November 4
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 14
RUN DATE: January 20
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 24
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 70
Call your rep
today!
352-376-4482
alliatoDON'T DRINK & DRIVEM
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
Editorial
No Capeesh
Addition of new pizza
restaurant illogical
Just when we thought the halls of the Reitz Union couldn't
fit anymore cholesterol, Papa John's was announced to be
the latest addition to the fast food mecca last week.
We already have Taco Bell, Cheeburger Cheeburger and
Pollo Tropical in the student union. Instead of adding an-
other restaurant, Aramark might as well build a machine to
inject trans fat into students' veins. At least they wouldn't
have to pay employee wages.
Papa John's was chosen because students expressed a de-
sire for an on-campus pizza place, according to the executive
director of the Reitz Union.
However, Pollo Tropical, which was opened during Sum-
mer B, replaced Capeesh Italian Restaurant, a pizza restau-
rant that also offered healthy alternatives like salad. Now UF
is bringing another restaurant to campus that doesn't offer
any alternatives to typical fast food garbage.
Healthy Gators 2010, a coalition of students, faculty and
staff, makes creating a healthier campus its mission. Where
are they when it comes to advocating a healthy on-campus
restaurant? Under the nutrition section of their Web site, the
group offers links to programs like Weight Watchers and a
"holiday recipe book." Nowhere does the site mention that
the restaurants on the UF campus offer menu items such as
the 863-calorie TropiChop from Pollo Tropical.
It seems like Healthy Gators should focus on preventing
obesity and health-related diseases by advocating for health-
ier on-campus restaurants rather than merely offering a way
to burn off meals from Pollo and suggesting food items to eat
when school is not in session.
School Year Stretch
Thankfully we've al-ready graduated high
school.
Waking up before the
sun was tough enough. Now
President Obama and Educa-
tion Secretary Arne Duncan
want to curtail summer va-
cation in American schools.
We can see where they're
coming from. Americans
consistently score lower on
math and science tests than
students in Singapore, Tai-
wan and Japan. However,
we don't think expanding
the school year is the best
solution to bring up our stu-
dents' scores.
Expanding the school day
is a good idea. According to
trial runs in Massachusetts,
students who have math
periods extended by 10 min-
utes per day score higher on
standardized math tests than
students in other Massachu-
setts schools with regular
school days. Plus, 10 min-
utes per day isn't a whole lot
to ask.
Expanding the schoolyearseems implausible because it
would require schools to pay
teachers significantly more,
something that doesn't seem
possible given the current
economic climate.
Plus, Duncan's state-
ment to the Associated Press
about other countries' stu-
dents spending more time
in school than American stu-
dents isn't entirely accurate.
While students in the
United States spend 1,146
instructional hours in school
per year, students in Sin-
gapore, a country that con-
sistently beats out the U.S.
in math and science scores,
only spend 903 instructional
hours in school each year.
This suggests that al-
though U.S. students al-
ready spend a lot of time in
school, teachers aren't using
the time effectively.
We agree that schools
should allocate more time to
teaching math and science,
but we also think that it can
be done without shortening
summer vacation.
l the independent florida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSAllie Conti
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ay , or send them to PO Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257oi umns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Oaii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
40
VI\L 2009
\eC io L)\orktiOflS Svcv8idirg
Column
Facebookers give up rights to privacy
are we still on Facebook?
About two weeks ago, Facebook agreed to settle
a class-action lawsuit filed in August 2008 by 19 Fa-
cebook users who alleged the social networking service vio-
lated a set of privacy and consumer protection laws with its
Facebook Beacon advertising program. Under the terms of
the proposed settlement, Facebook will shut down Beacon
and contribute $9.5 million toward promoting online privacy
and safety.
This appears to be the last chapter in the story of Beacon,
which, since its implementation in November 2007, has been
a source of controversy for Facebook. With Beacon, third-
party partner companies, such as Fandango, Blockbuster and
Overstock.com, shared information about users' purchases
with Facebook, which in turn reported this information on
the News Feed.
It didn't help that Facebook handled the roll-out of Bea-
con with incredible shadiness: Beacon was initially an opt-out
program, and the first many Facebook users learned of the
program was when they saw it in action on their profiles.
Facebook waved off concerns about Beacon at first, with
one executive saying that, given enough time, users will "fall
in love" with it. But users didn't fall in love with it -espe-
cially when it seemed as if Facebook was going out of its way
to make it difficult to opt out of Beacon, and when it was dis-
covered that Beacon still tracked users' activities even if they
logged out of Facebook. In December 2007, Facebook CEO
Mark Zuckerberg apologized for the company's handling of
Beacon and said the program would be entirely opt-in.
The whole Beacon episode was a sort of watershed mo-
ment for Facebook, the moment when it became abundantly
clear that Facebook was a marketing tool that moonlit as a
social networking service rather than the other way around.
This paradigm shift is subtly reflected in other parts of
Facebook. For instance, when I first signed up for a profile in
2006, the "personal information" section -the part where
you list things like your interests, favorite music and favor-ite TV shows -was the centerpiece
of your profile. Each individual entry
was rendered as a link, so you could
see with a click who else in your net-
work and among your friends likes
1 a listening to, say, The Postal Service.
Joe Dellosa Now, this information is relegated
letters@alligator org to its own page that, for the most part,people have very little reason to look
at. If you click an entry, it runs a ge-
neric search for that term on all of Facebook; clicking "The
Postal Service" now produces a bunch of false positives, the
first of which is the profile of someone who was an industrial
engineer at the USPS. It appears the only reason the personal
information section exists is to feed marketing insights to Fa-
cebook.
And make no mistake -the information we volunteer on
Facebook is a marketer's wet dream. It's very specific infor-
mation about our interests and activities, cross-tabbed with
our age, sex, geographic location, relationship status, po-
litical and religious beliefs, sexual orientation and education
level. Many advertising folks would sell what's left of their
souls for this stuff, and we give it away for free.
I don't mean to sound too self-righteous about this -
not only do I still have a Facebook profile, I cheerfully list
that I'm interested in puns, Thai food, gay rights and Tetris.
(Which, by the way, yields some interesting targeted ads.)
And I'm not suggesting we should all shut down our pro-
files en masse. But we've put ourselves in a situation where
we put up with Facebook's privacy issues because we've be-
come dependent on the service for the maintenance of many
of our relationships. And almost assuredly, Facebook will
eventually go too far (or get boring), and we'll all jump ship.
Until then, it's important to ask if what we're getting is
worth what we're trading off.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His column appears on
Tuesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Do you have Monday's question: Should 62% YES
a hard time eating healthy on Obama increase the number of 38% NO
campus? troops in Afghanistan? 175TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Paper shouldn't give voice to hate speech
I'm confused as to why Pastor Terry Jones
was given the guest column in Monday's Al-
ligator.
While I fully embrace free speech, that does
not mean the Alligator should serve as a plat-
form for the Dove World Outreach Center to
spread its homophobic, anti-Islam message.
(This is the organization that sent children to
school wearing shirts displaying "Islam is of
the Devil" earlier in September.)
In allowing the Dove Center's senior pastor
to write a guest column, rather than a letter to
the editor, espousing such bigotry, this news-
paper only validates the group's intolerance.
I am left questioning where the Alligator
stands regarding Jones' depiction of homo-
sexuality and Islam and whether you find his
argument legitimate.
Hateful rhetoric aside, there is another rea-
son to reconsider providing the Dove World
Outreach Center use of this newspaper for its
own purposes in the future.
Former members of the church have ac-
cused Jones and his wife Sylvia, also a pastor,
of exploiting the volunteer labor of church
members, who work long, unpaid hours forthe Joneses' for-profit eBay busi
Company LLC, righthere inGaine
over, the Joneses are accused o
and manipulative behavior that s
cult-like. I'm sorry to say I purcha
through this company before I I
about them.
Please do not continue to give
"church" in the privileged space
column. The Dove World Outr
only hurts our local community i
than one.
Guest column gives bad name
I feel something must be said
Terry Jones' guest column.
I am not religious by any meat
always respected all religions. E
religion has never meant anyth
see how it can be hope for some a
force to do good in the world. I
this made religion a worthy thing
Lately, I am starting to see t
ligions, which were meant to b
gathering of people with the samiess, TS and morphing into competitive, discriminatory
sville. More- and overall disrespectful entities. Every time I
f controlling see articles like this one or like the article about
ounds eerily the "Islam is of the Devil" shirts, I lose more
sed furniture and more respect for Christianity.
earned more I can't even believe the degree of closed-
mindedness and discrimination in these ar-
voice to this tiles.
of the guest Especially the part about America being a
each Center Christian nation.
ri more ways I guess I missed the fine print where it said
that the land of opportunity and freedom only
Toni Williams applied to heterosexual, pro-life Christians.
5LS It's funny, because I thought there was some-
thing that was supposed to separate church
to religion from state, but I guess not.
about Pastor To those Christians out there with these
ideas who are afraid to speak out: Please do
s, but I have everyone a favor and continue to be afraid and
.ven though be quiet, because you are just bringing down
ing to me, I your religion.
nd a driving And to the Christians who don't have these
thought that ideas: I am sorry you are lumped into this cat-
to have. egory.
hat some re-
e a peaceful
e beliefs, areRoya Darioosh
4EGU U U
Transparency will boost participation
I was extremely satisfied to read the Al-
ligator's endorsement of the Progress Party
Monday after all of their actions surround-
ing transparency. When I was on Turlington
Plaza last Thursday, I got to see the Progress
Party candidates sign a pledge to put their
voting records online.
It's incredible to see candidates taking
this step that Progress senators already took
at the start of their term last spring.
Apathy toward Student Government is
really a product of most students having no
idea who their representatives are. By releas-
ing their full Senate records on their Web
site, the Progress Party is actively working
to bridge that gap.
It's encouraging to see the Alligator rec-
ognize how vital the real transparency of the
Progress Party is to greater participation in
SG.
Justin Wooten
4LS
Guest column
Dove World Outre
ig Brother is watching."
Or, should I say, Pastor Terry Jones is preying
-preying on young, pure-minded individuals
and on adults all around to further his radical claims and per-
petuate a fear-based cause.
Just as radical Muslims make Islam seem like a radical
religion, Jones makes Christianity seem like a largely radical
religion. His following, the Dove World Outreach Center, has
not been using the honey approach to win converts, but rather
a distorted and mutilated fire-and-brimstone approach that
alienates those who see through the faulty logic and incendi-
ary devices the Center (not called a church, oddly enough) em-
ploys.
Accusing anyone or anything of being "of the devil" is a
pretty serious claim, and Jones just doesn't have enough cred-
ibility to back his assertion up. This pastor seems to miss the
fact that Islam and Christianity are closely tied by Abraham
and his sons, Isaac and Ishmael. Thus, Christianity and Islam
are basically first cousins. Though their contemporary appear-
ances are different, their origin and central tenets are essentiallyach Center radicalizes Christian faith
Alexander the same.
Salamanca Making an appeal to patriotism, the
Speaking Out protesters held American flags and er-
roneously claimed to support the views
of the United States. Though Jones is
right that the U.S. is a mostly Christian nation, he's wrong that
it needs to stay a Christian nation. He somehow seems to have
overlooked that the pilgrims' purpose for coming was for re-
ligious freedom. Although founding (not basing) the nation
"under God," our founders clearly sought an acceptance of all,
regardless of race, religion, creed and so on.
Though he claims to express the opinion of the Bible and
Jesus Christ, all Jones is doing is slandering a belief system and
committing a fallacy by claiming that a few radicals (the ter-
rorists and suicide bombers) can account for a religion with
more than 1.5 billion, or more than 22 percent of the popula-
tion, adherents worldwide. Most Muslims recognize no com-
mandment in the Koran supporting the terrorists' actions.
Furthermore, religious extremists claiming diving support for
their actions is not unique to Islam, but has happened beforewith Divine Right and during the Crusades and the Protestant-
Catholic controversy in Northern Ireland.
We all agree that the Center and its members have the right
to protest, but I'm pretty sure it's against man's and God's law
to indoctrinate children and distort their ideologies, turning
them into walking zombies repeating only what the Center
advocates and not thinking for themselves. Also, I'm pretty
sure the First Amendment doesn't protect against incendiary
speech, nor fighting words, nor slander and that the Center is
undoubtedly showing actual malice.
So, as a note to Jones, the Center, and his devotees following
his doomsday scenarios: Please, stop now, before we need to
have another civil rights movement. It seems we are slipping
back against our central tenet of religious tolerance into the
shadowy depths of bigotry and fanaticism. If we don't correct
ourselves, I suppose it all comes back to it: "War is Peace. Free-
dom is Slavery. Ignorance is Strength."
Oh, and Brainwashing is Education. Bigotry is Tolerance.
Radicalism is Moralism.
Alexander Salananca is a psychology and political science junior.
P OVER THlE MP Ei tLE I& WoIp SPECIAL$!
FALL 2009
(ALL YOUR ALLIGATOR
REPRESENTATIVE TODAY AT
Run an ad within 5 publishin 376-4482
days of another and receive the
following discounts:
1st ad: Normal Rate
2nd ad: 15% discount
3rd ad: 20% discount
4th ad: 25% discount
5th ad: 25%discount 
-all gatorGENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS P A D "425% OFF any one GNC Product I YARGLARANTE
Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer -00
b4 3914 SW Archer Rd I IBte lz ebr~Sur
onl aa at Nlaz ton 4-t-er laz Newberry Square
Daily S ecials 377-6020 Exp 9/30/09 ri CII 335-1232 332-3937
- deLiciEs .Ld
Apresrption zoith side effects Jou 7vant.Rep Wt lie11/ ! ) Fl, l0; Ugp
GI Moto#4car~q
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Student Discounts Available All Insurance Claims Welcomed
33 SE 13th Road www.GT--motorcars.com 371-0215
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
ON CAMPUS
Foundation loans antique violins to music students
By ANDREW WYZAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dr. James Robert Cade had so much joy in music he want-
ed to share it with everyone.
In the spirit of the late Dr. Cade, the inventor of Gatorade,
The Cade Museum Foundation is loaning 30 antique violins
and violas from Cade's personal collection to students en-
rolled in the UF School of Music.
"My dad was a big collector of violins," said Phoebe Cade
Miles, his daughter and creator of the foundation. "It would
be a shame to disassemble such a collection."
Miles grew up playing chamber music with her father. She
played the piano while he played the violin.
"We often played Beethoven's Romance and his Spring
Sonata," she said.
Cade left a large collection of antique violins and violas,
which were of German and Italian make, to his family upon
his death, which are now overseen by the Cade Museum
Foundation. The oldest violin dates back to 1661.
"We choose which students to receive an instrument based
on recommendations from their professors," said Cheryl
Fisher, executive assistant to Phoebe Cade Miles. Once the
students were chosen, they were allowed to choose their own
instrument from the collection.
Fisher said students who accept an instrument have to
play three public concerts during the year. Most of these con-
certs will be performed at the new Shands Cancer Hospital,
as part of a program called "Shands Arts in Medicine."
Julie Nelson, a music education junior, was one of the first
to receive an instrument, a violin that dates back to 1786. Nel-
son will be performing at her junior recital with the violin.
"I am very thankful and excited for the opportunity to
play on such a high-quality instrument," she said. "My violin Courtesy of UF College of Fine Arts, Andy Howard
is new so it doesn't have the same rich quality of sound as an UF music students sit with Janna Lower, professor of violin (second from right), and Phoebe Cade Miles (right), holding
old violin." antique instruments loaned by the Cade Museum Foundation.
Student-owned company delivers booze, party supplies
Menu also includes tobacco products, bagels, gum
By DEREK GILLIAM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Put down the keys, Gators. The beer is
coming to you.
The Beer Delivery Guys, whose store
is located at 18 SW First Ave., delivers
beer and other party supplies to people in
Gainesville from 5 p.m. to 2 a.m. Monday
through Saturday. Delivery is available un-
til 45 minutes before home football games.
Marketing senior Kevin Ruiz said he
came up with the idea because he knows
people with a history of driving under theinfluence.
For the cost of the items plus a $5 deliv-
ery fee, The Beer Delivery Guys will deliver
party supplies within an hour.
Their menu includes beer in any quan-
tity from kegs to four packs, wine, cham-
pagne, sake, energy drinks, cigarettes, ci-
gars, smokeless tobacco, hookahs, plastic
cups, taps, condoms, gum, chocolate and
bagels.
"I saw an opportunity to provide a ser-
vice that no one else in Gainesville was
providing that at the same time makes the
streets safer for everyone," Ruiz said.
The service offers about 100 beers, in-cluding organic beers and Lambic beers
brewed with wild yeast from Belgium that
makes every batch taste slightly different.
Ruiz said that his inventory is expand-
ing and he would love to hear from poten-
tial customers about their pref-
Student erences.
"If you give me a 48-hour
notice, I can get any keg from
Sweetwater 420 Extra Pale Ale to BouncZ
Energy Drink," Ruiz said.
Will Bridges, an economics senior, said
he's been at parties when the refreshments
ran out and no one was in a position to
drive."When the beer runs out, there is alwaysone guy who is collecting money in a hat to
keep the party going who definitely should
not be driving," Bridges said. "Partying
just got safer."
Ruiz made it clear that The Beer Delivery
Guys don't support underage drinking.
'We train our drivers to spot fake IDs.
You look for differences in eye color, height,
hairline and jawline," he said.
Every order requires the signature and
driver's license number of the purchaser.
"I have one rule for my employees -if
you sell to underage buyers, you will no
longer work for this company," Ruiz said.
The Beer Delivery Guys can be reached
at 352-505-0045.
The CARD act prohibits lenders from enticing students with predatory practices
CREDIT, from page l
USA Credit Union in Gainesville.
"A lot of people are using their credit cards to get by
and pay their bills because they just lost a job," Acaron
said.
In the tumultuous economic environment, Campus
USA offers a student-friendly alternative that considers a
range of factors apart from credit scores and employment
income.
"I don't know if people understand how important
[credit] is," she said.
"It takes just a little bit to hurt it and so much to fix
it."
According to the Counsel of Economic Education,
mounting credit card debt trumps all other reasons for
why students drop out of college.
Some students rely on credit cards to purchase expen-
sive necessities.
UF falls in this swipe-happy camp.
Lynne Vaughan, director of bookstores at UF, said stu-
dents without financial aid primarily use credit to pur-chase textbooks.
While some see burden on the horizon, others expect
gain.
Companies like nFinanSe, a publicly traded financial
services provider based in Tampa, specialize in reload-
able prepaid cards.
"In this day and age, there is a plastic gap. You
need plastic to shop online, rent movies, place
an order."
Clare Morgan
Vice president of marketing for nFinanSe
The company looks to fill the credit card void with a
product that doesn't include overdraft fees or charge in-
terest.
The card is free to college students who apply online.
"In this day and age, there is a plastic gap," said Clare
Morgan, the vice president of marketing for nFinanSe.
"You need plastic to shop online, rent movies, place an
order."
"Who wants to walk around with a wad of cash?"Unlike credit or debit, an nFinanSe prepaid card isn't
connected to a bank account and charges a monthly usage
fee of $2.95.
It teams with the Discover Card network, which means
users can add funds at more than 72,000 locations nation-
wide.
Morgan said her company's younger target market is
more savvy with money now.
She said she isn't sure whether Americans as a whole
will continue to over-consume.
"I don't have a crystal ball," she said. "I wish I did. I
would like to think we have all learned our lesson."
The law will force credit providers to issue 45-day
advanced notices of rate changes, limit interest hikes on
existing balances and prevent solicitation to those under
21.
Congress suggests that universities require marketers
to alert the school when conducting on-campus registra-
tion.
The law will also require companies offering free credit
reports to say in ads that consumers can get to one report
from each federal credit bureau per year.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-12 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer,
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 10-9-20-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
Univ Terr Gville 3921 SW 34th st 1 st fIr 4bd
/4ba, cent A/C, cable, W/D, full kitch, Sept
rent free! $300/mo/ea, $25/person finders
fee, owner/manager/gville. Immed occupan-
cy. Non-students welcome. 352-472-9778
10-5-09-10-1
*******ROOM IN 2/1 APT******
Newly furnished smokers welcome kitchen$369 all inclusive 4/4 priveledges, utils & parking incl. Nice area,
$489 all inclusive 2/2 convenient to downtown, 1 blk off University
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites Ave. $1 10/wk +$110 sec dep. Inq 817-7054
New Furn*42" Flat Screen 9-30-09-5-1
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1 For RentF unfurnishedThe *
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1iBR apt. $375/mo.
at SaBta F BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
Walk to Santa Fe College! mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us! *LYONS SPECIAL*
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's! $99 1st month's rent 377-8797
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet 12-9-09-75-2
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning! 2 3's SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com 1 2,$509 2BR $79 3BR $775
12-9-75-1 HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1Bus Stop Pools Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1s available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Garages Available!
Enormous Screened Patio!
$266-$1092
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
P OLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
*379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Poo
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499- i150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 *1216SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
9-30-09-66-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neigh-
borhood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood
floors, fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $1000/
mo. $30/mo ontime discount. 773-407-
1774. 10-20-09-41-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
53-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
For Rent or Rent For Rent W For Rent For Rent
wished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
47-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-2-09-46-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
39-2
FREAKS! Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI
3BD/1.5BA Central heat/air. On street park-
ing, fenced yard, w/d hookups. Walk down-
town & bike/bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st,
last $500 dep Call 373-6551 9-29-38-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
35-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-28-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-33-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-33-2CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
33-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
9-30-09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com-
9-30-09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Ashton Square 6933 W. University Ave.
333-1120 2 and 3 BR Villas $616-$708
Tower Rd/Newberry Rd
Huge 2 and 3 BR Apartments!
Washer/dryer hook ups
Reduced rates include 2 months free!
$200 AMEX Card
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
9-30-09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
9-30-09-45-2No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sundowne Villas 3600 Windmeadow Blvd.
377-2596 Studio's $391 * 1 br/1 bth $432
Reduced rates include 2 months free!
Immediate Availability!
Walk to Butler Plaza and Regal Cinema!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com-
9-30-09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1lbth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com-
9-30-09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Courtney Greens 3715 SW 20th Ave
375-3077 Totally Renovated * 1br/1lbth
All New* $535 (includes 2 months free!)
$600 AMEX Card Tanning Salon,
Computer Center, Fitness Room
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
9-30-09-45-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
**applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
9-30-09-45-2
$99 Moves You In!
1 1 w/den, 2 & 3 Bedroom
Call About Two Months
FREE RENT
352-331-2966
Rent start at $750.00
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
9-30-09-21-2
0 a ED 01 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-331-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA The Oaks Condo by Oaks Mall.
$650, screened-in porch, W/D, community
pool & gym, water & trash included. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 10-26-
09-40-2
2BR1.5BA townhouse for rent near UF,
Shands, VA. W/D hook-ups, fireplace, en-
closed backyard. $900/mo +. 904-524-3063
9-30-09-18-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-15-2
P
P
r
TWe Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking,dog walk area,quiet
1.5miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuycarroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2
*Spacious new 2BR/2.5BA Townhouse near
UF. Apple. AC/Heat, Alarm Sys. Internet for
only $875/m @ 885 NW 21st Ave. Call 954-
805-7827 or 561-912-6223,
dennismiller@tycoint.com* 9-30-09-11-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
$599. 1 BR w/ large study, Washer/Dryer
provided;upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet,
prefer grad student or professional; green-
space, parking, close to UF/downtown 1822
NW 10th St 352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
'7
4Te
V
e"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"L so a 1% 0 a I
S 4W 41-
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
For Rent For Rent For Rent FurishsnRoommates Fwrnas isO F nfurnishe~dj unfurnished ]a l unfurnished Romts1
4BR/2Bath condo only two blocks from UF.
Rent includes all utilities, cable tv and inter-
net, pool, laundry room, bbq/picnic area, on
bus stop. Great deal at $1,500/mo. 352-378-
4626 / 262-4290. 10-1-09-11-2
HOUSE avail now. 4BR/2BA, 1.5 mis to UF,
near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte. Bike
to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent H/
AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1000/mo. Call 376-
6183 or 327-2931 10-1-09-10-2
Large 2BR/2BA gated golf community condo
end unit with garage. Enclosed porch/alarm
system/appl/washer/dryer. Lg.TV, queen
beds avail. at no cost. The Greens $800, call
352-262-3746 10-19-09-21-2
AVAILABLE NOW 2BR/1BA CTL heat/Air
W/D Hookups, Fridge, Stove, Dishwasher
and Icemaker $600/mo first and last $300
sec. 1523 NW 7th St. Gainesville, FL Phone
352-376-0071 or 352-494-4598 10-5-09-
10-2
3/2 House $700 per month! Carport, dish-
washer, washer/dryer hookups, lots of living
space, screened porch, lot backs up to Lolby
Park. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals@campusrealtygroup.com 10-12-
09-15-2
2BR/2BA Condo in Woodside Villa-$800
7200 SW 8th Ave Unit #B
Contact: email leedooley@hotmail.com or
lafontant@ou.edu 9-29-09-5-2
New Condo for rent. 2 bedrooms/2.5 baths.
Granite countertops, tile floor, and spacious
garage. Quite/Safe neighborhood minutes
from UF campus. Great location. Luxurious
college living at reasonable price, please call
Bosshardt reality at 352-371-2118 ext 403
10-6-09-10-2
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
10-6-09-5-2
I OST NANTE
Mark Joseph
Justice
White Male
(DOB 04/25/88); 5'07",
165 Ibs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Violation of Probation for
Possession of A Controlled
Substance Without A Prescription
and Reckless Driving
ALACNUA C COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOPHISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA, 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D. Great location -508 NE 4th
Ave. Available now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
10-6-09-10-2
4 bed/2 bath new house convenient to UF
or Shands, quiet neighborhood, washer and
dryer,dish washer,$1,200, beautiful kitchen
with real wood cabinets open to livingroom
anitaanupriya@yahoo.com 386 462 7881
9-30-09-5-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 10-9-12-2
2BR/1BA HOUSE + 1BR/1BA in-law apt.
Bike to UF. Cent H/AC, tile, Pergo, W/D hk-
up. Corner lot. Large yard. Pets ok. $850/mo.
Call 813-625-2843 9-30-09-5-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 9-30-09-15-2
Kensington North 2/2.5 -Brand New Floors!
Available Immediately.W/D.Only 10-15 min.
bus to campus. Includes Utilities & Ethernet
$900/mo Only $500 security. Pets welcome.
Please call #561.251.5425 9-30-09-5-2
2 BR 1.5 BA Townhouse.
Tile floors downstairs & carpet upstairs, new
appliances, master bedroom overlooks a
large pond. Mill Run subdivision- $700/mo.
Call 871-7801 10-2-09-5-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Tiled floor in liv area
Carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans All new
bath New Kit w/stainless appl W/D Cent H/A
Internet/cable avail Near bus rte $685/mo
Call 727-423-9463 10-8-09-8-2
Treehouse Village 2/2, new crpt/vinyl, many
amenities, close to UF, 1 mo free! $650/mo.
109-Q301 SE 16th Ave
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Tiffany 2/2, Irg mstr bdrm, w/d, w/in clsts,
scrnd prch, near bus stop on Glen Spgs Rd
3059 NW 28 Circle. $700/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Whispering Pines 2/2, on UF bus routes, wd,
ask about special, 3443 SW 24th St. $800/
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Monticello 3/3.5, fresh paint, community
amenities, 3 parking spaces, 1700+ sq ft,
522 NW 50th Blvd, $1100/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-24BR/2BA HOUSE
Great open living area, fenced backyard,
W/D, close to UF & downtown. Pets ok.
$1000/mo. Contact 352-672-1767 10-5-09-
5-2
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
10-7-09-10-4
Townhome to share. 1BR/pvt BA in
2BR/2.5BA, minutes from UF & Archer shop-
ping. Clean & private. Fenced patio. $350/mo
+ 1/2 utils. Available Oct 1st. Call 850-209-
2783 10-5-09-5-4
Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone. Furn rm
avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo or $100/
wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc avail.
Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to vacate.
Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 10-5-5-4
Now you can easily Real Estate
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
right thru our website! CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-1-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male preferred. Share 4BR/4BA Countryside
condo. Own bathroom, W/D, hi-speed in-
ternet, on bus rte. Utils included. $400/mo.
863-634-1893. Available immediately. 10-
8-09-35-4
Grad student seeking two female roommates
(NS/ND) to share a new 4/2 house in a quiet
neighborhood 3 mi. W of 1-75. With cable,
internet & security alarm. 475/mo., util. incl.
Please call 352-331-8794. Rooms are avail-
able immediately. 9-30-20-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house, great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
9-30-09-15-4
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 395/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930
9-29-09-5-4
Townhome to share. 1BR/pvt BA in 2BR/2BA,
minutes from UF & Archer shopping. Clean &
private. Large fenced backyard. Small pet al-
lowed. $375/mo + 1/2 utils. 800-248-7788 or
727-385-6742 9-30-09-5-4
ARE YOU THE ONE? At Ford Motor Company, we
are dedicated to designing, manufacturing and selling
high-quality vehicles. We know that our employees
are the driving force behind our success. That is why
it is so important to us that our programs, policies and
employment practices recognize the diverse needs of
all of our employees.
Career Showcase -Stephen C O'connell Center
9/29 for Marketing, Sales and Service
9/30 for Manufacturing and Product Development
I We welcome you to find out what it means to be THE
ONE and discover an automaker that thinks
DI SCOVERIE about more than just cars. View a complete
WHAT IT MEANS TO E. THEng o available opportunities and apply
online at www.careers.ford.com
4 By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity
Employer committed to a culturally diverse
workforce.
Follow us on facebook www.facebook.com/
FordMotorCompanyCareers
www.careers.ford.com Ford Motor Companybuyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
U17oputers
CASH PAID: Laptops Cameras Cells
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
COMIPUTERS
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
z Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now? Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
12, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
L For Sale Autos Help Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
Homes Available for Immediate Occupancy.
Low Payments! $99 Deposit!
Call Today! 352-378-4411
9-30-09-21-10
A Brand New Amazon Kindle 2 (latest
Generation) wireless E-book reader for sale,
$275. Holds over 1,500 books and Over
350,000 books available. More features see
Amazon.com. Call 352-214-4127. John 10-
6-09-6-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
**Www.BuyMyScooter.com**
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
S F IAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!0
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
9-30-09-10-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
WFWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
*
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 10-9-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 10-
9-09-74-13
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-13
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetingsthe independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-30-09-20-
14
BOOKKEEPER/RECEPTION 1ST!
ASSISTANT
FT for Law Office. EXP in QB, with A/P, A/R
& trust accts. Client intake skills a must.
Email resume to: lisa@striplinglawfirm.com.
10-12-09-30-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14HOUSEKEEPER 12 HRS/WK.
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES.
RESPOND TO
seekinghousekeeper.clean@gmail.com
9-29-09-10-14
Looking for front desk/medical asst. Busy
medical office looking for receptionist &/
or medical asst to help in front desk duties
answering phones & scheduling appts, as-
sist physician w/charting of patient infor. HS
diploma reqd, med terminology in anatomy &
physiology pref. Flex hrs, PT/FT avail. Salary
neg. Fax resume to 352-377-4816 or email
jere.scola@gmail.com 10-9-09-15-14
Mandarin speaking childcare helper needed
for part-time help in private home. Please
contact (352)219-8104. 10-5-09-10-14
PT- Lead generation, work from your loca-
tion, day & evening options. Hourly rate plus
bonuses. Includes paid training. Prefer some
phone experience, but not required.
Call 450-1737- 24 hour info line. 10-6-09-
10-14
SOFTWARE -Hypercube, Inc. (www.hyper
com) has local part-time jobs for energetic,
capable students interested in making con-
tributions to a well-know international soft-
ware company. Knowledge of Computer
Science, Chemistry, or Business is essential.
Resumes to employment@hyper.com 9-20-
09-5-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
P/T Hotel Front Desk Employee needed.
M,W,F 7AM to 3PM. Cabot Lodge 3726 SW
40th Blvd. 375-2400 10-8-10-14
JUvLitId mra
a.
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
J Help Wanted Services 7 services Services Connections
HIRING EXPERIENCED KITCHEN HELP,
WAIT STAFF & HOSTESSES.
Apply in person 39th Ave by Santa Fe & NW
10th Place off Newberry Rd.
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT 10-
8-09-10-14
Running computer software and office ad-
min support work for ocean wave analy-
sis. Will train. $15/hr 20 to 30 hrs/week.
waves.job@gmail.com 10-5-09-7-14
Giggle Magazine ad sales reps
needed for local parenting mag
100% commission flexible hrs
check us out www.gigglemag.com
send resume sirving811@yahoo.com
10-2-09-5-14
Editor needed for final fiction manuscript.
Need final editing for mechanics, formatting
and line-editing. Credentials and experience
required. Contact Dr. Blue at bethanne@ufl.
edu. 9-30-09-2-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
* 6 v W 0 f 0EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
4W .0040.- 6 0
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
a e
II
m
asT-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
EZ TENNIS
352-372-2257 9-30-17-15
STRINGING -Best machines in town. Huge
selection of strings -Ready in 24 hrs or free.
The same day service available and/or 1
hour. It is the EZ Thing 372-2257 9-30-
17-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
Oak Glade Apts Its about 2 mins away from
Archer Rd 1BR 1BA Monthly Rent is $515.00
Please contact me to make leasing arrange-
ments 352-262-1860 9-30-10-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-7-
15-15
FULL HORSE BOARD
Stalls, paddocks, pasture. Reasonable. West
of 175. Alachua. 386-462-3479 10-2-09-5-
15
From BRAZIL and NEW YORK- I have all
new trends for hair-DRY CUTS SAHAG
STYLE- BRAZILIAN KERATIN treat. NO
MORE FRIZZ HAIR-by CONCY STIMAC-
call(352)514-0957-1 0%off with this add
10-19-20-15Talk to a Professional Listener about your
situation. $80 per 50-minute consultation.
Call 877-234-6827. Mention this ad for $15
discount! 9-29-09-5-15
TENNIS LESSONS!! with an experienced
instructor. Cheap private/group lessons.
No equipment needed. It's never too late to
learn! Call 618.203.2721. 9-30-09-5-15
BROWN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
New Construction, Build & Remodel Homes,
Repair Roofs, Additions. Quality Work -
Affordable Rates. Certified GC. Lic/Ins. 352-
871-9600 or demetriusbrownsr@gmail.com
9-30-5-15
For thorough and dependable cleanings for
your home, office, or apartment please call
J & B Cleaning (352) 278-8571
10-15-09-14-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
MF Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
QEvent Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Race for Grace 5k Run/Walk Event
Saturday, Oct. 10th
Westside Park (1001 NW 34th St)
Registration 7:30am race begins at 8:00am
http://raceforgrace5k.eventbrite.com/ 10-
6-09-7-20
Gainesville SCUBA Club
Come to our first meeting Wednesday,
October 21 7:00pm at Water World
Go to www.gainesvillescubaclub.com for
more info 10-20-09-16-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. M -R, October 5-8 from
5:00 -7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W;
Math sessions are T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register. 10-5-5-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Bring any lower price u-find on any racket,
EZ Tennis will match & beat that price. And
yes, including e-bay buy it now. Please bring
the print-out. 372-2257 9-30-17-21
W ZTickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOINGUniversity Opticians FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 10-14-09-
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480 28-22
12-9-09-75-18
r7 1 2Rides
L.L.I LI' I'I.
352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
FREE OVERGRIP with any stringing. Free
can of balls with purchase $20+. Lowest
prices on everything we sell. Where? At EZ
Tennis 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order any squash racket, check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. If any store can go lower, EZ 10-s can
go lower 352-372-2257 9-30-17-18
B-4-U buy or order badminton rackets check
out EZ Tennis for the lowest price in the
world. Yes, we will match & beat any lower
price. 372-2257 9-30-17-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.com
10-20-09-30-18GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
WEZ eYD
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.,
Sports
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
"Fencing response" key indicator of concussion
St
Harni
UF quarterback Tim Tebow fell to the ground with both arms raised in an L-shape after the th
knocked him out of the game. The involuntary arm movement is a sign of a concussion.
Hit exposes Tebow as mortal
T im Tebow fooled us.Through all the amazing plays
and bone-crushing hits he always
walked away. He always got up.
At least on some level, we all came to
believe that he really was Superman. That
his greatness would pull him through no
matter what.
It's hard to describe the eerie silence
that followed Taylor Wyndham's hit Sat-
urday night in Lexington.
The collective gasp that followed was
almost more disbelief than concern. It
didn't seem real.
Seeing Tebow lay their motionless
on the ground took something away. It
robbed him of his immortality.
For as different as he is with a football
in his hands, in the back of an ambulance
he was just like everyone else.
Urban Meyer was visibly shaken upMike
DiFerdinando
Beg to DiFer
mdiferdinando@alligator orgduring his post-
game press con-
ference. He talks
about Tebow being
like his son, and
it's hard to imagine
this won't affect the
way Meyer uses
him in the future.
How many
third-and-i runs
up the middle are worth the risk? How
many carries are enough?
Tebow has carried the ball 530 times
for the Gators. That's more rushing at-
tempts than running backs Jeff Demps,
Chris Rainey and Emmanuel Moody
have combined (376) in their careers.
LSU's Charles Scott (351) hasn't car-
ried it as much as Tebow, and neither
SEE DIFER, PAGE 15* DR. JONATHAN LIFSHITZ, A UK RESEARCHER,
PUBLISHED A STUDYABOUT THE ARM MOVEMENT.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
Plenty of uncertainty surrounded Florida quarterback
Tim Tebow's status after he was sacked and injured Saturday
against Kentucky, but Dr. Jonathan Lifshitz didn't have to wait
for commentators to tell him Tebow had suffered a concussion.
Dr. Lifshitz, an assistant professor at UK's Spinal Cord and
Brain Injury Research Center, recently published a study de-
scribing "The Fencing Response," an involuntary arm move-
ment brought on by impact to the brain that causes a concus-
sion.
After Tebow's head collided with offensive lineman Marcus
Gilbert's knee, he fell to the ground with both arms raised in an
L-shape resembling the en garde position in fencing.
Lifshitz saw the response on television from his Lexington
home, and he couldn't believe his eyes.
"I saw it, and it took my breath away," Lifshitz said. "How
could it be the No. 1 quarterback at our home field that's show-
ing this so clearly? Immediately, most of my lab members were
calling me asking if I saw it. I agreed that it was, but I think I was
doubting it because of the craziness of the circumstances."
Lifshitz hopes that his research will help athletes get the at-
tention they need after head impacts by providing an easy indi-
cator of a concussion.
After noticing the trend, Lifshitz and his research partners
examined clips on YouTube.com to see how prevalent fenc-
ing was. They watched football hits and knockouts in boxing
son Diamond / Alligator Staff and mixed martial arts that they knew resulted in concussions,
ird-quarter sack that and of the 35 they viewed, two-thirds of the concussion victims
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 15
UF FOOTBALL
Addazio shoulders blame
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@a lligator org
Offensive coordinator Steve Addazio
said Monday that he deserves all the blame
for the third-quarter play that resulted in
Tim Tebow suffering a concussion.
There has been much discussion in the
days following Florida's 41-7 win regard-
ing Taylor Wyndham's third-quarter sack
that left Tebow motionless on the ground
and what was supposed to happen on the
play.
Wyndham ran unblocked off the left
side of the line of scrimmage, but Add-
azio said that was due to a bad protection
scheme rather than a missed block.
"No, it's not a missed assignment.
That's not the case at all," Addazio said.
"(For) every protection there's an answer,
and sometimes you get something you're
not supposed to get.
"There's a lot of factors that go into ev-
ery play. There's little pieces that are veryfragile here that have to happen, but every-
one kinda did what they were supposed
to do. I think ultimately on that play right
there, where everything didn't exactly go
to plan, it should go on one guy's shoul-
ders -mine. That's it. No one else's. .It's
not on any player. I've gotta be in a better
scheme."
"There's a lot of factors that
go into every play. There's little
pieces that are very fragile here
that have to happen, but every-
one kinda did what they were
supposed to do."
Steve Addazio
UF offensive coordinator
Offensive lineman Maurkice Pouncey
said after the game Tebow was supposed
to roll to the right and get rid of the ball
SEE NOTES, PAGE 15
UF FOOTBALL NEWS
E The Florida-LSU game has been
set for 8 p.m on Oct. 10 in Baton
Rouge, La., and will be televised by
CBS as the second half of a double-
header after Tennessee-Georgia.alligatorSports Podeast
* Kyle Maistri, Mike McCall and Mike DiFer-
dinando join host Adam Berry on an "ill" new
episode. The crew talks about their trip to
UK and the hit that knocked Tim Tebow out
of the game. Check it out on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH KYLE MAISTR
E Warriors forward Stephen Jackson said he doesn't regret going into the stands
with Ron Artest back in 2004. I wonder if the guy who threw the beer that
started it all would say the same thing. .The Bucs benched Byron Leftwich in
favor of second-year backup Josh Johnson. What does that say about first-round
pick Josh Freeman? I knew vertical leap wasn't a good measurable for a QB.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
ob ms. wR AsuPrnninglon 
%
V, oukdq'r injury
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Concussion recovery time different for everyone
FOOTBALL, from page 14
showed the response.
Further tests on animals showed bleeding and dam-
age to the brain stem, and fencing can also be a precur-
sor to seizures. Players can sustain concussions without
fencing, Lifshitz said, but anyone with that reaction fol-
lowing an impact to the head needs medical care and
should be treated for a concussion.
"This is a teachable moment for other recreational and
high school sports," he said. "If someone goes down and
shows the fencing response, that person needs immedi-
ate medical attention and should not be returned to the
game. The way in which the training staff and coaches
responded to Tebow was the way it should be.
"You can imagine someone from a more rural part of
Florida playing high school football may not have that
attention, but those players need the exact same level of
care."
As for Tebow's recovery, UF coach Urban Meyer said
his quarterback can remember the play and has per-formed well during tests since his injury, and Tebow's
experience with soreness and headaches was to be ex-
pected. The key will be monitoring Tebow for any last-
ing symptoms of his concussion for the next week or so
to minimize any chance of him returning too early.
"I have no concerns about that because health-wise,
we won't play him until he's ready," Meyer said.
No one wants to suffer an injury like Tebow's, but it
couldn't have come at a better time.
The Gators' bye week will allow plen-
ty of time to observe him in a pressure-
free environment before he'd need to
Footba II return to practice before the Oct. 10 tripto LSU.
"The issue with concussions is that
nobody knows," Lifshitz said. "Everyone is unique and
responds to them differently. Tebow is a young, healthy
athlete, so he'll respond much better than an overweight,
middle-aged person.
"The fact that he's an athlete is good, but a concus-
sion is still a concussion."
UK's Brooks calls Meyer to check on Tebow
NOTES, from page 14
quickly. Addazio admitted Monday
there were some timing errors on the
play and said Tebow moving out of
the pocket is one potential option of
the play depending on the defensive
scheme.
"There's a fine line based on what
pressure might come -for the de-
fense and for the offense," Addazio
said. "There's a risk and a reward.
We've been in this protection for
five years."
BROOKS ON THE LINE: Coach Ur-
ban Meyer said Kentucky coachRich Brooks called Meyer to follow
up after Tebow's tough hit Satur-
day night.
"On behalf of his team and his
staff, he just wanted to check on
Tim," Meyer said.
"You talk about
first-class people.
I've been to some
hospitals in my
life, I've never
seen anything
like what they
Brooks did."
FINE BACKUP OPTION: If Tebow
can't play at LSU on Oct. 10, Meyeris confident his backup can get the
job done.
John Brantley went 4 for 6 for
30 yards and a touchdown against
Kentucky, bouncing back from a
fumbled snap with a well-placed
completion to Riley Cooper in the
end zone.
"John actually managed the
game fairly well when he was in
there," Meyer said. "If that fumble
didn't occur, life's pretty good for
Johnny. He played pretty well."
Most of Florida's scholarship
players had the day off Monday, but
Brantleypracticed in order to receive
some more snaps m preparation for
an increased role.
DIFER, from page 14
have Arkansas' Michael Smith (314), Ten-
nessee's Montario Hardesty (362) or Au-
burn's Ben Tate (487).
Meyer is in no way to blame for what
happened against UK. It was just one of
those freak things that happens on a football
field. If Marcus Gilbert's knee doesn't end
up exactly where it did, Tebow probably
pops right back up.
No one will ever question Tebow's tough-ness. But after seeing the Heisman Trophy
winner on the ground like that, can you re-
ally go back to the way things were?
Tebow broke his leg as a high school
sophomore. He hurt his shoulder against
Kentucky in 2007 and received painkilling
injections before the final six games of that
season -an injury he aggravated again in
the 2008 season opener and played with all
of last year.
That means he got a pain-killing shot be-
fore 19 of Florida's last 20 games heading
into the 2009 season.He broke his non-throwing hand against
Florida State in Nov. 2007 and played the
Capital One Bowl against Michigan with a
protective sleeve.
In addition to the shoulder problem, he
played three games with a hyper-extended
knee and with a sprained left ankle against
Georgia in 2008.
For as much as Tebow will want to keep
playing the way he did and for as coura-
geously stubborn as he will probably be
about it, Meyer owes it to Tebow to put his
health first now.Let Tebow be Tebow when you have to.
Let him run and throw and do the impos-
sible. But when you don't have to, don't.
Let Emmanuel Moody plow into the line
on third and 1. Let Jeff Demps and Chris
Rainey run out the clock. From now on, the
fourth quarter should belong to John Brant-
ley if the game's not in doubt.
Tebow has already given this school and
the UF football program too much.
He deserves to be able to walk back out
onto Florida Field 20 years from now with-
out a limp.
16, ALLIGATOR 0 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
rn~ List of Candidate
I 1A .1 NPostion
DISTRICT
DISTRICT
DISTRICTC * C DISTRICT
DISTRICT
DISTRICT
DISTRICT
r *l D STIRCT
DISTRICT
1; mvl I\ DISTRICT
-DISTRICTi i DISTRICT
DISTRICTC DISTRICTC i 1 C DISTRICTDISTRICT
c N-!.DISTRICT
DISTRICT
I 't~ J~cDISTRICT
DISTRICT
16 16* 1 DISTRICT
DISTRICT
\Y \Y DISTRICT
DISTRICTi i DISTRICT
DISTRICT
(I) w) DISTRICT
\ DISTRICT
DISTRICT
DISTRICT
DISTRICT
C DISTRICT
DISTRICT
\ l(1] DISTRICT
hlimlDISTRICTC i DISTRICT
Beaty
\ Broward
Family Hoi
Graham
HumeY Jennings
Keys
Lakesidei C Murphree
Rawlings
l Il Reid, Yule
C [S i Tobet
y I
.~d M.
N'4a lsIndependent Progress Unite Orange and B
A Cameron A Conrad Kyle Allbrght Graham Clark
A Mark Jaskowski Christina Bonarrigo Holly Frisosky
A Keir Lamont Ashton Charles Kyle Huey
A Joe Manasa Gianvito Grieco Hae-Sun La
A Alan Chcistopher Martin Amanda Lascheid Cain Norris
A Joe Richard Summer Lubart J Pat Trnmoli
A Anthony Sabatini Carlos Arur Segovia Justin Willems
A Jesse Sherman
B Andrew James Clyde Hart Andrew Daechsel Sterling Davenport
B Chris Jacobs Garrick Harding Brandon Gagne
B Alejandro Jimenez Velez Thomas Hilton Ryan Sappenfield
B Karim Khan Emily Jones
B Kiran Mohammad Stephen Leary
B Micah S Lewis
B Jake Silvola-Finch
B TJ Villamil
C Donnell Johnson Michael Crowley Mahalia Burford Taimur Ahmed
C Jeanna Lee Rusty Hartline Christina Calderai
C Sabrina Mirtcheva Latisha Mais Karla Rowe
C Dave M Schneider Michael Oberlies Yevgen Sautin
C Kevin Seymour Mitchell Seguin Addison Vawters
C David Werner Claudia Zuluaga Trantran Xie
D Frank J Walch Ferdaouis Bagga Jennise Acosta Mallory Andrews
D Richard Blake Danisbel Avello Travis Baker
D Julia Boyd Frank Berdos Gary Benedix
D Matt Garrett Albert L Curry Jr Andrew Benson
D Steven C James Sr Sadie Dean Dominique Ferro
D Jason McLean Eric Glickman Jacob Fyda
D Seeta Rebbapragada Eric Ho Neil Gundavda
D John Story Marcus Jean Travis Hornsby
D Andrew Mason Jeremy R Lemrond
Miguel Meia Jr Ksenia Mitselmakher
Michelx Miller Joshua Niederriter
D
E
Mariel Rector
Karla Orozco
using (x2) Justin Runac Odette Rivera
Zachary R Bush
Carlos Marquez
Drew Kitchen
Matt C Janicki
Allan Brooks
Shaneel Elizabeth Myles
Chris Ceresa]a Justine M Scott
z e Alexandra de Paz
Michael Morales
pson Alexandra Bargoot
!y T J Boyd
deke Alex M Arcentales
Alan Yanuck
t
Jonathan J Ossip
Billy Owen
e, Mallory IChristopher Taylor Katle Santo Munir Valiani
EricTang Severin Walstad Casey Zych
David Fischer John P Quinn Shelley A Greenspan Kate Magill
OFFICIAL BALLOT
-UNIVERSITY
--OF FLORIDA
--STUDENT
GOVERNMENT
--ELECTION -
TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 29 & 30, 2009
INSTRUCTION&
To vale complete the arrow 4m @4
to the rvit of your choice wnm a HEAVY
BOLDUNE Ike ths 111-11
UWORTANT: USE A 02 PENCIL OR
THE MARKiNG PEN PROVIDED.
DO NOT USE RED 16K
NOTE: W YOU NME A STAKE R WTiI
YOUR IANLOT TO11Wf CICUON
OFMCAL AND OhTAN ANOTHER.
SENATE
TOLBERT1 "ole for UP 70 T 11 nel
DAVID FISCHER
INDEPENDENT
JOHN P. QUNN me
PROGEl PARTY
SHELLEY A. GREENSPAN 141
UNITE PAR"Y
KATE MAGILL 4 m
CfRAN41E AND BLUE FARTY
BAN "I VOTED" STICKERS &
OTHER INDICIA INITIATIVE
Shodd the Sdie Body Swiates be
amended to prohib Student Goverrnent
kom disoibAtq 1 Voted stckers and oherida that othemse vdcates wher an
elecix has voted or not?
YES 40 1
NO 4111 No-
