visit www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 85 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycle
Today
Sunny
52/24FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 16
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 21
AP Photo
Barack Obama, left, joined by his wife Michelle, takes the oath of office from Chief Justice John Roberts to become the 44th presi -
dent of the United States at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Tuesday, Jan. 20, 2009.
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — Before a jubilant 
crowd of more than a million, Barack 
Hussein Obama claimed his place in his-tory as America’s first black president, sum-moning a dispirited nation to unite in hope 
against the “gathering clouds and raging 
storms” of war and economic woe.
On an extraordinary day in the life of 
America, people of all colors and ages wait-ed for hours Tuesday in frigid temperatures to witness the moment as a young black man with a foreign-sounding name took command of a nation founded by slavehold-ers. It was a scene watched in fascination by 
many millions — perhaps billions — around 
the world.
“We gather because we have chosen hope 
over fear, unity of purpose over conflict and discord,” the nation’s 44th president said.
The presidency passed to Democrat 
Obama from Republican George W. Bush at noon, marking one of democracy’s greatest gifts: the peaceful transfer of power.
But a stark transfer all the same. In one of 
the new administration’s first acts, Obama ordered federal agencies to halt all pending regulations until further review — this after Bush’s final weeks raised heated debate over rushing new rules into effect on the way out the door.
Obama plunges into his new job in 
earnest on Wednesday , meeting with his 
economic team and Iraq advisers while 
Congress gives his economic revival plan a going-over and takes up the nomination of Hillary Rodham Clinton to be secretary of state. Her confirmation has been held up for now by Republican concern over the foun-dation fundraising of her husband, the for -
mer president.
The new president had been buoyant 
and relaxed through the three days of pre-in-augural festivities. But he seemed somber as he stood on the Capitol steps, placed his left Obama sworn in as 44th U.S. president
By LAUREN BAKER and
BRITTANY DAVIS 
Alligator Staff Writers 
As millions of people gathered 
in the nation’s capital to hear the 
voice of America’s new presi-
dent, about 100 students packed UF’s Orange and Brew Tuesday to celebrate the Inauguration Ceremony from afar. 
Students began camping out 
for the event around 11 a.m., stak-ing claim to the tables, couches and floor spots with a good view of the projector screen. 
The mood was festive, and 
students munched on chips and cookies while some  posed next to an Obama cardboard cut-out near the entrance.
As the room packed tight, 
backpacks littered the floor and 
attendees shed their coats and hats.  
Erin Bouldin, a 
UF professor in the 
department of epidemiology and biostatistics, said she’s hopeful for what Obama can bring to the country. 
“It’s just really exciting.  I’m 
happy,” she said.
“I think he’ll do great things, 
but even if he doesn’t,  I’m happy that we have the opportunity to feel this unity.”
Allyson Hall, a UF professor in 
the department of public health and health professions, sat on the floor near the restaurant’s stage, texting a friend in Washington, 
D.C.
Hall said she worked with 
the Obama campaign but has 
followed Obama’s journey for years. 
“This is an awesome moment,” 
UF students pack Orange and Brew for inauguration
NewsLocal
SEE PRESIDENT, PA gE 15SEE OBAMA, PA gE 15
n UF guard Nick Calathes 
(right) and the men’s 
basketball team are in the 
same position they held 
last season at this time. 
This year, they hope to fin-
ish stronger and make the 
NCAA Tournament.
See Story, Page 21.Mom says car stolen with boy inside
LONGWOOD, Fla. (AP) — A woman whose son was 
found outside a Longwood home told authorities that her 
car was stolen with the child inside it when she quickly ran back inside her house.
According to a 911 call released Monday, 24-year-old 
Julinia Moreno told emergency officials that the errand took “five seconds.” Investigators had originally said Moreno left her son in the car while she went to a party at an Altamonte Springs house.
Moreno’s son was found in the yard of a Longwood 
home. He was crying, cold and soaking wet.n Students 
are having 
a hard time 
finding jobs 
both on and 
off campus. 
See story,
Page 13.2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 85 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker,
  nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen,
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy,
  rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, Christina McGinley
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, Sarah Hsu
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 General Manager C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerFORECAST
TODAY
RAIN
71/47PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/47SUNNY
69/45SUNNY
61/34SUNNY
52/24SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.week the boy walked about a block 
to the store by himself.
“I questioned him, ‘Where is 
your mom?’” Saco said about the 
boy’s first solo visit, in which he bought snacks with cash.
Saco, who co-owns the store 
with his brother Sam, said his con-cern heightened on Monday when the boy tried to buy $40 worth of 
grocery items with his mother’s 
credit card. Saco then asked the boy if he could speak to his mother.
“Is she alive?” Saco asked the 
boy.
“She’s in a better place,” the 
boy replied, who later told Saco he’d tried to revive his mother by pushing on her chest in an appar -
ent attempt at CPR.kbjornsen@alligator.org with 
“What’s Happening” in the 
subject line.
NATIONAL
Mich. police: Boy, 8, spent 
10 days with dead mom 
ROMULUS, Mich. (AP) — 
An 8-year-old boy lived for more 
than a week with the body of his dead mother before telling a con-cerned shopkeeper his mom was 
“in a better place,” police said.
The woman, 41, apparently 
died Jan. 9 in their apartment in 
the Detroit suburb of Romulus, and the boy survived in part by eating dried rice, butter and flour, authorities said.
Police did not release the 
names of the mother and child, 
who moved from Louisiana after 
surviving Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Foul play was not suspect-ed in the woman’s death.
Lee Saco told The Associated 
Press that the boy and his mother came into Romulus Liquor regu-larly for about a year and a half. But four times during the past WHAT’S HAPPENING
“The Discursive Economy of Sex 
Trafficking in Europe”
Today, 11:45 a.m.,
Turlington 3312Join us for a discussion with Jonathan Wadley , from the Department of Political Science. The Center for European Studies Brown Bag Series. Snacks and sodas provided.
Peace CorpsApplication Workshop
Today, 5:10 – 6 p.m.The Hub, International CenterFor anyone planning to submit a Peace Corps application be-tween now and August.
Florida Alternative Breaks 
(FAB) International Water 
Conservation benefit show 
Friday, Jan. 23, 8:30 p.m.
Civic Media Center
Come for an all-acoustic act from performers Brian Flatley and Kelly Tran, Kiiks, Angela Austin and Jasper Peng, For He Who Hung the Moon and White Elephant Gift Exchange. Sliding scale donations between $5 to $8 accepted. All proceeds will 
go toward a water conservation 
service project in Belize.
Got something going on?
And want to post it in this space? Send an e-mail to 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
local
Students 
receive 
mystery
message
By Ka TIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
“The monkey got out of the 
cage.”
This mysterious phrase ap-
peared on the cell phones of UF 
students, faculty and staff in the 
form of a text message Tuesday 
night.
Sent from the five-digit phone 
number 65586, UF spokesman Steve Orlando confirmed the text came from Mobile Campus, a na-tional system UF uses to update students about campus emergen-
cies.
Mobile Campus labeled the text 
messaging blip  as “improper use” 
and locked its system to review all logs to find who sent the mes-
sage and how it was sent, Orlando 
said.
Ian Fisher, a UF law school stu-
dent said he first learned about the text through an instant message.
“My friend IM-ed me freak-
ing out, and  my roommate came in and showed me his phone,” Fischer said. “I got the text at 8:45 
p.m. on the dot.”
He thought it was scary the 
emergency system could be hacked into, he said.
UF student Kamay Lafalaise 
said she was watching presidential inauguration coverage when she 
received the text.
Lafalaise said she thinks the text 
was a racist jab against President Barack Obama. 
“I am an African-American, and 
I am offended,” she said. “I don’t want the person who did this to get away with it. It’s immature.”
Although she knew she would 
not get a reply, UF student Nancy Barker said she responded with a 
text of her own.
“I said ‘ President Obama will 
be a great leader regardless of ignorant and immature texts,’” 
Barker said.
Orlando said UF has no indica-
tion that the text was sent from the UF Alert System.
All that was known as of 
Tuesday night is that somehow the Mobile Campus system was used. There is a possibility right now 
that this incident goes beyond the 
University of Florida, he said.“I am an African-American, 
and I am offended. I don’t 
want the person who did 
this to get away with it. It’s 
immature.”
Kamay lafalaise
UF student4, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
national  CLASSES WILL BE OF -
FERED NEXT SPRING.
By CHElSEa KEEnan
Alligator Writer
Soon the DNA collected from 
hair strands will identify more 
than just human culprits thanks to a new UF departmentThe veterinary forensics pro-
gram, which was announced on Thursday, was created in order to investigate crimes made against 
animals as well as to prosecute 
those who do the crimes, accord-ing to a UF health news press re-lease. 
Dr. Bruce Goldberger, the di-
rector of the William R. Maples Center for Forensic Medicine at UF, said the university was able to pilot the new program through the $150,000 donation from the 
American Society 
for the Prevention 
of Cruelty to Animals.
Goldberger said 
forensics specialists, along with a vet from the society, have worked on the development of veterinary forensics for the past year.
“We birthed a new field here 
at UF,” he said. 
Classes for both graduate and 
undergraduate students will be offered next spring. 
Although certificate programs 
are now available to those already 
practicing veterinary medicine, 
students will eventually be able to obtain a degree in veterinary forensics. However, Goldberger said that this will take a few years to develop. 
Goldberger said that the new 
expertise that UF can now offer will help lessen the country’s problem with animal cruelty. 
“There are thousands of cases 
across the country,” he said. “We are developing the skills and tools to solve them.”
UF announces new veterinary forensics program
By nolan F oX
Alligator Contributing Writer
A historic occasion is sure to attract on-
lookers, but the word “crowd” does not 
begin to describe the masses that gathered at the National Mall on Tuesday to witness Barack Obama’s inauguration.
Walking through the area, I saw no 
shortage of joyful tears, a penetrating sense of camaraderie and an utter lack of the usual anger that would accompany an event with bewildering, ever-changing se-
curity restrictions. 
In fact, for those fortunate enough to 
have tickets, traversing the gates to the 
front proved close to impossible. Though 
the gates opened at 8 a.m., when I showed 
up at 9 they were already blocking the 
most obvious routes. I was told to double back, making several concentric circles that eventually stretched from Fourth Street to 
17th Street and all the way through the 
Third Street Tunnel.At one point, I was penned in by secret 
service agents who, for 
reasons unknown, let me go forward into an area that was completely cor -
doned off. However, they 
would not allow me to 
turn around and go back 
the way I came.
Yet, despite the stress 
of navigating the labyrinth of barricades, 
the men, women and children — com-pacted together and cooled by the frigid January air — were nearly ebullient in their 
friendliness. An older black man traveled through the crowd, shaking hands with strangers.
When he got to me, he declared, “We 
did it.”
I could feel the electricity of an enrap-
tured crowd as the anticipation built, and when Obama finally appeared the masses 
roared in excitement of hope, change and 
pride in their country.UF student experiences historic inauguration firsthandOnCampu s
Fox
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
Mike Rowe is in a bat cave, gas 
mask strapped to his face, and he’s 
surrounded by 40 million Mexican free-tailed bats during breeding sea-son. 
And they’re not pleased by his 
presence.
“They’re expressing their displea-
sure in a rain of feces and urine and 
placenta,” Rowe told a crowd of about 1,750 at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Tuesday night.
Rowe, host of Discovery 
Channel’s “Dirty Jobs,” shared sto-ries of unsanitary experiences and hard-earned wisdom with an ador -
ing crowd for about 45 minutes be-fore taking questions from the audi-ence.
He started his speech, fittingly 
enough, with a story about sheep 
testicles finding their way into a 
man’s mouth.
While filming an episode for 
Dirty Jobs in Colorado, he said he was helping a rancher remove the tails and testicles of sheep.
He said he expected the rancher 
to use rubber bands to cut off the cir -
culation of the appendages, which 
Rowe said was the PETA-approved 
method of removal.
Instead, Rowe said, the rancher 
pulled out a knife and cut the first sheep’s tail off.
Then, after the animal’s legs were 
spread, the man cut off a piece of its scrotum before plunging his face into its groin, sucking out the testi-cles and spitting them into a bucket.
Rowe said he had to stop the 
cameras at that point.
“This is just not gonna play in 
what you call the blue states,” Rowe joked.
Rowe also delved into his color -
ful past, which included stints in the Baltimore Opera Company and as a salesman on QVC.
He said he joined the opera com-pany just to get his Screen Actors Guild membership and for the girls, 
who dressed like “French country 
prostitutes.”
One day during a long perfor -
mance when he wasn’t needed for a few hours, Rowe said he ventured across the street, still dressed in his Viking garb for the show, to the Mount Royal Tavern to drink beer and watch football. When he got 
there, however, the TV was turned 
to QVC instead of football.
Rowe said the bartender bet 
Rowe $100 that he couldn’t audition for a job at QVC and get a callback.
“I said the last thing in the world 
I could use is a job, but I could sure use $100,” Rowe said.
Rowe auditioned the next day 
and got the job.
He said he stayed with the com-
pany for three years, getting fired multiple times and learning a lot about TV in the process.
Throughout his speech, Rowe 
also plugged his Web site, miker -
oweWORKS.com, which is dedicat-ed to the celebration of hard work 
and getting people interested in jobs 
that will help the U.S. rebuild its crumbling infrastructure, he said.
He finished his speech by read-
ing a letter he wrote to President Barack Obama, who was sworn in earlier in the day.
The letter urged Obama to cre-
ate more jobs in skilled trades that 
would allow the U.S. to make more 
products within its own borders.
Ben Brunson, a UF animal sci-
ences senior, said he thought Rowe was eloquent and hilarious. 
“Everything he said made me 
laugh,” he said.
“It’s the best show I’ve seen since 
I’ve been here (at UF).”
According to an Accent con-
tract, Rowe received $60,000 for the event.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
Mike Rowe, host of Discovery Channel’s “Dirty Jobs,” shares a story about visiting a farm that raises 
lambs in the Rocky Mountains. Rowe spoke at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday.
‘Dirty Jobs’ host describes disgusting experiences
OnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Would you ever steal a case of Natty Light? 63% YES37% NO
174 TOTAL VOTESTuesday’s question: Did you watch the inauguration?Americans wait for Obama to deliver
ColumnBeer Burglars
Lock up your cheap brew 
and empty kegs 
Swarming the National Mall en masse before sunrise, 
witnesses to history were not deterred by blistering winds and freezing temperatures.
With devotion in their eyes, they danced to stay warm, 
waiting in the cold to catch a glimpse of the 44th presi-dent taking the oath of office. People from all over the globe — citizens and foreigners alike — assembled in the 
nation’s capital to bear witness to the ensuing spectacle.
Forty-three men have gone through this process be-
fore. Tuesday marked just another inauguration, right?
Wrong. Very wrong.
For so long, the image of America has been one of 
failed policies, not to mention a long line of presidents that gave comedians more material than they could shake a stick at. With our new president, the perception 
has changed to one of hope, faith and perseverance. 
To the millions who traveled to the nation’s capital, it 
wasn’t just about being a part of history. The inaugura-
tion was about being a part of something much larger 
than just one person. Those who could not make it to 
Washington, D.C., gathered around televisions and ra-dios throughout the world to hear Obama’s first words as president of the United States — no matter what time the clock read.
His inaugural speech inspired and his calm demeanor 
awed. People the world over were given renewed faith in the power of democracy, but is this faith premature?
I truly hope not.
The energy of Obama supporters across the land was 
intense during his campaign, climaxing when he won 
the election. Now they can finally see the man they so strongly support get down to business. After years of support, such will be a sight that no words can truly ex-press.
The world is changing rapidly. 
Not only does Obama have a re-
sponsibility to the American peo-
ple; he also has a responsibility to the rest of the world. Whether he likes it or not, we are all count-
ing on him to make a difference. 
To put it simply, the whole world expects greatness of Obama.
Criticism of politicians seems to come much more 
easily than praise, and after alleged torture, sold senate seats and wars galore, who can really blame the critics for being skeptical?
Obama’s inauguration has brought pride to many 
Americans — pride that may have been lost or misplaced in the past few years — and it is up to him to make sure the pride is kept in the right place.
Yes, we should be proud that Americans were able 
to put race aside and decide that change was what we needed to make our nation great. And yes, we should be proud that we made a difference. People all over the world are showing us how proud they are for doing that. However, blind pride will ruin us.
America has always been a proud nation, and perhaps 
the main downfall we have suffered from was the hubris of our leaders in the recent past. Hopefully, we can move on as a humbler nation. Perhaps our country can heal. 
Maybe this is exactly what we need.
Your country and the world are waiting with bated 
breath, Mr. President.
Naudia Jawad is a journalism graduate student. Her col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.A string of bizarre alcohol-related incidents in Gainesville 
gives new meaning to “turning to the bottle” during harsh times.
Sunday morning saw a botched robbery at the Sweetbay 
grocery store in which a local woman concocted the brilliant 
idea of making off with a couple of cases of Natural Light 
beer only to get caught after leaving her handbag behind.
Let’s get real for a second — who the hell steals Natty 
Light?
While the Editorial Board hardly condones stealing in any 
shape or form, she could have at least upgraded her choice of adult beverage to a more palatable Blue Moon or Samuel Adams.
Somewhere the commissioner of the More Taste League 
sheds a tear.
Clearly this woman lacks any semblance of a brain for 
dropping her purse at the scene of the crime, but lacking taste in beer to boot?
Thankfully, our second model Gainesville citizen of the 
week doesn’t suffer from a bitter beer face — this young man’s lunacy lies in his scheme to net himself $30 with quite possibly the most effort involved.
Instead of just interning at the Alligator for the week or 
sleepwalking through a shift at Subway, he elected to steal keg shells from unsuspecting residents hungover from the evening before.
What did he get for all of his efforts? A spot in the Alachua 
County Jail with bond at $7,000 to boot.
So what’s next on the absurd crime front in Gainesville? 
Stealing ketchup dispensers during Gators games? 
There goes the neighborhood.
Naudia Jawad
letters@alligator.orgWhile attending balls 
and luncheons highlighted just 
part of a full schedule for the new administration, carry-
ing moving boxes did not.
The same cannot be said 
for their predecessors, as 
former Vice President Dick Cheney played “mover” be-fore attending the inaugura-tion. 
But we wonder, how 
hard can moving around a 
few pairs of slacks and dress 
shoes really be?
If you’re the outgoing 
vice president, you end up in a wheelchair.
Moving belongings into 
his new McLean, Va., digs, Cheney apparently hadn’t adjusted to his new life as a 
grumpy old man just yet — 
pulling a muscle as he threw out his back.
The ill-timed incident left 
Cheney immobilized, forced to get around on four wheels just as he was set to leave of-fice.
The media got one more 
jab at Cheney — one headline 
read “Cheney wheelchair 
bound as Obama soars.”
The Editorial Board can’t 
help but chuckle at the for -
mer vice president’s plight.We do realize Cheney has a history of medical ailments, but heck, what a lasting im-age he cut for America in his 
final public appearance as 
second-in-command. 
But perhaps Cheney got 
the last laugh. At least he didn’t have to stand when the time came to honor President Obama.
We can only imagine him 
uttering a few choice words 
under his breath as he re-
mained seated among the throng of standing support-ers.
“Gotcha, suckers.”Hell on wheelsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 7
One of my hobbies is blogging. Yep, 
I’m one of those people. 
I enjoy getting my thoughts out 
on the Internet and interacting with people I will probably never see face to face. 
While blogging, I discovered Twitter 
through a friend about a year ago and only recently started using the Web site. This Web 2.0 wonder completely changed my perspective on a few things, which is a rare occurrence in my life.  
Twitter is a text-based platform that al-
lows its users to post updates of up to 140 characters in length and read other users’ 
updates (otherwise known as tweets) in 
real-time over the Internet. 
So essentially Twitter is nothing more 
than a bunch of Facebook status updates and that’s it. No photos, no videos, nothing else — just updates that you can make ei-ther online or through your cell. 
Why would someone think millions 
of people’s updates are something to rave 
about? 
MySpace has close to 200 million us-
ers, Facebook has over 110 million users 
and Twitter has, well, over 5 million us-ers. Twitter doesn’t boast the numbers of Myspace and Facebook, but 5 million users is nothing to scoff at — especially when you realize the kind of people who bare 
their souls on Twitter. 
Lance Armstrong, Shaquille O’Neal, 
Jimmy Fallon, Virgin Group’s Richard Branson, as well as actor and producer John Cleese are all on Twitter. 
The great Dave Matthews himself is even 
on Twitter. 
Executives of major corporations are 
also getting in on the action: Kevin Rose of Digg, Michael Arrington of TechCrunch, 
Pierre Omidyar of eBay, and David Sifry of 
Technorati are informing people via their updates.
The list goes on and on — so what makes 
Twitter so significant? 
The fact that I can get inside successful 
people’s heads and see how they view the world through their tweets brings me back to the site on a daily basis. With one tweet, 
I can ask Sara Bareilles when she’s going to 
be in the studio again, and I can get a re-sponse that comes directly from her. 
One of my Twitter friends, Ori Bengal, 
aka CouchSurfingOri, spends every other year crashing the couches of people he meets on Twitter. He starts his trip next week, and his first stop is with Tony Hsieh, CEO of Zappos.com.
The core of Twitter is the exchange of 
questions and ideas from one person, like 
me, to another, like Jonathan Schwartz, 
CEO of Sun Microsystems. 
I had an issue with my Sprint phone, and 
a guy who works for the company asked me over Twitter if he could help me with my problem. 
I first heard about Flight 1549, the plane 
that landed in the Hudson River, from Twitter via my cell phone. I have a job inter -
view next week with Cingular because of a Cingular recruiter I met on Twitter. 
Yes, I am unashamedly tooting Twitter’s 
horn.
Communication is essential to our ev-
eryday lives, and networking is imperative to furthering your career; Twitter combines the two into a successful online service. 
Twitter also makes it available to every-
one: You, me, your professor, Snoop Dogg, anyone. 
So join it, start following, and be sure to 
add me: @mileless.
Michelle A. Hipps is a telecommunications 
senior. Restaurant not worth the hype
This past weekend I decided 
for a bit of variety I’d visit a much-hyped restaurant in Gainesville called The Top. I’d heard good and bad things about the place, 
but I wanted to decide for myself. 
It was a very cold Friday night, and I was told the wait would be an hour. OK, I thought, this better be worth it.
Unfortunately, the all too 
“hip” servers didn’t provide the best service. Not only  was the food subpar (the meat was dry 
and the sauces bland), but after 
we tipped kindly on the check, we were charged triple what our tip was when it was processed. I will never go there again, and I’ve also had friends suffer a simi-lar fate — terrible service and ter -
rible food. 
It’s simply ridiculous and re-
pulsive that a place like this re-mains in Gainesville.
Anastasia Potts
UF sophomoreLetter to the Editor
 Celebs, musicians, CEOs only a tweet awayGuest column
Michelle Hipps
Speaking OutBY CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
State budget cuts were the 
center of conversation during 
Tuesday night’s senate meeting, 
as visiting state lobbyists an-
nounced that upcoming increases 
in tuition will not be covered by 
Bright Futures. 
State lobbyists from Tallahassee 
spoke to student senators of the effects recent budget cuts will have on Bright Futures and UF’s 
tuition. 
But, according to lobbyist Ron 
LaFace, tuition increases will also 
bring positive results to the stu-dents such as more classes, pro-
fessors and advisors. 
LaFace referenced the resolu-
tion advocating the protection of 
Bright Futures passed by senators 
before break and later mailed to 
Tallahassee. 
“Student support is always 
crucial,” LaFace said. “(Florida Legislators) are responsive to the 
student voice.”                                                 
Senate President Jordan 
Johnson also announced the cre-ation the Student Budget Cut Task 
Force. The committee will work with both UF’s Faculty Senate and administration to ensure UF 
programs remain unaffected by 
budget cuts. 
Although senators agreed on 
the importance of keeping tuition 
costs low, some did not see eye-
to-eye on recommendations made by the Replacement & Agenda committee to fill vacant senate 
seats and committee chair seats.
Orange and Blue Senators 
Ben Cavataro and Mark McShera 
composed a four-page minority report documenting their reasons 
for dissatisfaction with the  nomi-
nations.
Despite the minority’s disap-
proval, the original nominations 
were passed.8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
Newly elected Orange and Blue Party President Donte Hargrove introduces himself Tuesday evening at 
the UF Student Senate meeting. Hargrove also talked about several senate and party issues.
State lobbyists address cuts at Senate meeting
LOCAL
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
A Gainesville man was arrested after 
he was accused of stealing empty kegs 
and selling them to a convenience store 
for cash.
After two women saw a man loiter -
ing in The Estates apartment complex, 
3527 S.W. 20th Ave., they called the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and 
then followed him across the street to Pinnacle Point Apartments. 
The women lost sight of him near 
the back of the complex, but when he reappeared he was holding a keg, the ASO arrest report stated.
They followed him to Tailgate 
Beverage, 4340 S.W. 20th Ave., where he 
was met by an ASO of-
ficer.
Michael Miranda, 
24, originally told of-
ficers that he had brought the keg from his house. After being 
told about the witnesses, Miranda con-fessed that he had stolen the keg from 
a back porch behind Pinnacle Point 
Apartments.The $15 he received for the keg was 
found in the front right pocket of his shorts.
Miranda also advised officers that he 
stole a second keg from the Kensington 
South Apartments and sold it to the 
same convenience store earlier that day.
According to the report, Miranda 
said he stole a third keg from The Estates two days before his arrest.
Officers also found two marijuana 
cigarettes in his right front pocket.
Miranda was charged with burglary 
of a dwelling, dealing stolen property, theft and possession of marijuana.Man arrested for repeated keg theft
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
A UF student was arrested after her 
purse, with identification, was found at a 
grocery store from which she was accused of stealing beer.
After entering the Sweetbay Supermarket 
at 2002 S.W. 34th St., two women went into 
the rear storage area and tried to place a keg into a shopping cart, according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Office arrest re-port. 
When they couldn’t 
lift it, one of the wom-
en went back into the 
store and placed three 
24-packs of Natural Light into the cart and 
walked to the storage room. 
The woman then lifted the cases out of 
the cart and left the store through the back emergency doorway which activated the alarm, the report stated. 
When a clerk went to the storage room 
to investigate what triggered the alarm, he found the cart with a woman’s purse inside it.
According to the report, the purse be-
longed to Tami Breshe, 21, and contained her U.S. passport and Gator 1 Card.
ASO officers arrived at her house, ar -
rested her and charged her with theft.
According to the report, she would not 
tell officers who the other woman was.Abandoned 
purse leads to arrest
 COVERAGE SHOWN IN 
MEETING ROOMS.
By MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
As President Barack 
Obama prepared to take 
his oath of office, people 
at the Alachua County Headquarters Library in downtown Gainesville took 
in the moment with quiet 
fascination. 
“It’s a very exciting time,” 
said Be Astengo, the library’s adult services manager. “We 
wanted to offer space for 
people to see this moment.”
In the rest of the library, 
people went about their reg-
ular activities. They searched library databases, checked 
out books and registered li-brary cards, seemingly un-concerned about the ascen-
dancy of the next president.
Still, a few of the library’s 
patrons gathered into meet-
ing rooms to view Barack Obama’s inauguration. 
Inside the library’s 
Foundation Room, about 20 people watched CNN’s cov-erage of the inauguration 
ceremonies in subdued, con-
templative silence.
They sat in black, high-
backed executive chairs around a polished table, as 
if they were about to begin a 
board meeting.
The event was calmer 
than other celebrations in 
Gainesville, but signs of ex-citement were evident.
People squirmed in antic-
ipation when Obama stood 
and approached the Chief 
Justice of the United States 
John Roberts 
shortly past noon.
C h a i r s 
turned and 
neighbors smiled at each other knowingly, as if they all shared a private joke with 
Obama in the punch line.
As soon as he was de-
clared the 44th president of 
the U.S., the room broke into cheers of joy and applause. 
People smiled and hugged 
each other.
Tiffany Smith, 33, who 
took a break from her job in 
the Veterans Administration’s Sun Center office, said that 
she felt inspired and optimis-tic about the coming years.
“The world just changed,” 
she said.
Before closing the door, 
Astengo shared her thoughts about Obama’s speech.
The country is in a state 
of fear, and Obama will have to address problems such as unemployment and health care. Americans need to be 
patient, she said.
She said Americans 
should remember that 
Obama is only human, and things won’t necessarily 
change overnight.
“He’s the next president, 
not the Messiah, so don’t 
let your expectations be too 
grand,” Astengo said.People gather at library for inauguration 
NewsLocal“Student support is al-
ways crucial. (Florida              
Legislators) are responsive 
to the student voice.”             
Ron LaFace                                     
Lobbyist
Breshe
Miranda
By MATT TRIPP 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
More adults than kids crowded the classrooms of UF’s 
new Baby Gator Child Development and Research Center 
on Tuesday night. 
The center, which opened its doors on Jan. 5, is the sec-
ond of its kind on UF’s campus and offers child care for children up to 5 years old. 
About 35 people gathered on the ground floor of the 
Human Development Center at UF’s Health Science Center to officially celebrate the center’s opening.
Several UF administrators and staff watched as the 
new facility’s directors, Pamela Pallas and Lisa Roberts, cut an orange and blue paper-chain ribbon made by chil-
dren at the center to officiate its opening. 
After the ceremony, visitors snacked on fresh fruit, 
shrimp and cheese as they toured the new classrooms 
and their accompanying observatory rooms.
“The need for child care here is significant,” said Kyle 
Cavanaugh, senior vice president for administration at UF, in a speech at the ceremony.  
Cavanaugh said the facility went beyond just child 
care, offering a place for recruitment and retention of staff 
and students at the Health Science Center.
He said unlike the Baby Gator Center on Village Drive, 
parents must be associated with the College of Medicine 
or the College of Public Health and Health Professions in order to enroll their children in the program at the new 
center, which is on Newell Drive.
Dr. Kayser Enneking, assistant dean of clinical affairs, 
said funding for the center was a big issue. 
“Most of it came from the group practice funds and 
didn’t cost more than $300,000,” Enneking said. “It’s very 
cost-efficient,” 
Most faculty in attendance agreed that the benefits of 
the Baby Gator Center would outweigh the cost. 
“We will more than recoup the upfront cost by retain-
ing the best people,” said Michael Good, interim dean of the UF College of Medicine. “This facility is long overdue on this campus.”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 9
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator
Lisa Roberts, assistant director of Baby Gator, and Dr. Pamela Pallas, di -
rector of Baby Gator, cut a ribbon at the new Baby Gator center.
 MAN CHARGED WITH 
FAKING HIS OWN DEATH.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PENSACOLA, Fla. — An 
Indiana financial adviser has 
been indicted on federal charg-
es that he intentionally crashed 
his airplane in an attempt to fake his death.
Marcus Schrenker, 38, was 
also indicted by a federal grand jury Tuesday with making a fake distress call. 
His arraignment is Thursday. 
He remains jailed after being released from a hospital.
Authorities say Schrenker 
slashed his wrist when he was discovered Jan. 13 hiding at a campground near Tallahassee, two days after his small plane crashed in Santa Rosa County.
Authorities say he para-
chuted out over Alabama and fled on a stashed motorcycle.
In Indiana, he is accused of 
two felony counts alleging that he worked as an investment adviser without being regis-tered. He is the subject of more than a half dozen civil lawsuits 
in several states.Ind. man 
indicted in hoaxON CAMPUS
Second Baby Gator care center opens
NewsState“The need for child care here is significant.”
 Kyle Cavanaugh
senior vice president for administration at UF10, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
By SARA BRUBAKER
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF sophomore Spencer Duhm fulfilled one 
of his lifelong dreams this past fall.
But it wasn’t the fake internship in Chicago 
he told his friends about.
Duhm, 20, was cast in October for the new-
est season of “Survivor,” the youngest person 
ever to appear on the reality game show in which contestants compete in the wilderness for $1 million.
However, throughout filming, Duhm kept 
his involvement a secret until the cast was re-leased on Jan. 13. The Chicago internship was 
his alibi.
“I always planned on applying as soon as I 
became old enough,” said Duhm, who was 19 
during the filming of the show.
This was the first season CBS lowered the age limit for applicants from 21 to 18.
Duhm, who said he was obsessed with the 
show, said he’s been a fan since its debut in 2
000.                                     
He said the show appeals to him because 
of its intense competition as well as the mental 
and physical tests the contestants go through.
While appearing on the show has always 
been an ambition of his, Duhm said he didn’t do it just for the experience; he planned to win.                           
“Everything is a competition to me,” he 
said. “I knew there would be some instances where I would have to lie, and I wasn’t going to try to be everyone’s best friend.”
Duhm’s familiarity with the intricacies of 
the game was perhaps his biggest advantage going into “Survivor,” he said. But his experi-ences on sports teams, including the UF crew team, taught him to deal with the mental ups and downs that accompany challenges.
“As I watched the contestants on previous 
seasons, I knew that if they could do it, then I 
could definitely do it,” Duhm said.
But however prepared he felt going into 
the show, Duhm said he couldn’t entirely re-
late the experience to anything else.
He said even the physical demands of crew 
couldn’t compare to “Survivor.”
“In sports you’re expected 
to exert yourself in practice and during competitions,” he said. “But on ‘Survivor’ there is no re-prieve and no escape.”             
To participate in the show, Duhm withdrew 
from his classes last semester. But the telecom-munications major said temporarily leaving UF wasn’t a difficult decision as soon as his parents lent their support. 
UF political science major David Carlson, also a member of UF’s crew team, said Duhm has key characteristics that would allow him to be successful on the show, including a per -
sonable demeanor and fanaticism.
“He’s the biggest ‘Survivor’ fan I know,” 
Carlson said. “If we were ever out of town for crew, we would always have to be back at the hotel and quiet by 8 p.m. so he could watch 
the show.”
Duhm was one of 16 contestants chosen 
for season 18, which was filmed in Brazil, and 
while he doesn’t know who won yet — the winner is announced on the finale in May — he does know what he would do with $1 mil-lion.
“I want to help my parents retire and pay  
for graduate school,” he said. “And the crew team really needs a new boathouse.”
The 18th season of “Survivor” premieres 
on CBS on Thursday , Feb. 12. UF student chosen as youngest “Survivor” contestantSTATE
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
It may be a small word, but 
“the” is a big deal at Florida State 
University.
The university is in the pro-
cess of adding “the” back onto 
the front of its name.
That is how the university has 
traditionally been known, accord-
ing to Fran Conaway, director of special projects for Florida State’s university communications.
Although UF does not official-
ly include a “the” before its name 
and never has, it does have The 
Gator Nation campaign.
UF linguistics professor Galia 
Hatav said the definite article 
“the” gives words a property of 
uniqueness, which may be part of the reason why both universities chose to include it, to set names aside from others.
UF director of marketing Dan Williams said he believes The Gator Nation deserves its capital-
ized definite article in order to be 
consistent with UF’s registered trademark of The Gator Nation.
Williams said the campaign has received positive feedback from peer universities. 
John Sutherland, of UF’s de-
partment of advertising, said he has heard sportscasters on ESPN refer to other schools as nations, a possible effect of UF’s campaign.
“That makes it generic, almost 
like a Kleenex,” he said.
But The Gator Nation cam-
paign is known for its unique advertising as well as its words, 
Sutherland said.Sutherland said the campaign 
serves as a rallying cry for UF’s 
alumni and future students and 
has the effect of building camara-
derie and spirit.                
Whether this nation will ever 
be united under “The” University 
of Florida remains unclear.
For now UF spokesman Steve 
Orlando said the university is 
perfectly happy with the way the seal reads and has no plans to 
change it.FSU adds “the” to name, shares with UF ad campaign
StudentLife“That makes it generic, 
almost like a Kleenex,” 
Dan Williams
UF director of marketing12, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip — Waving green Islamic 
flags atop the ruins of Gaza, Hamas proclaimed 
victory in rallies attended by thousands of support-ers Tuesday, saying it survived Israel’s military on-slaught despite the destruction and massive death toll suffered by Gazans.
Beyond its fiery words, however, Hamas offered 
no plans for rebuilding Gaza, which suffered some $2 billion in damage during three weeks of fight-
ing. Gaza’s borders with Israel and Egypt, largely sealed since the Islamic militants seized power 19 months ago, remain 
closed and are unlikely to open unless the militants relinquish some control.
Israel has also claimed victory, but neither side 
was the clear winner.
The fighting killed some 1,300 Gazans, the vast 
majority civilians, and thousands of Palestinian homes were destroyed. Israel emerged from the war with relatively few casualties — 13 dead, in-cluding 10 soldiers — but halted fire before reach-ing its objectives. No internationally backed truce deal is yet in place to prevent Hamas rocket fire on southern Israel or arms smuggling into Gaza.Hamas claims
victory in GazaLOCAL
By HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents stood with 
students on both sides of the Israeli-
Palestinian demonstrations as the groups sparred last week over the 
controversial Israeli offensive against 
Gaza that ended Monday.
The 23-day Israeli offensive that 
resulted in the deaths of about 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis caused debate in Gainesville and abroad.
“I think it’s important that we 
all support each other,” said Rabbi Yoni Kaiser-Blueth of Hillel. “I’ve 
seen quite a bit of solidarity on this 
issue.”
 But Dennis Shuman, a Jewish 
supporter of Gaza who has lived in Israel, disagrees.
Jewish people support Israel sim-
ply because of their religion and cul-ture, he said.
“Jews put on blinders,” said 
Shuman, 62. “Sometimes, when it comes to family, it’s ‘my family, right or wrong.’” 
Korin Weinstok, 24, community 
coordinator at Congregation B’nai Israel updates the Jewish community 
on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
“I try to keep the community in-
formed because I know that the press has a very specific point of view,” said Weinstok. “All my e-mail up-
dates come from official and reliable sources such as the Israeli Embassy.”
Israel completed its objectives in 
Gaza and agreed to a ceasefire after -
ward, she said
The pro-Israeli demonstrations 
were organized by community and religious centers such as Hillel, while 
Palestinian supporters came from 
varied backgrounds and organized outside of the mosques. 
 “The mosques typically don’t 
like to take political positions,” said Abdul Hamad, 22, a recent UF grad-
uate, “especially after the scrutiny 
they received after 9/11.” 
Individual Muslim communi-
ty members, along with Jews and Christians, organize  demonstra-tions, said Ammar Attia, who some-
times lectures at The Islamic Center 
of Gainesville or the Hoda Center on Fridays, the Muslim day of worship.  
The cease-fire has not stopped 
Gaza demonstrations, Hamad said. A forum to discuss the situation in 
Gaza is being organized and will be 
held in the coming weeks, he said.
Muslim demonstrators also re-
ceived support from activist orga-nizations such as Veterans for Peace and from involved citizens. 
One such citizen, Elizabeth Corie-
Jones, has been an activist since the Vietnam War. 
“I have 11 grandkids,” said Corie-
Jones, 73. “And so it hurts me to think of children dying.”
 On Jan. 13, Joe Fuller, a member 
of Veterans for Peace attended the Palestinian-Israeli rallies held in the 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza. 
When it began to rain, Fuller 
shouted for the Pro-Israeli demon-strators to take shelter with him and 
the other pro-Palestinian supporters under the covered stage area
While many of the Palestinian 
supporters backed up to make room, none of the Israel supporters took 
shelter from the downpour. 
“That’s part of the problem,” said 
Cliff Stafford, an observer who works construction in Gainesville. “One of 
them is too stubborn and the other is too aggressive.”Residents take sides over Gaza 
“The mosques typically don’t 
like to take political posi -
tions. Especially after the 
scrutiny they received after 
9/11.”
Abdul Hamad
UF graduate
NewsInternationallocal
By EMIl Y MERWIN and
RYaN aRENS
Alligator Contributing Writers
Students in search of work are 
feeling the effects of an ailing econ-
omy as the number of jobs on- and off-campus is dwindling. 
The national unemployment rate 
for workers 20 to 24 years old is 12.1 percent, which exceeds the overall rate of 7.2 percent — the highest in 24 years, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Many UF students have found 
the job hunt fruitless as campus de-partments and local businesses cut back staff to save money.
The biggest effect seen at UF is 
the sacrifice of many on-campus jobs to create more federal work-study jobs, according to Jonathan Orsini, student employment coordi-nator at UF. 
Through the Federal Work Study 
Program, part-time jobs are partially funded by the government to give 
more job opportunities to students 
with financial needs, Orsini said. The government pays 75 percent of a student’s wages while the univer -
sity pays 25 percent, he said. 
This leaves fewer jobs available 
for the average UF student because only about 1,200 UF students qualify for the program, he said. 
In previous semesters, Jobs at UF, 
an online database displaying avail-able on-campus positions, listed between 60 and 70 positions avail-able for students, Orsini said. Now, there are 35 postings, with half being 
work-study positions.
“Unfortunately , there’s just not as 
much opportunity ,” he said. 
Orsini said he does not expect the 
job situation to improve any time 
soon. 
UF department employees fall 
under a three-tier system, he said. Students fall at the bottom and are 
generally the first employees cut 
during a crunch time.
“I think it’s going to get worse,” 
he said. “Before full-time employees are cut, students will be cut.”
Off-campus employers are not making students’ search any easier. 
Although Alachua County has 
always had one of the lowest un-employment rates in the state, the local economy has experienced a sharp downturn, said Angela Pate, executive director of FloridaWorks, the employment services agency for 
Alachua and Bradford counties.
Pate said the unemployment rate 
for the Gainesville area has nearly 
doubled in the past two years.
“A lot of people are suffering,” 
she said. “People with master’s de-grees and Ph.D.s are coming in to get their unemployment (benefits).”
The unemployment rate may 
be an understatement because it only reflects those who are actively looking for jobs, according to David Denslow, a UF research economist. 
Most student jobs are in indus-
tries that will be heavily affected in the next few months, such as retail and restaurants, he said. Denslow said he expects the number of stu-
dents not working to rise this year 
and many employers to cut back on the hours their employees will be working. 
At Dragonfly Sushi & Sake 
Company , students make up more than half of the restaurant’s work-force, according to manager Dave Talpasz. Though business is slower 
than last year, Talpasz said he is only 
slightly worried. 
“We take each day as it comes to 
us,” he said. 
The restaurant has been offering 
incentives such as free valet parking, drink specials on Tuesday nights and a lower-priced lunch menu to keep customers coming back, he said. 
Jessica Neely , a UF freshman who 
has been actively looking for work, summed up her experience hunting for a job in Gainesville in one word: horrible. 
Despite filling out “countless” 
applications, Neely is still search-ing for work. Many places have said they are accepting applications but 
are not actively hiring. 
“I don’t like watching my bank 
account go down and never go up,” 
she said. “I’m looking for pretty much anything I can get.”Student jobs scarceWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13
Sarah Hsu / alligator Staff
No to Negativity
Mike Flegiel, left, talks to a passerby while painting a concrete block with roommate Alex 
Riehm, right, for the Writing on the Wall Project on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday afternoon. The wall symbolizes all the negative things people have been called or had said to them, and will be torn down on Jan. 30 to signify the “breaking down” of those negative phrases.
Manager planned disappearance
THE aSSocIa TED PRESS
TAMPA — A missing hedge fund 
manager who owed investors a $50 
million payout told his wife in a note 
he felt guilty about mismanaging people’s money , and threatened to kill himself, according to a sheriff’s report released Tuesday.
However, the Sarasota County 
Sheriff’s Office said it believes Arthur G. Nadel planned his disappearance and that it was ending its search for 
him.
The Federal Bureau of 
Investigation will continue to in-
vestigate complaints from investors who were expecting Nadel to deliver the $50 million redemption on Jan. 
15, the day after he disappeared.
The Florida financier’s car was 
found at a Sarasota airport, and 
Sheriff’s Lt. Chuck Lesaltato said they believe Nadel left on his own 
volition.
“He doesn’t want to be found,” 
Lesaltato said.
Also on Tuesday , pepper spray 
manufacturer Mace Security 
International claimed Nadel owed them $2.2 million. The company said in a release they’d been informed the deposits could not be located, and 
that documents Nadel had provided were not authentic.
“We have already filed a report 
with authorities, and we intend to 
take all possible legal action against the Victory Fund,” Mace CEO Dennis Raefield said, referring to one of Nadel’s hedge funds.
The 76-year-old financier disap-
peared last Wednesday. Nadel told his wife he was going to his office, but was not there when she arrived 
about two hours later. Later, Nadel 
called and said he’d left something for her in a desk drawer at their ranch-style home in Sarasota. That’s where she found a suicide note, the 
sheriff’s report states.14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK — Authorities using sonar in the 
search for the missing engine from US Airways 
Flight 1549 detected something about the size of the massive aircraft part deep in the frigid, murky Hudson River on Tuesday, but divers ran out of day-
light before they could locate the object.
Crews will resume their search Wednesday. Police 
have already located several pieces of debris from 
the flight, including 35 flotation seat cushions, 12 life jackets, 15 pieces of luggage, two brief cases, 11 purses, 15 suit jackets and shirts, four shoes, and two hats, according to NYPD spokesman Paul Browne.
The missing left engine, however, is the most cov-
eted prize. Investigators will examine it along with 
the plane’s attached right engine to better under -
stand how the jet conked out Thursday after hitting 
a flock of birds. 
All 155 people survived the miracle crash landing 
on the river, and US Airways said Tuesday that not even a pet perished.
New York Police Department harbor officers 
working with a sonar expert from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration 
got a reading on an object 16 feet long and 8 feet wide in about 60 feet of water north of the Intrepid 
Sea, Air and Space Museum, near where the plane made its emergency landing. 
The engine is about the same size as the object 
picked up by sonar.
Swift currents made it impossible to drop a ro-
botic device with a video camera to confirm whether it is the engine, and evening fell before divers could find anything.
The developments came as hero pilot Chesley 
“Sully” Sullenberger attended President Barack 
Obama’s inauguration. All the media-shy 
Sullenberger would say is, “I’m not allowed to say anything.”
Since the crash landing, the NYPD has recovered 
more than 40 pieces of the aircraft, including four window exits and an access panel door. All the de-bris and passengers’ belongings are being turned over to the National Transportation Safety Board for its investigation into the crash landing.Boats scour river for plane parts HIS DEPARTURE
DRAWS MIXED REACTIONS 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — Leaving 
the White House for the last time 
on Tuesday, President George W. Bush blew a kiss out the window of his presidential limousine, a 
gesture that capped an eight-year 
administration marked by two wars, recession and the biggest terrorist attack on U.S. soil.
Bush’s exit was bittersweet. 
He left office with low approval ratings, but he remained upbeat, smiling and joining in the celebra-tion of President Barack Obama’s 
ascent to rock-star status, even as 
he faces daunting challenges, es-pecially a depressed economy.
This Inauguration Day was 
about more than the traditional transfer of presidential power. When Bush clasped Obama’s hand before beginning his jour -
ney home to Texas, their hand-shake marked the first time that the executive branch of govern-ment has been handed off to a black president.
If there were any hard feelings 
between the incoming 47-year-old Democrat and the outgoing 62-year-old Republican, they weren’t apparent in the Bush send-off at the steps of a helicop-ter on the Capitol grounds where the two men parted ways.
After the inauguration cer -
emony, many in the crowd at the Capitol cheered loudly and waved goodbye at Bush’s heli-copter as it flew over throngs of people gathered on the Mall to witness history.
But not everyone was respect-
ful. Weary of Bush, some people in the crowd chanted “Na-na-
na-nah, hey, hey, hey, goodbye” when they heard a television 
broadcaster announce, “George Bush is no longer president of the United States.”
Bush actually began the first 
few minutes as an ex-president listening to a musical prelude 
at the swearing-in ceremony. 
Obama had not yet taken the oath of office, but while the mu-sicians played, he became presi-dent at noon EST, according to the Constitution.
Keeping with a White House 
ritual, Bush left a note for Obama in his desk in the Oval Office, 
wishing him well.
“I won’t provide any details, 
but the theme is similar to what 
he’s said since election night about the fabulous new chapter President-elect Obama is about to start, and that he wishes him the very best,” outgoing White House press secretary Dana 
Perino said about the note.
George W. Bush returns home
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich 
on Tuesday missed his second deadline for filing formal an-
swers to an impeachment charge, with a Senate trial over his 
ouster now less than a week away.
The second-term Democrat, whose criminal lawyers quit 
his impeachment defense in protest of the trial’s rules last 
week, had until 4 p.m. to file a request to dismiss the charge 
and kill the Senate proceeding.
 Had he done so, senators, sitting as 
judges in the trial, would have voted on whether to grant the request.
As a result of his inaction, the Senate 
will presume that the governor pleads “not guilty” to the charge and move to-ward opening the historic trial on Monday, said Toby Trimmer, spokesman for Senate 
President John Cullerton.
Spokesman Lucio Guerrero said he didn’t know what 
Blagojevich would do.
“He hasn’t filled me in on his plans,” Guerrero said.A newly sworn-in House voted 117-1 Jan. 14 to impeach 
Blagojevich on a charge that he abused his power as gover -
nor. Blagojevich was issued a Senate summons that day and had had until Saturday to file a document answering charges in the case, but did not, Trimmer said.
Blagojevich was arrested Dec. 9 on a federal complaint 
that he tried to trade government action for campaign con-tributions or a high-paying job, and in one case, in exchange for firing unfriendly newspaper editorial writers. 
Federal prosecutors have until April to indict him on the 
charges.
Chicago lawyers Ed Genson, Sam Adam and his son, 
Samuel E. Adam, gave up an impeachment defense on Friday, with the Adams comparing the process to a “lynching.” 
Genson distanced himself from such talk but said the 
Senate trial’s outcome was a “foregone conclusion.”
Genson said he would still defend Blagojevich on the fed-
eral corruption charges.
Among complaints outlined in a statement to the Chicago 
Tribune, the Adams said they were not given subpoena power to call and question their own witnesses at the Senate trial.Blagojevich gives 
Senate no answer
“I’m not allowed to say anything.”
Chelsey “Sulley” Sullenberger
US Airways pilotBlagojevich
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 15
Charles Roop / Alligator
UF marketing and political science freshman Gloria Docilait cheers as she watches Barack Obama’s 
presidential inauguration ceremony on the projection screen at the Orange and Brew on Tuesday.
hand on the Bible used by Abraham Lincoln 
and repeated the inaugural oath “to preserve, protect and defend” a Constitution that origi-nally defined blacks as three-fifths of a person. A deafening cheer went up.
“What is required of us now is a new era of 
responsibility — a recognition, on the part of every American, that we have duties to our -
selves, our nation, and the world, duties that we do not grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly,” Obama said. “This is the price and the promise of citizenship.”
Tuesday was a day of high spirits — jarred 
by sudden concern about the health of Sen. 
Edward M. Kennedy, a legendary Democrat 
who is suffering from brain cancer and was rushed to a hospital from a Senate luncheon af-ter the swearing-in. “My prayers are with him and his family and (Kennedy’s wife) Vicki,” Obama said. Later, fellow Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts said Kennedy was laughing and joking at the hospital and itching to get back to work.
On the inaugural parade route, Obama and 
his wife, Michelle, climbed out of the heavily armored presidential limousine and walked a few blocks along famed Pennsylvania Avenue, waving to adoring crowds under the watchful 
eyes of security agents.
Obama wove a thread of personal respon-
sibility and accountability through his inau-
gural address, an 18-minute sermon on civic duty . A liberal Democrat proposing billions of dollars in new spending, Obama nonetheless spoke of the limits of government.
“It is the kindness to take in a stranger when 
the levees break, the selflessness of workers 
who would rather cut their hours than see a 
friend lose their job which sees us through our darkest hours,” he said. “It is the firefighter’s courage to storm a stairway filled with smoke, but also a parent’s willingness to nurture a child, that finally decides our fate.”Obama’s 10-year-old daughter, Malia, 
aimed a camera at her father as he spoke. Michelle leaned onto the edge of her seat, body tensed and brow knitted.
“Starting today, we must pick ourselves up, 
dust ourselves off and begin again the work of remaking America,” Obama said.
He alluded to the inability — or unwilling-
ness — of Americans to adjust to the passing of an industrial-based economy. “Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age,” he said. With that, the 47-year-old former Illinois sena-tor transformed himself — from a candidate claiming his campaign is about the voters to 
a president promising to put the nation in the 
people’s hands.
Unlike most predecessors, Obama takes 
office with his agenda in many ways set for him.
An economy that seems more forebod-ing than at any inauguration since Franklin D. Roosevelt took office in 1933, with some 11 million people now out of work, and tril-lions of dollars of stock market investments lost. Two wars, one in Iraq that most of the country has long wanted over and another in Afghanistan that is spiraling downward and needs an overhaul. The continuing fear that 
another calamitous terrorist attack is not out 
of the question.
More inspirational than prescriptive, 
Obama’s inaugural address only glancingly mentioned a series of promises from his cam-paign: to get the U.S. out of Iraq, stabilize Afghanistan, create jobs, “restore science to its rightful place,” boost the use of alternative energy, address climate change, transform 
schools, manage government spending wisely 
and oversee a more bipartisan, less-divisive approach to policy-making.
To a world eager for his leadership to re-
place Bush’s, Obama had welcome words: “We are ready to lead once more.”
Obama takes historic step as first black president, calls for unity
she said. 
Hall, who would normally be 
in her office  at noon on a Tuesday, 
said her colleagues convinced her 
to attend the Orange and Brew cel-ebration.
“I wanted to feel the energy of 
the crowd instead of watching (the inauguration) stream online,” she said. 
When Obama walked on stage 
to take his oath, the crowd stood in 
electric anticipation. When the oath 
was finished, the room burst into cheers.
Some students high-fived and 
clinked their beer bottles in toast, while others wiped tears from their eyes.
The crowd quieted as Obama 
took the lectern to give his speech.  
In his address, Obama encour -
aged Americans to come together to conquer the challenges ahead. 
Eric Conrad, group co-coordi-
nator of UF Students for Barack Obama, said Obama’s speech high-lighted today’s important chal-lenges  and predicted an optimistic future.
Despite the grandeur of the event,  
Conrad said he’s glad he watched the ceremony from Gainesville.
“I considered driving up a few 
times,” he said, adding that the lure 
of celebrating here with a beer was 
more appealing. 
Jessica Morgan, a theater and 
marketing junior, said she came to the Orange and Brew because she had class during the day and knew she wouldn’t make it home in time. 
She also wanted to celebrate the 
inauguration with friends.
“Being here seems kind of sur -
real right now,” she said.Locals gather for inaugurationOBAMA , from page 1
PRESIDENT , from page 1
“I wanted to feel the en -
ergy of the crowd instead of 
watching (the inauguration) 
stream online.”
Allyson Hall
UF professor, Department of Public 
Health and Health ProfessionsNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
super quiet construction. $1600/mo.
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  
352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2
WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009   ALLIGATOR , 17
MOVE IN TODAY!!
Great Specials on all our units!
Minutes to UF, Shands, & SFCC!
1/1, 2/2, & 3/3 units available!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-22-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   1-27-08-45-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo
2BR/2.5BA $1499/mo
Gore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
HWALK 2 BLOCKS TO UFH
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown * 2 Car Decals, 
WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer. Sm pet ok. 
Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 317 4408   
1-30-08-18-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
Spacious 1 & 2 & 3 bedrooms.starting at 
$525. $625 & $795. Different floor plans 
some with enclosed patios or balconies. 
Italian Tile, bedrooms carpeted, D/W, W/D hookups, verticals Central Heat & air. Lots of storage space. Near bus route .332-7700   
1-30-38-2SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office
1BR $515, 2BR $580
Call for daily specials
352-335-0420      1-30-08-48-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office.
2BR $535
Call for daily specials
352-335-0420   1-30-08-48-2
Available TODAY!
1/1: 620 sq ft--$629
2/2: 975 sq ft--$705
3/2 : 1096 sq ft - $866
Pinetreegardens.com * 376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-
08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.LiveNearCampus.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $679+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
2/1, 3 Blocks to UF
HW Floors, Centr. AC
Pet Friendly $850/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2
BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BALuxury Suites near Shands,
Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row
1240 SW 9th Road
Please visit us at the model
1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pm
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands1,2,3,4 & 5 BR PropertiesList Avail Jan 20th!!Please call or email us toReceive a list before theyAre all gone!!!Union Properties 352-373-7578info@rentgainesville.comwww.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BALuxury Dual Suites1185 SW 9th RD $1000/moClose to UF, Norman Hall& Sorority Row.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.Many have been drastically reducedFor immediate occupancy!Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown AptsParking/laundry hkupsWalk to UF $850/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to runbehind Hilton on SW 34th STUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
Available NOW1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2$995/MO 3BR/2BA
NEAR UF!! w/d incl.
2041 NW 7th PlaceLarge family room w/fireplaceHardwood floors & nice yardUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS EDGE CONDO
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-
6149, 239-992-2449   1-30-08-19-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE
Block from law school, biking distance from 
UF.  W/D incl. Pets ok. Huge yard. $1600/mo. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
 2BR/2.5BA - $725/mo.
 2BR/1.5BA - $625/mo.
Off SW 34th St. Close to UF, Shands, shop-
ping & dining. Fenced yard, util room. private parking, pets ok. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/mo
Lease through July 2009
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
WALK TO SANTA FE
2bd/2ba $750/mo
1 car garage. dw, mw. wd incl
Fenced yard. Avail Now!Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com       4-22-72-2
Mallorca Unit near Royal Park
2BD/2.5BA Avail Now!!
Beautiful, luxury townhouse
w/ garage. $950/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
Visit www.gatorpads.com
for available units or call
352-284-0316 / 352-281-0733Houses, Duplexes, Condo, Townhouses. Walk/Bike/Bus to UF. Neat, clean, quality1-30-08-18-2
2BR/2BA Townhouse, small pets ok! private 
courtyard, icemaker, dishwasher, washer/dryer hookup. walk to restraunts/ grocery. $799. mo. quiet neighbors. 318-0089   2-4-09-21-2
2bd/2.5ba townhouse. Pet friendly. Close 
to I-75 and bus route to main campus. New paint and 2 parking spaces. Rent is $750 a month plus $10 per pet. January free!! Call Rhonda at (727)-243-4688.    2-3-09-20-2
Rocky Point Apartments
3/2 W/D hkps Pets welcome!
$899.00 call now 352-376-1619  2-3-09-20-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in 
small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, mature applicants only. New car-pet. $575.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   1-21-09-10-2
4 BED 3 BATH HOUSE FOR RENT 
STARTING AUG 1, 2009. On University Ave near the corner of NW 30th St. $2,000 per month, pets OK. Large backyard and deck. Call 630-390-6612.   2-27-09-37-2
Duckpond Duplex 
2BR/1BA in quiet neighborhood. Close to 
downtown & on bus line. Spacious, carpeted, W/D on premises, D/W, Cent H/AC. No dogs. $650/mo Available now 352-376-0080   1-21-09-10-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-327-2931  1-28-09-15-2
2BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. Wired for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appliances, comm pool, 2 Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 to share. 1st & sec dep req. $1100/mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  1-21-09-10-2Duckpond
2 bd 1.5 ba 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of 
historic neighborhood.w/d Blocks to down-
town shops & restaurants. 508 NE 4th A ave 
avail immediately  $795/mo 379-4952
1-21-09-10-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy effi-
cient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, de-cal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   1-30-09-16-2
Immaculate and newly renovated historic 
home. New hardwood flrs, appliances, paint. 
Walk to campus. 3/1. $800/mo for two occu-
pants through July 31st. 911 NW 10th Ave. 
215-7199   2-6-09-20-2
2BR/1BA Spacious. 7209 SW 45th Lane, 
Gainesville. Cent H/AC, W/D hk-up. $600/
mo. $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-
0994   1-23-09-10-2
1 BEDROOM - NEAR UF
UTILITIES INCLUDED IN RENT.
724 NW 3rd AVE 
$590/mth ************Call 371-3260   1-26-
09-10-2
2 BEDROOM - DOWNTOWN
Quaint 2 br apt in the heart of downtown. 
Wood floors, Screen porch. 216 SW 3rd Ave 
$680/mth Call 371-3260   1-26-09-10-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, fenced 
yard, washer/dryer provided, 3413 NW 8th 
Ave. $1625/mo. Screened back porch, other 
houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  
1-23-09-9-2
1 Room in beautiful 2BR/1BA dwntwn condo. 
Vaulted ceilings, skylights, Italian style floors, 
close to library, UF, Shands & shopping. $450/mo mnth-to-mnth. Pets ok. Walk to 
popular spots & dwntwn festivals. 262-1351   
1-23-09-10-2
2/1 Funky Upstairs Apt
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly, Outdoor Kennel
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF 
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 1000 SF
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
WOODSIDE VILLAS off Tower Rd. 7200 SW 
8th Ave. 2BR/1BA + bonus rm & dining area. 1072 sq ft. Vaulted ceiling, W/D, DW, fans, pool, newer carpet/tile, bus rte, smoke-free, no pets. $800/mo. Quiet area 352-339-6502  1-22-09-7-2
4BR/2BA MUST SEE!
Available 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, lawn care, 
1.8 mi to UF, No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave Fenced $1400/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645   1-27-09-10-2
ANTIQUE 1BR APT
Lg 1BR, hdwd flrs, clawfoot tub, 1908 house. Dntwn near Waldo Rd. Pets arranged. $395/mo. ALSO pvt rm in trailer, Archer Rd by Publix $275/mo. Greg 214-3291  1-27-10-2
MICANOPY HOUSE
3BR/1BA, huge bathrm, large yd, in Micanopy 
city. Pets arranged. Cool old house. $600/mo, 1st, last, dep. Greg 214-3291   1-27-10-2
Cute & Funky upstairs loft behind Leonardo’s 706, six blocks to UF/downtown. Available now! Short lease possible. $450/mo(352)338-7670 or shepley@cozygator.comOthers places listed at www.cozygator.com   1-21-09-5-2
1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnishedCute & Clean Vintage 4bd/2.5ba house be-
hind Applebee’s. Bike to UF. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms! Available now! 907 NW 11th Ave. $1150/mo. cozygator@bellsouth.net 352-338-7670   1-21-09-5-2
2 bed / 1 bath apartment avail in quadplex. 
1037 NW 41st Ave. WD hookups, dishwash -
er, central heat and air. New carpet, paint. 
Nice unit! Sorry, no pets. Call 352-375-5250 
or e-mail glenn.primack@gmail.com   1-21-
5-2
Spacious 1Br/1Ba in Gatornest Apartments. 
$585/mo. Pets welcome! Walking distance 
to all midtown bars and only 2 blocks from 
the stadium!! Call now-386-316-5777   1-22-09-6-2
Bike/bus to UF. New Condo at Chase Hollow.
1150 sq ft. Lv rm, dng rm, 2 bedrms, 3 baths
& porch. Tile 1st fl, carpet 2nd fl. Rent $1150.
Pls call 407-497-9024
1-23-09-7-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/3BA large house with large bedrooms. House only 4 yrs old. Fireplace, washer/dry -
er provided, vaulted ceilings. 2108 NW 8th 
Court. $1575/mo. 339-2342 for directions.   
1-23-09-7-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA, nice modern house on large pri-
vate lot. Fireplace, washer/dry provided. 
$1425/mo. 2606 NW 34th St. Pets ok. Deck, 
lots of trees. Call 339-2342   1-23-09-7-2
2 story 2 bdrm 2 bth townhome w/firplace 
in Shell Rock Villas. Nice area close to UF, Oaks Mall and bus stop. $625 mo plus se-curity dep. Call Ms. Mitchell (678) 642-1223   1-21-09-5-2
3BR/1BA, carport, W/D hook-up, fenced in 
yard. Sec. 8 Available. Call for info 352-224-
5693   1-21-5-2
Priced like apt, feels like a house. Spacious 
2BR/1BA duplex, close to dwntwn. Eat-in kitchen, scrn porch, fenced yd, W/D hk-ups, big trees, huge carport. Immaculate inside & out. Available now $645/mo 352-378-4684   1-21-5-2
Available Soon!! 2/BR 1/BA house w/ 
fenced yard. Bike to UF/AGH/Shands. Can negotiate pets. $695/mo 115 SE 9th ST. Drive by then call 352-538-1310 or 352-538-1329.   1-23-09-6-2
Available Now!! A cozy 2/BR 1/BA stone 
cottage w/ office. Bike to UF/AGH/Shands. Some pets ok. $795/mo 303 SE 8th ST. Drive by, then call 352-538-1310 or 352-538-1329   1-23-09-6-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
Large house 4BR/2BA, large bedrooms and large living room, privacy fence, pets ok. Washer/dryer provided. $1400/mo 2100 NW 8th Ct. Call 339-2342  1-23-09-6-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
Nice house 3BR/1BA, hardwood floors, porch, washer/dryer provided, Very private backyard, detached garage. $1125/mo 924 NW 9th Ave. Call 339-2342   1-23-09-6-2
Luxury! No Fees!
On Bivens Arm Nature Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE 2/2.5 Townhomes!
W/D and Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-2
$375 month..1rm in 4bdrm/4bth apt..female
student ideal..near uf/shands..call Drew561-716-1240 or rongo66@msn.com   1-22-09-5-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-09-20-2
l1BR/1BA Vintage apt 3 blocks to UF $495/mo 112 NW 9th St. l2BR/1BA Charming vintage house,fenced, shed. $650/mo Pets okay. 3406 NW 21st St. 514-6281   1-22-09-5-2AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
3BR/2BA, one block from campus. Nice 2-s-
tory house, washer/dryer provided, fireplace, 
wood floors, dishwasher. $1350/mo 110 SW 12th St Call 339-2342   1-23-09-5-2
5br 3ba MH on 5ac.
15 min to UF. $1600 mt h.
352-213-3943   1-23-5-2
507 NW 39th Rd #229. Clean 2 bed
2 bath, washer, dryer, pool, 
tennis, clubhouse. $850 month 
plus $850 security, no pets.Smart Choice Realty 376-2779   1-23-09-5-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$650 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2
2/1 Great remodeled house. Hardwood 
floors, central h/ac, dishwasher, new kitchen. 
Close to campus. Great neighborhood. 1004 
NW 15th Ave. Avail. now. 850mo. 352-256-5343, atwa0002@hotmail.com.   1-23-09-4-2
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate 
Matching. ONLY 10 Steps to UF. $479-$504*
All-Inclusive Rent * Fully-furnished
www.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557   
4-22-60-2
Available Now!!!
2-bedroom/2-bath Townhouses starting at $675/mo. Move-in specials available and lots of amenities. Offered by Keller Williams 
Gainesville Realty
***352-871-3890 or mckenzit@kw.com***   
1-27-09-5-2
1 & 2 BD Cottages starting at $475/moHistorical Downtown, W/D hookups, porches, Bike to UF 10-15 mins. Great Size! Cute! Must See! $0 Deposit specialrentalworkshop.com 505-9264, 870-0904   1-27-08-5-2
1
13121110987654323Subleases
Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 12/18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to take over existing lease. Security dep free. Contact sean6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
1BR/1BA apt for sublease at Summer Place 
Villas. $560/month, includes water. Available NOW! Call 941-457-3444 or swatts@ufl.edu   1-27-09-15-3
$420 + 1/2 utilities-Sublease 1Br in a 2/1 
house with female UF student; screened in porch, fenced-in backyard, carport, close to bus route, parking decal included, pets ok. Call Barbara for more info 954-673-9822   1-29-14-3
$400/mo. M/F Subleasee needed for a 1/1 in 
a 3/3 apt @ Lexington Crossing: furnished, cable/internet, electric, w/d. I will pay for your 1st mo rent & security deposit. incentives ne-gotiable. David 3052054859   1-26-09-10-4
Female needed to take over a lease on a 3/2 
furnished flat in Greenwich Green. Rent is $383/mo + utilities and includes wireless in-ternet and cable. W/D in apt. January rent is free. E-mail kme1397@ufl.edu   1-21-5-3
Jan. FREE at Royal Village. Move in NOW 
and enjoy reduced rent of $400/mo. All utls incl. Room in female 4/2. Free tan, gym, park. Call Michelle @ 239-405-1491 or michro@ufl.edu.   1-23-09-6-3
SUBLEASE 1 bedroom unfurn. apt. at Pine Rush 
Villas. Lease from Jan. to July. Jan. is paid. $529/mo. + util.call 352-222-1428 - Larry   1-23-5-3
ONE BLOCK TO UF/LIBRARY WEST! Looking Glass Apts. 1BR/1BA IN 2/2. Free in-ternet, W/D Tile kitchen/bath. MUST LEASE NOW! PRICE GREATLY REDUCED. WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER!! (850) 525-4532   1-30-9-3Will pay $500 to take over my room in a 4bed/4bath apartment from January 2009-
August 2009 needs sublease and it comes 
fully furnished with everything included $499/
mo call Fredrick Williams (813)849-8125:   
2-2-10-3
1
13121110987654324Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Cobblestone 377-2801
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-22-72-4
l1br w/pvt entrance available in 2BR condo 
Central air and heat. 2 pools in complex. 
Walking distance to UF. Rent 375/mo
l1BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW house close to UF $395/mo 352-316-3930.    
1-30-09-20-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ 
UT cable and internet included.(for sale or 
rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, 
ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space 
pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, 
near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    
1-27-15-4
2 ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $475/mo/room. All in-
cluded. 754-204-1624   1-30-09-17-4
2 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. $475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-30-4
move in2 our FREAKIN AWESOME house. 1 
blk from campus, nxt to mellow mush. 4b/2br, w/d, furn, big rms, back porch, pingpong tbl, firepit, big yard, storage. $520/mo. 3 chill stu-dent roommates. Call Mike @ 843-816-5337.   1-23-09-10-4
1 Room in beautiful 2BR/1BA dwntwn condo. 
Vaulted ceilings, skylights, Italian style flrs, close to library, UF, Shands & shopping. $450/mo month-to-month. Pets ok. Walk to popular spots & dwntwn festivals. 262-1351   1-23-09-10-4
1 Room in beautiful 2BR/1BA dwntwn condo. 
Vaulted ceilings, skylights, Italian style floors, close to library, UF, Shands & shopping. $450/mo month-to-month. Pets ok. Walk to popular spots & dwntwn festivals. 262-1351   1-23-09-10-3
NEED ROOMMATE! 1 MONTH FREE! 1 year old 3 
bdrm townhouse located near UF and Sante Fe. Students preferred. wsh/dry,cable,gym, pool. $500/month + 1/3 util.Flexible lease.Call Alex 954-663-8255    2-2-14-4
1BD/1BA avail NOW in 2/2.5 condo near UF. 
Furnished, W/D, pool, open parking, on 4 bus rts. $400/mo + 1/2 utils. Call Chris 561-445-9034   2-6-09-17-4
HANDYMAN NEEDED Disc 4 wk Share 2/2 
MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/mo; $100/wk incl util. 2wk adv. laun/cook svc avail N/A, N/S, N/D. Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   1-26-9-4
Room in 3/2 house by 34th & Univ. $450/mo 
+ utils, house has pool table, screen porch, large yard, quiet neighbors, near everything (movies, moe’s, bento, UF, etc.) Call to see 678-457-1635   1-27-7-4
Male roommate wanted 1BR/1BA for rent in a 4BR/4BA. Room is fully furnished. $425/mo incl all utils & cable. $125 sec dep re-quired.  Available from now until August 30th, 2009. Call 352-871-2982   1-23-5-4Looking for male college student (preferred) 
to share 4BR/4BA condo with same. Own 
bathroom. W/D, high speed internet. Includes 
utilities $430/mo (available immediately) 863-634-1893   1-26-08-5-4
Need roommate for Townhouse Apt
Master Bedroom, W/D, walkin Closet$430/month 2 Mi. from CampusCall 772-418-0625   1-23-3-4
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable TV, pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-
09-62-4
1
13121110987654325 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT www.al-
ligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   
4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, 
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
steel & concrete construction, alarm system. 
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-35514-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
Condos for sale near UF/Shands!!
Many affordable units available.Call Carolyn/Maureen at:(352)284-4428 or (386)365-8590@ Matchmaker Realty.    1-30-09-21-5
Alachua County - Big block home. Nice 
country location. 4BR/2BA, 2-car garage, pool. Needs work. 35 yrs old. $90K/OBO. Appraised $190K. Financing possible. Call 727-939-1864   1-28-09-10-5
1
13121110987654326Furnishings
BED - QUEEN - $110 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $90 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost $1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516___________________________________Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-75164-22-72-6 BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, 
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. 
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-
72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $140   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 
4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$120  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with 
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 
4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must 
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 18, ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654323Subleases1
13121110987654324Roommates1
13121110987654326FurnishingsQUEEN SIZE FUTON BED
60x80 solid wood maple,
coral,teal and cream print.
$150.00. 353-332-5890.
1-29-09-10-6
1
13121110987654327Computers
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9
NEW ROAD BIKES $250
Ok Gainesville, you asked for it! A new af-
fordable roadbike for under $300. Head to 
the Schwinn Shop 1225 W Univ.-2 drs from Leonardo’s & leave happy! 352-427-6666  1-22-5-9
1
131211109876543210 For Sale
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONSare underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-0370
4-22-08-72-10COMPLETE SET OF
IRONS & METAL WOODS.
Oversized heads. Bag included. Like new. 
$75. Ron 352-332-5757   1-22-09-4-10
1
131211109876543211 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-
72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-22-08-72-11***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 
336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com
4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11
1
131211109876543212 Autos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not! 
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
Over 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 
4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
4-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-
72-12
ATTENTION 
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!
300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      
4-22-08-72-12
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special
60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles
(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the Public
Including Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVs
Sun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-
12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?
File Your Taxes Here and
Drive Off in Your Vehicle
Sun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-
12
Sun City Auto
No Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 DownBuy Here – Pay Here352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12
1
131211109876543213 Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings 
 ETC  Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Volunteers Wanted - Horses
Helping People is seekingvolunteers for therapy andhorseback riding program. Visithorseshelpingpeople.org for info.   1-21-5-13
Wanted: Papers and Essays.Will pay $15 for old papers. For research purposes only. Email susan@dailylovelies.com for details.    1-26-6-13
1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-vertiser before giving out personal informa-tion or arranging meetingsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009   ALLIGATOR , 19
1
13121110987654326Furnishings1
13121110987654329 Bicycles1
131211109876543210 For Sale1
131211109876543211 Motorcycles, Mopeds1
131211109876543212 AutosLIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be 
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.
carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  4-22-08-72-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get 
program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For 
online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.
com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Tired of Working Retail?
Local real estate co. hiring part-time Sales & 
Leasing Associates.  Need previous sales 
or retail exp & outgoing personality.  No real 
estate exp req (training provided). Bonuses 
& benefits. Send resume, cover letter & avail 
schedule to hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-22-72-14
*IT/Programming Internship.  Local invest-
ment firm seeks individual to work PT/FT with SQL, HTML, ASP, databases, servers, and networks.  2+ yrs exp pref.  $15-20 per hour + bonuses, long term capability.  Fax resume to 352-378-4156.*   1-30-08-21-14
Bookkeeper - Office Manager (PT) needed for 
local law office. Must be proficient in Quick Books. Email resume to:robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com   1-21-09-11-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem school students. 1-4 afternoons/wk
$10/hr 15-20 min S of UF. Fed wk study
req for emp. Volunteers welcome Contact Sally 
352-384-1155; st23@cox.net
1-21-09-10-14
WEB DEVELOPERS & COMPUTER 
CONSTULTANTS: UF Center for Instructional 
Technology and Training. Web developers must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS, XHTML and 
Photoshop. Portfolio links must be included 
with application. Consultant position requires expert skills with Windows and Microsoft Office 
applications. Excellent communication skills 
required. Pay starts at $7.50 per hour. jksmith@
ufl.edu, online application at http://www.citt.
ufl.edu/employment.php.
1-30-17-14
Afternoon nanny for elem age
M-F 1:30 --; W 12:30; must commit thruAug min; Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mailres/pix/sched/ gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-14
Afternoon nanny needed
12-6pm w/ 3.5yr old; must committo 1yr+; non-student pref;Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, sched gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-14
MWF 7:30 to 5 NANNY for
newborn twins; 20-30hrs/wk;exp req.; Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, sched. gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. 
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. 
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls 
available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 
4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, 
NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15
 MOVING? 
 FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM7074-22-72-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner  
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping, X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities. Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges. Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie 352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.   1-26-08-20-15
Absolute Value Automotive
Major/minor auto repairs ASE cert. Free pickup & delivery of your car. UF grad owned. Lowest price guaranteed. All makes/models. 9420 NW 13th St 379-31301-30-08-23-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
MATH & PHYSICS TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   1-30-15-15
1
131211109876543216 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16
Attention cigarette smokers! Are you in-
terested in quitting smoking? What better 
time than now, the beginning of a new year! 
Researchers at University of Florida are re-cruiting healthy cigarette smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 to test a new behav -
ioral treatment to help you quit smoking. 
You will be compensated for your participa -
tion. If you’re interested, please contact the 
University of Florida Smoking Laboratory and Clinic at 352-273-2188 or send an email 
to ufsmokelab@gmail.com.   1-21-10-16
Therapeutic Herbal Salves.Got pain? Need 
sleep? Problem skin? Why not try our laven -
der herbal salves?Natural,inexpensive and effective remedies for arthritis,sprains,acne,insomnia,rashes, headaches,etc at chappell -
hilllavender.com   1-21-2-16
1
131211109876543217 Typing Services
SAME DAY SERVICE (When Possible): 
Transcription, typing.  Desktop pub: bro-
chures, newsletters, flyers, ads, logos, graph-
ics, books.  Resume service. 20 years exp. 
 Connie 271-2677 cgraphix@bellsouth.net  
1-21-10-17
1
131211109876543218 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Family Chiropractic 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18
1
131211109876543219 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
STEPHANI
Meeting you and your best friend from Korea 
was a heartwarming way to start the New Year. I very much regret not exchange phone num-bers. Please call me. Best regards. Karl 332-50301-28-09-10-19
Happy 21st Birthday Nicole!
You are an amazing young woman!
Thanks for making me a gator mom!
Love you,
Mom
1-21-09-2-19
1
131211109876543220 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
“MARGARITA” Feb.2, 7 pm, Hippodromeoriginal dance theater performance Sign up for a free ticketwww.BlackCProduction.com   2-2-09-10-20
1
131211109876543221Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
BAHAMA SPRING BREAK SALE!
$200 Sale! Includes Roundtrip 
Cruise, 4 Nights Beachfront
Hotel, Meals & #1 Parties!
Text Message: SPRINGBREAK 
to 313131 to redeem sale!
Limited Space, Book Now!
1-877-997-8747
www.XtremeTrips.com
FL Seller of Travel Reg No ST35430
1-22-28-21
GRADUATION HOTEL HOTLINE
Graduating this May? Wehave rooms! 352-278-1595FL. Seller of  Travel Reg No #12618   2-5-15-21
Need performance credit?sign up for a free ticket
www.BlackCProduction.com
“Margarita” Feb.2 Hippodrome theatre   2-2-
09-10-21
1
131211109876543222 Tickets
Free ticket to ‘MARGARITA’
dance theater at the HIPPODROMEFeb. 2, 7 pm. sign up at www.BlackCProduction.com   2-2-09-10-22
1
131211109876543223 Rides
Cheapest fixed price in town to So. FL.
Buy tickets on line, over the phone, in per -
son. $35 One Way - $45 Rount Trip.
Regular and Reverse Trips - One Price
www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23
1
131211109876543224 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
1
131211109876543225 Lost & Found
FOUND:
KRYPTONITE LOCK  KEY
in front of the Alligator building (1105 W. 
University Ave) Thursday am. Come to front desk with the lock to claim key.   1-22-4-2520, ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
UF Survey Research Center
Telephone Interviewers
NO SALES
$8.00 - $8.50/hr
Students and Non-Students
352-392-2908 Ext: 105
408 W. University Ave. Suite 106
4-22-70-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PT
Sales & Customer service exp.
EOE, DFWP
Apply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 
352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14
D~LYON ENTERPRISES, a new music pro-
duction company, now hiring for PT research, 
development & bookkeeping position. Must 
be energetic, out-going & people-friendly. 
Call Craig for more info 352-213-7440   1-28-
09-10-14
Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-
per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-
4791   4-22-09-65-14
Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an 
absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-
ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, 
email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-
22-14
Part Time Work for
Full Time Pay
Phone Sales Reps M-F 6:30-10pm, 
no wknds,pd wkly, Call 352-378-2262
for intrvw, exp. preferred   1-29-09-10-14
Busy doctors office seeks helper for clerical 
work. 10-20 hrs/wk $7-9 based on experi -
ence. Will consider all applicants References 
required Email resume to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-2-12-14
Housekeeper needed for busy family, 10-
20 hrs/week can be less $8-9, must like big 
dogs and little cats prefer someone willing to 
stay for more than 1 year but will consider all References required dsarkis@gmail.com   1-26-7-14
Students interested in working/living with 
persons with developmental disabilities are needed. Help with activites of daily liv-ing as well as enjoying community events and resources. Fun job and very rewarding! Lynzmgmt@aol.com   1-22-09-5-14
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE 
from May 1st thru Aug 20th in Branson, Missouri for singers, dancers, musicians. 352-332-0515 or 352-332-0514   1-29-09-10-14
Part Time IT position, FISC / USGS Gainesville 
office. ASP programming, IIS and SQL servers, ArcIMS experience desired.Contact InformationLisa A. Vanderbloemen, PhD Project Manager, FISC
Jacobs Technology 
5401 W. Kennedy Blvd., Suite 900 
Tampa, FL 33609
(813)282-3500 x 216 (Work)lisa.vanderbloemen@usog.jacobs.com   
1-26-09-5-14
Are you tired of working more for less and less?
Break the cycle & get what you really want: 1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
FRONT AND BACK OF HOUSE 
SUPERVISOR/MANAGER needed as soon as possible. Apply in person w/ resume: 3501 SW 2nd Ave, Gville, FL 32605. CalicoJacks.net 352-371-1675 or 352-375-2337  1-26-09-5-14
WANTED: ALL POSITIONS
for NEW BOWLING CENTER. Open inter-
views Jan 23, 24 & 26, 11am-3pm. 1311 NW 76th Blvd. For more info: 352-332-0555   1-27-09-5-14
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted1
131211109876543216 Health Services1
131211109876543215 Services1
131211109876543221EntertainmentSports
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
I DID NOT KNOW THAT SCOREBOARD POLL QUESTIONAndrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF guard Nick Calathes reacts to his first foul in the second half of the Gators’ 80-65 win against Arkan -
sas on Saturday.
By MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator.org
Last season, UF was crushed by 
the weight of its own success.
After starting 18-3 and climbing 
back into the Top 25 with a 22-point 
blowout win at home against No. 13 Vanderbilt, UF imploded, losing its next two games (Arkansas 80-61 and Tennessee 104-82) and eight of its final 11.
The Gators went on to get 
steamrolled in the first round of the Southeastern Conference Tournament by Alabama and wound up missing out on the 
NCAA Tournament for the first 
time since 1998.
Now, as the team prepares for 
its second SEC road test tonight at South Carolina (12-4, 1-2 SEC) at 7, 
UF will try to learn from the mis-
takes of the past. 
The Gators (16-2, 3-0 SEC), who 
are currently riding a 10-game win-ning streak, checked back in to the 
national rankings this week at No. 
24, and this time around, they are 
looking at things with a bit more 
perspective. “It’s kind of scary — kind of 
the same situation as last year,” 
forward Dan Werner said. “I’m ex-cited, but I’m also kind of nervous. Hopefully we don’t follow that 
path. We had some early success 
and we let it get to us a little bit.”
UF re-entered the rankings for 
the first time since their 57-55 loss 
to Florida State on Dec. 7.
“After that Vanderbilt win, I 
think we got kind of big-headed,” 
Nick Calathes said. “We let a couple games slip away, and we weren’t 
focused. We thought we were al-
ready in the NCAA Tournament 
and had it all figured out.”
The next two weeks should pro-
vide a clearer picture of how this season will be painted.
UF will play three of its next 
four games on the road, includ-Gators hope history 
doesn’t repeat itself
UF GYMNASTICS
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
UF gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn had 
an extended weekend to think about it.
And still, what was fresh in her mind af-
ter the Auburn meet Friday was her team’s 
resilience.
“I thought the team overall did a very 
nice job responding, especially after having a less-than-stellar (balance) beam perfor -
mance,” Faehn said. “Every competition is not going to be exactly what we want, but the key is how we respond to that.”
Faehn attributed part of the rough per -
formance to lack of aggressiveness, but also admitted that Rebekah Zaiser’s injury , a broken foot that will keep her out all sea-son, took a toll on the team.
“Not having Bekah as our leadoff since 
she went down on Tuesday, I think that af-
fected our team mentally and emotionally a 
little bit,” Faehn said.
The Gators clinched the victory by re-
bounding in their last event, floor exercise. Courtney Gladys led off on floor after 
the unconquerable beam, and the team never looked back.
Faehn said she and the coaching staff 
preached persistence.
“You fight until the 
very last routine, un-til that very last pose,” Faehn said. “I was so excited to be able to see 
that our athletes fought 
for every little thing on 
floor.”
It paid off.A floor lineup that 
generated the second highest event total of the night, behind uneven bars, lifted UF. 
With the team a bit thin because of 
Zaiser’s injury and bursitis nagging 
Amanda Castillo, the floor lineup may not 
be tinkered with at all.
Injuries to veterans mean more air time 
for the freshmen, starting in the first road meet of the season at Fayetteville, Ark., against the Razorbacks on Friday.Faehn proud of resilience
Once again, the UF basketball team is listed in the AP Top 25 poll this week. Neat.
The ranking also technically makes 
the Gators the class of the Southeastern 
Conference, since no other team has a lit-
tle number next to its name on television broadcasts these days.
Remember what happened at a similar 
point last season?
UF gets ranked. UF loses eight of 11 
and heads to the NIT.
Hm. I bet Billy Donovan is looking for a 
different result this season.
Then again, as much as he criticized 
his team’s desire last season, I don’t think the players didn’t want to make last year’s NCAA Tournament. Maybe a different mindset gets them a couple more wins, they sneak in and lose in the first round.
So, what’s the recipe for a better re-sult this season? After all, the Gators may be 3-0 in the SEC, but they haven’t faced Tennessee or Kentucky.
The answer might be freshman Kenny 
Kadji. The 
6 - f o o t - 1 0 , 
245-pound big man saw his most signifi-cant playing time of the season against Arkansas on Saturday . He 
is coming off 
back-to-back games in 
which he scored in double figures. 
Know how many other UF players 
have scored double-digits in each of the Kadji key to Gators’ success
Phil Kegler
Phil on the Hill
pkegler@alligator.org
SEE PHIL, PAGE 23Zaiser
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 23“After that Vanderbilt win, I 
think we got kind of big-
headed,” 
Nick Calathes
UF sophomore guard
 The UF softball team will enter the 
2009 season ranked as the No. 1 
team in the nation. The team is also favored to win the Southeastern Con -
ference for the second year in a row.NCAA Men’s BasketballTennessee 76
Vanderbilt 63
Ohio State 49
(25) Illinois 67Today’s question: Which UF men’s basketball freshman has had the most impact this season?
Previous question:  Which unit will be most important to the UF football team in 2009? (see right for results) Percent (Votes)
Defense 68% (82)
Offense 20% (24)
Sp. teams 12% (15)
121 TOTAL VOTES22, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — New Miami Dolphins 
majority owner Stephen Ross 
won’t mess with success: He says 
Bill Parcells will remain in charge 
of the football operation.
Ross, a New York real estate bil-
lionaire, completed his purchase 
of 95 percent of the franchise for 
$1 billion Tuesday, with Wayne Huizenga retaining a 5 percent in-terest.
Ross then addressed the subject 
of Parcells’ status. The sale trig-gered a clause in Parcells’ contract allowing him to leave and still re-ceive the $9-12 million remaining 
on the four-year contract he signed 
a year ago.
“Parcells is in charge,” Ross said 
in a conference call. “He’s staying, and I think we’re very fortunate 
to have someone like Bill Parcells, 
who I think people have come to recognize as probably the best football mind in America.”
Thanks to Parcells, Ross takes 
over with the franchise’s fortunes on the upswing. When the first phase of his purchase was com-pleted last February, the Dolphins 
were coming off a 1-15 season, 
worst in team history. Under the new Parcells regime, they im-proved to 11-6 this season and made the playoffs for the first time 
since 2001.
Ross said he’s 100 percent cer -
tain Parcells will stay for another 
season.
“I feel very, very comfortable 
with him, and I think he feels comfortable with me,” Ross said. “I think we’ve developed a good rapport. 
“Bill Parcells thinks like a busi-
nessman: You don’t solve all your problems with money; you solve them with brains.”
In February 2008, Ross bought 
50 percent of the franchise, Dolphin Stadium and surrounding land from Huizenga for $550 million, with an agreement to later become 
managing general partner.
Ross closed on the purchase of 
an additional 45 percent Tuesday. 
That part of the agreement re-
ceived pre-approval from the NFL 
in October.
Huizenga, 71, became sole own-
er of the Dolphins in 1994. A year ago he said it was time for some-
one else to assume control.
General manager Jeff Ireland, 
scouting players preparing 
Tuesday for the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala., said the sale won’t af-fect the way he, Parcells and coach Tony Sparano go about things.
“It doesn’t really change what I do, it doesn’t change what Tony 
does, it doesn’t change what Bill 
does,” Ireland said. “We’ve got to win games.”
Ross plans to meet Friday with 
Parcells, Ireland and Sparano, and said he foresees no changes on the 
football side. He said he found the 
atmosphere at the Dolphins’ re-cent playoff game electrifying and wants to build on this season’s suc-
cess.“That is the most important 
thing, and the thing that drives 
me — creating and being part of a winning organization,” Ross said. “There is nothing more important 
than that.”
Billionaire Ross becomes Dolphins’ majority owner
AP Photo
Real estate developer Stephen Ross appears on the field before the Miami Dolphins’ 27-9 loss to the 
Baltimore Ravens in the opening round of the playoffs at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens on Jan. 4.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 23
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
Coming off its win against 
Georgia last Sunday, No. 15 UF has 
some time to rest before its next game.
The Gators (17-2, 3-1 
Southeastern Conference) have a full week to prepare for Mississippi on Sunday.
It’s the most time they’ve had 
between games since going home to see their families for about a week over winter break.
UF coach Amanda Butler knows 
her team must take advantage of times like this while it can.
“The bye weeks are crucial,” 
Butler said during her weekly press 
conference Tuesday. “It gives you a 
chance to rest a little bit, the play-ers to rest a little bit, the coaches an opportunity to recruit a little bit. More importantly, more practice time and an opportunity to really try and improve.”It seems ob-
vious enough, but considering the team won’t have another break like this for more than a 
month and will 
have a gauntlet of games coming 
up against teams like Tennessee, Vanderbilt and LSU, the Gators better enjoy life on the couch while they can.LIFE WITHOUT MOSSOR:  When 
Jennifer Mossor’s ACL was torn 
two weeks ago and UF found out it would be without her for the re-mainder of the season, the Gators started scrambling.
The immediate effects showed 
in an 81-65 loss at Auburn, but 
now UF seems to have found ways to replace the junior guard.
Susan Yenser has started the 
last two games in Mossor’s place, 
and Butler has also spread the min-
utes around to bench players like Lonnika Thompson and Trumae Lucas, a testament to the team’s depth.
Starters like Sha Brooks, 
Marshae Dotson and Steffi Sorensen have also picked up the slack in the last couple games.
The trio scored 47 of the team’s 
61 points against Georgia.
“When you lose a key person 
like Jenn, it can take away from your confidence, and I just really commend our team for not allow-ing that to happen,” Butler said.
Gators enjoy brief vacation before critical stretch
Butler
ing nationally televised contests against 
Vanderbilt and Tennessee. 
The Gators’ three conference victories 
this season have come against Mississippi, Auburn and Arkansas, which are a com-bined 2-7 in the SEC — one of which came when Mississippi beat Arkansas at home in Oxford last week.The players are saying all the right things, 
but how the Gators will handle success is yet to be seen. 
In the eyes of UF coach Billy Donovan, 
concerns over rankings aren’t representative of the program he has built in Gainesville.
“Duke, North Carolina and UCLA, I 
don’t think they ever talk about their pro-gram being ranked. They think it is some-thing that is supposed to happen,” Donovan said. “I think with our team right now, they 
should expect that and it should have no bearing on how we perform, prepare or practice.”RESUME BUILDING: UF is 27th in the most recent RPI rankings but has the 
105th-ranked strength of schedule (out of 343 teams). The SEC is sixth in the RPI and is currently sitting behind the Pacific-10 Conference. The Gators’ opponents have the most combined losses of any team currently ranked in the Top 25 with 146.
UF is currently tied atop the SEC East 
standings with Kentucky (14-4, 3-0 SEC), which dropped Tennessee from this week’s Top 25 poll with an 18-point road victory courtesy of junior Jodie Meeks and his school-record 54 points.
Donovan downplays importance of team’s return to national rankings
last two games?
Two: Alex Tyus and Nick 
Calathes.
Still, Donovan called out his 
rising contributor after a 10-point, 
four-rebound afternoon against 
the Razorbacks.
“Maybe more so than any 
player I’ve ever coached, he needs to get a whole lot better handling success,” Donovan said. “Earlier in the year, when anything went well for him, whether it be a day 
of practice or a game, you can rest 
assured the next day coming was going to be a loss of focus and a loss of intensity and a loss of work ethic in a lot of respects.”
“You gotta go through some 
experiences being young, and his biggest challenge to me is being able to handle a level of success 
and contribution to our team and 
not allowing himself to think he’s got it all figured it out.”
And it didn’t stop there. Donovan continued to rail on 
his talented newcomer as well as 
freshmen big men Allan Chaney and Eloy Vargas about how the trio doesn’t fight enough through fatigue.
Whether it’s tough love or if 
Donovan is really frustrated could be debated. It certainly wouldn’t be a surprise if he is simply trying 
to keep his young player humble.
Regardless, Kadji might be 
starting to figure it all out. He 
recorded only one block against Arkansas but played crucial de-
fense against Razorbacks star big 
man Michael Washington while Tyus was hampered by foul trou-ble.
Do you think that will be the 
last time Kadji is called on for cru-cial minutes? It’s doubtful.
But he doesn’t have it all fig-
ured it out yet. Freshmen rarely 
do. But his commitment to im-
proving may go hand-in-hand with UF’s win total. 
“Some players see (a bar -rier), and they fight through it 
and overcome it,” Donovan said. 
“Other guys, they never quite get over the hump.”
I’m a firm believer in a simi-
lar notion that, when challenged, a person can choose one of two paths — push through or give up. Donovan believes Kadji will choose the former.
UF fans will have to hope he’s 
right because it’s very likely the Gators’ postseason success rests on the young man’s shoulders.
PHIL , from page 21HOOPS , from page 21
Men's
Bask etball24, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009
