heAVenu
VOLUME 103 ISSUEthe indepen flrd
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
28 We Inform. You Decide.10
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
LANDSLIDE VICTORY
Unite wins all but 3 Senate seats
By CAROLYN TILLO and
THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writers
The sounds of U-U-Unite, U-
U-Unite could be heard ringing
throughout the area outside the Or-
ange & Brew early this morning as
election results were announced.
Unite Party members chanted
and cheered as they heard they
dominated Student Government
elections once again, nabbing all but
three of the 46 Senate seats avail-
able.
The Orange and Blue Party
walked away with two seats: Jona-
than Ossip for the Murphree Area
and Alan Yanuck for the Keys Resi-
dential Complex.
Odette Rivera, of the Progress
Party, grabbed the seat for family
housing.
Supervisor of Elections Ariana
Alfonso announced the Unite Par-
ty's success around midnight to a
crowd of about 156 people wearing
blue, orange and red T-shirts.
Among those who walked away
with seats were two Unite Party
members who entered into de-
ferred prosecution agreements with
the State Attorney's office earlier
this year, one for underage alcohol
possession and one for underage
alcohol possession, marijuana pos-
session and possession of drug par-
aphernalia.
Alfonso said 8,483 students vot-
ed in fall's election. A total of 10,469
students voted in the 2008 fall elec-
tion.Unite Party President Joey Re-
galado said he was overcome with
emotion and attributed the wins to
the hard work of his candidates and
volunteers. He said he called his
parents with the results.
,"I was calling to tell them that all
the work was not in vain," he said.
After hearing the results, mem-
bers of the Orange and Blue Party
lifted re-elected Murphree Senator
Jonathan Ossip into the air.Ben Cavataro, the Orange and
Blue Party policy and communica-
tions director, said despite the re-
sults he was proud of the hard work
of his candidates.
"They put mind and soul and
body into this and I think as a result
our university will become better,"
he said.Progress Party members gath-
ered on the grassy area overlooking
the amphitheater after their defeat.
Progress Party President Dave
Schneider said he was proud his
party chose to rally after the results
were announced rather than hang
their heads and go home.
SEE ELECTION, PAGE 8
Jesse Sherman, who was re-elected to a District A Student Senate seat, is held up by fellow Unite Party supporters while wearing his "Unite
Man" costume outside the Reitz Union early Thursday.
Police arrest suspect in rape, armed robbery
GPD: He blamed his actions on a cocaine addiction Wachovia ATM and withdraw money for
him, Kameg said.
KATHERINE BEIN raped one of them early Wednesday morn- The incident occurred at 2 a.m. Wednes- He then brought the women back to the
Alligator Staff Writer ing. day morning, when two apartment, where he raped one of them.
kbein@a Iligator org Jay Alan Meeks, 20, was identified by fo- Local women, ages 18 and 20, were The women were then forced to drive
rensic evidence and admitted to the crime NewS robbed at gunpoint at Gate- their attacker to a location less than 100
After hours of investigation, Gainesville at the end of a five-hour interview with in- way at Gainesville Apart- yards from Meeks' apartment, at 3010 SW
Police believe they have arrested the man
who robbed two female UF students andvestigators, according to GPD spokesman
Lt. Keith Kameg.ments, 4000 SW 37th Blvd., Kameg said.
Meeks forced the women to drive to aSEE RAPE, PAGE 9
N To hear reactions
from Student
Government party
members about
Wednesday night's
Senate election
results, visit
www.alligator.org."Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 11 9fT
CLASSIFIEDS 16 Sunny
CROSSWORD 19 86/63
SPORTS 21
visit www.alligator.org7 Rcycle
2, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Beyond Boards meeting
Today, 6:15 p.m.
Florida Gym, Room 230
Come out and get information
about this semester's upcom-
ing events. Skateboarders of
all levels and types are wel-
come.
Student Investment Club
meeting
Today, 7 p.m.
McCarty C, Room 100
Listen to a financial market
recap, join the Investment
Challenge and learn about
the stock market. For more
details, visit www.ufsic.com.
Sierra Club Program Meeting
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Room 3118 Entomology/
Nematology Building
The Inner City Outings
Program for kids is starting
with the local Suwanee-St.
Johns Sierra chapter. You
may get involved as a chap-
erone during hikes in natural
areas, parks, wild areas and
swamps, or biking and kaya-
king.
UF Wind Symphony and
Symphonic Band Concert
Today, 7:30 p.m.
University Auditorium
Gainesville Benefit to Build
Hope House
Friday, 7:30 p.m.
Randy Batista Gallery, 21 S.E.
Second Place
There will be a screening of
Academy Award-winning
documentary "Born into
Brothels," speakers, art, food
and a raffle. The fundraiser is
to build Hope House for chil-
dren of Sonagachi in India.
For more information, visit
www.gainesvillehopehouse.
blogspot.com/
Sierra Club Fall Cleanup of
Lakeshore Drive on Newnan's
Lake
Saturday, 8:45 to 11:45 a.m.
Meet at Palm Point Nature
Park parking lot. Call Robert
Fisher at 352-514-7674 for
more information.
Florida Education Association
meeting
Oct. 6, 7 p.m.
Terrace Room
Come to FEA's second meet-
ing of the semester. Guest
speaker Kim Anderson from
the National Education
Association will conduct an
interview and resume work-
shop. There will be food and
giveaways. For more informa-
tion, contact Laura Roberts at
laura.roberts@ufl.edu.
"The Stepfather": Trivia
Challenge
Oct. 7, 11 a.m. to 12 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Play movie trivia about the
film "The Stepfather" to win
giveaways.FORECAST
TODAY
SUNNY
86/63FRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
89/70SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/65SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
85/63MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/66
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 28 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@a//igator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Joe Holzer, Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, George Pappas,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie, Caitlin Dilks,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, Alex Olmetti
MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida, Amanda Miller
Dyana Sanchez
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
LOCAL NEWS
Third Alachua County resident dies from HINI virus
By TATIANA QUIROGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Health
Department reported the third
confirmed case of swine flu-related
death in the county on Sept. 29.
The woman was a 41-year-old
Alachua County resident.
The woman became sick in late
August, saw a local physician and
suffered from illness until her death
in late September.
She suffered from other health
conditions that may have had an ef-fect on her death, said Paul Myers,
assistant director of the Alachua
County Health Department.
The first confirmed swine flu
case in Alachua County was on
May 1, and numbers continued to
increase until the county health de-
partment stopped counting in mid-
August.
There have been 135 lab-con-
firmed cases, a figure that is prob-
ably much lower than the actual
number because many people don't
seek medical attention, Myers said.
The HINI virus of the flu is"It's highly unusual to
have this many flu cases in
September."
Paul Myers
assistant director of the Alachua
County Health Department
similar to the seasonal flu virus be-
cause it's relatively mild for those
infected, but the strain is one that
has never been seen before and
most are not resistant to it.
The regular flu period for Alach-ua county is from early December
to early March, Myers said.
"It's highly unusual to have this
many flu cases in September," he
said.
Out of all people tested for the
flu, 60 percent of people are diag-
nosed with the flu, and of those cas-
es, 99 percent are the HINI strand.
"The HINI swine flu has re-
placed other flu viruses for now,"
Myers said.
The increase in swine flu cases
has begun to stabilize, and Myers
said he hopes the trend continuesand cases go down. However, offi-
cials aren't sure how the virus will
spread in the winter months.
The health department recom-
mends people get the seasonal flu
shot as well as the HINI virus flu
shot when it becomes available.
Some students don't plan on
getting any shots.
"I had one freshman year, but
after that I never really took the ini-
tiative to get vaccinated," said Paul
Tran, microbiology senior.
For more information, visit
http://www.cdc.gov.
Rivalry Roadtrips gives fans chance to travel to games
0 THE COMPANY OFFERS TRIPS TO
LSU, GEORGIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gators football fans looking to make the
trek to major SEC away games have a new
alternative to the cluttered minivans and
crammed sedans that pepper the roads prior
to Game Day.
A new Web site, rivalryroadtrips.com, is
offering road trip packages to the LSU, Geor-
gia and South Carolina games that include
transportation, lodging, food and discountsfor bars and restaurants near the game.
Nick Grossman, 27, president of Rivalry
Roadtrips, said the two-year-old company
has gradually expanded, opening up its ser-
vices to SEC schools beginning this semes-
ter.
"Florida's a no-brainer," he said. "We rec-
ognize that with a great fan base, we could
organize good trips."
The company started as an idea Gross-
man had as a freshman at Central College
with a friend from the University of Iowa in
2001.
They organized a trip to Madison, Wis.,
with a group a friends to catch the rivalry
game between Iowa and Wisconsin, and itled to a series of trips to cover all of the ma-
jor Big Ten Conference games.
Since then, the business has grown steadi-
ly and now caters to 16 universities ranging
from the SEC to the Big 12 to the Big Ten.
Although the company continues to pros-
per, Grossman still sees room for growth.
"It's a long-term goal to
National be on every major to mid-
News major campus in the coun-
try," he said.
Grossman said his favorite aspect of the
job is researching potential destinations, one
big game at a time.
The company charters buses that leave
campus on Friday and return Sunday. Jim-my John's Gourmet Sandwiches and Gators
football highlights are provided in-transit.
The trip includes a two-night stay at a ho-
tel near the site of the game and discounts
with partnering restaurants and bars.
UF junior Elizabeth Stein, the company's
campus representative for the November
trip to South Carolina, will be traveling to
Columbia as a representative and as a cus-
tomer for the Georgia game in Jacksonville.
"It seems like a really great idea, but un-
til you see it yourself, you don't know," she
said.
According to the Web site, a full package
for the upcoming LSU game costs $219, with
a bus-only option costing $139.
NEW officially licensed University of Florida' outfits!
an animal priced$5 0F $10 or more
Coupon expires December 31, 2009. Valid on make-your-own stuffed animals only. Coupons may not be combined and cannot he bought, sold or exchanged for cash
or coupons. Not valid on prior purchases, a Build-A-Pmrty* celebration, Bear Buk$* cards, in Build-A-Bear Workshop* within Rainforest (ofe or in Build-A-Dino"
within I-REX (afeT'. Not valid with any other offer. Local and state taxes, as applicable, are payable by bearer. Must present original coupon oflime of purchase or
enter 5-digit code on web purchase. Photocopies prohibited. Valid in the U.S. and Puerto Rico only. Valid for coupon recipient only. Limit one coupon per person, per
visit. Nontransferable. Offer good while supplies lost. Void where prohibited or restricted. Where required cash value 1/100 of I cent.
.-d .- -W , 9A d --K1y 1 p1 #94249Dyslexia
-Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension? PC & MAC
-Poor Spelling? REPAIRYears of gain in
weeks of treatment! IMPACT COMPUTER
Serving Gainesvillefor over 22 years. CREEKSIDE MALL
The Morris Center, Inc. MILE FROM UF
352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com 371-1110
Score Big
WITH OUR EXPANDED AUDIENCE!
Advertise in the Alligator's
2009 Souvenir Homecoming Edition!
More than 60,000 people come to
Gainesville during the weekend-long
events. This is the time to promote your
business to readers who need places to
eat, celebrate, shop and sleep. Several
thousand copies are distributed along the
parade route.
Call today to secure your spot!
352-376-4482
Deadline: Friday, October 9
Run date: Friday, October 16 alligator
4, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
LOCAL NEWS
Clinics to provide more care
By JIMMIE PAUL
Alligator Writer
With the October closure of Shands at AGH
looming, local clinics are making plans to pick
up the slack.
Zenta Gomez, Helping Hands Clinic pro-
gram development and volunteer coordinator,
said the clinic is recruiting staff.
Gomez said the clinic needs nurse practitio-
ners and physicians to volunteer at least two
hours Mondays and Thursdays.
For the past 20 years, the downtown clin-
ic has treated people who are uninsured or
homeless with the help of local doctors, nurses
and other health care professionals.
She said the limited amount of resources
and volunteers have put a strain on the doc-
tors.
She said more help would be a blessing,
adding that doctors could see up to five ad-
ditional patients per day, which may not seem
likemuch but makes a difference.
Gomez said Helping Hands is the only free
psychiatric clinic in Gainesville. With help
from the UF Department of Psychiatry, the
clinic is able to treat and prescribe medication
for mental disorders.
The imminent closure of AGH has prompt-
ed other clinics to take action, as well.
The Hawthorne Medical Center, located in
eastern Alachua County, will extend its hours
and expand services, said spokesman Sean
Damron.
Damron expects an increase in patients, al-
though the clinic is located in Hawthorne."I think the population from the hospital
is easily going to be absorbed by our clinic,"
Damron said. "People love to visit a doctor
they're familiar and comfortable with. And
unlike hospitals, there's no long waits. We try
to turn people around in 90 minutes."
Damron said that local clinics are already
full because patients visit clinics more in the
fall and winter.
However, HMC is prepared for the increase
in patients.
According to Damron,
HMC will add two nurse
practitioners and one doctor,
which will allow 40 addition-
al patients each day.
"I also think there's a bit
of anxiety about the closure,"
Damron said. "The clinic is
receiving calls from AGH patients who plan to
transfer their medical records."
City Commissioner Jack Donovan said the
city is waiting for updates on the hospital.
"We're waiting to hear what the university
plans on doing with the land, contingent on
our approval," Donovan said.
UF purchased AGH from Santa Fe College
in 1996.
Donovan said the hospital is closing be-
cause of financial losses. The city will be in
charge of the zoning and land use.
Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan said Tuesday in
a phone interview that there's a proposal to
keep the technology incubator at the hospital
and that Shands at UF plans to add rooms to
offset the closure of AGH.Class educates locals
on city government
0 THE PROGRAM WILL
START ON OCT. 7.
By ERICA JOHNSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite increased interest in na-tional government surrounding the
2008 presidential election, interest
in local government remains low.
"I know where City Hall is, and
that they have a really nice foun-
tain, but that's about it," said Julia
McClure, a UF sophomore.
When asked if she knew who
Gainesville's mayor was, she shook
her head and laughed.
The City of Gainesville Commu-
nications Office is trying to change
that.
In a six-week program called
Gainesville 101: The Fall 2009 Citi-
zens' Academy, up to 40 city resi-
dents will have the opportunity to
get a glimpse of the inner workings
of Gainesville's government and
city management system.
The classes, which will start Oct.
7 and last from 9 a.m. until noon
at various places in the city on
Wednesdays, will deal with issues
such as public safety, communitydevelopment, infrastructure and
plans for the city's growth.
Gainesville spokesman Bob
Woods said the goal of the pro-
gram is to educate residents and
draw them into the governmental
process.
"An educated citizen is, we
think, a citizen that can provide
better assistance to the communi-
ty," Woods said.
Participants
Around will have theGainesville opportunity to
meet the mayor
and other local policymakers, tour a
Gainesville Regional Utilities facil-
ity and meet with members of the
city's police and fire departments.
The semiannual program,
which is in its fifth year, will hope-
fully draw more students this time
around, Woods said.
"[Students] bring a perspective
that is unique because so many
come from locations outside of the
community," he said.
Those interested should con-
tact Bob Woods at 352-334-5017 or
gainesvillepio@cityofgainesville.
org
For the rest of this story, visit
Alligator.org.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
UF keeps air conditioning on despite cooler weather
University spent about $41M on electricity last year
By BENJAMIN MARKUS
Alligator Contributing Writer
It's 75 degrees outside; students are sun-
bathing and napping in the shade. Inside,
sunlight is gleaming through open win-
dows.
But the air conditioning is still running
full-blast.
Air conditioning is kept running to main-
tain indoor air quality, said Eric Cochran,
associate director of operations at the UF
Physical Plant.UF's air conditioning is used in part to
control humidity levels in labs and class-
rooms.
"Rooms must be dehumidified to avoid
mold growth," Cochran said.
If rooms are too humid, mold will grow
on walls, in electrical sockets and in other
hard-to-reach places.
And mold removal would cost more than
what would be saved by keeping the air con-
ditioning off, Cochran said.
UF spent about $41 million last year on
electricity, and roughly 65 percent of theuniversity's electrical use is spent on air con-
ditioning and heating each year, Cochran
said.
The air conditioning is controlled central-
ly from the university's physical plant and is
comprised of several designs.
On Large buildings on campus,
Campus such as the Reitz Union, use
44-degree water to cool the air
down to 55 degrees. When the air is cooled
this much, it releases most of its moisture.
However, 55 degrees would be uncomfort-
ably cold for classrooms, so the air is reheat-ed with steam.
The air conditioning is turned off occa-
sionally when the temperature drops below
80 degrees, but only at night when most
classes are not in session. Turning off the
air conditioning at night is called a set-back,
wherein the air conditioning will only come
on if the outside temperature reaches a cer-
tain point, usually 84 degrees, Cochran said.
Air conditioning or no air conditioning,
students flock outdoors when the weather
turns cool.
"It kind of hit me by surprise," said James
Folker, a UF senior, about Wednesday's cool
afternoon. "I tried sitting out here the other
day. It was just too hot."
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF anv one GNC Product
Cannot mbined OneCouponpercustomer
3914 SW Archer Rd 
$
only aable at Butler Plazaloatio09
rEYEEXAMS ,
(by Independent Optometrist)
NW ;9,h A,, Corer of
NW 13th St i
& 39th Ave.
Near Publix
EVECARE
I EXPRESS I
L (352)375-6133
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome,
ABiotest
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
SAFETY BELTS
SMART FROM
THE START
6, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
Editorial
Sex Ed
Tufts University's "policy"
prolongs adolescence
T 1fs University m Boston recently announced a new pol-
icy mn which students are not allowed to have sex in their
rooms while their roommates are present.
Tufts spokeswoman Kim Thurler said the rule needed to be
in place so that students "could set clear boundaries."
What happened to being able to talk things out as adults?
College is supposed to be a time to learn how to get along
with others, even if it means having an uncomfortable conver-
sation and figuring out how to set personal boundaries.
We wouldn't want to wake up to a sex party we weren't in-
vited to, either. However, there has to be another way to prevent
awkward or disturbing situations without inviting the school to
dictate students' personal lives.
The new rule doesn't come with any consequences for those
who break it, but school officials say it will "empower" students
to break the ice with their roommates.
We don't think this rule "empowers" anyone. In fact, we
think it's demeaning that a university feels the need to pass use-
less legislation for something so common sense.
Plus, who exactly is engaging in this practice anyway?
It's been a while since we've lived in the dorms, but we like
to think that university students could figure out that subjecting
their roommates to such a spectacle will result in some prob-
lems.
We think it's sad that there were incidents that led to the uni-
versity passing this "rule."
We think it's even sadder, though, that the university is com-
placent in its new role as a glorified babysitter.
Dose of Reality
It's pretty lucky that "Kate" still rhymes with "Eight."
However, it's not so
lucky that Jon and Kate Gos-
selin's personal divorce dra-
ma had to play out in front of
millions of viewers.
While we've never seen
the TLC reality show, it was
a winner with moms across
the country as a heartwarm-
ing tale of a family trying to
raise an insane number of
spawn in a wild and wacky
world. Now things are just
plain sad.
After a series of tabloid
rumors about infidelities and
marital strain, Jon and Kate
are no more.
But, according to TLC, the
show, or shows, will go on.
"Kate Plus 8" will now
cover the sad and depressing
adventures of a single mom
with an unmanageable num-
ber of offspring. It will debut
Nov. 2.
While the split was prob-
ably unforeseeable when the
Gosselins first signed their
exclusive contracts with
TLC, the network should letup on them in light of recent
events.
Going through a divorce
is no walk in the park, and
no one should have to do it in
front of the 3.2 million view-
ers "Jon & Kate" averaged
over the last season of the
show.
Not only that, but things
are already in the works for
a Kate solo show that focuses
less on the kids and more
on Kate's "other interests,"
according to Eileen O'Neill,
TLC's president and general
manager.
Sounds like the channel
already knows that "Kate
Plus 8" is going to be hard
on viewers' eyes and heart-
strings.
TLC should release Kate
and the family from their
contracts and let them get on
with their lives instead of try-
ing to parlay them into other
reality television scenarios.
Reality TV works on the
premise that it can exploit its
stars, but this is taking things
to a whole new level of inde-
cency.
0l the independent floridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen Allie Conti
EDITOR OPINIONS EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORS
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigato r.org/opinions
AH R- RIDA IN ATUM 00
8. 5
70
65
Column
Floridians should unite against drilling
lorida politics has always been a giant petri dishof sleaze, and the Florida Legislature is always
a spectacular orgy of corruption. However, the
one topic that has always been off-limits was oil drill-
ing around Florida. Overwhelming public support for a
drilling ban -and the overarching concern for what is
left of the natural environment -has stood out every
year.
The Florida Legislature is not set to convene a regular
session of graft and influence peddling until next year,
but a select group of powerful lawmakers plan on forc-
ing a special session as soon as possible in order to le-
galize near-shore oil drilling in the Florida Gulf Coast.
Proving that D.C. Democrats are not the only politi-
cians who can force through legislation without research
or due diligence, the Republicans in control of Florida's
government want to ram through drilling legislation
right away. Apparently, selling out nature against the
wishes of voters should always happen without much
discussion.
Hearing people talk about ramming and forced drill-
ing has gotten Gov. Charlie Crist all hot and bothered.
Having surveyed the prevailing political winds, Crist
flipped positions and now supports drilling. Sources
close to Crist have not seen him this excited since he got
a poster of a shirtless Hugh Jackman on sale for Pride
Week.
Crist took it upon himself to outfit the Governor's
Mansion with overly phallic scale models of different
deep-water drills and personally tested each potential
drill. Aides to Crist note that he seems to enjoy the
closed-door process a bit too much and have been com-
plaining about the messy cleanup afterwards.Oil companies are fresh off re-
cord profits, so they have money
to burn -and bribe.
Our political system calls it
lobbying, but a national political
focus on new drilling now threat-
Tommy Maple ens to undo decades of statewideletters@alligator org opposition to drilling. Florida had
for many years decided its own
policy on drilling, but at the most inopportune time, the
politicians of our state seem to be caving in to national
pressure.
Sen. Mike Haridopolos, a politician paid handsomely
by UF to come and visit us every now and again, stated
in a recent Alligator article that Floridians are missing
"about $100 billion in revenue" that can be drilled up
and sold. Aside from the fact that Haridopolos is a pol-
itician and therefore is likely lying through his teeth,
Mike the Oilman is playing loose with the facts and
pushing harder than a used-car salesman.
A special legislative session ramming through drill-
ing in Florida is a huge mistake, and the main cheerlead-
ers behind oil drilling should not be the only ones with
a voice in this matter. Florida needs a few good men to
step up and speak for the future, to look at the long term
and not cave in to the pressures of the moment.
Slow it down, Mike. As the next leader of the House
Republicans, you are in a position to leave a real legacy
other than avarice and destruction. An unflinching op-
position to offshore oil drilling is the one thing Florida
has always gotten right.
Tommy Maple is a graduate student in international
communications. His column appears on Thursdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Did you vote in Wednesday's question: Do you know 48% YES
the SG elections? what you want to do after graduation?52% NO
141 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Stealing papers is juvenile
As a freshman, I had no idea what to ex-
pect when it came to Student Government
elections at a university.
I originally thought SG would be about
offering activities to the Student Body and
electing representatives who would speak
to the administration on our behalf.
Over the past week, I can understand
why most students do not vote in student
elections. I have been harassed while going
to class. I have been bothered by Progress
Party supporters at the dining halls. I have
seen the campus littered by Unite and Or-
ange and Blue stickers.
Each party has contributed to the chaos
of this past week, but nothing compares to
Tuesday's antics of the Unite Party. To the
Unite Party supporters who stole newspa-
pers from the Graham Area: Your actions
not only reflect poorly on yourselves and
your party, but also do a great disservice
to the nearly 600 residents of the Graham
Area.
Graham Hall Resident
1LS
Skateboarding is not a crime
Is it so much to ask? Last night, two of
my friends and I were enjoying the beautiful
six-stair set by the music building, perform-
ing 180s and ollies and continually progress-
ing through harder and harder tricks.
But the skateboarder grudgingly acceptsa constant annoyance: people who will do
everything in their power to prevent us
from skateboarding.
Little did we know, a staff member fol-
lowed us around for 15 minutes building a
case, and when the time was right, he called
the campus police.
The officers arrived with their obligatory
warnings, and don't get me wrong, they
were truly understanding. However, they
informed us that if we ever performed tricks
on any piece of school property again, we
would be considered trespassers and would
be placed in the warm arms of judicial af-
fairs.
Wait. What? We can't skate on any school
property (except for the below-par skate
park) again? Isn't that a little dramatic?
Others must agree when I question the
fairness of this situation.
I'll sign a waiver, help the school design a
better skate park, I'll do anything. Everyone,
including the officers themselves, knows
that I'm doing no more damage to the prop-
erty than the rest of the student population
(considering the amount of Unite Party
stickers I noticed everywhere).
I'm not asking for dramatic change. I'm
not asking for the right to disturb the stu-
dent population. I'm asking for a little com-
mon sense, a little cooperation and a little
more fun. I just want to skateboard.
David Hughes
1LSPaper shouldn't expose personal issues
You're so damn predictable. Oh no! An-
other article bashing the majority party?
And how is it that all this bad press some-
how makes it onto the front page of the pa-
per on election day?
I never saw it coming.
But sadly, I did. If you can't find anything
negative out in the open to write about us,
you dig it up instead.
You should be ashamed to throw peo-
ple's personal problems out into the open
in attempts to damage a party's image. Not
only do you attack members of our Student
Body, but you ruin your credibility as a re-
spectable newspaper by becoming a campus
tabloid instead.
Maybe the students mentioned in your
article were trying to turn their lives around.
Your article, instead of supporting them,
brings them down. Students make mistakes
(more often than you like to report), so why
is it surprising that some of them want to
become involved in Student Government?
Should they be banned from all organiza-
tions on campus because of their histories?
I don't pick up the Alligator every day
to read a local version of The Inquirer. Stop
being nosy. Stop spreading hate and report
on issues that students actually give a damn
about, not people's personal lives.
Michelle Isgut
Springs Senator, Gator Party
0 0 0
0 0 0Stretching school year not the solution
In response to the "School Year Stretch"
editorial in Tuesday's Alligator: The idea of
bringing reform to the public school system
is nothing short of completely necessary and
painfully overdue.
However, it's also high time we quit
blaming our boots for the faults of our feet
and accept that summer vacation is not the
evil culprit for less than stellar test scores.
It's all of us -students, parents, teachers,
etc.
Longer school days are not the quick fix
to achieve the desired improvements with-
out first making some key changes to teach-
ing methodology and funding.
A consistently overlooked problem here
is low teacher morale, which is still plum-
meting.
A non-motivated teacher cannot profi-
ciently motivate non-motivated students. If
we raise standards and salary, more quality
teachers would be hired and would teach
more effectively.
Upon graduation, students might know
the difference between the "their," "there"
and "they're."
So Obama, leave the school day and
the summer alone. They've done nothing
wrong. America's education system doesn't
suck; it's just a mirror.
If you look in the mirror and see garbage
staring back, don't blame the mirror.
Kenny Picciano
1LS
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily readership of more than 50,000,
reach every market in Gainesville.
Contact us at [352] 376.4482.HEALTH
INSURANCE
"Students need Health Insurance.
Help protect yourself from the
' rising cost of medical services.
You deserve quality health
.insurance coverage, and it is
available for you. We at Chip
Williams & Associates will help
you acquire that insurance."
Chip Williams
WE FIND ANSWERS.
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATE ES
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents
BlueCross BlueShield
of FloridaFr Number: Lil33- 3 .d373-0775
Farm Nunmber: 18533-599SU 3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue
8, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
70 percent of students voted to keep 'I Voted' stickers in the future
ELECTION, from page 1
"That to me was more important
than anything that happened on
that stage," he said.
Seventy percent of students
voted against the "I Voted" stickers
initiative, which would have pro-
hibited giving out "I Voted" stickers
during future elections.
"It's unfortunate it didn't pass,
but I feel like we got our message
across about the wasteful spend-
ing on stickers and coercion," said
former Lakeside Sen. Gary Benedix,
who co-authored the initiative.
The Unite Party spent
about $6,800 on campaigning, while
the Orange and Blue Party spent
about $2,560 and the Progress Party
spent about $1,480 on campaigning
materials.
Despite the Unite Party's over-
whelming success, all three parties
swarmed campus Wednesday, with
candidates and volunteers stationed
at Turlington Plaza, the Reitz Union
and other well-populated areas.
Polls closed at about 8 p.m.
Wednesday, leaving members of
each party with time to relax before
crowding outside of the Orange &
Brew to hear the results.
The Unite Party relaxed upstairs
at The Swamp Restaurant, drink-
ing beer out of Yuengling cups and
listening to music that varied from
Journey to Taylor Swift.
The crowd size rose and fell,
ranging from about 30 to 70 people
wearing mostly Unite Party T-
shirts.About a dozen members of the
Orange and Blue Party flooded to
party president Kyle Huey's house.
They ordered four Papa John's
cheese pizzas and sat around using
their smart phones or laptops while
recounting the election and SG poli-
tics.
About 30 Progress Party mem-
bers trooped to a District A can-
didate's house near the UF Hil-
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
Unite Party supporters cheer as they hear election results for a district that the party won early Thursday
outside the Reitz Union.
A HOMECOMING 2009lel, where they drank, talked and
watched "Kimbo."
Schneider gave a 15-minute
speech where he thanked party
members for their support. He also
addressed critics who said the party
was nothing other than a cult of
personality around former Progress
Party presidential candidate Ben
Dictor.
Schneider and the rest of the par-ty rolled into the Orange and Brew
around 11:25 p.m. Schneider was
wearing what he called a "Fidelista
hat" and smoking a cigar. He and
the rest of his crew showed up sing-
ing "Solidarity Forever."
Alfonso, the Progress Party and
the Unite Party all filed complaints
against former Orange and Blue
Party CLAS Sen. Mark McShera,
who passed out fake SG "I Voted"stickers during this week's cam-
paigning.
A Commission meeting will be
held Thursday at 5 p.m. to discuss
the violations.
McShera said he passed them out
because restricting who is allowed
to distribute stickers is a violation of
freedom of speech.
McShera said he passed out
about 12,000 stickers around cam-
pus Tuesday and Wednesday.
"I'm here to shed light on the fact
that SG frequently infringes on stu-
dents' rights to free speech on our
campus," McShera said.
Joe Trimboli, a District A candi-
date for the Orange and Blue Party,
said he believed McShera had the
right to pass out the stickers because
Turlington Plaza, a hub for preach-
ers and protestors, is a free-speech
zone.
Trimboli said anyone who spoke
against McShera passing out the
stickers was implying that voters fo-
cus more on stickers than on issues.
"I don't vote to get a sticker,"
Trimboli said.
Progress Party campaign manag-
er Nick Mildebrath said McShera's
decision to pass out the stickers
while identifying with the Progress
Party was immature.
Mildebrath said the Progress
Party has never filed an election
complaint, and this would be its
first.
"I don't care if you have a poster
that's a little bit too big or you forget
to register one of your T-shirts," he
said. "I care if you're lying."
VIAA
---
Friday, Oct. 2
vs. Kentuc
-Fans receive reusable shopping bags from Publixf
-Bring two (2 like new children's books for free adimissin
-Help the Gators Go Green! The UF Office of Sustainability
and Neutral G~ators will be on-hand to help Gator Pans learnhow to helpithe environment!
Sunday, Oct. 4a 4:30 PM
vs. Tennessee
-Beyond the Net Forum prior to the match at 11 AM
-High School volleyball players from around the state are invited to listen to'and interact with UA A staff members on all aspects of life as a Gator/oIyball student-athlete' Call 800-34-GATOR to RSVP
A home mat are pyod at the Stephen C. O Cnell Center.
For A or ino main vii aoz n-c m~lo
-I ~r. ~rti's w .a~~r r Fiy~ IN ;cre ica -i
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
Contract helps struggling residents pay for housing
0 RESIDENTS WILL RECEIVE
$517,000 TO HELP PAY RENT.
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
Thanks to a new city contract, some
Gainesville residents on the brink of home
foreclosure will have a way to fight back.The City of Gainesville and the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development
agreed to a deal Wednesday that will allocate
$517,000 to helpt residents in danger of losing
their homes pay rent, said Gail Monahan, ex-
ecutive director of the Alachua County Hous-
ing Authority.
The contract, which becomes effective to-
day, will not distribute funds on a competi-tive basis, but details on allocation are not yet
available.
Local In July, Gainesville was
N ewS named the fifth meanest city in
the nation toward the homeless,
according to a report released by the National
Coalition for the Homeless and the National
Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty.
Recent efforts, such as the agreement be-tween the city and HUD, help reverse nega-
tive perceptions brought onto the city by the
report, said Monahan, who doesn't agree with
Gainesville's ranking.
"You aren't on the radar if you're not do-
ing something," she said. "This city has made
more progress preventing homelessness in
the past 18 months than it has in the last 40
years."
Student hunger %trikc end%
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"Police found gun at home
RAPE, from page 1
23rd Terrace, apartment 83.
"He essentially had the girls
drive him home," Kameg said.
According to Kameg, there
was "overwhelming evidence"
that Meeks was the man origi-
nally described as a white
male wearing a large coat, blue
button-down shirt, camouflage
pants and sandals with white
socks.
Kameg said Meeks was
wearing white socks with san-
dals and a blue button-down
shirt at the time of his arrest.
The camouflage pants and gun
were found during a search
of Meeks' apartment, Kamegsaid.
Meeks was arrested at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 15 hours after the
launch of the search for the stu-
dents' attacker.
"Even though this was very
good police work," Kameg
said, "we wish we never had to
work this case."
Meeks was charged with
one count of sexual battery,
two counts of kidnapping and
two counts of armed home in-
vasion robbery.
Kameg said he hopes that
since Meeks has been caught,
attention will shift focus from
locating the attacker to main-
taining the well-being of the
two victims.
11N o'1er t. %kIoI!i:i
0,4 4
youl~ k GN\ SAW$ rA~t Cou51i
Get your college discount price and register atiJLjV
fi
01 t4el cbej Cam3fo
vw"Vmy
i
10, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
.LOCAL NEWS
Truck flips over
onto two cars
By ERICA ERVIN
Alligator Writer
A man driving a Florida Concrete Recycling
truck crashed into two parked cars at an apartment
complex Wednesday.
The driver was headed west on Southwest 16th
Avenue when he crashed into the
metal railing and a utility pole
before flipping over and crashing
nto the cars of two Sun Island resi-
dents, according to Gainesville Po-
lice officer Alan Davis.
An off-duty officer saw the
Kameg -crash and stopped to assist the
driver, Davis said.
UF doctoral student Nabanita Mukherjee said
she was in her room when she heard a noise and
went outside to see what caused it.
The impact caused damage to the right side of
Mukherjee's car, shattered her rear windshield and
flattened her tires.
An official accident report will be available to-
Rayiaz Khan / Alligator Staff day, according to GPD spokesman Keith Kameg.
A garbage truck lies on it side after the driver lost control of the truck, rolled it into two parked cars and knocked out a Employees of Florida Concrete Recycling Inc. de-
utility pole at Park 16th apartment complex on Southwest 13th Street and 16th Avenue Wednesday. lined to comment.
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
$300 1tI1% TA1fl
During the past month, five of The Independent
Florida Alligator news racks have been STOLEN. We
are offering a $300 reward for information leading
to the ARREST and CONVICTION of anyone who has
either taken or participated in taking a rack, or who
has a rack in their possesion.
CONTACT:
ALACHUA COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS DIVISION
l -.o (352) 367-4000alligator
theAvenue thursday, october 1, 2009
the art of parkour
Kyle Waite, 16, a junior at Santa Fe High School, practices parkour at the Sun Center behind the
Hippodrome on Sept. 19.
Parkour athletes take advantage of 'uselessTHIS WEEK:
PG 13: UF alum Kristin Harmel
signs copies of her new book
PG 14: Review of "Z" beer and
comedy column
PG 15: Local food expo and
opening of the film "Food, Inc."
www.alligator.org/avenue
REGULA RS:
ART: Art Walk downtown show-
cases local culture, page 13
MUSIC: Profile on Michael
Claytor & His Friends, page 14
COMING UP:
The Avenue rumages through
costumes at the Hippodrome
Theatre's giant warehouse sale
RUB is hosting a free CD re-
lease show for its new CD "10
Gainesville Bands You Should
Know" tonight at 8 p.m. in the
Orange & Brew. The bands
performing are Little High Little
Low, Oh Fortuna, Bang Bang
Boom and The Duppies. The CD
and show are both free!
architecture'
By ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
Kyle Waite's muscles tense as intense
concentration spreads across his face. He
sprints toward a loading dock, then dives
straight at it.
His hands thud on its wooden surface as
he tucks his legs up to his stomach, and for a
moment, the 16-year-old resembles a preda-
tory cat in mid-chase. His legs extend as he
swings his body through his arms, still firmly
planted on the dock. His feet pound against
the brick sidewalk as he lands and sprints
away.
A criminal on the run? No. Waite is a tra-
ceur.
A traceur is a practitioner of the art of
parkour, which Waite describes as "a dis-
cipline that trains you to use your environ-
ment to efficiently move from one place to
another."
Originally "le parkour," the sport started
in the French army for obstacle course train-
ing and was used in combat in Vietnam. Now,
Waite estimates there to be 47 traceurs inthe Gainesville area.
Waite, wiry with dirty-blond hair down to
his collar, has been practicing parkour for a
little more than a year, starting after he saw
it on YouTube.
"Once you get into it, it alters the way you
look at everything," he said.
Since then, he has been using videos as
a guide and trains around Gainesville at the
Sun Center, the Alachua County Courthouse
and the Shands Emergency Care Center.
Waite said these are prime spots for park-
our because they have what he calls "useless
architecture." The walls, platforms, benches
and even trees are collectively a jungle gym
for Waite. He can barrel straight at a 6-foot
wall and will be up, over it and dashing to-
ward his next obstacle with the agility of a
spider monkey.
"Yeah, I've been getting called that since I
was like 6 years old," Waite said.
Despite the dangerous nature of the sport,
Waite wears no protective clothing and usu-
ally prefers to perform his stunts shirtless.
Aside from sturdy shoes and his wind pants,
there is nothing between him and a broken
arm or a nasty case of road rash.Waite said thatasidefrom a b
less than a year ago, he's never
significant injuries, knocking o
bench in the Sun Center as he s
One of the stickier issues ass
parkour is its legality. Although
historic or costly structures, Wa
never been issued any kind of c
"Once you %at into it, it alters
you look at zvxzrgthing."
He said that he's been t
Shands once, but only because
ing his stunts. He's also been to
shopkeepers to leave the Sun Ce
returning about an hour later.
Lt. Keith Kameg, spokesman
Gainesville Police Department,
though trespassing can usuall
ated with it, parkour activities
are not illegal.
"We don't recommend doinad face-plant this because it ties up emergency services
incurred any from your own stupidity," Kameg said.
n a wooden Kameg equated the stunts to skiing down
poke. an unauthorized slope, which can be both a
ociated with danger to the individual and an unnecessary
he climbs on response call for emergency crews.
ite said he's Most of the people who speak to Waite are
itation. curious onlookers. One passer-by stopped af-
ter observing for a few minutes to ask, "What
the way are you doing, planning your escape?"
"People think it's a threat to property,"
Waite said. "If people embrace it as exciting
Kyle Waite and interesting, it will really take off."
traceur A fencing student at the Unified Training
Center in Gainesville, Waite has two stu-
dents of his own, Michael Geden, 18, and
ld to leave Stevan D'Agostino, 16. He meets them at the
he was film- UTC on Saturdays at 1 p.m. and ventures into
Id by various Gainesville's urban jungle to train.
nter, usually Waite said he respects the environment
he moves through and doesn't want to abuse
an for the it, a practice he said he hopes to pass on to
said that al- his students.
y be associ- "We're just here to train ourselves. We're
and climbing not here to break stuff or steal anything,"
Waite said. "If it's in good condition, it works
g things like better for us as traceurs and citizens."
12, ALLIGATOR+ THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
Cafe Gardens
Cafe Gardens has been just
across from campus since
1976. This quaint landmark
establishment with award
winning courtyard dining
is perfect for any date or
gathering. Open 7 days. For live
music schedule, call 376-2233.
Hours: Mon-Wed 1lam-lopm,
Thurs -Sat llam-llpm Sun
Noon-9pm
1643 NW 1st Ave
Gator Dawgs
We have 26 styles of hot dogs
to choose from. Chicago, Heart
attack, Frito, Colombia, etc.
Even create your own. Our
burgers are prepared daily and
cooked to order. Our fresh deli
sandwiches come with over
1/4 lb of meat. Check out our
full menu at GatorDawgs.com.
Several delicious vegetarian &
vegan options. We are located
at 1023 W University Ave.
378-4353
J. Doobies
The Home of Wraps and
Stacks. The only way to
describe the Stack is that is
outrageously delicious! Its
uniquely different presentation-
three 6 inch flour tortillas
stacked high with fresh grilled
ingredients and just the right
accent of cheese- is strangely
inviting to one's palate. Come
out & try our 1/3 lb Burgers,
steak seasoned Panchos, &
Fresh Baked Brownies. Many
vegetarian options available
including the Home Grown
and Homemade Black Bean
Hummus! Now serving draft
and Red Stripe beers! We
deliver! Open late to serve
your late night cravings!
Sun-Wed:llam-3am. Thurs-
Sat: Ilam-4am. 34th St Plaza
(Sweetbay)@ 2124 SW 34th St
672-6111
www.jdoobies.com
Peach Valley Cafe
Experience the freshness in
everything we do. Open daily
from 7a.m. to 8p.m. We have a
full menu ranging from Orchard
fresh Apple Fritters to fried
artichokes and Lobster bites.
Breakfast is served all day here
at Peach Valley Cafe including
Gainesville's best fresh Omelets
and Benedicts; mouth watering
Sausage Gravy and Biscuits,
and yes, Mammoth Pancakes
and waffles. Lunch and dinner
are also available any time
with bountiful salads, fresh
sandwiches, Pot Roast and
don't forget to ask your server
about our shrimp-n-grits
(wonderful). We are located at
3275 SW 34th Street directly
behind Hooter's (352) 376-
1834.IDI I1.m
Liquid Ginger Asian
Grille & Teahouse
101 SE 2nd Pl. (behind
Hippodrome Theater
Downtown) Offering Asian
Fusion Cuisine in a relaxing
atmosphere. Wed and Thurs
night $5 martinis. Open for
lunch: Mon-Fri 11:30-2:30 Sun
12-5 and dinner Sun-Thurs
5-10pm Fri-Sat 5-10:30pm.
Call 371-2323 for a reservation.
43rd Street Deli and
Breakfast House
Come in and experience the
breakfast house that Gainesville
residents have been coming to
for over 25 years-we probably
served your parents! Biggest
4-egg omelette, French toast,
and daily specials. Not full yet?
Have lunch with us & enjoy a
large selection of sandwiches,
the best Reuben, gyros &
soup all at a reasonable price.
Vegetarian? Not a problem. We
have a selection that is sure
to fulfill your needs. We now
offer free WiFi! Open Monday-
Sunday lam-3pm.
4401 NW 25th Place 373-2927.
3483 Williston Rd 373-5656
conveniently located off 1-75.
Bagels Unlimited
Serving Gainesville for over
25 years. BU is a tradition of
sorts. We offer many breakfast
platters cooked fresh, featuring
omelettes, eggs any style, large
pancakes, French Toast, Knishes,
17 varieties of bagels and a large
assortment of spreads. Also
available are tofu and tempeh.
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces
are available for sampling.
1222 West University Ave.
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm.
Golden Buddha
Where eating well means eating
healthy.Gainesville's best
Chinese food. Now with more
sizes available with more vegan
options. As always, generous
portions, fast service & super
lunch/dinner combos. FREEDELIVERY.
613 NW 16th Ave. 372-4282 or
380-9076. Full menu and specials
@ GoldenBuddhaSpecial.com
Maude's Classic
Coffee
Maude's Dollar Days
$1.00 Let's Go Study Sundays
(Black coffee for a dollar)
$2.00 Iced Mocha Mondays
(Half price icedmocha need we
say anything else)
$3.00 Treat Yourself Tuesdays
(good for one de-stressing
dessert per person)
$4.00 Wine Wednesdays
(any glass of wine)
$5.00 Thirsty Thursdays
(two imported beers)
$6.00 Finger Food Fridays
(any appetizer)
$7.00 Sweetheart Saturdays
(includes one dessert and two
regular coffees)
A limited time offer
Not valid with any other offer
Located downtown next to the
Hippodrome
101 SE 2nd Place 336-9646
The Yearling
Come taste the cuisine of old
Florida! Try our traditional items
including venison, quail, frog
legs, and alligator, as well as
USDA Prime beef, seafood, grits,
greens & hush puppies. Open
Thursday & Friday Spm-10pm,
Saturday 12pm-l0pm & Sunday
12pm-8:30pm.
14531 East County Road 325
352-466-3999
www.theyearlingrestaurant.com
Omi's Kitchen
Gainesville's Best in Cuban,
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine.
New menu items prepared daily!
Come try our famous Cuban
sandwiches and slow roasted
pork. We cater 7 days a week!
Visit us in the Tower Square 2
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729
SW 75th Street.
373-0301D'Lites Emporium
Healthy never tasted so good!
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice
cream in Gainesville-REALLY-
and is the only low-calorie
soft serve with NO artificial
sweeteners. We rotate over 100
d'licious creamy flavors (see
this week's at www.gatordlites.
com) that are diet-friendly
without the diet taste. We also
feature a whole array of cookies,
chips, and various grocery treats
that appeal to Atkins, Weight
Watchers, and other dieters.
Our every day daily specials
make shopping at D'Lites a
special value! Come weigh your
options at the Marketplace Plaza
at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St.
(next to the Hollywood Video)
or at the Shoppes of Williston at
S.W. 34th Street and Williston
Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484
Find us on Facebook!
Karma Cream
Serving ORGANIC and fair trade
ice cream, coffee, desserts, and
beer, with lots of vegan options.
Now open 24 hours. Free WiFi!
Located 2 blocks east of campus
at 1025 W. University Ave.
505-6566
Mochi Frozen Yogurt
Try our premium self-serve
frozen yogurt as a healthy
dessert alternative. Our yogurt
has 0% fat and contains live
and active cultures. Choose
any combination of 8 different
flavors and over 30 toppings.
Everything for just 45 cents an
ounce. 3841 SW Archer Rd (next
to Bento Red) Open from noon
to midnight daily!
TCBY
Please visit one of our 3
locations to enjoy real frozen
yogurt products. Our low calorie
and low-fat soft serve is your
healthiest choice in Gainesville,
and it tastes great too. Waffle
Cone Wednesday from 5-8p.m.
and half-off smoothies from
5-6p.m. every day! Locations
at 34th Street next to Crispers,
Thornebrook Village at 43rd
Street and Town of Tioga. Find
us one Facebook and follow us
on Twitter at "TCBYgainesville"Green Mango
The best Indian food in
Gainesville. Serving Gainesville
since 1991. The best Samosas
in Florida. Offering many vegan
dishes. We are specialized
in catering any group size.
Delivery available-free delivery
on any purchase over $25! Open
7 days Mon-Sat 11:30am-9pm,
Sunday lpm-Spm. Call 352-505-
6200. 7625 W Newberry Rd
Luca's Pasta
Customize your own pasta.
Over 100 combinations, starting
@ $2.99! Choose your pasta,
sauce, & topping. All made fresh
& quick. Vegan & Gluten-free
options too. Open Mon-Sat 11-9.
Delivery/take out/dine in. See
menu online www.lucaspasta.
com.
607 W. University Ave.
352-338-1700
Manuel's Vintage
Room
This family owned restaurant
is perfect for dinner any day of
the week. Come in and check
out one of the best wine lists in
town. Ask questions and learn
while you wait for the chef to
put out nothing but goodness
from the kitchen using fresh,
simple, and local ingredients.
Try the Early Dinner Sunday,
Tuesday-Thursday 5-7pm. $3
wines/$10 bottles. $10 Menu.
Ask about our Monday Wine
Dinners and private parties for
lunch or dinner. 6 South Main
St. (352)375-7372
Ristorante Deneno
With new ownership at the
helm, Deneno is presenting
great Italian food in nearby
Alachua. Worth the drive! Open
for lunch Mon-Fri 11:30-2.
Dinner 7 nights a week from
5pm. Happy Hour Tues-Fri 5-7.
Every Tuesday is 1/2 off bottles
of wine. 14960 Main Street,
Alachua. 386-418-1066Caribbean Queen
Offering jerk chicken, curry goat
and oxtail. Opened Mon thru
Thurs IIam-7:3Opm, Fri and Sat
1lam-11:45pm.
Located at 507 NW 5th Ave.
352-374-8111
Bento Cafe
Check out Gainesville's most
popular sushi joint. Enjoy our
Bento boxes, boba tea, sashimi
bowls, and noodle bowls in a
hip, trendy atmosphere. Two
great locations with outside
eating. Open every day for carry-
out or dine-in. Call our Newberry
Rd. location at 377-8686 or our
Archer Rd. location at 224-5123.
Cabana Cove
Key West Grille
Open for Lunch & Dinner
$6.99 Daily Lunch Specials
Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/
$12.50 Buckets of ANY beer
Check Out Our New & Exciting
Menu & Expanded
Sunday Brunch Menu
$4 Martini Menu Wednesdays
$4 Mojito Menu Thursdays
$5 off next $25 purchase
With This Ad
352-377-3278
www.cabanacove.net
2410 NW 43rd St.
Gainesville, Fl. 32606
Located Behind Garden
Gate Nursery
Green Plantains
Happy Hour $2.75
Drink + Appetizer from 3-7pm.
$5 To-Go Dinners. Mon-Sat
from 4pm. Don't miss out $4.95
dinner + soda on Thursday,
student night from 4pm-lOpm.
Visit us at 5150 SW 34th Street
at the new Publix Shopping
Center 7 days a week.
We cater. Check us out on
GatorFood.com 352-378-1930
www.greenplantains.comTo Guimm To
tV11IE
the independent florida4alliga4torArt Walk adds color
to local sceneryTHE JONES
Gainesville's own indepen-
dently owned community
restaurant dedicated to bring-
ing sustainable, local, and
organic food to the table. Oh,
and it's really yummy. Herbi-
vores, carnivores, & omnivores
welcome! *Breakfast & Lunch:
8am to 3pm every day. Dinner:
Friday thru Monday nights
5pm to IOpm.* Check out our
Facebook page for specials and
events. 401 NE 23rd Avenue
352.373.6777
Mildred's Big City Food
Eat Gainesville's Best Food at
Mildred's. We support LOCAL
and SUSTAINABLE agriculture!
Start Living Healthy! LOCAL.
ORGANIC. GOOD. Fresh Dishes
Made From Scratch!
OPEN SUNDAYS!
CONVERED PATIO-JUST
MINUTES FROM CAMPUS
3445 W. University Ave.
371-1711
MildredsBigCityFood.com
New Deal Cafe'
OPEN LATE!
Gainesville's ONLY Local
Beef Burgers! This 12oz.
Goliath is Naturally Aged and
Fresh Ground. MONSTROUS
Desserts. HUGE Martinis.
A Diamond in the Ruff!
Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm
Fri-Sat. llam-llpm
371-4418
Located next door to Mildred's
Ti Amo
Mediterranean restaurant & bar
Where FOOD & LOVE Meet!
Southern Living Magazine
agrees, "[the chef] adds visual
flair to every dish to make it as
good-looking as it is flavorful."
NEW Happy Hour Specials!
Every day from 4pm-7pm
There's something for everyone!
Small & Large Plates for Tapas
Style Dining. Amazing party
space, affordable prices &
terrific service.
Visit www.tiamogainesville.
com
12 SE 2nd Ave. 378-6307Mellow Mushroom
Shroomin' Student Specials
DOLLAR DRAFTS
14" Pizza $9.99
$3 Jager Meister
Happy Hour 3-7
All Apps / Price
All Mixed Drinks 2-4-1
Order Online 0
mellowmushroom.com
New York Pizza Plus
Bringing experience from New
York & Italy to Gainesville!
Offering a variety of gourmet
pizza, homemade salads,
pasta, & desserts. All you
can eat buffet available!
Outdoor dining. Visit www.
newyorkpizzaplus.com for
coupons. We Deliver!
490 NE 23rd Ave.
376-3444
Book Lover's Cafe
Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine.
Natural, organic, fair trade,
meals, sandwiches, soups,
home-baked desserts. Brunch
Weekends. Specials: Cupcake
Mon., Southern Cooking Tues.,
Greek Wed 6pm, Ethiopian Thurs
6pm.
MO-TH l0am-9pm.
Fri -Sun 10am-Spm.
505 NW 13th St. 384-0090
Saigon Legend
Delicious traditional Vietnamese
cuisine with popular Asian
favorites. Pho, Banh-Cuon,
Banh Xeo, Banh Tom Ha-Woi.
Enjoy great food at great prices.
Big new room! Family owned
restaurant. Next to Holiday Inn
Downtown. Dine in or take
out. Catering available. Mon-Sat
10:30am-9:30pm, Sun 11:30am-
9pm
374-0934 1228 W Univ AveBy ALEX ORLANDO
avenue writer
It's an obviousfactaboutGainesville:
Every weekend, hundreds of students
gather at downtown clubs for typical
nighttime reverie. But once a month,
the downtown area becomes a Mecca
for the town's artistic culture.
The Downtown Gainesville Art Walk,
a "self-guided tour through downtown
galleries and alternative art spaces,"
according to the group's Facebook
page, kicks off at the Downtown Sun
Center on the last Friday of every month
from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
The showcase of artists takes place
in a square half-mile of downtown be-
tween Southwest 10th Street and
Southeast Third Street and includes
such stops as the Tench Building the
Hippodrome State Theatre, The Red
Door Studio and Wayward Council.
"The Art Walk is always a wonderful
opportunity for community members to
see the local arts, which is a major as-
pect of the Gainesville culture, as well
as an opportunity to meet the wonder-
ful people of Gainesville," said Daniel
Hime, looking over fused glass art by
Nancy Holschuh in Harold's Frame
Shop and Gallery.
Hime, 60, said he comes toArt Walk
to see friends, drink wine and meet the
artists.
Next to The Bank night club is The
Red Door Studio, a typical white-walled
studio with paint-smeared wooden
floors, Angela Hoppe sits on a leather
couch hand weaving as patrons and po-
tential customers crowd into the room
Chick.-lit author
signs copies of book
By MOLLY BRUCE
avenue contributing writer
Families with young children,
hip 20-somethings, grandparents
and even a few furry four-legged
friends gathered for wine tastings,
hor d'oeuvres and the chance to
meet Kristin Harmel, international
selling author, in Orlando on Fri-
day.
Harmel signed copies of her
fifth novel "Italian for Beginners"
for fans.
Harmel graduated from UF's
journalism program in 2001, and
today she writes "chick-lit" novels
and freelances for People and
other national magazines.
"I feel very grateful for the op-
portunity to be doing what I'm do-
ing," Harmel said.
While most authors sign books
at different stores for their book
tours, Harmel likes to do some-
thing different.
"I think, why not have a big
party?" she said.
The event took place at Bull-
fish, an art gallery and unusual
gifts store in Baldwin Park. Own-
ers Brian Wettstein and Jeff Browattended, mixing with the crowd
and offering information on their
wine and art collections.
The eclectic store was the
perfect venue for Harmel's book
signing for "Italian for Beginners,"
which is worldly and colorful like
the store. Harmel's mom, count-
less friends and even her recently
reunited sixth-
grade crush,
Matt Patter-
son, attended.
"Now I
know a fa-
mous author,"
P a t t e r s o n
said.
Harmel H a r m e 1,
who wore a
little black dress to coincide with
Little Black Dress wines, which
sponsored the event, thanked ev-
eryone who attended and posed
for pictures for more than three
hours. She took time to speak
with everyone.
Patrick Loughlin, who has
worked at Bullfish for three years,
met Harmel before the event
started. "She seems very sweet,"
he said.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009*4ALLIGATOR, 13
artists, including
Bob Freeman, Anne
Gilroy, Lennie Kesl,
Anne Seraphine,
Ray Keith and Peter
Carolin.
Carolin left to
watch the studio asto see her paintings.
Hoppe, a veteran painter with more
than 20 art walks under her belt, allows
student artist Molly Kernan to display
and sell her art in the studio.
"It's too easy for your ego to get bust-
ed in the art world," Hoppe said.
Hoppe said she hopes to introduce
Kernan to the nurturing atmosphere
that Art Walk tends to uphold.
In the same spirit of artist unity, the
Tench Building, which some refer to as
the "heart of the art," is a city/artist co-
op that accommodates regional artists.
It is currently the workplace of six
the other artists mingled at other stops
on the tour. He entertained middle-aged
art connoisseurs over cheese, crackers
and wine while younger viewers and art
students wandered the halls of the gal-
lery and studios.
Carolin, who does everything from
nude portraits to abstract paintings of
Florida's springs, said he enjoys those
who take time to come and appreciate
the local artwork of what he calls "real
Gainesville."
"It brings culture to the community.
Rather than people just goingfrom club
to club, it really enriches their human-
ity," Carolin said. "We're the creative
spirits."in
14, ALLIGATOR+ THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
Michael Claytor, friends combine community, music
By JON SILMAN
avenue writer
Michael Claytor does not sound
like he looks. He does not look like
he sounds. And in the crosshairs
of this odd interchangeability is
the fact that he is probably the
nicest person I have ever met.
There are three things you need
to know. (A) His music sounds like
you're walking through Kentucky
bluegrass, just as the fireflies start
to crackle, and the sun is dipping
below the horizon leaving a golden
orange residual shine that mixes
with the milky white of the clouds
and envelopes you in warmth. (B)
He plays with an ease and a grace
that demands intimacy and friend-
ship simultaneously. (C) He is the
most unpretentious guy in the world.
Flaco's on Wednesday night is
a scene. The back room where the
band plays every week is dark, but
it's weathered and warm. Flea mar-
ket paintings reflect the red and
green lights that soak the space. A
wide glass window faces the street.
Passers-by can peer into the tempo-
rary commune of song. There is no
cover. The band gets paid in sand-
wiches. I arrived at around 9:30
p.m. while the band was setting up.
The band is Michael Claytor, 22,
banjo, guitar and pipes; Michael
Pedron, 22, upright bass; Evan
Garfield, 22, the skins and guitar;'
Aaron Colverson, 22, violin. The
band's origin involves drugs, a
road trip, a psychedelic school bus
and a circus. With the exception of
Colverson, the guys are members ofanother popular Gainesville group, deal; A tall, bearded fellow with a his beer inside (can't drink out). is singing and throws down some
Umoja Orchestra. meticulously sharp beard double- Claytor prepares me for the flawless harmony vocals while test-
"I really think charging money fists two PBRs and flirts with two crowd participation. He explains ing levels on his violin. Impressive.
would ruin the atmosphere of this
place. If we got paid it would feel
like a job," Claytor said. "It's really
a group of friends who get together
every week to sing and hang out."
He's referring to the hipster pa-
trons that file into the room over
the course of the four hours I am
at Flaco's: An actress from the Hip-
podrome wears a knitted beret-likeyoung women in vintage dresses to me that over the course of his Claytor is sporting a beat up pair
and flats; A boy with slicked back tenure (roughly 19 months) at of brown loafers. His blue jeans are
blond hair pulls from a silver flask Flaco's, a sort of community has torn at the left knee, and when he
just outside the window, and his
drunk girlfriend eyes him with sloppy
lust as he pours some in her beer.
My friend precariously balances
between the door, as he stretches
to smoke a cigarette outside the
door (can't smoke in) and keepgrown up. There are parts to his
songs where audience members
sing along call-and-response style.
After a warm up from two indie-
acoustic acts, Claytor and band
get up to perform. Colverson is late
but rushes into the room as Claytor
>4-
11Photo courtesy of Maria Veronica Linares
Michael Claytor & His Friends (Evan Garfield, Michael Pedron, Michael Claytor and Aaron Colverson) will be performing at the Fest
8 on Nov 1plays he sways, and that tear sings
with him. He wears wide, clear owl-
frame eyeglasses and an aged truck-
er's hat on his tussled blond hair.
The chanting begins. At times
the small room sounds like a
church choir. The band plays a
tune called "Mountain Dew," and
it brings the room of 20 to its feet
to stomp and dance. I join in for
fear of missing out. With fists in
the air, the crowd chants "solidar-
ity forever," in a full boar-ish roar.
The atmosphere is truly some-
thing to be experienced. This is not
an exclusive event. It's a community
thing. A way to make new friends.
That's what Claytor's aesthetic is all
about.
"The band is called 'and
friends' because I wanted as
many local musicians as I could
on my album." Claytor said.
The album is called "We Have an
Elephant," and it's surprisingly fluid
and mature for such a young artist.
At the show, he plays my favorite
song, "New River."
I know this sounds lame, but
my stomach aches when he sings
it. I asked the band to come to my
apartment and let me film them
playing so everyone can hear it. Get
on a computer, go to your search
engine and type in "Michael Claytor
living room," right now. He wants to
be friends. He's singing it to you.
Trip to the doctor triggers
erection, humiliation
By ERIK VOSS
avenue writer
During a Boy Scouts hiking trip, my friend
Jerry gave me some important advice:
"When you get a physical, you better not
get hard," he said.
Unfortunately, at age 11, I still referred to
such exotic terms by their textbook transla-
tions. "Pot" was still "marijuana," "pussy"
was still "vagina" and "gay" was still "nonath-
letic." So, I thanked Jerry for his advice and
assumed he had stepped in wet cement on
his way to a checkup.
Three years later, the true meaning of Jer-
ry's warning became all too clear when I got a
big, fat stiffy in front of my doctor.
Much like earthquakes, ninjas and razors
in Halloween candy, you never know when an
erection will strike. Actual arousal accounts
for a small percentage of erections;, often, all
it takes is a cramped chair, new boxers or a
front-row seat on Splash Mountain, and sur-
prise, the circus is in town!
My enrollment in high school required a
complete physical, testicles exam included. I
had survived a few of these frisks before, and
I always imagined my doctor rating my genita-
lia in the next room.
"His penis looks so stupid," he'd chuckle
to the other doctors over a round of Vicodinand back massages from the nurse staff.
"Does he really expect Ashley to like him with
a penis like that?"
This time, however, I was greeted by an
attractive physician in her late 20s. Her face
seemed too pretty to be covered by a blood-
soaked surgeon mask, but sure enough, she
conducted the physical and politely asked me
to take off my pants.
If you combine a loose cannon dangling
between my legs with a sexy professional
making six figures a year,
the only response to such
a request is: "Fire in the
hole!"
The moment her latex-
covered fingers made con-
tact, I could hear the cir-
cus train rolling down the
tracks. I tried concentrating on a decorative
beach print hanging on the wall, but it was
no use. From the crashing surf I envisioned
my doctor, fully naked except for that bloody
surgeon mask.
The whole ordeal lasted five seconds,
which was enough time to get to half-mast.
She pretended not to notice, but her rushing
(and blushing) gave her away. Thank good-
ness my balls were cancer-free.
Humiliation is inevitable, and it's often
triggered by the slightest nudge.Z beer 'brings a lot of
taste to the table'
By RICHARD STEHLI
avenue contributing writer
Beer: "Z"
Brewery: Fort Collins Brewery (Fort
Collins, Colo.)
Style: Rauchbier
I recently had the opportunity to visit
FoCo, and one of my main activities dur-
ing my three-day stay was drinking beer.
Chastise me all you want, but I'm no lush.
Fort Collins has a population only slightly
larger than that of Gainesville, but it hosts
an astounding five craft breweries. Each
has an impressive selection of both stan-
dards and seasonals, but only Fort Collins
Brewery distributes to Gainesville (as far
as I know). I spent a whole day bikingfrom
brewery to brewery; for considerably less
expense, you can have a taste without
leavingthe city limits.
Rauchbier is a German-style beer brewed
using barley that has been smoked over
an open fire. The resulting beer has all thecaramel notes and rich color of a roasted
beer (Killian's in macro brew terms), but
it also has a distinctive smoky smell and
flavor. That's right: beer infused with a
generous helping of beef jerky.
From the tap, I found the smokiness
to be startling, if not slightly overpower-
ing. From the bottle, however, it is fairly
diminished, yet still pleasantly existent.
The aforementioned cara-
Behind mel is both detectable and
delectable, and the beer
is very well constructed
overall.
At the very least, "Z" brings a lot of taste
to the table, and it's a taste that you won't
find in any beer brewed under the author-
ity of Large American Beer Company.
Forgo the case of swill this weekend and
indulge your 21-years-or-older self and
compatriots with a six-pack of "Z." Your
taste buds (as well as your kidneys) will
thank you.
"Z" is available at Ward's Supermarket,
515 NW 23rd Ave.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 *ALLIGATOR, 15
locally-grown 
Food expo, film show benefits of home-grown products
By ATTIYYA ANTHONY
avenue writer
You don't have to dig deep to
see that Gainesville's soil is ripe
with growth.
On Sunday, the Citizens Co-op
sponsored two sold-out showings
of Robert Kenner's "Food, Inc."
The show attracted more than
200 people and raised $1,060
to go toward opening a com-
munity-owned grocery store in
Gainesville, said Robert Matrone,
cinema manager at the Hippo-
drome State Theatre.
"Food, Inc." is a 30-minute
documentary that details the neg-
ative health effects of hormone-
injected meats, pesticide-sprayed
fruits and vegetables, the increas-
ing number of food-related E.Coli
and obesity cases and the detri-
mental effect that our industrial
food market has on smaller farms
and communities.
"The movie can leave you
feeling hopeless and depressed,
but the Co-op wanted to offer
people the information but also
show the thriving community that
Gainesville already has estab-
lished around food," said Liz Nes-
bit, a co-founder of the Co-op. "We
want people to come out of the
film and not feel like, 'What can
I do?' but, 'How can I become a
part of the solution?"'
The Co-op also held a food
expo in connection with "Food,
Inc." More than 10 vendors sold
their home-grown products from
Gainesville, Micanopy, Melrose,
Ocala and other surrounding ar-
eas. There was a showcase of
plants and herbs, includinginclud-
ed shiitake mushrooms, ginger
roots, peppermint, unpasteurized
milk, sweet habanero peppers,rosemary and soap made from
goat milk.
James Steele, owner of The
Herb Garden Nursery in Melrose,
has been growingfruits and herbs
for culinary and medicinal purpos-
esfor morethan 40years. He used
his knowledge and resources to
create www.gainesvillefarmfresh.
com, a networking site for those
interested in growing, producing
or purchasing locally home-grown
products.
"I love interacting with my
food, growing what I'm eating and
helping customers with the herbs
that they're growing," Steele said,
as he jumped at the opportunity
to give a passer-by advice on how
to tend to her aloe roots. "I'm also
seeing that people appreciate the
growth process and like knowing
where their food comes from."
Five members are needed to
commit to a location and building
for the community grocery mar-
ket, which would distribute fresh
fruits, vegetables, dairy, eggs,
meat, seafood and herbs on a
weekly basis. There were more
than 400 members at the event.
"I'm really pleased with the
turnout. It's satisfying to see how
easy it's been to pull something
like this off," Nesbit said. "We
have lots of support and a lot of
people want to see something like
this put into fruition."
Membership is $100 and
gives partial ownership to the
store, meaning that you get a say
with the board of directors, what
items are to be placed on shelves,
and at the end of the year, all the
profits get redistributed back to
the owners. If 500 members join,
the Co-op will open the communi-
ty-owned grocery store in the fall
of 2010.Local producer
Michael Espinosa
shows off his beautiful
home-grown
peppers at Sunday's
Citizens Co-op Food
Expo held in the Sun
Center Plaza
He offers one of his
sweet peppers to a
customer for a taste
Espinosa
grows a variety of veg-
etables and is anxious for
a community-run
grocery store;
Saturday, Oct. 24th
400 NE 16th Avenue
Registration at 7am
Walk begins at 9am
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
I I -a "Where It Pavs to Care"IH IP P FOOD, INC.SThe shocking truth about what we eat, how it's produced, andci n m a who we are as a nation. 6:30 & 8:30pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPP.ORG
Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1&The kid
at Santa Fe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
Townhome 2/2 end unit,fenced
SW near UF/Shands,bus;avail.
now;vaulted,w/d,deck,icemkr
$850mo/$400sec 352-256-6158
doxie.dogs@hotmail.com 10-1-09-21-1
2 bedrm 2.5 bath, granite counter tops,
SS appliances, dishwasher, washer/dryer
alarm, close to Campus & Shands Ready for
move in. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-5-09-
19-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 10-9-20-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
Univ Terr Gville 3921 SW 34th st 1st fIr 4bd
/4ba, cent A/C, cable, W/D, full kitch, Sept
rent free! $300/mo/ea, $25/person finders
fee, owner/manager/gville. Immed occupan-
cy. Non-students welcome. 352-472-9778
10-5-09-10-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils ind $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 10-
7-09-5-1Furnished., WINDSOR PARK .ROOM $
420 and APT 1/1 $ 600 .2 mi from UF.All
inclu. Elec, TV, Internet,Gym,Pool, W/Dry,
Basketball, Soccer & tennis courts. 305-408-
4330 -305-962-2525 -c2000_1@msn.com
10-9-09-7-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS! * Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
Downtown Living -Limited Availability!
One Bedrooms from only $699
2/2 Townhouses with W/D from $819
Only 5 left! Don't miss out on the best location
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1s available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3s! madisonpointe.org
Garages Available!
Enormous Screened Patio!
$266-$1092
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
*P OLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentO nFnished unfnished furnished nfurnished ufurnished
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499-iSO0 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
% A.s'n#O$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 10-9-
09-82-2
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neigh-
borhood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood
floors, fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $1000/
mo. $30/mo ontime discount. 773-407-
1774. 10-20-09-41-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
53-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
47-2
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
49-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-2-09-46-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
39-2LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
35-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $995/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-28-2
LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-33-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-
09-33-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 10-2-09-
33-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1br/1bth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
WE'RE HERE TO HELP! FOCUS ON
SCHOOL Must see upgrades new carpettile
& more.from a disc. rate of $390 Move in to-
day Pets ok
15 mins from UF Call for specials 352-331-
8225 10-12-30-2
2BR/1BA The Oaks Condo by Oaks Mall.
$650, screened-in porch, W/D, community
pool & gym, water & trash included. 321-
948-6327 or americana@cfl.rr.com 10-26-
09-40-2
1bedr, 2bedrms, 3bedrms, & 4bedrms close
to Campus. Call to see your new home today
Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 10-20-09-
30-2
We Love Pets &
Ready to Move in Today
Regency Oaks
1,2,3, Bedrooms
3230 SW Archer Rd
352-378-5766
Rocky Point
1,2,3 Bedrooms
3100 SW 35tth Place
352-376-1619
Archer Woods
1,2, Bedrooms
3020 SW Archer Rd
352-373-8727
Country Gardens
1 & 2 Bedrooms
2001 SW 16th St.
352-373-4500
12-9-09-65-2
FREE SEPT 2BR/2.5BA CONDO $775
w/d,parking ,dog walk area,quiet
miles to uf.352-281-0733 or
thuy carroll@yahoo.com 10-5-15-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
3/2 home in northwest gainesville with fire-
place, large yard, garage. 850 a month. first
and security required. 6431 nw 26th terrace.
Call 352-871-2379. 10-27-30-2
*000$550 2BR Washer/Dryer provided;
upstairs; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer
grad student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown NW 10th St
352 376 0080 10-29-09-30-2
4BR/2Bath condo only two blocks from UF.
Rent includes all utilities, cable tv and inter-
net, pool, laundry room, bbq/picnic area, on
bus stop. Great deal at $1,500/mo. 352-378-
4626 / 262-4290. 10-1-09-11-2
HOUSE avail now. 4BR/2BA, 1.5 mis to UF,
near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte. Bike
to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent H/
AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1000/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 10-1-09-10-2
Large 2BR/2BA gated golf community condo
end unit with garage. Enclosed porch/alarm
system/appl/washer/dryer. Lg.TV, queen
beds avail. at no cost. The Greens $800, call
352-262-3746 10-19-09-21-2
AVAILABLE NOW 2BR/1BA CTL heat/Air
W/D Hookups, Fridge, Stove, Dishwasher
and Icemaker $600/mo first and last $300
sec. 1523 NW 7th St. Gainesville, FL Phone
352-376-0071 or 352-494-4598 10-5-09-
10-2
3/2 House $700 per month! Carport, dish-
washer, washer/dryer hookups, lots of living
space, screened porch, lot backs up to Lolby
Park. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals@campusrealtygroup.com 10-12-
09-15-2
18, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
For Rent uFor Rent O ForRetForRn Roommates Roommates Real Estateunfurnished unfurnished
New Condo for rent. 2 bedrooms/2.5 baths.
Granite countertops, tile floor, and spacious
garage. Quite/Safe neighborhood minutes
from UF campus. Great location. Luxurious
college living at reasonable price, please call
Bosshardt reality at 352-371-2118 ext 403
10-6-09-10-2
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
10-6-09-5-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA, 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D. Great location -508 NE 4th
Ave. Available now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
10-6-09-10-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 10-9-12-2
Cute & Clean! Studio apt. in quiet NW area
near Ward's & Publix. Close to shopping &
busline, bike to UF. for $375/mo. Visit www.
cozygator.com, call 352-338-7670, or email
shepley@cozygator.com 10-7-09-20-2
2 BR 1.5 BA Townhouse.
Tile floors downstairs & carpet upstairs, new
appliances, master bedroom overlooks a
large pond. Mill Run subdivision- $700/mo.
Call 871-7801 10-2-09-5-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Tiled floor in liv area
Carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans All new
bath New Kit w/stainless appl W/D Cent H/A
Internet/cable avail Near bus rte $685/mo
Call 727-423-9463 10-8-09-8-2
Treehouse Village 2/2, new crpt/vinyl, many
amenities, close to UF, 1 mo free! $650/mo.
109-Q301 SE 16th Ave
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Tiffany 2/2, Irg mstr bdrm, w/d, w/in clsts,
scrnd prch, near bus stop on Glen Spgs Rd
3059 NW 28 Circle. $700/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Whispering Pines 2/2, on UF bus routes, wd,
ask about special, 3443 SW 24th St. $800/
mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
Monticello 3/3.5, fresh paint, community
amenities, 3 parking spaces, 1700+ sq ft,
522 NW 50th Blvd, $1100/mo
edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St 352-375-7104 10-15-09-
13-2
4B3R/2B3A HOUSE
Great open living area, fenced backyard,
W/D, close to UF & downtown. Pets ok.
$1000/mo. Contact 352-672-1767 10-5-09-
5-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
2 Rooms Available, Wooden Floors, Nice
Windows, Pool and Jacuzzi in Backyard,
Brunswick Pool Table inside. 5 minutes to
campus by bicycle. $415.00 per month NOT
incl util. Near $550 altogether 321-960-7944
10-13-10-2
3/2 house in Gainesville. Fireplace, firewood,
screened patio, fenced backyard, living/din-
ing room, large master bedroom. All Electric
Appliances. Two car garage. Located in
Northwood Oaks. No pets. (772)332-2323
10-6-09-5-2
2/2.5 beacon hill townhouse 1.5mi from
Shands/UF on williston & 16th ave 1400sqft
built in '06 jet-tub in master bath *must see*
$800/month contact 352-256-0639 or
email gqgator07@yahoo.com
10-9-09-5-2Updated 3/2 1225 sq. ft. in quiet NW neigh-
borhood. 4 mi. from campus on bus rte. 8.
Private backyard. 1 mile to Publix, Lowes,
Sams and Walmart. Ready now. $1050.
Ryan 850-261-3571
palusak99@yahoo.com 10-7-5-2
Villages @ Santa Fe- 2/1- Across from Santa
Fe College $575/mo. 1 MNTH
FREE!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Cricket Club 11-2/2- upgrd kitchen, w/d. many
amenities. 7180 SW 4 rd.
$900/mo 1 mnth free!
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Greenleaf- 2/2.5- new paint/carpeting.w/d
hkps. 4303 SW 69 terr.
$750/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
3/2.5 near off NW 13 St. Walk to UF/midtown.
3 off strt parking. New stove. 626 NW 13th
terr. Reduced rent $850/mo.
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St- 375-7104 10-16-09-12-2
Looking for an affordable/spacious place to
live in SW Gville? Renovated 2BR/2BA apt
Archer Rd near UF, Butler Plaza, 1-75. Tile
fir in living/dining rms, kitchen & bath. Carpet
BRs. Short leases avail 352-262-2828 10-
7-09-5-2
57 uases
WALK TO UF/DOWNTOWN BARS
Luxury 1BR/1BA Apt. wood Floors & patio
$970 All Inclusive: Cable W/HBO, power/wa-
ter, wireless, fully furnished w/ washer/dryer,
parking decal. Pool, Fitness center. Sw 3rd
ave & Sw 5th st Avail. Now thru Aug '10
904-571-1550
10-8-6-3
0Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Countryside Share 4BR/4BA upgraded furn
condo 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool, W/D,
cable & utils incl. $425/mo. Call 386-672-
6969 or 386-295-7929. 10-16-09-55-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 10-30-09-47-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male preferred. Share 4BR/4BA Countryside
condo. Own bathroom, W/D, hi-speed in-
ternet, on bus rte. Utils included. $400/mo.
863-634-1893. Available immediately. 10-
8-09-35-4
$425 Share a Cool Vintage House!
Two females need a third; huge older house,
great NW area, nice porch, laundry, CH/AC,
nice wood floors. We are cool & easy-going.
anita@cozygator.com or (352) 338-7670
10-7-09-20-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
10-7-09-10-4Townhome to share. 1BR/pvt BA in
2BR/2.5BA, minutes from UF & Archer shop-
ping. Clean & private. Fenced patio. $350/mo
+ 1/2 utils. Available Oct 1st. Call 850-209-
2783 10-5-09-5-4
Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone. Furn rm
avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo or $100/
wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc avail.
Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to vacate.
Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 10-5-5-4WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5
F Real Estate Furnishings
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
JU, i
.a
"Copyrighted Material-
Syndicated Content f-1sa --.-
Available from Commercial News Providers"
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
FFurnishings Furnishings Computers Autos Wanted
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warra
12-9-7BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
I ICOMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
z Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
WLFor Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
nty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. A Brand New Amazon Kindle 2 (latest
4-6 www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7 Generation) wireless E-book reader for sale,
$275. Holds over 1,500 books and Over
350,000 books available. More features see
Amazon.com. Call 352-214-4127. John 10-
.* r * e s.ee- * * 6-09-6-10
Grand Finale Estate Sale
FurnitureAntiquesHoliday Decor
Willow Walk Business Center
4Mi. West of 1-75 on Newbery Road
Oct3-4,Sat:9-5,Sun:12-5(look4Signs) 10-2-
09-2-10
FMotorccle, M eds
64
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content 
%
Available from Commercial News Providers"rg
I I***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one si te! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 10-14-10-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
WJIWantedZ
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 10-9-09-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 10-
9-09-74-13
www.tradeyacity.com
$500 contest search
youtube(TM)for www.tradeyacity.com
contest for all the details 10-15-09-20-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
0 the independet lriaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14%3pom
20, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
W Help Wanted Help Wanted services Health Services Entertainment
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
We are looking for business leaders to help
us build our college database, earn bi-weekly
cash & monthly residual income. Graduate
debt-free. Please call 1-800-577-2021 for a
confidential interview. 12-9-68-14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 10-7-09-2-14
Female smokers ages 19-25 needed for con-
fidential phone interview. Call 404-324-6836
leave your name, number and the brand that
you smoke. Earn $50 for phone interview.
10-13-09-30-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Looking for front desk/medical asst. Busy
medical office looking for receptionist &/
or medical asst to help in front desk duties
answering phones & scheduling appts, as-
sist physician w/charting of patient infor. HS
diploma reqd, med terminology in anatomy &
physiology pref. Flex hrs, PT/FT avail. Salary
neg. Fax resume to 352-377-4816 or email
jere.scola@gmail.com 10-9-09-15-14
Mandarin speaking childcare helper needed
for part-time help in private home. Please
contact (352)219-8104. 10-5-09-10-14
PT- Lead generation, work from your loca-
tion, day & evening options. Hourly rate plus
bonuses. Includes paid training. Prefer some
phone experience, but not required.
Call 450-1737- 24 hour info line. 10-6-09-
10-14
SOFTWARE -Hypercube, Inc. (www.hyper.
com) has local part-time jobs for energetic,
capable students interested in making con-
tributions to a well-know international soft-
ware company. Knowledge of Computer
Science, Chemistry, or Business is essential.
Resumes to employment@hyper.com 9-20-
09-5-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
P/T Hotel Front Desk Employee needed.
M,W,F 7AM to 3PM. Cabot Lodge 3726 SW
40th Blvd. 375-2400 10-8-10-14
HIRING EXPERIENCED KITCHEN HELP,
WAIT STAFF & HOSTESSES.
Apply in person 39th Ave by Santa Fe & NW
10th Place off Newberry Rd.
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT 10-
8-09-10-14
Running computer software and office ad-
mn support work for ocean wave analy-
sis. Will train. $15/hr 20 to 30 hrs/week.
waves.job@gmail.com 10-5-09-7-14
Giggle Magazine ad sales reps
needed for local parenting mag
100% commission flexible hrs
check us out www.gigglemag.com
send resume sirving811@yahoo.com
10-2-09-5-14Five Star Pizza Downtown
is now hiring for managment positions
must have energy must multitask. fun
atmosphere. apply in person only. @
210 sw 2nd ave ask for Matt.
10-6-5-14
Looking for door to door sales rep who can
sell our new wireless item that has a Florida
Gator Logo on it- Easy sale and big profits -
www.socketpocket.com email
eric@cfapromo.com 10-7-09-3-14
Need ASAP 30 Typists for Transcription
(65+wpm). Self Scheduling, minimum 16
hours per week. Open M-F, 7am-midnight.
Production based compensation up tp $12
per hour, and quarterly profit sharing. Close
to campus. Ideal for PT and Students.
Email with interest to: gnvjobs@uigfla.com
10-7-09-5-14
Students Needed -full or part
time. Earn $10-$15/hr.
352-505-1322
10-7-5-14
1L Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 10-28-
09-90-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
Personal Training
with Austin Wolfe
Call today for an appointment 321-960-5739
10-26-09-30-15
NEED EXTRA WRITING HELP?
Sharpen your skills with Ambassadors Ink:
experienced college writing assistants!
Visit us at www.ambink.com or contact us
at either ink@ambink.com or 440-376-4247
for proofing, revision, and tutoring services.
Highly competitive student rates available!
10-20-30-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 10-7-
15-15
FULL HORSE BOARD
Stalls, paddocks, pasture. Reasonable. West
of 175. Alachua. 386-462-3479 10-2-09-5-
15
From BRAZIL and NEW YORK- I have all
new trends for hair-DRY CUTS SAHAG
STYLE- BRAZILIAN KERATIN treat. NO
MORE FRIZZ HAIR-by CONCY STIMAC-
call(352)514-0957-1 0%off with this add
10-19-20-15
For thorough and dependable cleanings for
your home, office, or apartment please call
J & B Cleaning (352) 278-8571
10-15-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
10-6-5-15
WJHealth Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
fl5 Persois
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
CREDIT CARD & BANKRUPTCY LAW
Helping debtors in consumer debt cases
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
10-7-21-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards -Employment Visas
Richard L. Ruth, Esq.
(352) 335-6748
www.ruthlaw.comWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
WJZ- Tickets
BOOSTER CLUB BUS PACKAGES
include hotel and tickets for LSU, MS State,
and South Carolina. DON'T WAIT -GOING
FAST! Call Betty 386-462-0404 10-14-09-
28-22
10 _20-0 -018
M R idesMJ jonnecti39s
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true GMG Tr sPo r
love M TRNP T
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Event Notices Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Race for Grace 5k Run/Walk Event
Saturday, Oct. 10th
Westside Park (1001 NW 34th St)
Registration 7:30am race begins at 8:00am
http://raceforgrace5k.eventbrite.com/ 10-
6-09-7-20
Gainesville SCUBA Club
Come to our first meeting Wednesday,
October 21 7:00pm at Water World
Go to www.gainesvillescubaclub.com for
more info 10-20-09-16-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF
Teaching Center. M -R, October 5-8 from
5:00 -7:00 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W;
Math sessions are T & R. Call 392-2010 to
register. 10-5-5-20WEZFZPets
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
o lLost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Sports
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Alabama LB will miss rest of season
By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdina ndo@alligator org
Alabama's Dont'a Hightower suffered ligament damage
in his left knee during the Crimson Tide's win over Arkan-
sas Saturday.
Coach Nick Saban has not revealed the specific nature
of Hightower's injury other than to say that the standout
linebacker is expected to be out three to four months as he
recovers from surgery.
"Dont'a Hightower did have successful surgery," Saban
said. "(The doctor) thinks he'll make a full recovery, and
he'll be OK."
Hightower had 64 tackles and started 12 games for Ala-
bama as a freshman.
"He played a lot of roles for us, more than anybody on
our defense" Saban said. "Inside backer, nickel backer, de-
fensive end, pass rusher. .There may not be one person
that can fulfill all those roles, it may take several people."
The Tide (4-0), who visits Kentucky this
- week, have options for replacing the 6-foot-4,
___ 250-pound Hightower.
Sophomore Jerrell Harris was battling for
a starting linebacker spot this fall, but has
missed the first four games because of an NCAA suspen-
sion.
Alabama found out Saturday that Harris would be al-
lowed to return in three weeks against South Carolina.
Sophomore Chris Jordan has played in every game this
year and had six tackles against North Texas. Freshman
Tana Patrick has not played yet but is expected to redshirt.
RAZORBACKS TO PLAY IN NEW COWBOY STADIUM: Arkansas
will step out of the Southeastern Conference this week to
play Texas A&M in the new Cowboys Stadium.
UA coach Bobby Petrino said he likes the idea of playing
a neutral-site game in Texas.
"It's huge for our fans," he said. "Since I got here,
they've talked about the old Southwest Conference rivalry
with Texas A&M. We're excited to rekindle it, and playing
SEE SEC, PAGE 24A l Syndicated Content fl
Available from Commercial News Providers"
A'
0 a11
Alabama linebacker Dont'a Hightower (30) is helped off the field
after an injury against Arkansas on Saturday in Tuscaloosa, Ala.
College football still searching for fourth-best team
Will the real No. 4 team pleasestand up?
This is getting ridiculous.
As far as I can tell, there are three teams
atop the Football Bowl Subdivision -
Florida, Texas and Alabama -and ev-
eryone else is just happy to be playing
each Saturday.
The Gators, Longhorns and Crimson
Tide deserve a different classification for
how much better they are than everyone
else. Call it the Juggernaut Subdivision.
Or better yet, stop ranking those three in
the weekly polls. Instead, order the re-
maining teams in the Wannabe 22.
And if you're not one of those three,
any loss isn't considered an upset.
It has really gotten bad when this
week's resident in the No. 4 spot -un-derachieving LSU,
who should've
lost at Mississippi
State last week -is
considered an un-
Phil Kegler derdog at one-loss
Phil on the H ill Georgia this week.
pkegler@alligator org I'm sorry Bull-
dogs, but no top-
five team should be
an underdog, even on the road in a con-
ference game. That's absurd .or maybe
just a blunt way of showing what Vegas
oddsmakers think of the Tigers' talent.
Cal took a No. 6 ranking into Oregon
and was slaughtered. Last week's No. 5,
Penn State, lost 21-10 at home to Iowa.
The Hawkeyes are good, but the Nitta-
ny Lions aren't and never were a top-5team. It's simply a byproduct of needing
to fill spots.
Certainly, I'm being partly facetious,
but the truths are there. Barring extreme
injury (sorry, Tim Tebow), UF, Texas
and Alabama are the best three teams in
America.
The Gators are tied for third in total
offense and rank fourth in total defense.
The Crimson Tide have the nation's sec-
ond-best defense and sit at No. 8 in total
offense. The Longhorns, with possibly
the weakest stats so far, are tops in the
nation in scoring offense and only 17th
in total defense, although they're No. 2
in rushing defense. Even if Texas' num-
bers are weak, Colt McCoy suits up at
quarterback each week, one of the coun-
SEE PHIL, PAGE 24
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: Who is the fourth-
best team in college football?Burleigh
DJs at
weddings
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
Sports and music cannot escape
each other.
UF fans at The Swamp will inevita-
bly hear AC/DC's "Thunderstruck"
before kickoff and Ozzy Osbourne's
"Crazy Train" after halftime.
And every fan of popular music
-hip-hop in particular -hears lyr-
ics that read like a list of shout-outs
to famous athletes.
The obscure rapper Young Chris
said, "I'm just trying to be No. 1 -
Percy Harvin" in his song "Search-
ing" while Harvin was still at Flor-
ida.
With the lines between sports and
music becoming more muddled, UF
soccer coach Becky Burleigh's side
gig should not
come as a surprise.
Burleigh is a
wedding DJ.
That hobby be-
gan when friends
asked Burleigh to
Burleigh bring her iPod to a
party. Her friends
appreciated Burleigh's taste in mu-
sic, and they requested Burleigh's
services at their weddings.
Burleigh only works at the wed-
dings of friends, including some for-
mer players.
"DJs aren't cheap, so that's my
wedding present to them," Burleigh
said. "Most of the weddings that are
of former players have a lot of other
former players in attendance, so it
makes it a great way for us all to get
back together."
Burleigh will work the wedding
of former UF soccer player Heather
Mitts and Carolina Panthers quarter-
back A.J. Feeley in April.
There are a few nuances to being a
good DJ, Burleigh said.
"Rule No. 1 of DJing: know your
audience," she said. "It's a mixed
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 24
I DID NOT KNOW THAT
U UF defensive coordinator Charlie Strong
will be inducted into the University of Central
Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame this week in
Conway, Ark. Strong played football and ran
track for the Bears.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE DIFERDINANDO
U After serving more than a year and a half in federal prison for dogfighting
charges, Michael Vick was rewarded yet again Wednesday when he signed a
new endorsement deal with Nike. God bless America. .Diana Taurasi was
presented with her league MVP award before the start of the WNBA Finals on
Tuesday. She averaged 23.8 points per game and a DUI this season.
22, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
Borec aPerw ron( ing u n que (4x( e%% tQO BCS tea n
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
T H E~~CANCER~~PRO] ECT
Finally!
Aprescription with
side effectsyou want.
Blueberries and red
beans are powerful
remedies against
cancer. Research
shows that fruits,
vegetables, and other low-
fat vegetarian foods may
help prevent cancer and
improve survival rates. A
plant-based diet can also
lower cholesterol.
For a free nutrition booklet with
cancer fighting recipes,
call toil-free 1-866-906-WELL or
visic www.CancerProject.orgGear doean .his Hs gif provided shelter fr
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redoross.org.
Get Your Property on the Board)
Don't let the competition pass you by!
I Student Living Guides'
L--------------------------
By advertising in the Alligator, you
will reach over 50,000 readers who
are looking for new apartments,
condos, furniture, appliances,
household items and much more!
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2009
DEADLINE: October 29
RUN DATE: November 4
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: January 14
RUN DATE: January 20
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FAIR
DEADLINE: January 29
RUN DATE: February 3
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 2010
DEADLINE: March 18
RUN DATE: March 24
GAINESVILLE REAL ESTATE MAP
DEADLINE: April 2
RUN DATE: April 7-
Call your rep
today!
352-376-4482
alligatorH
8
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Henne read to step in as starting quarterback
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
gAvailable from' Commercial News Providers"
"DREW BARRYMORE
HAS DIRECTED A WORK OF
PURE GENIUS."
AIN'T IT COOL NEWS
OPEN DAILY
352.392.9012
Monday-Thursday 1O:3Oam-9:O0pm
Friday 11:30am-3:00pm
Saturday-Sunday 1 1 :Oam-3:O0pmLocated in the Racquet Club
Dining Center next to
Student Health Care Center
on Fletcher Drive.
www.gatordining.com
MOBILE USERS -FOR SHOWTIMES -TEXT WHIP IT AND YOUR ZIP CODE TO 43 KIX (43549)
)PN EVRWHR OCOE I
24, ALLIGATOR U THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2009
Meyer looks to give James more chances
0 OPPONENTS HAVEN'T
KICKED TO HIM OFTEN.
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
UF coach Urban Meyer said
he has had discussions with his
staff on possibly getting Bran-
don James more touches.
The senior returns punts and
kickoffs for the Gators as well
as lining up at wide receiver
and running back occasionally.
Opponents have taken to
kicking away from James by
utilizing rugby kicks or simply
aiming out of bounds.
Offensively, James has five
catches for 72 yards and a
touchdown along with 51 yards
on the ground on nine carries.
"We've actually had a dis-
cussion about getting him a lit-
tle more involved," Meyer said.
"That punter for Kentucky did
a phenomenal job.
"His average hang time was
over five seconds. That really
limits your return game."
INJURY, ILLNESS LINGER: The
Gators still haven't gotten rid
of the flu.
Cornerback Markihe Ander-
son, safety Will Hill, reserve
defensive end Kedric Johnson
and scout-team quarterback
Andrew Blaylock were all sick
early this week, and UF coach
Urban Meyer is hopeful his
team can use the bye week to
get healthy before traveling to
LSU on Oct. 10.Lila
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF return specialist Brandon James (right) hasn't had much of a chance to show his skills because
of opponents gameplanning against him.
"The good thing is we're
going to [practice] Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday, and
then Friday, Saturday and Sun-
day they're off," Meyer said.
"And they're back Monday
morning ready to go, so we're
hoping that kind of wipes it
out."
The bye will also give sever-
al starters a chance to overcome
injury.Receiver Deonte Thompson
should be fully recovered from
his hamstring injury, as he was
available to play in an emer-
gency role against Kentucky.
Offensive linemen Marcus
Gilbert (elbow, bicep), Maur-
kice Pouncey (shoulder) and
Mike Pouncey (ankle) should
all be fine by next week, Meyer
said.
Defensive tackle Law-rence Marsh may still need
more time to recover from
the high ankle sprain he suf-
fered five weeks ago. He
was on crutches Wednesday.
Meyer added that cornerback
Moses Jenkins is receiving the
same treatment as quarterback
Tim Tebow.
Both players suffered con-
cussions last week at Ken-
tucky.
Saban, Miles weigh finishing win with pulling starters
SEC, from page 21
in Dallas will help our recruiting. We've got
20 kids from Texas on our roster."
Cowboys' owner Jerry Jones was co-cap-
tain of Arkansas' 1964 national-champion-
ship team.
WHEN IS THE GAME OVER?: In light of Tim
Tebow's injury Saturday against Kentucky,
SEC coaches debated when it's time to call
off the dogs on Wednesday's SEC telecon-
ference.
"That's always a tough question because
the issue is you want to finish the game ina sound, solid fashion how you started it,"
LSU coach Les Miles said. "It's something
where the coach weighs
the responsibility of get-
co ting your starters out be-
fore they get hurt."
Saban opted to leave his
players in longer against
Arkansas.
I think it's the game, I
Saban think it's the team you're
playing," Saban said. "We
didn't take our starters out until we were
ahead of Arkansas 35-7 halfway through the
fourth quarter."PLAYERS AND TWITTER: Texas Tech coach
Mike Leach made waves earlier this week
when he announced he had prohibited his
players from using the social-networking
site Twitter.
Miles said that while he won't ban his
players from using the site, he strongly dis-
courages it.
"It's a pain in the tail, is what it is," Miles
said. "The focus has got to be how you rep-
resent your schools and how you represent
your team."
Miles has his own Twitter page but said
he doesn't update it often during football
season.
Coach hooks up her iPod to speakers during team warm-ups
SOCCER, from page 21_
group. A little Michael Bubl6 al-
ways goes over pretty well."
The coach said she gets the
edited versions of top-40 songs
because they are safe to play.
"You have a mixture of kids
and grandparents, so you don't
want to play Eminem," Burleigh
said.
Rod Stewart's "You're in My
Heart" is a staple at weddings
with Burleigh.Goalkeeper Katie Fraine was
shocked when she found out
about "DJ Becks," as she calls
her.
"I was like, 'What? You're
an actual wedding DJ?' Fraine
said. "All I could think of was
'The Wedding Singer."'
The coach said working with
college kids boosts her musical
knowledge.
"When you're around 18-22
year olds for a big part of your
life, you get used to a wide vari-
ety of music," she said.Burleigh also serves as a DJ
for the team. Her iPod is hooked
up to speakers near the practice
field, and she plays music during
N warm-ups.
Burleigh usu-
ally chooses rap
because it's whatSoccer most players pre-
fer.
Fraine said the music helps
her teammates loosen up and is
good for chemistry.
While Burleigh's selections
generally go over well with theteam, Fraine wishes Burleigh
played rock bands like The Red
Hot Chili Peppers and The Off-
spring.
"I would leave the DJ Khaled
out of it," Fraine said. "And the
Lil Wayne."
Although she doesn't agree
with the song selection, Fraine
has an appreciation for Bur-
leigh's skills and sees a promis-
ing future for her coach.
"She tries to get a mix of the
'80s, '90s and today," Fraine said.
"She's like a radio DJ."-
.7 V
ow
-PHIL, from page 21
try's top-three QBs.
But what about No. 4?
I thought LSU would be
very good coming into the
season, and although the Ti-
gers have the talent, they've
struggled to put it together
so far.
No one will ever sell me
on Boise State being a top-
five team. I'm supposed to
buy a home win over Or-
egon as proof the Broncos
are real? Not happening.
Not completely your fault,
but get in a real conference
and win four or five really
tough games a year against
top competition.
USC has a top-10 defense
but is struggling offensively.
The Trojans check in at No.
55 in scoring offense, aver-
aging 28.5 points per game,
a far cry from the past. With
the recent loss of running
back Stafon Johnson, re-
maining road games against
Cal and Oregon and a fresh-
man starting quarterback,
the Men of Troy will fall
again before bowl season.
That leaves two realistic
options -the team that de-
serves to be No. 4 right now
and the team that has a very
good chance of taking the
four-spot down the road.
Virginia Tech should
have the little four next to its
name on scoreboards during
TV broadcasts. The Hok-
ies are 3-1 with their only
slip-up being a 10-point loss
against the Crimson Tide.
With back-to-back wins over
ranked teams, including last
week's shellacking of Miami,
VT should be No. 4 and very
well could be next week if
LSU falls at Georgia.
By December, however,
we could see the resurgence
of a team that was thought
to be part of the Juggernaut
Division -Oklahoma.
The Sooners were ham-
pered by the injury to their
star quarterback, and if Sam
Bradford eventually be-
comes himself again this fall,
OU could be a force to be
reckoned with. Its defense
has put up back-to-back
shutouts, impressive even
against lesser opponents. A
date with Miami on Satur-
day poses a chance to make
a statement, and the annual
date with Texas could be an-
other classic.
But that's plenty of spec-
ulation. For now, there are
three teams and then every-
body else.
Sometimes, three is con-
sidered a crowd. This year,
it's the talented few.
