0 Florida's matchup
with FlU at 12:30 p.m.
Saturday should give the
Gators a chance to rest
some of their veterans
while giving reserves an
opportunity to make a
case for playing time.
See Story, Page 32.
the independent floridaalligator
fIEOfIMPE N
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Photo Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, November 20, 2009
Can't urn
the Corner
UF struggles to rack up big plays without Harvin
AlligatorStaff Writer to ke mostofthose gae-chang- kikoff return touchdowns inBy 
BOBBY CALLOVI That has left it up to the receivers has scored three receiving and tw
When Percy Harvin left Florida
early for the NFL, he took with him
more than a third of the offense's
big plays in conference gamtes.
The atocs have struggled this
season filling the void left by the
play-making receiver.
Harvin could attack defenses
anywhere on the field, rushing or
receiving-.
Florida coach Urban Meyer knew
entering the season that replacing
the big-play threats of Harvin and
fellow receiver Louis Murphy, who
added another eight of the Gators'
40 plays longer than 20 yards dur-
ing the conference slate, would not
be easy.
But Meyer did not imagine how
much of a struggle it was going to
be.
In Southeastern Conference
games, the number of plays lon-
ger than 20 yards are down to 31,
and out of those only nine went
for touchdowns compared to 17 in
2008 -a decrease of 14 percentage
points, from 43 percent last season
to 29 this season.
With opposing defenses realiz-
ing the big plays were likely to come
from the three dynamic backs for
the Gators, teams have schemed totake away the outside runs that al-
lowed the UF running backs to use
their speed to break off huge gains.
The Gators have had to pound
the ball up the middle, limiting the
speed threat of Jeff Demps, Chris
Rainey and Emmanuel Moody.ing plays, and they have dropped
the ball, literally.
"I was concerned about it. Any
time you lose two talented guys and
CI (tight end Cornelius Ingram) got
huas pwell, and he had some big-play potential, so you areealways
worried about that," Meyer said. "I
was expecting more hits out of ourtailbacks than we have had so far,
but we still have some big games
left and I know we are down, but we
(are) also up in some other areas."
The Percy Effect
There wasn't much Harvin didn't
do for the Gators offense in the three
years he was at Florida.
He lined up in the backfield, in
the slot and out wide, and he was
a threat to break off a big play from
wherever he was on the field.
Notonly was he a threat all over
the field, but Harvin could hurt
defenses rushing or receiving. He
racked up 10 catches and four rush-
es longer than 20 yards in confer-
ence play last season.
While the Florida coaches define
a big play as anything more than 20
yards, Harvin often extended those
plays to 30 yards or more.
Five of his 14 big plays were more
than 30 yards.
UF offensive coordinator Steve
Addazio recognized Harvin as a
major reason for why the really big
plays are down this year.
"Who was the guy that made
those big runs? The guy that will
be the Rookie of the Year in the
NFL," Addazio said of Harvin, whois
first season with the Minnesota Vi-
kings after being picked in the first
round.
He wasn't just providing the
Gators with a lot of big plays, but he
wa doingit onaa consistent aytbsis.
ger than 20 yards in every confer-
ence game in 2008 and added two
more in the BCS National Champi-onship Game, leading the Gators in
rushing with 122 yards on just nine
carries on the way to winning the
national title.
His departure not only took
away a large portion of the Gators'
big-play potential, but it changed
the focal point of the offense.
Running Backs
Without Harvin or Murphy re-turning, it wasn't hard to see who
the Gators would rely on to provide
them with big plays.
Florida was bringing back three
speedy running backs, who com-
bined for 12 of the 18 big plays not
made by the receiving duo.
Demps, Rainey and Moody had
the ability to provide Florida with
the explosive plays they would be
losing, especially Demps.
In his freshman season, Demps
totaled six runs for more than 20
yards. In fact, they were all longer
than 30 yards.
But without Harvin and Murphy
to occupy defenses, opponents have
been scheming to keep Demps and
the other two backs bottled up.
Defenses have been playing to
prevent the trio from getting to the
statistical breakdown
FIlU FLORIDA
25.1 Points Per Game 33.9
33.4 Points Allowed Per Game 10.5
221.8 Passing Yards Per Game 198.1
100.8 Rushing Yards Per Game 230.6
252.4 Passing Yards Allowed Per Game 139.6
238.5 Rushing Yards Allowed Per Game 94.3
58/162 (36%) 3rd Down Conversions 56/127 (44%)
61/152 (40%) 3rd Down Defense 37/138 (27%)
31/38 (63%) Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %) 36/48 (44%)
37/44 (55%) Red Zone Defense (TD%) 14/17 (35%)
-3 Turnover Margin +7(A
UF sophomore Jeff Demps and fellow running backs Chris Rainey and Emmanuel Moody have been forced to
mostly run inside this season, due to defenses forcing them up the middle.
outside, limiting the open space
where they can use their speed.
Demps said he expected defenses
to force him inside this season after
the success the Gators had last year
running outside.
"Defenses are spreading out to
the wide field more than they did
last year because we try to get the
ball on the perimeter, so they're
blitzing a linebacker to the field,"
Demps said.
That game plan has worked, al-
lowing Demps toonly rush for more
than 20 yards four times in confer-
ence play and none longer than 25
yards.
Rainey and Moody have notfared much better, with only two
runs longer than 20 yards each, and
only Moody has had one longer
than 30 yards in SEC games. Being
forced to run between the tackles,
the backs have had to fight through
tackles to break off big runs.
And if they are going to start
providing the Gators with the huge
plays that Meyer expected from
them before the season, the three
backs aregoing to have toimake
them in the middle of the field.
"The holes are there. We just got
to do a better job of breaking tackles
and get vertical," Demps said.Wide Receivers
It was not going to beeasy re-
placing Harvin and Murphy's pro-
duction in the passing game.
But Meyer still expected his cur-
rent receivers to step up more than
they have.
With the running backs being
forced to run up the middle, Meyer
said he needs the receivers to be
able to spark the offense with big
plays on the outside. They have had
their chances, but multiple drops
have plagued the receivers this sea-
son especially on deep balls.
After catching a slant and run-
ning with it for a 68-yard touch-
down on the first drive against
South Carolina, senior Riley Cooper
let two other deep passes go off his
fingertips later in the game.
"You got to make those plays,"
Addazio said. "If you go back and
systematically look through the sea-
son, you will see that they arethere
to be made."
While dropped balls are the most
glaring reason the Gators have not
come up with big plays in the pass-
ing game, they have also lacked
plays with a lot of yards after the
catch, something that has been part
of Meyer's offenses in previous
years.
[U @ NUMBERS
Losses for the Gators in9l Losses by Urban Meyer in 15 nonconference home
four-plus seasons at UF. games under Meyer.
Wins by Mario Cristobal in Current winningtwo-plus seasons at FlU. .5 1 percentage of
Florida's 12 regular-seasonAll-time wins by Sun Belt opponents (63-59).
Conference opponents in
14 games vs. Florida) North Current winning
Texas defeated UF 20-12 in 538 percentage
1947. of FlU's 12 regular-season
opponents (63-54)."We have had some opportu-
nities and some guys have pulled
through them and others guy
haven't," Meyer said. "We have had
some big plays from our guys. I re-
member one year Bubba Caldwell
caught a bubble screen and took it
70 yards. We haven't had that yet
this year."
Senior receiver David Nelson,
whose longest reception this sea-
son is 14 yards, said they have been
working in practice on breaking
tackles in the open field to try ignit-
ing more big plays off short passes.
Besides Cooper's touchdown on
a slant route against South Carolina,
the receivers have been unable to
beat a defender after the catch.
Nelson knows it is important for
the receivers to start filling Harvin's
big-play void with the postseason
approaching, and teams game-plan-
ning to stop the running backs.
"It's one of those things if they
are playing the run, we need to start
beating them with the pass. We
need to start beating them with the
pass and with big plays in the pass-
ing game," Nelson said.
OUT
WR Carl Moore (back)
CB Jeremy Brown (back)
DT Brandon Antwine (knee)
RB Emmanuel Moody (ankle)
DT Terron Sanders (rib)
QUESTIONABLE
Jermaine Cunningham (shoulder)
INJURY
REPORT
DOUBTFUL
LB Winston Fraser (neck)
QUESTIONABLE
S Chuck Grace (ankle)
e e
Jeff Demps Tim Tebow
0 0*0 0 G a 0 0*Deonte Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Xavier David Riley
Thompson Hernandez Gilbert MikeyPouncey Carl NixonPouncey Johnson Nelson Cooper
Armond Jonas Justin West Jarvis
Willis Murrel B Wilson
Scott Aaron Tyler
Bryant Davis Clawson
Jeremiah Weatherspoon Jonathan CyprienAnthony
GaitorJanoris
Jenkins8 SMajor Wright Ahmad Black
Ryan Brandon A.J.
Stamper Spikes Jones
) Jaye Carlos
Jermaine Howard Omar Dunlap
Cunningham HunterJoe
Haden
Ay A nd vi erd I Joe
Colt Jacob Mario Serini Cedric Alajajian Rockey Vann T.Y. Hilton
Anderson Younger Caraballo .Mack
Paul McCall
Daunte
Owens0ODarr
D'HaitiIUF offense vs. FIU defense IUF defense vs. FIU offenseI
0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 63 We Inform. You Decide.-
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
Homecoming Queen gets DUI
0 SHE IS THE FORMER PRESIDENT OF DELTA
GAMMA SORORITY.
UF's Homecoming Queen was arrested on a charge of
driving under the influence early Thursday morning.
Kristen Gillis, 21, was pulled over at about 2 a.m. on West
University Avenue after running two red lights, according to
the arrest report.
When asked if she had been drinking, Gillis told the ar-
resting officer she had one beer about six hours earlier, the
report stated.
After failing field sobriety tests, she was arrested and tak-
en to a University Police Department holding cell, where she
consented to a breath test.
Her blood-alcohol content was determined to be almost.14. The legal driving limit is .08.
She was booked in the Alachua County Jail and released
1q4later that day.
Gillis declined comment when reached
by phone.
In addition to Homecoming Queen,
which was announced at Gator Growl last
month, Gillis is the Panhellenic Woman
of the Year and former president of Delta
Gamma sorority.
She has also held positions in Florida
Blue Key, the Florida Cicerones, Dance Marathon and the
First and Fifteen flag football philanthropy, according to a
profile on UF's Web site.
-THOMAS STEWART
County officials warn residents to beware of magazine salespeople
Alachua County police would like resi-
dents of Gainesville to be on the lookout for
seasonal scams after responding to a suspi-
cious disturbance call Tuesday.
Police responded to a call at the Days
Inn at 7516 W Newberry Road and found a
17-year-old girl trying to sell magazines door
to door, Alachua Sheriff's Office spokesman
Art Forgey said.
They found that the girl belonged to a
group of about 50 out-of-towners working
the Gainesville area, several of whom hadextensive criminal histories, he said.
Although there is no evidence that this
group is acting illegally, police ask residents
to be extra careful this holiday season.
Forgey said it's not unusual for criminals
from the north to come down and run similar
scams during colder months then leave be-
fore anyone realizes what happened.
"I think any time you've got people from
out of town, you need to make sure what
you're buying is legitimate," Forgey said.
-KATHERINE BEINToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 16Partly
CROSSWORD 17 cloudy
SPORTS 21 78/58
visit www.alligator.orgPoking Fun
Acupuncture physician Jennifer Downey treats George, one of her patients, at Gainesville Community Acupunc-
ture Thursday afternoon. Downey and her partner, Theresa Rizzo-Ovia, treat patients in a group setting, which
allows them to see more patients at once to reduce the treatment's price. They also offer a sliding fee scale that
sets the cost of a session based on each patient's income. See Story, Page 5.
0 UF junior forward
Chandler Parsons
(right) has found
success as the
Gators' sixth man
through his first
two games. He's
leading the team
with nine rebounds
per game.
See Story, Page 21.Heisman
tour makes
Swamp stop
U IT WILL TAKE PLACE FROM 6 P.M. TO
9 P.M. AT THE SWAMP RESTAURANT
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
The road to the Heisman is going through
Gainesville once more.
From 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. today, the coveted award
given to the top college football player in the country,
will be on display on the front lawn of The Swamp
Restaurant, located at 1642 W University Ave.
The display is part of Nissan's 2009 Southeast
Heisman Trophy Tour, which has the trophy travel-
ing to different cities across the South, mostly those
with Southeastern Conference schools.
"It's exactly where it needs to be the day before
Game Day," said Kathleen Williams, the restaurant's
office manager. "There's so much life and spirit with
our fans. We want to make this experience special. "
The trophy is scheduled toAround be in Gainesville until Satur-Gainesville day when it will then travel to
Jacksonville for the Jaguars-Bills
game. The tour will conclude with a weeklong trip
to Atlanta, the site of the SEC title game.
Fans will be allowed to look at, touch and take
pictures with the trophy. Those in attendance will
also be allowed to enter their names into a drawing
for a trip to the Heisman ceremony in New York
City this December.
Michael Taphom, the restaurant's general man-
ager, had been trying for the past few months to get
the trophy. When he found out on Wednesday that
it would be on display at his restaurant, he was ec-
static.
"Sure you can go down to the stadium and see it,
but how many times do you get a chance to actually
touch it?" he said.
According to Taphom, an average Friday eve-
ning at Swamp sees about 500 customers come and
go. He hopes the display will bring in double that
amount.
In honor of the occasion, the restaurant will be of-
fering a special "Heisman drink," which will consist
of Jack Daniel's, cranberry juice and Triple Sec.
For Justin Morris, a criminology junior and a die-
hard Gators football fan, seeing the trophy is more
than enough to make the stroll down University Av-
enue.
"Oh yeah, I'm definitely excited," he said. "Hope-
fully Tim will win a second one and solidify himself
as the greatest college football player of all time."ele
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Great American Smoke-Out
Today, 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Turlington Plaza
Colleges Against Cancer,
the Alachua County Health
Department and GatorWell will
be providing you with the neces-
sary materials to stop smoking.
For more information, visit relay-
forlife.org/uffl.
Free Concert at Pascal's
Coffeehouse
Today, 7:30 p.m.
Pascal's Coffeehouse and Gallery
112 NW 16th St. (inside the
Christian Study Center)
Join us for our first Friday concert
series featuring local musical art-
ists Andrew Duran, Sally Privette
and Nathan Beam. Music starts at
7:30. This event is free and open
to the public.
Start and end Shabbat at Hillel
2020 W. University Ave.
Today, 7 p.m. and Saturday, 5
p.m.
Hillel will have Shabbat services
today at 7 p.m., followed by free
Kosher dinner at 8:30 p.m. On
Saturday at 5 p.m., students can
choose between a yoga class or a
learning discussion and Ma'ariv
service. A community Havdallah
service and song session will fol-
low at 6:15 p.m.
AEPhi Afterdark
Friday night, 1 a.m. to 4 a.m.
Party and philanthropy at the
AEPhi house. Enjoy DJ Red Alert
and food. Tickets are $5 presale
and and $7 at the door. All pro-
ceeds go to the Elizabeth Glaser
Pediatric AIDS Foundation.
Check AEPhi Afterdark Facebook
group for more information.
Ikeepi it
0
Auto A/C
Starters
Alternators
Repair/Service
Foreign & Domestic
Free Electrical Check
with purchase
AAMAC
378-7676
508 8th Ave.FORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/58SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/52
Alpha Zeta Pancake Breakfast
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.
Applebee's, 1005 NW 13th St.
Enjoy a delicious pregame
breakfast at Applebee's while
supporting the College of
Agricultural and Life Sciences'
co-ed honors fraternity. Tickets
are $6 and can be purchased
presale or at the door.
Lakeside's First Annual
Culture Clash
Sunday, 1 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Come out and enjoy perfor-
mances, games and free food
as Lakeside Residence Hall and
Graduate & Family Housing
take you on a journey through
the countries of the world.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
Make sure all submissions are
formatted properly. Space in
this section is limited, and in-
clusion of event postings is up
to the discretion of the Editorial
Department.SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/52MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/52
-i
-o
C)-c
0)TUESDAY
RAIN
73/52
U)-
-
a
Cc
E
CE
UU
Ecc
cc
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
.4s AM. Grab Your Set'
For the 1 2:30 Kick-off against FIU
Free halftime muchies
Beat the Clock 60oz
Domestic Pitchers start at $4 at kickoff
All Game Day: $3.50 Bourbon Meyers
$4 Jager Shots
Check out our website for the all new drink specials.
Member us for your holiday parties. Schedule n ow.a the independent florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 63 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University ofFlonda
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Mana
Managing
Assist
Assist
alligator
Assis
tEditor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
ging Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
g Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
ant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfil@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligatororg
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
ant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
Sports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
tant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
he Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Stephen Roskowski, Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncThis paper has
been there, done that. R tu YCLE
alligator YOUR NEWSPAPER.
printedelnrecyclednewsprilt
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
Students react to distribution of altered Darwin book
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writer
There are still remnants of
paper stuffed in Corey Davila's
trash can from Wednesday morn-
ing.
After reading creationist au-
thor Ray Comfort's introduction
tacked onto the thousands of
copies of Charles Darwin's "On
the Origin of Species" distrib-
uted near Turlington Plaza, he
described his reaction as instinc-
tual.
"I ripped them out," the UF
women's studies freshman said
in reference to Comfort's 49-pageintroduction. "It's still a perfectly
good book, just without the intro-
duction."
The introduction criticized
evolution, describing Darwin's
theory as racist and sexist.
Charles Baer, an assistant pro-
fessor in UF's department of bi-
ology, countered the criticisms
and urged students to consider
the historical context of Darwin's
theory.
"I would say read the origins
first, then read the rebuttal," he
said. "Read it in chronological
order."
Bridge-Logos Foundation, a
nonprofit publishing company"I do believe in
but I don't belie\
because I believ
tion, I can't belie
created by a hig
based in Alachua
about 170,000 copies
according to Shawn
resentative of the fo
Myers said the b
valued at $4.99, was
stricted to students.After it gained widespread na-evolution, tional interest, it was made avail-
e that just able on Amazon.com.
e in evolu- She said the foundation has
received mixed feedback.ve life waS In one e-mail directed at the
ier power," publishing company, a UF stu-
dent wrote, "Giving this book
Corey Davila out on college campuses is an
UF Student offense to the intelligence of the
next generation of leaders and a
published dangerous placement of deceitful
of the book, propaganda."
Myers, a rep- In another e-mail, a local busi-
undation. ness owner wrote, "You created
ook, which is a big stir, which is exactly what
originally re- is needed."
Myers wasn't surprised."It's pretty funny because we
really never see anyone in be-
tween," she said. "It's completely
bias(ed) either one way or the
other."
As the 150th anniversary of
"On the Origin of Species" ap-
proaches, Davila said he recog-
nized the rocky foundation of
this issue.
"I do believe in evolution, but
I don't believe that just because
I believe in evolution, I can't be-
lieve life was created by a higher
power," Davila said. "I believe
life was initiated by a higher be-
ing, but science and evolution -
there's just too much proof."
SHCC gives out about 1,400 swine flu vaccines Thursday
* ADDITIONAL VACCINES AVAILABLE
MONDAY AT THE REITZ UNION.
BY ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students waiting outside the Student
Health Care Center Thursday had more on
their minds than the upcoming Thanks-
giving break.
About 1,400 students stopped by the
center to receive the HINI vaccine be-
tween 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.
They met with medical professionalsunder the check-in tent to discuss whether
to get thevaccine as an injection or as a na-
sal mist.
Kat Lindsey, marketing coordinator for
the SHCC, said the center received 1,850
doses Monday, including 500 nasal mists
with the live virus. The rest were injections
with the inactive form of the virus.
Lindsey said the injection is mainly for
high-risk patients, especially those with
chronic conditions.
She said people may think the live virus
is dangerous, but it is perfectly safe for any
healthy person younger than 25."That's why we've had the medical
staff set up to talk to folks and give them
the option," Lindsey said.
Senior Jennifer Frey got the vaccine be-
cause she has asthma and her doctor rec-
ommends she gets flu shots.
On "I decided this was the
Campus right choice, especially be-
cause I talked to people in the
medical community and they said they
definitely recommend it, and they're get-
ting it for themselves and their family,"
she said.
Senior Kaylee McCall said she got theinjection because she is traveling out of
the country after she graduates and will be
spending eight hours on a plane.
However, she said she feels the injec-
tion is only necessary for travelers or peo-
ple with health risks.
"I think you build up an immunity to it
just being around it," McCall said.
Lindsey said the center's administra-
tors will meet Friday to discuss how they
will distribute leftover doses.
She said they will be offering more vac-
cinations at the Reitz Union Monday from
10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
SPOTLIGHT ON THE SWAMP
UF HyGreen system recognized by Popular Science
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
One of Gainesville's newest in-
novations has earned praise on the
national stage.
Popular Science, a monthly mag-
azine with a circulation of about 1.3
million, has recognized Xhale Inno-
vations Inc.'s HyGreen system with
the 2009 Best of What's New award.
The award, the magazine's top hon-
or, is given to 100 recipients out of
thousands of entrants."We are thrilled by the award,"
Elena Casson, Xhale's director of
marketing, wrote in an e-mail. "It's
such an honor to be rated one of the
top new technologies by such a well-
known publication."
Developed at UF by Dr. Richard
Melker and Dr. Donn Dennis along
with a team of Xhale engineers, the
HyGreen hand sensors monitor the
cleanliness of health care workers'
hands.
After washing their hands, health
care workers, who wear small badg-es, run their hands underneath the
sensors. When they have scrubbed
their hands thor-
oughly, the badge
will give off a
green light that
tells the worker
that he or she may
proceed to work
with a patient.
Melker Another mon-
itor is set up near
a patient's bed. When the health
care worker approaches, the bed-side monitor sends out infrared and
acoustic signals to the badges. If the
monitor reads clean, it will give off
a green light. If health care work-
ers need to go back and wash their
hands more thoroughly, the moni-
tor will vibrate.
The HyGreen system helps pre-
vent the transmission of health care-
acquired infections, which according
to statistics provided by Xhale Inno-
vations Inc., account for the deaths
of nearly 270 people in the U.S. daily
and about $40 billion in health carecosts.
At this time, the system is only at
Shands, but the company is taking
orders and will be installing in April
2010. The cost will vary depending
on the size of the hospital.
Although the company is com-
pletely focused on the HyGreen at
this point, Casson said, Xhale would
like to take its technology into the
food service industry.
"Wouldn't you like to know if
your waiter or waitress has washed
their hands?" she said.
Improv group hosts benefit
* PROCEEDS WILL GO TO TOYS FOR
TOTS FOR NEEDY CHILDREN
By RENEE MONTALTO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Augie Artiles will help play Santa Claus for
children in Alachua County this year as he and
other members of a comedy group collect toys
for children in need.
Artiles and other members of Aracka Spon-
taneous Comedy! will host their second annu-
al Toys for Tots benefit show at Brophy's Irish
Pub, 60 SW Second St. at 9 p.m. Saturday.
Every person who attends is encouraged
to bring a toy for a less-fortunate child in Ala-
chua County, Artiles said.
Aracka spokeswoman Lauren Harmon
said events like Toys for Tots are important
because each toy impacts a child.
"Coming out to events like this affect(s) the
community in ways you wouldn't imagine,"
Harmon said. "Any toy helps at least one child
have a better Christmas."
Harmon said coming out and supporting
Aracka and Tots for Toys, will help someone
you might never expect.
"You never know who you are influencing.
It might just be your next-door neighbor who
is benefiting from this," she said.Artiles said the main focus of the Toys for
Tots show is to give underprivileged chil-
dren a message of hope and encouragement
through a toy.
"There are a whole bunch of underprivi-
leged children, and we want to raise as many
toys as we can so they can have a nice Christ-
mas," Artiles said.
"You never know who you are influ-
encing."
Lauren Harmon
Aracka Spontaneoud Comedy spokes-
woman
Harmon said there are a lot of families who
cannot afford toys for their children, especially
in this economy, so to be able to provide fami-
lies with toys would help make a memorable
Christmas.
"Without Toys for Tots, millions of children
would not have the opportunity to experience
the type of Christmas that they deserve," Har-
mon said.
The show will open with three local stand-
up comedians, continue with improv from
Aracka's cast members and end with karaoke.
Toys should be new, unwrapped and age-
appropriate for children younger than 15.
"No matter what the toy is, bringing any-
thing is such a help," Artiles said.Song covered for kids
By JOHN J. BOOTHE
Alligator Contributing Writer
At the end of the third quarter, the
crowd rises, arms lock and 90,000 begin
to sway to a simple, 10-stanza song.
As the crowd draws out the last
high note of "We Are The Boys From
Old Florida," Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
resumes its regular, Richter scale-regis-
tering raucous. But for some fans, like
local artist Mark Gaignard, the tune
lingers and the less-than-a-minutelong
chorus isn't enough to mute the calling
song for all hard-core Gators fans.
So Gaignard, former front man of
the band Big Sky, is recording his own
version of the song for the charity Big
Brothers Big Sisters of Mid-Florida.
The studio-recorded song will be in
Jack Johnson spirit.
Paul Halpern, executive director of
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Mid-Florida,
said all of the funds will go directly to
helping local children.
With his YouTube version garneringmore than 4,600 views in two weeks,
Gaignard feels like it's only a matter of
time before he begins making money
for the charity.
Although the tune is prominently
featured by UF athletic teams, Gaignard
doesn't think he should owe royalties
when the song is put up for sale.
"I would love to see them try and
squash it," he said. "Do you know how
much extra publicity that would be?"
David A. Way-
Around bright, UF directorGainesville of bands, confirmed
in an e-mail that the
university owns rights to the band ver-
sion but the lyrics and tune are public
domain for anyone to use.
"You know I'm a good guy, and I've
played a lot of shows and had a lot of
fans," Gaignard said. "But I would be
very proud if I can contribute in this
way.,
For more information, search "We
Are The Boys" on YouTube or visit
bbbsmidflorida.org.
r-----------------
COODTON $ :
Buy 1 |
Get 1 Free'
Like It size or bigger
with this coupon I
(WE IWER
J.s d. tde
SUN-WED IIAM-3AM 6261
THURS, FRI & SAT FREE WIFI
11AM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA_(07
4600 SW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32608
352.373.7959 0 CottageGroveatGalnesville.comw-lkmm
Sunday, November 22nd at 7 pm
Reitz Union Amphitheatre
A one of a kind event for the University of Florida brought to you by
Student Government, the Freshman Leadership Council, Dance Marathon,
RUB Entertainment & the American Cancer Society!
UF, FlU spar for breasts
By BRANDON BRESLOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
Before UF and Florida Internation-
al University face off on the football
field Saturday, the schools are team-
ing up to inform fans about breast
cancer.
Students from UF's College of
Medicine will educate fans about
breast cancer prevention and aware-
ness from 9 a.m. to noon Saturday
in the FanFest area south of the
O'Connell Center.
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a
UF graduate, will attend the event.
Schultz is a breast cancer survivor
and a supporter of university research
and philanthropy.
"I am thrilled to be raising aware-
ness and increasing education about
breast cancer with my alma mater,"
she said. "The phenomenal work The
Gator Nation is doing to shed light
on breast cancer has not gone unno-ticed."
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes,
said the ideal time for this event
would have been October, during
National Breast Cancer Awareness
Month, but the two schools wanted to
work together on the project.
Breast cancer is the
On second deadliest cancerCampus among women and is
expected to kill more
than 40,000 women in 2009, according
to the American Cancer Society.
The event will also feature the
Gator Mobile Health Clinic, one of
UF's newest community outreach
programs.
The clinic will offer tours of its bus,
which will hit the road in January to
provide health screenings for under-
served populations of Alachua Coun-
ty and offer information on disease
prevention, according to a mission
statement provided by the UF College
of Medicine.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Acupuncture offers relief
* PATIENTS RECEIVE TREATMENT IN
G ROU P S ETTI NG.
By KRISTEN BOWE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Melissa Castillo was tired of draining her in-
surance expense account by going to UF's Stu-
dent Health Care Center for her migraines.
She needed a solution to help her not max
out her estimated $600 limit on medication.
After ruling out acupuncture because her in-
surance didn't cover it, Castillo found out about
Gainesville Community Acupuncture, which
serves patients for as little as $20 per session.
Jennifer Downey, one of the center's certi-
fied acupuncturists, said the business is grow-
ing rapidly with uninsured patients who cannot
afford to go to the doctor or purchase medica-
tion. Other patients, she said, look for a natural
alternative to medication.
Downey and her business partner, Theresa
Rizzo-Ovia, are graduates of Gainesville's Drag-
on Rises College of Oriental Medicine. Downey
said they started the clinic because they knew
people who could benefit from acupuncture but
couldn't afford it. The clinic said private acu-
puncture can cost between $50 and $150.
At Gainesville Community Acupuncture,patients fill out health assessments and meet
an acupuncturist. After a consultation about
health, diet and the ailment, the patients relax
in a room of recliners and meditative music for
about an hour.
"It's like Gator fans in the stadium
all there to cheer on the Gators."
Jennifer Downey
acupuncturist
Downey said in order to help as many peo-
ple receive acupuncture as possible, the center
holds the sessions in a quiet room with other
people there for the same cause: to get better.
"It's like Gator fans in the stadium all there
to cheer on the Gators," she said.
According to Downey, acupuncture works
with the body and helps patients deal with their
problems.
Downey said it can help with depression,
stress, anxiety, cold and flu, any type of body
pain as well and ailments.
Castillo said the medication she got from the
doctor for pain was masking the problem, and
acupuncture prevented her from going down
a long road of medication for migraine relief
and prevention. She was afraid of taking more
medication because the side effects were keep-
ing her out of work.
Only Kaplan Offers:
The Most Personalized Prep
Unmatched Expertise
Guaranteed ResultsTEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONS
LSAT: LSGA0109B 1/5-2/4 (Su, T, Th)
MCAT: MCGA0101 119-4/10 (Su,M,T,Sa)
GMAT: GMGA10001 1/14-2/11 (T,Th)
GRE: REGAI0001 1/19-2/16 (T,Th)
DAT/OAT: DAGA1 0101 1/20-3/6 (W,Sa)
PCAT: PCGA10001 4/13-6/5 (T,Th,Sa)HPV Fact #11:
Yo u d o n't
have to actually
have sex to get
HPV-the virus
that causes
cervical
cancer.
There's something you can do.
Visit your campus
health center.I!(AP LAN
GRE I LSAT I MCAT I DAT I OAT I PCAT*
Visit kaptest.com /rebate or call 1-800-KAP-TEST
CT- Pme ar trdnk fl-pdta--fh a ppi nyt ~p-T Pralmnd A SA C MrTCRE CA DT OATand PCA C I. r= = C-
at lkapht t elbale tor pomplt dhl $Conditon -nd resirp.-os apply For complatp guarate- eligiblty req re-meta, ,isit kaphst .m/hsg PUR05026
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
Last week was unusually slow for the Department of
Darts and Laurels. In light of this, we made a (desperate?)
plea for Gators to go out and make some real news. While
we doubt that the overwhelming response was due en-
tirely to the public pity party we held for ourselves last
week, we think it helped. So now, inundated with news,
we would like to present you with a be-careful-what-you-
wish-for edition of:
Darts & Laurels
Because it's all bad news (well, almost).
First up, people are actually paying attention to Stu-
dent Government! Alright, that's not the real story, but it
was a surprise to us. The controversial issue SG took up
this week was a resolution in support of student fees for
the proposed Reitz Union renovation and expansion.
We find it painfully ironic that the only way to get more
students involved in SG is for it to basically ignore stu-
dents' interests by voting on the Reitz fees without enough
discussion.
For voting on an issue that should be left to the Student
Body (Hooray for direct democracy!) and for unleashing
your legion of senators to downplay concerns about rising
fees, we have to throw a stop-trampling-on-students-Reitz
DART at SG.
But at least this week's letter writers had something
other than the Alligator to direct their anger toward.
When the Department of Darts and Laurels heard that
Jeremy Piven would be speaking at UF this month, we
were moderately amused; he can be a funny guy, some-
times. But when we found out that Piven was to be paid
$85,000 for the appearance, we were shocked. For agreeing
to pay Piven more than the salary of some staff members
lost to budget cuts, we have to throw a that-goon-from-
"Entourage"-is-making-how-much? DART at the Accent
Speakers Bureau.
At least UF was fortunate enough to get stood up. Piven
must have had one hell of a schedule conflict to turn down
$85,000.
On Wednesday, a group of people distributed thou-
sands of copies of Darwin's "The Origin of Species" on
Turlington Plaza. Hidden beneath the cover of this invit-
ing gift was something most didn't expect: an "introduc-
tion" by creationist author Ray Comfort -basically a
refutation of all that was to follow in Darwin's ground-
breaking book. For hiding your true motives with these
underhanded tactics, we are happy to throw a there's-a-
reason-people-turn-down-your-literature DART at Ray
Comfort and his cronies.
If you have to resort to tricks to get your message across
at UF, maybe it's time to look elsewhere.
Ready for the good news? Thanks to UF alum Beau
Thompson, you'll never fumble around in bedroom again!
While that's not exactly the case, putting on a condom
might be one less thing for you to foul up. That's because
Thompson has invented a condom that rolls on "with
ease," featuring two straps that peel away "like a Band-
Aid."
While a Band-Aid is the last thing we want near our
junk, anything to streamline this sometimes awkward
process is welcome. For making our lives just a little bit
easier, we're happy to give a hope-this-idea-doesn't-go-
limp LAUREL to Mr. Thompson. Because we're looking
forward to it.
That's all for this week. Go make some (good) news,
Gators! (No DUIs -yes we heard about that.)
a ll te independent foridaaligao
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105W University Ay , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
Gainesvi Iie, FL 32604-2257oi umns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Oaii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinions
1 CAN t HA
V0
U N T GvTUVVS &0DC-7 COVE eUSNEUNT:
u&oi"S)K C 900?.
Cuban embargo sho
t seems that there are many people out there ill-informed
about the Cuban embargo. The first false assumptionpeo-
ple make is that the U.S. initiated the embargo because
Cuba became a communist country. The truth is that the U.S.
enacted the embargo because when the Castro regime took
power in 1959, it expropriated all of the properties of the U.S.,
including that of American citizens and corporations. Castro
enriched his regime with the millions of dollars he stole from
the U.S. and has never paid the money back.
The U.S. has tried numerous times to broker a deal with
the Castro regime to lift the embargo, but he has outright re-
jected any negotiations. Former President Jimmy Carter trav-
eled to the University of Havana in 2002 and called for an
end to the embargo. He offered the Castro regime a chance
to repay the U.S. for the properties it had seized in a timely
manner in return for a lifting of the embargo, but Castro
turned down this opportunity.
Many people are also misled by those who argue that U.S.
citizens are allowed to travel to other communist states like
China. The difference, though, is that China made a settle-
ment with the U.S. in 1979 over confiscated American prop-
erty. Since Castro refuses to repay Americans, why should
the U.S. lift an embargo without compensation for its losses?
Others argue that 50 years have passed and the com-
munist regime still stands strong; thus, the embargo has not
actually caused any harm to Castro. Yet, until 1989, Cuba's
economy was maintained by the Soviet Union, which pro-
vided $4.5 billion in subsidies every year. Since then, Cuba's
economy has shrunken by more than half.
While the regime blames the U.S. for the misery of the Cu-
ban people, the truth is that it was caused by the regimes ruin-
ous economic policies. Castro's command economy severely
restricts Cuban citizens' rights to own a private enterprise,
and at the national level, productivity has fallen dramaticallyuld remain in place
Dayme Sanchez with two-thirds of the industrial fa-
Speaking Out cilities shut down. While the aver-
age citizen does not have a full plate
of food, all of the government offi-
cials live lavish lifestyles and exploit the country's wealth.
You may very well ask yourself, why do I care if U.S. citi-
zens and corporations lost millions of dollars decades ago?
That's not my problem; I want to go smoke a Cuban cigar in
the sunny beaches of the Caribbean island.
Just remember that as a tourist you will be enriching a
regime that beats, jails and sentences to death anyone who
expresses his or her thoughts freely. While you are drinking
your pina colada and enjoying the ocean breeze or just walk-
ing through Havana to see how life is there, you will be sup-
porting one of the worst regimes in the world through the
money you spend. And along with the corruption, you will
support the endless human rights violations that take place
in Cuba.
In March of 2003, the government imprisoned 75 dissi-
dents, including journalists, librarians, human rights activ-
ists and democracy activists. Just last week, Yoani Sanchez,
a Cuban blogger who is censored by the government, was
viciously attacked and beaten by state security agents for her
writings of the reality of Cuba and not the pretty picture that
the regime paints for the world. At least 13,000 Cuban citi-
zens have been executed since 1959, and more than 100,000
have been jailed for opposing the Castro regime, including
at least 28,000 still in prison today, according to the Heritage
Foundation.
So if after all of this you still decide that the best thing for
Americans and Cubans is to lift the embargo and support the
wishes of the Castro regime, then it is your decision.
Dayme Sanchez is a UF economics and political science
student
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Would you play Thursday's question: Should UF
on UF's quidditch club team? implement a student fee to pay
for Reitz Union renovations?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org26% YES
74% NO
131 TOTAL VOTES
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Reitz repairs irresponsible, unnecessary receiving $0 in government aid. In case you're
Sitting in the Reitz Union yesterday, I was unaware, out-of-state tuition is now approach-
approached by a student senator who encour- ing $800 per credit. My Reitz student fee of $65
aged me to sign a petition in favor of a "small would buy me a little more than one hour of
fee" that would favor a new student union. class at UF.
He assured me that the fee would "only be a I'm not complaining about my out-of-
couple of dollars" and that I would be leaving state tuition. I made a conscious decision to
a legacy for future Florida students. go to school here instead of my own in-state
Implementing a $20 fee plus a per credit university, a school that pales in comparison
hour fee is outrageous in light of cuts to Bright (academically, athletically, socially and other-
Futures. The Reitz Union is not going to col- wise) to UF. I'm just saying that $65 (assuming
lapse tomorrow, and there are empty seats in a 15-credit semester) is not unreasonable, con-
the union. If Student Government is so con- sidering what we're getting in return. It's not
cerned about rebuilding a crucial aspect of like we're all shelling out $65 to help Bernie
student life, why is it funding a group that can Machen buy a private jet. A renovated student
afford to pay as much as $85,000 for a sub-par union in the dead middle of campus for $65 a
speaker (Jeremy Piven)? semester? Sounds like an OK deal to me.
Every time a building is pronounced The grad students have ground to com-
"defunct," the solution is not to build multi- plain; I understand most are accumulating
million-dollar structures funded by students debt by the day and are making a salary such
already under crucial financial strains. In es- that any tuition increase hits their wallets pret-
sence, the rebuilding of the Reitz Union is an ty hard. But for the Bright Futures undergrads
altogether irresponsible and unnecessary en- whose parents probably shelled out $65 for
deavor. dinner last night at Outback anyway -relax.
Rachael Day Be grateful you're a citizen of this state in the
UFstudent first place, pay no state income tax and have
the opportunity to attend one of the top 50
U U U schools in the nation for little or no cost.
Matthew Powers
Undergrads shouldn't complain about fee UFstudent
Are undergrads seriously up in arms over
a $20 flat fee plus $3 per credit hour for the U U U
new Reitz Union? I'm an out-of-state student
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6thAt Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"
I o--iii,Grad students shouldn't have to foot bill al-Qaida and other terror organizations as a
On Wednesday, the UF Graduate Student "war on terror."
Council unanimously passed a resolution op- Poage correctly points out that the Obama
posing additional student fees for the reno- administration has dropped use of that phrase.
vation of the Reitz Union. This measure was Regardless, if it is not a war that we are en-
taken to contest the recent resolution passed gaged in, then what exactly is the U.S. military
by UF Student Government proposing such doing in Afghanistan and Iraq? If the United
fee increases. States is not at war, then why is the U.S. mili-
What some may not know is that Bright tary, as opposed to law enforcement agencies,
Futures would shelter most UF undergradu- being sent into those countries?
ate students from an actual increase in their Indeed, President Barack Obama may add
out of pocket expenses. However, all gradu- or drop the use of any such phrase to garner
ate students pay fees out of pocket since fees support among his party's base; however,
are not covered by tuition waivers. SG's pro- such a change in wording amounts to seman-
posal, if supported by the state, would saddle tics at best. If Poage thinks that by simply
graduate students with real additional fees refusing to call our actions abroad a "war on
for a project the Graduate Student Council terror," terrorists will somehow magically
opposes. Since it will cost most undergradu- gain sympathy for people they are otherwise
ate students nothing, the proposed funding religiously sworn to kill ("infidels"), then I
structure for this project may seem logical to am afraid Poage is holding terrorists to a stan-
SG members (nearly all of whom are under- dard well above what they deserve. Let us
graduates). However, graduate students will remember that long before President George
actually carry the cost of this project for de- W. Bush, or anyone else, used the phrase "war
cades to come. on terror", al-Qaida attacked the World Trade
Tim Johnson Center in 1993, bombed U.S. embassies in
UFstudent Kenya and Tanzania and bombed the U.SS.
Cole, and these events occurred prior to al-
U U U Qaida's hijacking air planes and flying them
into the Pentagon and the World Trade Center
Actions speak louder in the 'war on terror' in 2001.
In Patrick Poage's response to Tuesday's Stephen Bradford
guest column, he took offense to the charac- UFstudent
terization of the United States' actions against
HPV Fact #9:
H PV often
hasno
signs or
symptoms.
There's something you can do.
Visit your campus
health center.
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
ON CAMPUS
Quidditch sweeps UF as students join magical trend
By EMILY HANSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thirty students gathered under
the moon Wednesday, broomsticks
in hand, and brought a sport called
quidditch to UF.
Quidditch, famed by the "Harry
Potter" book series, is a mix between
dodgeball, basketball and capture
the flag.
Amy Lobasso, a UF sophomore,
saw YouTube videos of college stu-
dents playing a modified version
of the game and started a Facebook
page to see what response it would
get from UF students.
"I thought everyone would laugh
at me," she said.
But within two weeks, more than
300 students joined the group and
posted comments about their excite-
ment on the page.
In the books, the game is played
by witches and wizards flying on
broomsticks. In the nonmagical ver-
sion of the game, broomsticks are
required, but flight is not.
Students at Middlebury College
in Vermont started an intramural
quidditch league in 2005, and inter-
est gathered quickly.
The Intercollegiate Quidditch As-
sociation was founded in 2007, and a
rule book was formalized. There are
now more than 200 teams from col-
leges all over the world.
"UF is such a big school," Lobas-
so said. "It's not right for us not to
have one."
Each team has seven players,
explained Gerri Sterne, the team'sAndrew Stanfill Alligator Staff
A member of the UF quidditch club runs with the quaffle and a hand in his pocket to simulate holding a
broom during practice on Wednesday. The team had not yet purchased brooms.
webmaster.
Three offensive players called
chasers pass a volleyball dubbed
the quaffle and try to throw it into
one of the three hoops guarded by a
keeper at the end of the field for 10
points.Quidditch is a contact sport of play. If a chaser is hit, he or she
where one-handed tackling and can continue playing after taking a
grabbing are allowed while teams lap around his or her team's goal-
wrestle for the quaffle. posts.
Two beaters throw dodgeballs The last member of a team is
called bludgers at the opposing the seeker, whose job is to catch the
team's chasers to try to tag them out snitch. In the books, the snitch is asmall golden ball with wings that
flies around the playing field. In the
nonmagical game, the snitch is a
neutral player who is often dressed
in yellow and keeps a tennis ball in
a sock in its back pocket that others
try to capture.
A seeker captures the snitch by
grabbing the sock or ball out of the
snitch's pocket. The capture is worth
30 points and ends the game.
The snitch is allowed to run
around campus and do almost any-
thing to evade capture, including
climbing a tree or riding a bike.
"The snitch is the entertainment
factor," Lobasso said.
The chasers, beaters, keeper and
seeker must have a broom between
their legs and one hand on the han-
dle during the entire game. Nick
Murado, a first-year law student
at UF, knows what it takes to play
quidditch.
He has played since 2003, be-
fore Middlebury College created
its league, in tournaments at Harry
Potter conventions. He said the in-
tensity of the game is what he loves
most about it.
UF's team formed too late in the
semester to apply to Student Gov-
ernment for recognition as a formal
dub, but Lobasso said she plans to
apply in the Spring semester and
hopes to receive some funding.
Lobasso said if the team receives
funding, she would like to have full
uniforms with capes and travel to
compete with other schools.
For more information, search
"Quidditch at UF" on Facebook.
SERU survey reveals UF students study less than peers
0 MORE THAN 22,000 STUDENTS
TOOK THE SURVEY.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@a l1igator org
Validating the Princeton Review's party
school rankings, UF students reported in a
survey conducted earlier this year that they
spend less time studying than their peers.
Forty-six percent of students said they
spent 11 or more hours hitting the books each
week, compared with 59 percent at five simi-
larly classified universities.
The party-school ranking considers timespent studying as well as drug and alcohol
use and the popularity of the Greek system.
The survey, conducted by UF, was a little
more scientific.
The Student Experience in the Research
University survey was open to most under-
graduates at UF and had to be completed in
order to remain eligible for football tickets.
As a result, UF had the highest participation
rate -69 percent, compared with 26 to 39
percent at the other schools surveyed.
More than 22,000 students participated.
According to the survey, UF students
said they spent less time in class and noted
"allow[ing] time for other activities" as "very
important" when selecting a major more of-
ten than other students.Only 48 percent of UF students said they
felt graduating in four years was important,
compared with 57 percent at other schools.
UF also ranked No.1 among the six schools
surveyed in educational value for the price.
Addressing the Faculty Senate Thursday,
UF President Bernie Machen said the Florida
Bright Futures Scholarship Program had a lot
to do with students
U F wanting to stickAdministration around, noting that
students take fewer
than 13 credit hours on average per semes-
ter.
"[It] makes me feel like there is room for
increasing the rigor of our undergraduate ex-
perience," Machen said, "if we can only fig-ure out how to get them to register for more
classes."
The Senate also discussed a proposal that
would change how faculty can be laid off.
After a proposal submitted by the UF ad-
ministration met widespread disapproval in
May, the Senate was asked to recommend its
own. The Senate's proposal made it clear that
UF should not be able to target individuals
when making layoffs.
Instead, only units, such as a department
or a program, could be targeted.
UF's desire to make the change to its lay-
off rules came after two professors were rein-
stated by an arbiter who determined that UF
violated university regulations when laying
them off.
$25.50 Student Special
(includes golf cart)
Valid: Mon-Thurs (All Day)
Fri-Sun (After 11am)
Valid thru Thursdav. 11/30/09
IRONWCDD
Call 334-3120 For Your Tee Time Today
2100 NE 39th Avenue _.FL vs.
Deadline: sa
MondayFSU.
Call your
les rep today cw 
'
376-4482 alligalo rOpen daily from 7 am -1 pm,
Friday & Saturdaysunil 12 am
342SW 4th St) GainesvileL 3260 7
(352) 376-7020
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
1%t %pa.l walim produdtive
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
alligatorand@ Ptor.org
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1:00 and 4:00pm from now
until November 20. Please do not call. Further written information
is available at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up
to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need for the
application process. The application must be returned to the same desk
by 4:00 pm, November 23. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The
Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public beginning at 4:00 pm,
Sunday, December 13. Applicants must be present at that meeting to
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience at The
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerHPV Fact #12:
Condoms
may
not fully
protect
against
HPV.
There's something you can do.
Visit your campus
health center.Studh asbroaod too c ositN
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
S ~It
Copyrighted Material
P'yndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
twoIIk 0
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
r lq r
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
The Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Spring semesters.You will receive classroom
training, firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
WJ 2 * mz@. a. 30 aigat o r,
-aJ
The ADDY's in Digital Wonderland honor
advertising excellence in all media including print,
broadcast, out-of-home and public service advertising.
Student entries encouraged.
TO ENTER:
All entries must be received by
6pm on Friday, January 8, 2009 at
The Gainesville Sun, located at
2700 SW 13th Street
For more information or to
receive an entry packet,
contact Albert Coronel at 352.376.4221
or albert.coronel@neutral7.com
For more info visit
www.adfedgainesville.comGALA:
The banquet begins at 6:30 p.m.
Friday, February 19, 2010 at the Best
Western Gateway Grand in Gainesville. Dress to
impress with this year's theme "ADDY" in Digital
Wonderland."
Seating is limited!
RSVP by February 15
to Joleen Cacciatore at 352-338-9300
-Students $35
-Individuals $50 Co;X .
-Corporate tables $350 (8-person 4AM -4a49-HPV Fact #1:
Your boyfriend
can't get
screened for
H PV.
So there's no
way to know
whether
he could
expose you
to the virus.
There's something you can do.
Visit your campus
health center.
ailljigorMERCK
Copyright 0200 Merck & o. Inc
Al rights reserved. Printea in USA.Find your calling.
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FINDhpv.com
20904324(13)-09/09-GRDX_
12, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
~qv I ~t
CopyrightWdidMateriair
SyndiCatedrc ntentv
Available from Commercial News Providers
~A P 11 '0% # pit
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
UF SWIMMING
Men sit 4th; women 7th
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
A slow start on Thursday at the South
Carolina Gamecock Invitational may have
set Florida's men back in their quest to chal-
lenge some of the top competitors in colle-
giate swimming.
UF's team was divided for two invitation-
als: A part of the team traveled to the Georgia
Tech Invitational, and the remainder, some
of the less-proven athletes, traveled to South
Carolina. The Gators faced tough competi-
tion on the first day and were unable to get
any sort of consistency in the early events.
The meet's participants included the
College of Charleston, Duke, East Carolina,
Florida, Georgia Southern, James Madison,
North Carolina, Old Dominion and host
South Carolina.
After completing day-one preliminary
rounds earlier that afternoon, UF began day-
one finals Thursday evening with a seventh-
place finish in the 200-yard freestyle relay,
putting the team fifth (30 points) in the over-
all standings behind leader North Carolina
(84 points).
The Gators followed that performance
with redshirt freshman Csaba Gerscak fin-
ishing eighth in the 500 free.
In the team's third event of the night, UF
began to climb up the leaderboard. Three
Gators finished in the top five of the 200individual medley: Junior Bobby Walsh
took second, sophomore Brian Howell took
fourth and junior Alex Martin finished fifth.
Another redshirt freshman, Rodion
Davelaar, took sixth in the 50 free.
When it was time for the final event of
the evening, the 400 medley relay, UF had
moved up to fourth place in the overall
standings.
On the women's side, UF had an even
slower start to the invitational.
The women finished 13th in the 200 free
relay and stood at a distant seventh (8 points)
behind the leader, North
Carolina (80 points).
The evening didn't im-
prove much for UF.
In the second event
for the women, freshman
Sharla Milne took 10th in
the 500 free, and freshman
Walsh Kaitlin Taylor finished
10th in the next event, the
200 individual medley.
Senior Coral Lopez finished 16th in the
50 free.
After five events, UF's women stood in
seventh overall with 42 points, while North
Carolina had 357 points in the lead.
The teams will continue competition to-
day with day-two preliminaries at 10 a.m.
Florida coach Gregg Troy was unavail-
able for comment for this story.CB Shaw commits to UF
By MICHAEL PIPITONE
Alligator Writer
The Gators football team plucked a
highly touted prospect from the recruit-
ing hotbed that is Southern California.
Joshua Shaw, a 6-foot-1, 195-pound
cornerback from Palmdale High, verbally
committed to play for Florida on Tues-
day.
With rumors swirling on whether Joe
Haden will return for a senior season at
cornerback, Urban Meyer has not taken
any chances, making Shaw the fifth de-
fensive back in the 2010 Gators recruiting
class. Shaw, a four-star recruit according
to Rivals.com, has no problem leaving the
Los Angeles area and coming to a school
4,000 miles from home.
"[The distance] doesn't bother me at
all," Shaw said.
He was considering Ohio State, LSU
and USC, among other schools, before
verbally committing to UF.
"Always if I had an opportunity, I am
going to take it and run away with it,"
said Shaw, the 23rd-ranked player in the
country and third for his position, accord-
ing to Rivals.com.After visiting UF's campus on an of-
ficial visit for the Tennessee game and an
unofficial visit for the Vanderbilt game,
Shaw knew that Gainesville was special.
"Great education that you can get at
UF and a chance to compete right away,"
Shaw said.
He also liked the college-town feel of
Gainesville.
"I like the city," Shaw said. "The
whole town rallies around Florida foot-
ball. Coaching staff was really nice."
Jeff Williams, Shaw's
/ high school coach, thinks
( -the cornerback will do fine
playing for Meyer across
Football te country."I have known Urban
for a long time," Williams
said. "A great player's coach. Genuinely
wants to make them better people and
football players."
Shaw has a big build for a defensive
back at 195 pounds. He has played on
both sides of the ball for the Palmdale
Falcons.
Shaw ran and caught 10 touchdowns
in his junior year and excelled on defense
with 40 solo tackles, six for a loss.
DOWNTOWN
DAIEWISHSOP
15 W. University Ave. -(352) 373-4841
H oI : I -F -9 an ~ 6 p-
www.D TBarbershop.com
MAIN STREET
BAR & BILLIARDS
Friday & Saturday Night
MARTINI MADNESS
$4 House Martinis
Tuesday 8 pm -12 am
QUARTER BEER
108 S. Main St. Downtown Gainesvillegainesville
Delious food m(d
V7LAR. _C
Snacks and Beer
Cuban Sandwiches, Plates, Pastrises , and morel
Downtown Across from 8 sec,371-2000 next to Durty Nellys
tI am0
Where Food & Love Meet!
Downtown at 12 SE 21 Avenue
352-378-6307
liamogainesvile.com
Late Night Dining087 Seconds
Thursday Night
College Ni ght
Ladies Drink Free
-$11" Longnecks for Everyone
Fridatg
Live in Concert
SaturdaL
$2 Longnecks
* $'4 U-Eiall-It
001 W. Llnivermity Ave.U r A
UF University Ave.
14, ALLIGATOR 0 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
I
II
Give aD'Ltes Gif rift Certifjcate
gatord~tescom" A i
U m pa I Iu me
4216 NW 16th Blvd. 4216 NW 16th Blvd.
352-375-4484 352-375-4484
4nfiverIsi y /Jic wr
Polar Ice (flavors only) 1.75 @
990 after mail-in coupon
30 pk Light Beer.$11.99
Bacardi 1.75L.$19.99
University Ave. & 34th
EX Pert Waxinr
Lip , iow
I$mzijll
,i 1 1111 kMiSHOP ILENE'S
NEW DESIGNER
IIi
Haroldsframes@windstream.net
Now through December 21st, 15%
off John Moran framed Photos.
10%/7 off Gator Diplomas.
32.3 75 0260 101 SE 2 PlaceoGENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF anv one GNC Product 4
Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer
3914 SW Archer Rd
only ava abe at Butler Plaza loation
Da a~ 37-600 1Exp 11/31109
Gainesville Dsjo
Boxing or Kickboxing
Purchase 1 month
2nd month 1/2 price
378-3070 536 SW 2nd Ave
Must present coupon.
$ /month
Un/imited
Nationwide talk, text,
int ' text and voicemail
metro
$5/manth
Unlimited
International
Calling
see store For details
Viva Wireless
Convenient to UF
1620 W University Ave.
352-376-961 1
405 NW 13th St. 1144 NE 16th Ave.
352-254-0026 352-338-0857
The Perfect Gift Made Simple. Spa "ale INSTANT
Online Gift C erifiates.
Easg online appointments available anytime gou wish!
SWNa
"pa-
ww .sparoyale.net618 NWk 60th Stieet, Site B
0, O"A, ( l/ L%,0"n1) o lb -Li 1 ',0Nc
352.333.5800Deso7ail Spa!
1"lii 1,
ian ciiic-o
10n loci F-(
;ncF Nails
Mention This Ad And Sawe 10%< Off Sern ice of $50 Or More3 brin qiff/Jiquors
Sailor Jerry 1.75L.$19.99
Svedka 1.75L.$19.99
Jameson Whiskey 75ml.$ 19.99
39th Ave in Publix Plaza
't r A i s '
335-010
10% off with any Purchase
Santa Fe College, UF Students,
Shands Employees
with ID
*Excludes flowers sent out of town.' .$00 off ONE admission to the Festival with this ad >P *
Craft Festival I20v 9
Stephen C. O'Connell Center I
University of Florida I
December 5th and 6th I
Saturday 10-6 Sunday 10-5I
Bring this ad for $1 off one, single-day admission.
UF students get in FREE with this coupon
For more information, call (352) 392-5500
Admission: $4 Public; $1 students with ID; FREE for kids under 13
.' Now
Mon-SunOpen 10am-9pm-
Grocery
just Around
the Corner
-Sausages- Ham
-Deli Meat- Cheese-Salads
E-Fish -Cakes-Candy-Juices
& More
3312 SW 35th Blvd
Next to Kohl's entrance
S't i L -1& once yougOyou get it
6111 NW 8th Avenue .Gainesville .352.331.8808
1-888-Stein Mart -www.steinmart.comI
(I
n
" Gator Gifts
.Gator Accessories
" Gator Stationery
.Pandora Jewelry
" Vera Bradley
Mon-Sat1OAM-7PM Sun12PM-5PM
201 SE 2nd Place Suite 112
DowntownGainesvlle
352-376-32661.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 15
IBO
Aim
I'
C, I
10 s 7pm
da on6p7 7
L"A
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$399 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
24hr Fitness Center * 2 Pools
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gate*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor515@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $800/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Renovated & ready! Ed 305-972-6432
12-3-09-35-1
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
$385-3 bed/3 baths open in 4/4 Countryside
condo. Rent alone or with friends! On routes
9 and 35, all utilities included, for Spring or
longer. Call Nalini @ 352.514.3398. 11-23-
10-1
All u need to move in is your computor.Room
for rent $425/Mo incl all util and internet.
Treehouse Villiage apt. 2BR-2BA 4 blk fm
campus. 904-210-7203 11-24-09-5-1
1 bedroom in a nice quiet NW 3/2 house, on
bus route to UF, parking. $500 utilities incI
fenced backyard, wood floor, internet, W/D,
flexible term, visiting scholars or grads. 352-
281-4229 12-9-09-14-1
4 Bdrm/4 Bath condo partially furnished.
Close to campus & on bus line. Very clean
w/ new carpet and all appliances. Pool, bas-
ketball court & workout room on premises.
$1,000.00/month Call (352) 483-1052 (must
dial area code) 11-20-09-3-1
2bed/2.5bath twnhome> Casablanca
675/month, new appliances
great bus route to campus
5 mi from campus, pets welcome
call Igor (954) 6830009 12-8-12-1
Will Consider Semester Lease! Oxford
Terrace-short walk to UF. Private room/bath
in 4/4, clean and ready to move-in. Includes
furnishings, utilities, wi-fi, cable and W/D. M
or F okay, No smoking or pets.
beweiss59@hotmail.com or 321-228-3379
1 a6nn1in
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 * www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0*SPYGLASS*0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/ Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $775/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
12-2-09-86-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-22 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn! F Ret
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879 For Rent
12-9-74-1 unfurnished
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!
Gator Village Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1bdr. from $435 $300 Amex card
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
1 bdr. from $435 $300 Amex card.
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
Finish the crossword over one
of our great daily lunch specials!
tv 4THE SWIMP REST URINT
1642W University Ave. | 352.377.9267
www.swamprestaurant.com
* * ooLARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands 2336 SW 34th PI Apt D. $600/
mo w/stacking W/D. 1yr lease 352-372-3131
12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail Dec 1st. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-25-09-36-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <5Olbs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-24-
09-30-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-23-09-24-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010)
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th St
352-376-1619 352-373-4500
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
ISa
I
r~ -WV.
I6"3
IFREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo
Central H & Air, Dishwasher
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1Blkto UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
13-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 11-25-09-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
Regency Oaks South West Villas 1 BR 1 BA Apt Near Sams
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
352-378-5766 352-336-9000 Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
We Speak Spanish Rental Refs a must! Call
11-20-09-20-2 Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES! Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-30-21-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
$475-Female only for 1/1 in 3/3 Campus
View Condos. Furnished living/dining,
W/D,3rd Floor Unit, Newly built. Bedroom
furn available. Lease ends July 2010. Walk
to campus, shands, VA. 727-776-7098 11-
24-10-2
2 BR / 2.5 BTH Townhouse
Kensington North -3870 SW 20th Ave.
BRAND NEW tile & carpet, W/D, D/W'
INCLUDES utils & ethernet, pets welcome
Only $800/mo. Call 561.251.5425 11-23-
09-8-2
2 BR 2.5 Bath Townhouse behind UF Hilton
off of 34th St. Washer/Dryer $600 Call 352-
860-2202 11-20-7-2
* 3BR/1BA HOUSE
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
* 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 11-30-09-
10-2
Dramatically reduced rent of $350 for 1 BR
downtown townhouse. Sublease could start
anytime after mid December. Vaulted ceil-
ings, huge bedroom with private bathroom.
Call 352-870-5004 11-30-10-2FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 12-9-09-17-2
Lowest Prices in Town!!!
Efficiencies starting at $325.00(walk to
Law School), 4 bedroom houses(Close to
Campus)from $795.00, Pay no rent until
Jan. 2010. Associates Realty 352-372-7755
12-1-09-10-2
2BR/1BA 7 Blocks E of UF. Cable, water,
internet incl. $850, FMR free, $500 SD &
LMR. Also for sale $139K. Bosshardt Realty
info@KristenAndRebecca.com 11-20-09-
5-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 11-20-
09-5-2
CHOICE LOCATION
*2BR/1 BA apt W/D, 530 NE 2nd St.
$750/mo
*Furnished room in house for grad student.
$450 & 425. 376-3195 11-23-09-5-2
Custom 2BR/1BA in pvt 4 Unit complx. Tiled
fir in Liv rm, Carpet in BRs w/ceiling fans. All
new BA. New Kit w/stainless appl, W/D, Cent
H/A, i-net/cable avail. Mgr pays water, pest
contrl, lawn main, security lites. Near bus rte.
Sorry no pets $685/mo Call 727-423-9463
SAlso avail: Fully furn 2BR/1BA $735/mo.
12-9-09-13-2
WALK TO UF. Avail in Jan:
* 2BR/2.5BA $800 S 2BR/1 BA $700
* 1BR/1BA $585 S Studio $475
1 yr lease, SD & NS. Call/Text: 352-870-7256
or gv1132601@gmail.com 12-9-09-14-2
Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fIr., 4 bdrm., 4 bath, cent A/C, cable, wash.,
dry., full kitch., $280/mo.ea., owner/manager/
gainesville 352-472-9778 11-24-09-5-2
MUST SEE TO BELIEVE!
2BR/1BA off of Newberry Rd. $500/mo for
both rooms & ind all utils and satellite. Newer
house with large fenced backyard. Pets ok.
Call 472-1514 11-25-09-5-2
2/2 with loft aviail. immediately. Utitilities
included. w/d in unit. Tower Rd 450/month
352-246-3975 12-1-09-7-2
MIDTOWN WALK TO CLASS
* 1BR/1BA $475
* 2BR/1BA $350 ea.
* 1BR/1BA duplex $600
* 2BR/2.5BA townhome $525 ea.
Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369
11-25-5-2
MOVE IN NOW!
Sweet studio w/large porch, deck, on creek.
Safe area. On busline. Tiled, laundry priv.
$425/mo, 1/3 utils, lst/last/$400 sec. 352-
384-0111. 24/7 apt326@yahoo.com 11-30-
09-5-2
$100 OFF 1st MONTH RENT. 2 BR/1.5 Bath
Phoenix apt. 1 mile to campus and Shands
on bus route. W/D conn. Fenced yard. $500
security, $550/month. 2640 SW 31st Place
Unit B. 562-2782 or 514-6869 if interested.
1-6-14-2
UIsubleases
Rent huge master bedroom at Sabal Palms!
2 blocks from UF!
Private bath, granite countertops,
washer and dryer. $710.
Available Spring and Summer 407-496-4610
11-23-10-3
DEC FREE: lbr/lba in 2br/2ba. Female to
share in Looking Glass Apts. Walk to cam-
pus. Washer/Dryer, Lease to August. $495/
month + 1/2 utilities. 352-871-0162 11-20-
09-8-3
Own bedroom, own bathroom. 3 male
roommates. Gainesville Place apart-
ments. $400/month. January through
May. 717-756-2429 11-20-5-3GW of
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
J bleases Roommates Furnishings Computers Motorcycles, Mopeds
Female roommate wanted! sublease spring.
$520/mo, 6 bdrm big house, awesome loca-
tion! 3 min walk to Campus & 5 min walk
to Sor. Row! free park spot, 2ba, 2 kitchen,
porch, firepl, Lg rm, wd floors. Call (772)216-
5773 11-20-5-3
Large 1 Bedroom in 4/2. Spring/Summer
2010. 1.5 miles to campus and on the bus
route. Clean house, quiet roommates, wash-
er/dryer, dishwasher, new carpet. Pets ok.
$305/month. call 850-525-4532 11-23-09-
6-3
Canopy Apartment 1 br/1 ba
4 bed unit w/3 male roommates
Jan 1 2010- May4 2010
Save! Current rate $625/mth
Now $400/mth call 239-634-3130 11-25-
09-5-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-23-09-30-4
1 month free-Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-23-
25-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-20-
09-21-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking femal
roommate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to
UF and Santa Fe. $350 + 1/2 of the utilities
and internet included, W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Madgene at 561-827-4970. 12-1-
09-15-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
$385-Female roommate needed for 1/1 in
4/4 Univ. Terrace condo with all utilities in-
cluded, fully furnished, on routes 12 and 35,
very clean, for Spring or longer. Call Anu @
352-262-0628. 11-23-10-4Female UF roommate needed for 3 bed-
room house walking distance to UF. Share
with 2 UF students. Private yard and park-
ing. $450.00 month plus util. email Lauren at
ciba123@aol.com 11-24-09-5-4
2 bedrooms available now in a GREAT 4 BR
house near campus. Easy walk to law school,
bike to main campus. Live with one student,
one professional. $450/mo. Nice neighbor-
hood, sunny porch, great place to live. Call
David, (321) 303-2214. 12-4-09-10-4
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
130 FEET RIVER FRONTAGE! 1.5 ACRES,
BUILDABLE LOT WITH LARGE SELECTION
OF HUGE TREES ON PEACEFUL SECTION
OF RIVER. GREAT INVESTMENT! ONLY
25K. (352)665-8067 1-13-09-20-5
Great for Students 1 BR/1 BA.
Walk to Campus. Only $49,900
Gore-Rabell Realty 378-1387 4-21-75-5
Bank Foreclosures! 3 Br only $199/Mo! 5 Br
only $225/Mo! Buy, 5%down 30yrs @8%apr.
for listings (800)366-9783 ext 5853 11-20-
1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 300+
FLORIDA Homes Auction: Dec 5 REDC I
View Full Listings www.Auction.com RE No.
CQ1031187 11-20-1-5
LAND BARGAIN 21+ AC Only $89,900
Beautifully wooded acreage close to FL/GA
border. Enjoy end of road privacy! Perfect
for weekend getaway/ cabin in woods/ horse
farm. Possible subdivide. Excellent financ-
ing. Call owner now (912)674-0320 www.
GAforest.com 11-20-1-5
NC MOUNTAINS -Brand New! $50,000
Mountain Top tract reduced to $19,500!
Private, near Boone area, bank financing,
owner must sell, (866)275-0442 11-20-1-5
Plantation and Land Auctions 960+/-Ac
Brooks Co. Georgia Land Auctions Nov.
27th, 10AM. Home, Land and Farm.
Excellent Investment Potential. www.
CertifiedRealEstateAuctions.com (800)711-
9175 AU-C002792 10%BP 11-20-1-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET Spc $120 Brand new in box.Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
*Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031*KALEV ON KALLOI come to your location
All PC and Networking Problems
@ 352-262-6704 0 Only $25 per hour s
12-4-09-10-7
F Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
OFFo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warranty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 col-
ors in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
11-20-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 11-20-1-10
Eotorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***Www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gvilles #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
000000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
*****NEW SCOOTER*****
Eagle 49cc, black/silver
max speed 37 mph, 1 yr warranty
$950 obo call Julia 772-349-3879 11-20-
09-1-11
WEZAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!@
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS Buy@Sell@Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still ATTENTIONin pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
ADVERTISERS
UL mutersDE LIS
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops Tp
AC adapters Joel 336-0075 The Alligator will not publish on
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
Cam PU T ERS
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/un-
plugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID.
Certified MCSE Technicians. 352-338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7Thursday, November 26 and Friday, November 27, due
to the Thanksgiving holiday.
The deadline for Monday, Nov. 30 is
Tuesday, Nov. 24 by 4 p.m.
The deadline for Tuesday, Dec. 1 is
Wednesday, Nov. 25 by 4.pm.
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising. I
Display Advertising Classified Advertising
376-4482 376_4446
alligator
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 19
cII Autos Autos Aut Autos Help Wanted
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-30-09-50-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
96 Plymouth Minivan $699 cash
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Pontiac Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-1296 Lincoln Mark 8 $999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $999 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1499
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
yG u idc e\
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
New Life Community
Chapel
International Day: Celebrating
Our Uniqueness
Sunday Oct. 18 : 10:30 AM to
NOON
International Dinner, guest speak-
ers and music
All are welcome, but space is
limited.
RSVP by Oct 15
New Life Community ChapelChabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship
Imagine a religion embracing
many different beliefs. including
yours.
Join us on Sunday at 11 AM
4225 NW 34th St.
Info: 377-1669 or www.uufg.org
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube
Westside Park Rec. Center Gator Wesley Foundation
Sundays at 10:30 AM Sunday worship 11am at the
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org Presbyterian and Disciples of
phone: (352) 214-4462 Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
Episcopal Chapel House located 104 NW 14th Street.
Chapel of Incarnation For full schedule of events visit
Chapel of Incarnation gatorwesley.com
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship, Trinity Metropolitan
holy fun! 352-372-8506 Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Creekside Community Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11604 SW Archer RoadChurch
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 10:30am
For more info email Mary at
college@creeksidecc.orgFor info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
Universal Faith Ministries
Universal Faith Ministries Inc
invites you to our open session
Bible Teachings Tues at 7pm
Night of prayer Fri at 7pm andSunday worship at 11 am
1930 NE Waldo Rd Gainesville
You may call 352-505-3005
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
IOam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.1stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-1 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meets: 7th Day Adventist Church
2115 NW 39th Avenue
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 6:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-812795 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900 SOLD
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
96 Honda Accord $2500
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
CALL US! TOP DOLLAR PAID!
Fash Cash -Free Towing
Cars, Trucks, RVs, Motorcycles
386-365-1855 12-9-09-12-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED
BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free
Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.
ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible,
Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.
11-20-1-12
1999 Honda Civic $200! 2001 Nissan Altima
$350! 2003 VW Jetta $400! POLICE
IMPOUNDS! for listings call (800)366-9813
ext 9271 11-20-1-12
Police Impounds! Honda 2000 Civic $800!
Nissan 2001 Altima $350! Ford 2001 Taurus
$700! For listings call (800)366-9813 ext
9275 11-20-1-12
W Z ZWanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 12-4-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 12-
4-09-74-13This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
mail to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14pw MEUG
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
SHelp Wanted Help Wanted Services Health Services Entertainment
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience .Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
1-14-09-32-14
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email your
course listing and a brief description about
yourself to ufl@sharenotes.com
START EARNING TODAY! 11-20-09-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 12-9-
09-20-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must work independently & meet deadlines.
Strong attention to detail & organization.
Research skills required. Sales experience
a plus. Salary starts at $24k/year + commis-
sion. Send resume to jobs@nationaltech-
mark.com or fax 1-866-728-4579 w/Financial
Sales in subject. 11-23-09-10-14
Programmer needed w/experience in ASP
&/or ASP.net, Javascript programming, re-
lational databases, Perl &/or PHP, Ajax,
JSON, & semantic web development w/
CSS. $32,000/yr commensurate w/exp. Fax
1-866-728-4579 or jobs@nationaltechmark.
com w/"Programmer" in Subject. 11-23-
09-10-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
$10 Gift Card to Sign Up!
The first 50 women and 50 men that sign up
for www.takemeintrade.com with a real photo
and detailed profile with receive a $10 iTunes
Gift Card. 11-20-09-7-14
-- FAN PHOTOGRAPHERS NEEDED ---
UF Football Home Games (BHG Stadium)
$7.50 -$25/hr + Paid Training.No Exp.Req.
Enthusiastic/Hardworking. Equipment prov.
CONTACT: ufphotomanagerl@gmail.com
11-20-09-5-14
Marketing Intern:Input/analyze
marketing & financial data for College of Vet
Med. Knowledge of MS Excel/Access req.
Apply at: jobs.ufl.edu REQ. #0803249 11-
23-09-5-14
Busy young professional (gator alum) look-
ing for part time cooking and cleaning help
around the house. Within 1 mile to UF. 1-2
hours per day. Email builds4fun@gmail.com
11-30-7-14
EARN WHILE YOU LEARN
SFla sales offce lkng 4 pt
sales $8-10/hr+incentives
contact:michael@cocard.net
954 420 9394 11-20-09-2-14
Babysitter needed for 3 kids (ages 1,3,4)
from 2-6pm M/W/F starting in Dec. Submit
resume, references and class schedule to
ejbray74@gmail.com 11-25-09-5-14Chef/Cook -needed for Fraternity Part-time
to fill in until Dec. 11th with posibility of con-
tinuing on to full time employment in January.
Experience required. Must be able to order
food in quantities needed, plan meals, pre-
pare and cook lunch and dinner. Pay is 10/hr
Send resume to fratmgmt@gmail.com or call
352-375-3676 11-25-09-4-14
Office Manager, full time, pay based on ex-
pirence. No weekends! Piccadilly Apts. Apply
in person. E-mail questions to
office@piccadillyapts.com No phone calls
please. 11-30-5-14
PTL OTR Drivers. NEW PAY PACKAGE!
Great Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months ex-
perience required. No felony or DUI past 5
years. (877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 11-
20-1-14
F Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS * *
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 12-9-
57-15
FLOOR COVERING
James R. Langford Inc.
Carpet Vinyl Repairs
Restretches Installs
Call Jim 352-222-8827
12-1-14-15
GOT A TICKET?
TAKE TRAFFIC SCHOOL 100% ONLINE
STATE OF FLORIDA APPROVED
NO POINTS ON LICENSE
www.EasyTrafficSchoolNow.com 1-8-20-
15
Green cards -permanent resident status -
for postdoc researchers and new faculty.
Self-petition through national interest waiver.
Email robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com or
call 352-335-2699 for consultation. Robert
Jacobs, PA -Limited to Imm & Nat Law 12-
3-09-10-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout
Florida. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put
us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.
florida-classifieds.com. 11-20-1-15
Become Dietary Manager (average annual
salary $40,374) in eight months in online
program offered by Tennessee Technology
Center at Elizabethton. Details www.ttceliza-
bethton.edu, (888)986-2368 or email patricia.
roark@ttcelizabethton.edu 11-20-1-14
BIG PLANS Being Held up by the Economy?
Turn Court Settlement, Annuity, or Lottery
Winnings into the Cash You Need. Call Chris
(816)582-1193 or chris@yourcashout.com
11-20-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 11-20-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 11-20-1-15
J Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8-
38-16
F5Persois
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
WLCOnInections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
loveWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
SJl Tickets
Need Hotel & Gas Money for Atlanta? Sell
your football tixs and come for the PARTY!I need two tickets to the SEC Game.Big
Gator Fan/Alum traveling from S.FL. Email
me at -gatorbenjamin@gmail.com 11-20-
09-3-22
LOYAL GATOR ALUMNI NEEDS SEC TIX,
WILLING TO PAY GOOD MONEY $$$ FOR
TIX. 352-283-2495. CASH PAID 12-9-09-
12-22
Event Notices W J Rides
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NATIVE AMERICAN POW WOW
Nov. 27, 28 & 29.
Crafts, Storytelling, Flutes, Drumming,
Dancing and Demos. Alachua County Fair
Grounds. gainesvillepowwow@live.com
11-25-4-20GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
,,4anau yur pesens
SPACE WAK_
wib
Qan inPioabie bounce house
provided bu SPace wallj,
a five broadcaSt Prom KISS 1OS.3,
and a perpormance bu
no soubbern Accent
DANCE Benefiting
MAAHNChilren'n Mracl dNetwork Q"711
Hospital at UF
obtained from the division of osurer services by callirgcmi free1-00-435-7352 within thestate Registration does not imply endorsement, approval, or recommendation by the state
Sports
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks
Column
SITE:The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Saturday 12:30 p.m.
TV: Pay-Per-View
We know, we know, this is one of
the worst college football weeks of
the year. Don't blame us for not hav-
ing anything to distract you from
schoolwork. We here at the alliga-
torSports Brand Picks Column have
done our best to predict this week's
game, but believe us, bad games
aren't any easier to project.
OKLAHOMA WILL COVER THE -6.5
SPREAD BECAUSE .Last year's
matchup between the Sooners and
Red Raiders decided the Big 12 South
champion and gave Oklahoma the in-
side track to the national title game.
I wish I could say this year's game
will be as meaningful but it's not.
Both teams already have four
losses and are just trying to fight off
mediocrity.
While Landry Jones is no Sam
Bradford, DeMarco Murray knows
it's his time to step up.
My team in the alligatorSports
Fantasy Challenge was in disarray
heading into the first round of the
playoffs with running backs Jona-
than Dwyer and Joe McKnight on
bye weeks, and Jahvid Best still out
with a concussion.
Murray made the cut as a re-
placement, and my team's hopes of
winning the 'ship is resting on his
shoulders. He knows this and will
come through for me and the team
he actually plays on.
-BOBBY CALLOVI
TEXAS TECH WILL COVER THE +6.5
SPREAD BECAUSE .It's really just
not Oklahoma's year. Anytime you
lose your Heisman Trophy-winning
quarterback and All-American tight
end, you have to realize the heavens
are against you. Landry Jones stepped
in at quarterback and had one of the
SEE PICKS, PAGE 28UF BASKETBALL
Parsons leading
Gators from bench
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@aligator org
For the second game in a row,
Chandler Parsons kept one of
Florida's most impressive streaks
alive.
When his team was hitting
nothing but iron against Geor-
gia Southern on Wednesday
night, he broke the ice, nailing
the team's first three with 6:12 re-
maining in the game. This came
one game after he preserved UF's
580-game streak with a 3-point
shot by hitting a last-minute shot
against Stetson in the season
opener.
"I'm a hero, I guess," Parsons
joked.
But the 6-foot-9 forward has
found success in another role for
the Gators so far this season 
-
sixth man.
Despite leading the team with
nine rebounds per game, aver-
aging the second-most points
(14.5) and playing the third-most
minutes per game (26.5), Parsons
will likely be the first player off
the bench tonight when UF hosts
Troy at 7 in the O'Connell Cen-
ter.
Parsons recorded his thirdcareer double-double against the
Eagles on Wednesday, scoring 15
points and grabbing 12 rebounds
while providing some much-
needed energy off the bench
against a scrappy opponent.
"It's just what I'm going to do
all year," Parsons said. "I'm go-
ing to come in, play hard, bring
energy and I'm going to be re-
lentless on the offensive glass."
Parsons' long, athletic frame
allows him to make plays some
of his teammates aren't able to,
but for a player who struggled
to stay consistent from game-to-
game in his first two years, UF
coach Billy Donovan said the big-
gest change has been in his head.
"It's much more mental,"
Donovan said. "The mental prep-
aration he put in in the offseason,
the way he's practiced the last
month and a half, his maturity as
a player and person, he's totally
different as a basketball player."
Part of that change has been
simply doing what his coaches
have asked of him. Donovan said
after the game Wednesday that
he had to refocus Parsons after
his freshman year and get him to
understand what his role on the
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 26-
li
Rayiaz Khan / Alligator Staff
UF forward Chandler Parsons leads the team in rebounds (9 rpg) and
is second in points (14.5 ppg).
FIU gives Florida a chance to rest, fix passing game
s much as Urban Meyer tries to playup FIU, it is still just FIU.
The Panthers will be completely
overmatched when they step onto Florida
Field to face the Gators. There is no reason
for Meyer or anyone else to pretend other-
wise.
That doesn't mean the Gators can't get
anything out of the game.
First off, this is a good opportunity
for players to get healthy before the final
stretch of the season.
Any Gator who is listed as questionable
should not play. There is no reason to risk
injuring those players any further with the
Southeastern Conference Championship
Game looming.
This game can also be a chance to get
some of the younger players more game ex-
perience.Bobby Callovi
Bobby's World
bcalIlovi @all Iiga to r orgOnce the game is
out of reach, it is time
to start pulling the
starters.
Even if the starters
get an early exit from
the game, they can still
get something out of
their short time on the
field, especially the of-
fensive players.
Everybody knows the Gators can run the
ball as well as any other offense in the na-
tion.
Everybody knows Tim Tebow can still
run the ball effectively.
But it is going to be the 11th game of the
season and the Gators' passing game is still
a work in a progress.
The receivers have dropped balls, failedto turn short passes into big gains and
looked like they were on a different page
than Tebow.
Tebow just has not looked comfortable
throwing to any other receiving option
then Riley Cooper or Aaron Hernandez,
and none of the other options have done
enough in their few chances to warrant
more touches.
The Gators can't rely on just Cooper
and Hernandez to produce in the passing
game.
Tebow needs to be able to throw to other
receiveing options when those two are be-
ing blanketed by defenses or are having an
off night.
FIU can serve as a test dummy for UF's
offense.
The Gators can work on building trust
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 28
INSIDE -PAGE 13
E The UF swim teams continue action at the
Georgia Tech and South Carolina Invitation-
als today. The Gators' football team received
a commitment for the 2010 season from
cornerback Joshua Shaw.alligortorSports Podcast
U Bobby Callovi and Mike McCall join host
Adam Berry to discuss Florida's big plays as
well as Urban Meyer's comments regarding
the Gators' seven NFL-ready juniors. Who
might they be? Check it out on iTunes.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE MCCALL
* The hate Thierry Henry is getting for his handball that helped send
France to the World Cup over Ireland is misdirected. The real culprits
are the officials and FIFA .And I'm glad soccer is getting more play
on SportsCenter these days, but can the anchors please stop reading
the highlights like they're surprised the sport exists?
22, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
UF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Florida looks to build on FSU lessons
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Staff Writer
etorrens@alligator org
The UF women's basketball team was
outsized in its loss against No. 13 FSU on
Tuesday.
But that experience will come in handy
sooner rather than later.
The team plays its first road contest
of the season at Pittsburgh tonight. The
Panthers (1-0) pose a size advantage
similar to that of the Seminoles. It's the
second game the Gators (1-1) are playing
in a span of four days.
"Pitt is huge," coach Amanda But-
ler said. "They're a lot bigger than us.
They have size that we just don't have,
strength that we just don't have. But we
have things they don't have."
The Panthers routed North Florida 61-
35 and held the Ospreys to 29.8 percent
shooting and forced 27 turnovers.
Against FSU, the Gators played stingy
defense -forcing 19 Seminoles turn-
overs -and smaller lineups to gain a
quickness advantage against a larger
team.
Targeting foul-prone players also
proved to be an effective strategy, neu-
tralizing the physicality of bigger post
players by forcing them to the bench with
foul trouble.
And while strategizing may be pro-
ductive, the Gators know they'll need
more shots to fall in future games.
Sharielle Smith, the only effective
shooter beyond the three-point line (4 of
6) Tuesday for UF, racked up 18 points
and 13 rebounds, but it wasn't enough.
Following the game, players havebeen
taking shots in practice during shooting
drills as if they were being guarded, try-
ing to mimic game-speed shooting.
"Me and Steffi (Sorensen) were ter-
rible from behind the 3-point line, andI just don't think that's going to happen
again," said Jordan Jones, who finished 2
of 11 from beyond the arc. "We got our
bad shooting night out of the way."
Jones and Sorensen combined for a
bleak 4 for 21 from beyond the arc, and
the Gators only shot 33 percent from the
field and 29 percent from downtown.
"I don't believe in moral victories atall, but if there is such a thing, then (FSU)
was something we can build off of,"
Jones said.
Despite the faulty shooting, the team
only lost by four against the Seminoles.
"We're supposed to be this great
shooting team, but we weren't," Butler
said. "But we were still in position to win
the ballgame."
UF guard Jordan Jones is leading the Gators with 15 points per game. Florida
will again face a size disadvantage at Pittsburgh tonight.
LI DPToP Dn Tel Ut,p
PC & MAC Dad ee
REPAIR t "o _
IMPACT COMPTERS GT7 t CgE)
CREKSIE MALSpecializing in Collision repairs on all makes
NEXT TO GATOR TEXTBOOKS Mention Lhis ad and receive special discount
371-1110 33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
Getting the degree. Pappas & Tapley
Orthodontics
Now get the SMILE you want to go Specialists in Orthodontics
with it and make a great first impression.
It's never beei eiasier1
invisalign
Cal td fa e v isaoo i
Call today for a complimentary evaluation 332-7466 or visit www.ptorthodontics.comLT Nixon
keeps start
a surprise
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@aligator org
Xavier Nixon became the first Florida
freshman to start at left tackle in 18 years Sat-
urday, but his parents were just as shocked as
everyone else in attendance.
Nixon wanted it to be a surprise. It has
been a trying month for the family. Both his
parents are in the military, and his mother,
Fotini, is stationed at Fort Hood military base
in Texas, site of the Nov. 5 shooting.
His parents flew to Columbia, S.C., not
knowing how much he would play.
"I didn't tell them I was going to start,"
Nixon said. "After the game, my mom was
crying and stuff, and they were all telling me
how proud they were."
His mother has been sta-
A tioned at Fort Hood for four
or five months. He isn't sure
Football where she was at the time of
the shooting.
"She was just as shocked
as everybody else in the country was," Nixon
said," but thank God she was safe."
Besides being his first start, the South Car-
olina game held a little extra meaning because
of the military salutes at the game and its con-
nection with the Wounded Warrior project.
The Gamecocks wore special black jer-
seys with camouflage on their shoulders, and
each uniform had an ideal, such as Identity or
Honor, instead of a player's last name.
"It kinda struck me a little," Nixon said.
"I just thought about my parents, about what
they sacrificed for the country, and it just
made me feel good."
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
PWJECTED FiELD QF 65
Kansas Villanova
Mount St. Mary's/Jackson St. Florida A&M
Gonzaga Illinois
VCU 9Arizona
Georgia Tech Oklahoma
Oregon St. BYU
Dayton -Mississippi St.
Western Kentucky Northern Iowa
Missouri Notre Dame
Old Dominion Oklahoma St.
Purdue Tennessee
Holy Cross Davidson
Louisville UCLA
Cleveland St. Memphis
UNC Duke
Vermont Morehead St.
Kentucky Texas
Mercer NATIONAL Oakland
FSU CHAMPION Cornell
Siena Ole Miss
UConn Ohio St.
Utah St. Creighton
Michi gan Washington
Winthrop Charlotte
Xavier Georgetown
St. John's Virginia Tech
California SEMIFINALS SEMIFINALS Butler
Akron Long Beach St.
Wake Forest South Carolina
Florida REGIONALS REGIONALS Kansas St.
West Virginia Michigan St.
Stephen F. Austin SECOND ROUND SECOND ROUND Weber St.
FIRST ROUND FIRST ROUND
Predictions made by Phil Kegler, Kyle Maistri and Bobby Callovi/ Alligator Staff
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
M e ns
P R E DB a s k e t b a
ICT I0N
Mike
McCall
Patrick Patterson
Kentucky
John Wall
Kentucky
John Calipari
Kentucky
1. Kentucky
2. Tennessee
3. Vanderbilt
4. Miss St.
5. S. Carolina
6. LSU7. Florida
8. Ole Miss
9. Arkansas
10. Alabama
1 1. Auburn
12. GeorgiaKyle
Maistri
Jarvis Varnado
Mississippi St.
Kenny Boynton
Florida
Andy Kennedy
Ole Miss
Kentucky Vanderbilt
Tennessee LSU
Mississippi St. Alabama
Ole Miss Arkansas
S. Carolina Auburn
Florida GeorgiaBobby
Callovi
John Wall
Kentucky
John Wall
Kentucky
John Calipari
Kentucky
Kentucky Ole Miss
Mississippi St. Vanderbilt
Tennessee LSU
Florida Arkansas
S. Carolina Auburn
Alabama GeorgiaPhil
Kegler
Devan Downey
South Carolina
John Wall
Kentucky
Darren Horn
South Carolina
Kentucky
Tennessee
S. Carolina
Ole Miss
LSU
Mississippi St.Vanderbilt
Florida
Arkansas
Alabama
Georgia
Auburn
21-10, 8-8 SEC
Vanderbilt
Georgia21-10, 9-7 SEC
Ole Miss
Vanderbilt23-8, 12-4 SEC
Florida
Vanderbilt17-14, 6-10 SEC
South Carolina
Mississippi St.
Sherron Collins
KansasEvan Turner
Ohio StateSherron Collins
KansasDamion James
Texas
Derrick Favors
Georgia Tech
John Calipari
KentuckyJay Wright
VillanovaJohn Calipari
KentuckyPaul Hewitt
Georgia Tech
Kansas Villanova Vilanova Duke
Kentucky UNC Kansas DaytonKansas Texas Texas Kentucky
Kentucky Villanova Villanova Butler
Georgia Tech
UConnGeorgia Tech
West VirginiaII
S
John Wall
KentuckyJohn Wall
KentuckyJohn Wall
Kentucky
Dayton
DukeDayton
Oklahoma
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator StaffN@
H@LU
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 25
Vern72nwireless
MAKE THE SEASON MERRY.
Ring in the holidays with apps, games and music for more than 50 phones.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with al- or 2-yr. agreement.
Nokia TwiStTM
-Unique square design that twists
open to reveal a QWERTY keyboard
-V CAST Music with Rhapsody* and
Visual Voice Mails' capable
NEW! BlackBerry* Storm2T
* Do more in more places
with Wi-Fi capability
-Enhanced touch screen with SurePressT
lets you be even more accurate
The Best Destination For Holiday Gifts.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249)
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Op(
Technicians available at select locations
CLERMONT 1415 E Hwy 50 352-243-6826
GAINESVILLE 3401 S.W. Archer Rd. 352-378-8828
Oaks Mall Kiosk 352-331-0379
3401 SW Archer Rd. 352-378-8828
3626 SW Archer Rd. 352-491-2500
LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwy. 27/441, Ste. G. 352-350-2861
In collaboration with
Alcatel- LucentClick verizonwireless.com/getdiscount
LAKE CITY Lake Cty Mall 386-719-2173
LEESBURG Lake Square Mall 352-787-2449
OCALA 2613 SW. 19th Ave Rd. 352-620-0025
OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave. Rd. 352-237-3434
OCALA WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352-237-8697
Aceptamos La
Matricula ConsularVisit any Communications Store
BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
1-800-899-4249
Vi sit verizonwireless.com
to find a Club near you. r r*
Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subjectto Customer Agmt and Calling Plan. Device capabilities: Add'I charges & conditions apply. Offers & coverage, varying by service, not available everywhere. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. Rhapsody and the Rhapsody
logo are trademarks and registered trademarks of RealNetworks, Inc. All company names, trademarks, logos and copyrights not the property ofVerizon Wireless are the property oftheir respective owners. All Rights Reserved. Q2009 Verizon Wireless HOLA
26, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators face slim odds to win SEC title
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
This weekend could prove to be historic
for the Gators, just not in a way they may
want.
Kentucky can clinch the Southeastern
Conference championship with just two
more wins over an SEC opponent, two loss-
es by No. 13 Florida (20-4,14-3 SEC), or if the
Gators lose and the Wildcats win on Friday.
It would be the first time in 19 seasons that a
team other than UT has captured the title.
The Gators will have a shot to deter No.
10 Kentucky (26-2,16-1 SEC) from ending its
streak of conference dominance on Sunday
at 2 p.m. in Lexington, Ky. However, UF
must first worry about traveling to take on
Tennessee (20-7, 13-4 SEC) tonight at 7.
"Everybody is still chasing Kentucky and
that hasn't changed," coach Mary Wise said.
"It's going to be a lot harder to win the con-
ference now but our goal has not changed
as terms of playing our best volleyball at the
end of the season."
Although there is only a slim chance re-
maining, the Gators could still win the SEC
albeit with a lot of help from other teams.UF
will have to win its final three SEC match-
es while hoping the Wildcats can lose two
of theirs and LSU can slip up once for the
Gators to just grab a share of the SEC title.
On Friday, if Kentucky wins its match
against South Carolina and UT beats the
Volunteers, it would set up a scenario in
which the Wildcats could clinch the confer-
ence with a win against the Gators on Sun-
day.
But Wise believes that the pressure that
comes along with the 18-year streak should
not be placed upon the 2009 squad.
"It isn't fair to this team," Wise said.
"Some of them weren't even born when it
started."
Coming off of a loss to LSU that put them
in this position, the Gators will have to be
quick to turn it around as they face two of
the best teams in the SEC.
"Well I don't think it would be smart
to focus on that loss," junior opposite hit-ter Lauren Bledsoe said. "We just need to
put that behind us, like it is -and leave it
there."
After the Gators lost to the Tigers earlier
in the season, they were able get back on
track and grab eight-straight sweeps, which
is something they will try to repeat after los-ing to LSU for the second time in their last
match. However, the schedule will make it a
little bit tougher this time around.
"One must also take a look at the sched-
ule after that loss," Wise said. "We did not
play the likes of Tennessee and Kentucky
after that loss, so it's a little bit different."
/
4
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF coach Mary Wise will lead her team on the road this weekend against Kentucky
and Tennessee. The Gators could break their streak of 19 straight SEC titles.
50% I IDyslexia
*IID ~ -Slow Reading?11 i -Poor Comprehension?
d 4- Poor Spelling?
Years of gain inal:gator orts weeks of treatment!
_ T H E D C A SServing Gainesville
Tune in for the latest Gators for over 22 years.
sports news and analysis from our The Morris Inc.
beat writers and columnists. Th orsCenter, Ic
Check it out on alligatorSports.org or 352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
subscribe on iTunes. info@morriscenters.com
$8OFF
Jiffy Lube
Signature Service8; Oil Change
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember!
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.com
Seestore for more deta Notvalid withanyotheroferRestrictionsmayapply Jiffy Lube the iffy Lube design mark
and Jiffy Lube Signt Ser i a t d k f Jiffy Lb Iights rscd
Q2009 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. All riht reevdwtop Dy me verizon wireless maior ran-est iocatea outside Or "ate z Or me u't.onneil '-enter.
See the Gator Radio Network pre-game show live! Win prizes, play games, get autographs
from Florida athletics teams and more! FanFest starts at 9:30 a.m. and goes until kick-off!
Don't frget to bring canned
goods to FanFest
for the Gator Canned Goods
11 Challenge for Kids!
GaO.,lne
th ~~ s tgekpaeve SN3MP
ollageg ociball
* r% 9 G O * ese*nemw an shn" , wtans,
bkao% e,,s,,fto at f ten n Gtor an'."e-Forward not
worried about
3-pointers
HOOPS, from page 21
court was.
As a junior, he is finally proving
capable of being the player Donovan
hoped for. While filling any position
from shooting guard to power for-
ward, Parsons has played on the ball
in the team's full-court press, showed a
newfound commitment to defense and
relentlessly crashed the boards.
Sophomore point guard Erving
Walker praised Parsons' versatility,
particularly on defense, and his will-
ingness to play whatever role has been
asked of him, even
if it means not start-
ing like he did in 28
Men's of UF's 36 games last
year.Basketball "Just his whole
attitude, his hustle
is good. He brings another dimension
to the team," Walker said. "Dan (Wer-
ner) is a great player, but Chandler's
more athletic. He's the guy who gets tip
dunks besides Alex (Tyus). That's what
we need."
As for the fact that he is seemingly
the only player capable of hitting a
three in the team's first two games -
his two threes account for two-thirds of
the Gators' 3-point production -Par-
sons isn't worried about that yet.
"We have a lot of great shooters,"
Parsons said. "The shots will come.
We're going to get better on offense. I
don't think we're too worried about
it."
Ili
It
+ Ilk- a
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 27
Three-man safety rotation working as planned
Black, Wright, Hill compliment each other
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
When Florida's coaches de-
cided they were going to give
significant playing time to Major
Wright, Ahmad Black and Will
Hill before this season started,
many questioned how that plan
would be embraced by the three
safeties.
Including the safeties them-
selves.
"Actually, I thought people
were going to end up crying. Wor-
rying about this, worrying about
that," Hill said. "But all three of
us are level-headed, and we know
that we're going to play."
The honesty of the coaching
staff has been key to the players
buying in to the system.
In the preseason, defensive co-
ordinator Charlie Strong, coach
Urban Meyer and safeties coachChuck Heater said all along that
all three players earned the right
to play, and therefore would get
snaps when the time came.
But Meyer also said that about
backup quarterback John Brant-
ley, who will end up playing in
fewer games this season than
he did in 2008 even if he makes
an appearance in all four of the
Gators' remaining games.
The safety situation, however,
played out exactly how they said
it would with no one feeling like
the third wheel.
The coaches have played all
three an equal amount and have
even found a way to play them at
the same time with the expanded
use of Strong's Joker package. The
3-3-5 defense puts an extra defen-
sive back on the field and gives
Strong the opportunity to utilize
the secondary's versatility.
Against South Carolina, Hill
said he played more nickelbackthan usual, meaning he was
matched up with receivers in the
slot, where Strong used his soph-
omore defensive back to not only
cover but also rush quarterback
Stephen Garcia.
"Actually, I thought people
were going to end up cry-
ing. Worrying about this,
worrying about that. But
all three of us are level-
headed, and we know that
we're going to play."
Will Hill
UF sophomore safety
As a result, Hill came away
with 1.5 sacks, including the first
of his career.
The Gamecocks threw for 186
yards Saturday, almost 50 yards
more than the Gators' Southeast-
ern Conference-leading 139.6 pergame average.
UF has two lockdown corners
in Joe Haden and Janoris Jen-
kins, which allows Strong to play
Wright as the lone deep safety,
patrolling the field from sideline
to sideline in much the same way
Reggie Nelson was used in his
time in Gainesville. Wright, who
was thought of as just a hard hit-
ter after his first two seasons as a
Gator, has shown a big improve-
ment in his coverage and ball
skills this season, as he is tied for
the team lead with three intercep-
tions.
Black has been allowed to roam
free in the box, and as a result, the
junior has recorded 51 tackles,
good for third on the team and
first among the safeties.
Each player possesses a differ-
ent skill set that can help the team
win.
"Major will knock your lights
out. Will is a big guy. And I'm the
small guy, but I'm probably the
surest tackler," Black said.In addition to splitting time in
the secondary, the three are all
major special teams contributors.
A season ago, Hill led the
Gators in special teams' tackles,
and Black worked his way into a
starting role after making a name
for himself on coverage teams.
Now, they all remain critical
parts of a special teams unit that
Meyer calls his best ever, even af-
ter establishing themselves as ex-
ceptional every-down defensive
players.
Plenty of playing time to go
around and a mutual respect for
each other have kept the trio con-
tent with their individual roles in
the three-man rotation.
"If you had a guy who wasn't
as good of a player, in your opin-
ion, then you would probably
have a problem with that," Heat-
er said. "But all three guys know
they bring certain things to the
table, all three of them contrib-
ute and all three of them make
plays."
1. Reduce Waste with Reusable Plates, Cups and Utensils
2. Recycle Aluminum Cans, Plastic and Glass Bottles
3. Dispose of Trash in Proper Receptacles
k ff4.Doubletree Hotel. .We're more than just a cookie!
* Use Rate Code: SEC. Proper ID required; normal liquor laws apply.
W W W.GO DOUBLET RE E .COM
4156 LAVISTA RD. I ATLANTA.
40
--Saturdays
Free BeerFridays 111.1Live DJ
Beat the Clock
-LiveDJ" --
________ -352-378.)7
178W.,Un ve7(NDouBLE 7REE
GA 30084 1 770.938.1026, J III', I IIJI _q
28, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
BOBBY, from page 21
in games between Tebow and some of the
other receivers like Deonte Thompson, Da-
vid Nelson and Omarius Hines.
All three have shown glimpses either
this season or last of being a receiving
threat for the Gators.
They have not been even close to do-ing it on a consistent basis though, mak-
ing it tough for Tebow to feel comfortable
throwing to them when it counts in big
games.
Against FIU, Tebow can give them a
chance. Throw that deep fade to them, let
them try and turn a 10-yard route into a
50-yard play, but the Gators need to de-
velop them as trustworthy options for fu-
ture games.There is no reason to rely on Cooper
and Hernandez in a cupcake game like the
one Saturday.
If Tebow still chooses to throw to those
two, then he definitely will not feel com-
fortable throwing it to the others against
FSU or Alabama.
It can only help the Gators to try to fix
some of the kinks against FIU because
even if they struggle to pull away with thedifferent game plan, they will not be in a
danger of losing the game.
It's understandable to not want to test
the receivers out during conference games,
but this is the chance to do it.
If they can't do it against FIU, the
Gators can go back to what they know
they do well.
But it can't hurt to try. After all, it is just
FIU.
PICKS, from page 21
worst performances of the year against Nebraska -- he com-
pleted 44.8 percent of his passes, had no touchdowns and
five interceptions for a mighty 63.07 passer rating. This game
is going to come down to offenses, and I'm always putting
myself in the hands of Mike Leach. -PHIL KEGLER
Now on to the picks!
Moving atop the leaderboard at 60-49 is Bobby "I'm
a big kid now" Callovi, who was so proud of himself for
not having to "make a poopy" on the way home from Co-
lumbia, S.C. Now, if we could only teach him to change
his own diaper.
Falling to second at 59-50 is Kyle "Can you wire some
money to my PayPal?" Maistri, who went on a furious
eBay shopping spree after finding an old Dante Hall
Chiefs' jersey. Other attempted jersey purchases: Steve
Kerr, Mark Price and Tim Hardaway.
The last guy above .500 at 58-51 is the Tampa Tribune's
Mike "We all need to stop walking through the metaphor-
ical sprinkler" DiFerdinando, who proved his manhood
by not conforming to societal gender roles and cower-
ing like a little girl after a nearby sprinkler unexpectedly
went off. What's next? Giving up watching football for
True Blood?
Coming in at fourthwith a 53-56 record is the GainesvilleSun's Ed "I can't hold my chicken" Aschoff, who projectile
vomited after going to all-you-can-eat wing night. We're
sure DiFer would defend your manhood here.
Rounding out the top five at 51-58 is Mike "I'm start-
ing a revolution" McCall, who is one of 27 people in this
country who care about replay in soccer. Keep fighting
the good fight, McCall.
Checking in at sixth with a 48-61 record is the Florida
Times-Union's Mike "Write it as bad as you f----- want!"
DiRocco, who offered his young correspondent Kyle
Maistri that exact piece of advice on his latest story. Some
would call him a mentor.
The lowest Alligator guy in seventh with a 47-62 record
is Phil "How am I supposed to compete with a terrier?"
Kegler, whose girlfriend seems more concerned with get-
ting a new puppy than spending time with him. It's un-
derstandable, Phil's about as cute as Uga. Too soon?
Beginning a two-way tie for eighth at 46-63 is the Or-
lando Sentinel's Jeremy "I like to set the mood" Fowler,
who took Ben Volin out for a romantic dinner the other
night. He lit some candles, played a little Kenny G and
ordered a bottle of wine.
Also sitting in eighth is the Miami Herald's Joe "Wait,
we pick 10 games?" Goodman, who managed to pick both
UConn and Notre Dame this week, while withholding his
opinion on the LSU-Ole Miss game. We wouldn't want
to go on record with LSU this week either, with the Klan
being in town and all.And continuing to sit in dead-last place but slowly
gaining at 44-65 is the Palm Beach Post's Ben "I became a
man 15 years ago today" Volin, who offered up a little bit
too much information in his latest Facebook status. Ap-
parently he made the transition from Bernice to Ben on
the same day as his 13th birthday. Seems a little early to
be making that move, but it sure explains the affinity for
anything pink and the violent mood swings.
OSU (-12) at MICH
UL (+11) at USF
MSST (+11) vs. ARK
OU (-6.5) at TT
CONN (+6) at ND
LSU (+4) at MISS
CAL (+7.5) at STAN
UK (+9) at UGA
ORE (-6) at ARI
FIU (+45) at UF
OSU (-12) at MICH
UL (+11) at USF
MSST (+11) vs. ARK
OU (-6.5) at TT
CONN (+6) at ND
LSU (+4) at MISS
CAL (+7.5) at STAN
UK (+9) at UGA
ORE (-6) at ARI
FIU (+45) at UFBC
OSU
UL
ARK
OU
ND
MISS
STAN
UGA
ORE
UF
MDR
OSU
USF
MSST
OU
ND
MISS
STAN
UK
ORE
FIUKM
MICH
USF
ARK
TT
ND
MISS
STAN
UGA
ORE
FIU
PK
OSU
UL
MSST
TT
ND
LSU
CAL
UGA
ORE
UFMDF EA
MICH MICH
USF USF
MSST ARK
OU TTU
ND ND
LSU LSU
STAN CAL
UGA UGA
ORE ORE
UF FIU
JF
OSU
USF
ARK
OU
ND
MISS
STAN
UGA
ORE
FIUMM
MICH
UL
MSST
OU
CONN
LSU
CAL
UK
ORE
FIU
JG BV
MICH MICH
UL USF
ARK ARK
T T
CONN ND
LSU LSU
STAN CAL
UK UGA
ARI ARI
FIU FIU
School Liaison
Sensory Integration Certified
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 1 5930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.comNew Class.
ot So Much Cash.
g Nobody Parties Like Cs
--~ Happy Hour at the Oyster Bar
4-7p.m., 11-2a.m. Everyday
FRIDAY SATURDAY
99c Domestic $5 Domestic $5.95 Domestic Pitchers
Draft Pitchers $5 Jager Bombs
$5 Jager Bombs (10 p.m. -close) $2 Lemon Drops
$2 Lemon Drops 99C Margaritas
ve Music SUNDAY & MONDAY
FOOTBALL SPECIALS
50C Wings & 60p Oysters $5 Jager Bombs
99( Drafts $2 Wells
$3 Calls
375 -BEER * 3501 SW 2nd Ave * CalicoJacks.net * 371-1675
o F FLo b-, G tyu ht a
Z Services Trivia
Student Legal Services has 4
licensed attorneys, & was
T GQN created in 1977.Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
From Nature for Life
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431
EMPONEQ YOQO
BUSINESS.
Advertise in the coutr'largest college newspaper.
Contact us it [3521 376.4482 aiijior
32, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2009
FlU game
U IT IS UF'S SECOND-TO-
LAST HOME GAME.
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
No. 1 Florida's matchup with
FIlU probably won't provide much
excitement for fans, but there's plen-
ty at stake for the players.
Lesser-used reserves have a
chance to prove they deserve more
playing time as the season draws to
a close.
The offense can gain some confi-
dence ahead of meetings with Flori-
da State and Alabama in the South-
eastern Conference Championship
Game.
And for the seniors, Saturday's
12:30 p.m. kickoff is the beginning of
the end of their time in The Swamp.
With just two home games left,
they'll be committing everything to
memory.
"I think about that every day,"
senior linebacker Ryan Stamper
said. "This is the second-to-last
game in The Swamp, and we have
four games left. It's kind of sad, but
it's exciting at the same time."
It's a longshot that the Gators' bid
for an undefeated season will suffer
against the Golden Panthers (3-7,
3-4 Sun Belt), but when dominance
is expected, anything less can affect
a team's morale.
Florida (10-0, 8-0 SEC) is favoredgives
by around 45 points by
betting sites and has hi
with weak opponents lareserves chance to prove worth
nost online
ad its way
te in recentseasons. UF has faced Western Car-
olina, Florida Atlantic and The Cita-
del before playing the Seminoles inthe last three years, outscoring them
191-39.
"We just try to focus on doing
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Ryan Stamper is one of many players who will be taking Florida Field for the second-to-
last time Saturday when Florida hosts FIU at 12:30 p.m.everything we've done in the past
weeks," Stamper said. "We're play-
ing FIl, but believe it or not, we've
been practicing hard just like we
have for previous games like South
Carolina and Georgia."
There isn't much room for play-
ing time to be earned on defense, but
a few offensive players could state
cases for increased roles.
Receiver Omarius Hines had
seven catches against Charleston
Southern and Troy but didn't regis-
ter another statistic until last week,
when he had two receptions for 20
yards against South Carolina.
Freshman running back Mike
Gillislee is also likely to see a lot of
action. As the fourth back on the
depth chart, Gillislee has rushed for
145 yards and a score on 20 carries,
including the team's second-longest
run of the season, a49-yarder against
Georgia.
While those two try to earn more
playing time, the clock on quarter-
back Tim Tebow's UF career will be
counting down. Tebow isn't likely
to make it through the third quarter,
giving him less than two games left
in Gainesville.
"[Tebow] realizes we have two
more Gator Walks, two more times
running out of the tunnel and two
more times being able to play on this
field in front of the greatest fans in
the country," receiver David Nelson
said. "It may hit the fans hard, but
it's hitting him even harder to real-
ize these are his last two chances."
Boar's Head*
All American Platter
Turkey, Ham, Yellow American and Swiss Cheese,
Garnished With Jumbo Olives, Small, Serves 8 to 12, each
SAVE UP TO 6.00Publix Deli
Macaroni Salad.F
For Fast Service, Grab & Go!, Located in the
Publix Deli, 32-oz cont. Quantity rights reserved.
SAVE UP TO 3.69
rt items each week, only at
French Hamburger Buns, Hellmann's
8-Count ..2 9 Mayonnaise . cl
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA VS. Handmade in Our Bakery, Baked Fresh Throughout Assorted Varieties, 30-oz jar Quantity rights reserved.
the Day, From the Publix Bakery, 16-oz pkg. SAVE UP TO 4.81
FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY SAVE UP TO .50
Saturday, November 21, 2009
Publix.
Proud Sponsor of the University of Florida Gators
Visit theultimatetailgateparty.com for your next play.
Prices effective Thursday, November 19 through
Wednesday, November 25, 2009.
Only in Orange, Seminole, Brevard, Marion, Volusia, Alachua,
Flagler, and Columbia Counties in Fla. Quantity rights reserved.SNYDEKS.
Snyder's of Hanover 2 O
Pretzel Pieces FOR 0
Or Nibblers, Assorted Varieties, 10-oz bag
SAVE UP TO .98 ON 212-Pack Selected BUY3
Coca-Cola Products GET 1r
12-oz can (Sale Price 3/12.00 With 1 Free,
That's 4/12.00 or 3.00 each With the Purchase of 4.)
SAVE UP TO 7.56 ON 4
