0 Florida faces one
of the SEC's top
return men Saturday,
Vanderbilt freshman
Warren Norman.
Norman has returned
three kickoffs for
touchdowns this season.
See Story, Page 24.
the independent floridaalligator
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Photo Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, November 6, 2009
Noif y
Zone
Haden, Jenkins grounding teams' aerial attack
By BOBBY CALLOVI Haden and the rest of the pass defense
Alligator Staff Writer in 2007.
bcaIIovi@aIIigator org Haden and Jenkins quickly became
one of the best conerback tandems in
Joe Haden was missing two things the nation as the rest of the defense
when he started as a freshman for the also improved, transforming into one
Gators in 2007. of the nation's top units on the way to
Playing on offense his whole life, a BCS title.
Haden was lacking the confidence a For as good as the duo was last
cornerback needs to play against re- year, they have been even better in
ceivers in the Southeastern Confer- 2009. It is hard to tell sometimes be-
ence. cause neither has put up the flashy in-He also was without another lock- terception numbers most look for in a
down corner to play on the other side corner. They are covering their men so
of the field. well they jst aren't being thrown on
A year of experience and the ar- oftenyeno ghrtopu pthosetype of
rival of Janoris Jenkins started the numbers.turn-around after an awful season for Hadatiutedthat to thehiMh
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF sophomore Janoris Jenkins stepped in as the starting cornerback op-
posite Joe Haden during his freshman year.level of confidence the two are playing
with, what he calls "corner swag."
"(I didn't get it until) toward the
end of last season," Haden said. "This
season, me and Janoris, we both got it
together."
GETrING OVER 2007
When Haden startedat corner for
the Gators as a fresh anhe was jst
leading toplaytheaposition.
He had natural ability,but Haden
had notlearnedthetricksofgarding
a receiver.
He was still playing as if the quar-
terback was throwing tohim, which
resulted in overrunning the ball and
giving up big plays.
The Gators gave up a lot of big pass
plays in 2007.
The pass defense allowed 38 pass-
ing plays of 20 yards or more to wide
receivers alone.
After the 2007 season, then-corner-
backs coach Chuck Heater moved to
safeties coach and eoace Bedford was
brought intofitheproblem.
He immediately got to work, mold-
ing Haden from an athlete into a cor-
nerback.
"Coach Bedford taught me a whole
lot of things like my technique, reading
splits and studying film," Haden said.
"It's not really just about guarding the
dude one-on-one. It's knowing what
he is about to do before he does it, and
if you know that, that is the main thing
tha hllhelp you out as a comBrd
With Haden improving, Bedford
still needed another corner that would
be able to cover any receiver one-on-
one.
That player was Jenkins, who en-
rolled in classes in the spring of 2008
to get a head start onhis freshen sea-
Jenkins started the first game of the
season at cornerbut didn't become the
permanent starter until after the Ole
Miss game, when Shay Hodge beat the
defense for three catches and 133 yards
including an 86-yard score to put the
Rebels ahead by a touchdown.
"eeoris is a special talent," Bedford
said. "He was very mature for his age
a year ago. He understands the game,
has great awareness. Not everybody
has the type of awareness he has. That
was one reason he was able to come in
and play."
Unlike Haden, Jenkins came in
knowing how to play corner and was
able to help Haden with some tech-
niques suchasbackpedaling andopen-
ing up to run with a receiver.
The two thrived immediately inUF cornerback Joe Haden is third on the team in tackles this year after finishing second only to Brandon Spikes
in 2008. Like Jenkins, he started as a true freshman.
their first season together, lowering the
number of pass plays over 20 yards to
21. The Gators'pass defense went from
98th in the nation to 20th.
STOPPING THE RUN
It's easy to see what the two did for
UF's pass defense, but their play also
took pressure off the front seven.
In 2007, the Gators were often
forced to play zone coverage because
of thecorners'inabilities to play receiv-
ers one-on-one.
Jenkins' emergence and Haden's
improved cover skills allowed the
Gators to go back to the man coverage
they prefer, giving them the option to
stack the box to stop the run.
It also gave defensive coordinator
Charlie Strong more freedom in his
blitz schemes.
"Now you can have eight guys in
the box, you can put a safety in the box,
you can blitz more because you feel re-
ally confident in the guys you got at
corner to play man-to-man," Bedford
said. "Anytime you can have qual-
ity covers out there, you are going to
play moreeight-man box; you're going
to blitz a little more."
The defensive front seven was also
a group that got better with experi-
ence, but a lot of their success came on
blitzes.
Defensive linemen accounted for all
but six of the Gators' 29 sacks in 2007,
but those numbers changed to all but
24 of the Gators' 72 sacks one year later
-an increase of more than10 percent
for the linebackers and secondary.
Having a counterpart to protect the
pass, Haden, who likes to get involved
in stopping the run, was able to in-
crease his tackles from 63 to 87, good
for second on the team behind Bran-
don Spikes.
RARELY TESTED
Neither corner is anywhere near
the nation-leading seven-interception
mark.
Haden and Jenkins' success caught
many by surprise in 2008, but they
were not creeping up on anybody this
season.
This season, they only have twointerceptions each and fivepass break-
ups between the two of them.
Teams knew heading in that it
would be tough to throw on the two of
them, so it seems the new game plan is
finding other ways of getting a passing
game going.
"We feel like they aren't really
throwing on us. They are throwing
more to the tight end and the running
backs," Haden said "That's good for us
because it feels like they know we gotour people covered."
Now a junior and a sophomore,
Haden and Jenkins have been shutting
down opposing receivers all season.
Eight games into the season, only
three receivers have had at least 50
yards receiving against the Gators,
dropping from nine last season and 21
the year before.
The only one of them to reach the
century mark was Arkansas' Greg
Childs, who burnt Jenkins twice for
long plays, including a 75-yard touch-
down.
Bedford always reminds the two
that they can't be perfect every game.
"I tell them all the time, as a cor-
nerback you are going to get beat, the
great cornerbacks brush it off, don't
think about it and come back and make
a play," Bedford said.
Besides that one hiccup, the two
havebeen as close to perfect as pos-
sible when they have been tested.
They have again reduced 20-plus
pass plays by opposing receivers tojust seven, and they are down to the
No. 2 pass defense in the nation.
Even without the big interception
numbers, the two are getting noticed.
Haden has been named a semifinal-
ist for the Jim Thorpe Award, which
is given to the nation's best defensive
back, and he is also considered the top
corner for next year's NFL draft, ac-
cording to Scout Inc.
Jenkins isn't getting the same type
of accolades quite yet, but he might
have a greater effect on whether or not
the Gators win their games.
Jenkins always plays on the wide
side of the field, where he is less likely
to be involved in a lot of play, but the
plays to his side of the field are usually
attempts to stretch the field vertically.
"I tell the guys this -andI learned
it from Earle Bruce a long time ago -
'The field corner might be involved in
five plays the entire ball game, and if
he makes those five plays, you are go-
ing to win."'"Bedford said.
"Last year in just about every ball
game, Janoris made his plays, and for
the most part this year, he is making
his plays."
Haden has also been making his
plays, though, and it doesn't appear ei-
ther is going to stop any time soon.
Teams will have to continue to find
different ways to get the passing game
going, leaving the duo unnoticed by
many.
"They understand it's a thankless
job," Bedford said.
byt Dh®N U MBERS
Percent of UF's red- Seasons with a bowl-28 zone trips that have 0 ineligible record for UF
resulted in a touchdown since 1982.
in SEC play.UpSEC wins for coach
Percent of Vanderbilt BobbyiJohnson in
opponents' red-zone eight seasons at
trips that have resulted Vanderbilt.
in a touchdown this season.
Wins for coach Urban
Seasons of bowl eligibility Meyer in his last 12
for Vanderbilt since 1982. SEC games.
UF offense vs. Vanderbilt defense
1&0
Jeff Demps Tim Tebow
S 000000a 0 0
Deonte Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Carl
Thompson Hernandez Gilbert Maurice Pouncey Mike Johnson David Riley
Hurt Pouncey Nelson Cooper
Casey Steven Greg Adam Broderick Myron
Hayward Stone Billinger Smotherman Stewart Lewis
SO8S
Brent Chris Patrick
Trice Marve Benoist
Sean Richardson Joel CaldwellUF defense vs. Vanderbilt offense
8 S
Major Wright Ahmad Black
OS® MBL
Dustin Ryan A.J.
Doe Stamper Jones
Janoris Terron Carlos
Jenkins Jermaine Sanders Omar Dunlap aen
Cunningham Hunter Haden
T a B l I i BrandonJohn Cole Alex Welch Kyle Vierling Eric Lauer Barden Udom Umoh
Washington Fischer Q Hensley
Mackenzi Adams
Warren_
Norman
0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 54 We Inform. You Decide.-Reyc
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
CITY COMMISSION
Locals confront commission on meal limit
By JIMMIE PAUL
Alligator Writer
Immoral, shameful and inhu-
mane were words hurled at Thurs-
day's Gainesville City Commis-
sion meeting, as the battle heats up
against a city law limiting the num-
ber of meals non-religious organiza-tions can serve.
About 150 Gainesville residents
gathered at City Hall to express con-
cerns about the limit, which one per-
son described as "downright evil."
Despite the city's Tuesday
announcement that the City of
Gainesville will team up with St.
Francis House to use the Martin Lu-ther King Jr. Center, 1024 NE 14th
St., as an additional site for provid-
ing meals on Thanksgiving, citizens
remained indignant.
Pat Fitzpatrick, a homeless ad-
vocate who plans to run for com-
missioner, was warned by Mayor
Pegeen Hanrahan that he would be
asked to leave if he didn't stop inter-rupting the commission.
Fitzatrick described the City
Commission, except for Jack Dono-
van, as "malevolent assholes."
Kent Vann, executive director of
the St. Francis House homeless shel-
ter and soup kitchen, said it warms
him to see the community take a
stance on this issue."We have definite community
support," Vann said, "and we love
that."
He said the shelter's special-use
permit was set up to establish a 130-
meal limit, but nothing in the permit
explained what would happen if it
SEE COMMISSION, PAGE 11
Crist, Rubio
speak at GOP
fundraiser
By MATI HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Excitement hung in the air, mixing with the smell of
beer and barbecue sauce Thursday night at the Ronald
Reagan Black Tie and Blue Jeans BBQ.
More than 800 Republicans gathered at Canterbury
Equestrian Showplace in Newberry
for the event, a fundraiser for the Ala-
chua County Republican Party.
Some were dressed in jackets and
ties and some in T-shirts, but nearly
all wore blue jeans. Their boots,
sneakers and sandals kicked up dust
from the dirt in the outdoor arena as
Rubio they clamored around those running
for political office to introduce them-
selves, stand for a photo or share an opinion.
Gov. Charlie Crist and former Speaker Marco Rubio
brought their Senate campaign battle to the barbecue.
But instead of bickering, they focused on their plat-
forms and accomplishments and spoke about what they
thought America needed.
Alex Burgos, a spokesman for the Rubio campaign,
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff said he believed it was only the second time the candi-
Florida Gov. Charlie Christ and his wife, Carole, greet St. Patrick Interparish School student Matthew Crews at the Ronald dates have appeared at the same event since announc-
Reagan Black Tie and Blue Jeans BBQ held in the Canterbury Equestrian Showplace on Newberry Road Thursday night. SEE BBQ, PAGE 11
Students provide input to architects for future union
0 STUDENTS WANT MORE SPACE
FOR MEETINGS, DANCE.
By ANDREW WYZAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 20 students attended an open
forum Thursday to give their input about theReitz Union's future.
Visiting architects from Gould Evans of
Tampa, Fla., and WTW Architects of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., discussed the strengths and weak-
nesses of the union with students.
"Our role in this is to investigate what
goals the students and university have for
the union," said Richard F. Bamburak, a se-
nior principal architect for WTW. "Everyonewould like improvement."
Student representatives from from orga-
nizations like the Reitz Union
On Board Entertainment and Stu-
CampuS dent Government, including
Student Body President Jordan
Johnson, were present.
One student from the Greek community
said the union doesn't represent certain orga-nizations and doesn't have enough space in
the Center for Student Activities & Involve-
ment, which is located on the third floor of the
union.
Students also brought up the issue of per-
forming arts because the union doesn't have
any practice areas. Kyle Wilson, a UF sopho-
more, was a major supporter of this.
"It sucks to dance outside," Wilson said.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers* To hear clips of
speeches by Fox News
host Laura Ingraham
and Republican politi-
cians Charlie Crist
Marco Rubio and Jim
Greer as they speak
on recent elections,
visit Alligator.org.TOday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12Sunny
CROSSWORD 16 75/52
SPORTS 17
visit www.alligator.org0 Midfielder Erika
Tymrak (right) and
the Gators will rely
on their depth as
they take on South
Carolina in the SEC
Tournament semifi-
nals today. UF won
in double overtime
on Wednesday.
See Story, Page 17.
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6,2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Shabbat at Hillel
Today, 7 p.m.
Saturday, 10:30 a.m.
2020 W University Ave.
Rabbi Aaron Alexander, a UF
alumnus and associate dean of
the Ziegler School at American
Jewish University, will join stu-
dents for services and dinner,
followed by a discussion of the
Jewish soul. Services will con-
tinue on Saturday morning, fol-
lowed by lunch and Alexander's
discussion of the Jewish concepts
of heaven and hell.
Theatre Strike Force Improvised
Musical
Friday, 8:45pm, Orange & Brew
Theatre Strike Force's musical
improv group, AM Radio, will
be performing one of its final,
completely improvised half-hour
musical comedies tonight. This is
one of your last chances to watch
their improvisational hilarity on
stage.
Graduate Christian Fellowship
Fall Picnic
Sunday, 1:30 p.m.
Lake Wauburg
Graduate Christian Fellowship
invites all graduate and profes-
sional school students to a picnic
at Lake Wauburg. Burgers and
chicken will be provided. Bring
a dish to pass. See our FacebookFORECAST
TODAY
SUNNY
75/52SATURDAY
SUNNY
76/58
group, GCF at University of
Florida, for more details.
Gator Society for Human
Resource Management
Information Session
Nov. 9, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Career Resource Center
Library
GatorSHRM is a new student
organization for human re-
sources offering networking,
leadership, volunteer and re-
sume building opportunities.
Students from all majors are
encouraged to attend the infor-
mation session. Free refresh-
ments provided. Please RSVP at
GatorSHRM@gmail.com. Learn
more about HR at shrm.org.
Team Save Something Cute
fundraiser
Nov. 11, 6 to 8 p.m.
Gelato Company
The group is raising money for
the Humane Society and would
really appreciate any participa-
tion. There will also be a cook-
book fundraiser, which can be
found at tropicaleats.com.SUNDAY
CLOUDY
81/65MONDAY
CLOUDY
83/66TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
81/65
IDEAL Fall Open House
Nov. 12, 7 to 9 p.m.
Do you want to be an Official
Ambassador for the Reitz Union
and Center for Student Activities
and Involvement? Come to the
IDEAL Fall Open House in the
Arredondo Room and meet cur-
rent members who love helping
students on campus find where
they belong in involvement.
Make sure to be there for the pre-
sentation at 8 p.m.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this space?
Send an e-mail to bkelley@alliga-
tor.org with "What's Happening"
in the subject line. Please include
a one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event. Make sure all sub-
missions are formatted properly.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"I "Where It Pais tM Care"Ia the independent florida
Not officiallyrVOLUME 103 ISSUE 54 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jienkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeg/er@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligafor.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, /nieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncLEGAL NOTICE
On January 20, 2009 the Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity Grand Council voted to revoke the charter of the Tau Alpha
chapter at University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida effective of this date.
This is notice that any groups of students representing themselves as the Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity have no
authority to operate a fraternity or fraternity chapter under the name "Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity" or "TEP" at the
University of Florida, or elsewhere in the Gainesville community. Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity, Inc. ceased to
operate at University of Florida in Gainesville on January 20, 2009.
There may be a group of students who continue to operate in the name of Tau Epsilon Phi, utilizing the distinctive
letters, marks and insignias of the Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity, Inc. These unique symbols are protected by federal
law and any such group utilizing them conducts its operations at its own peril and in direct violation of federal law.
No group of students is authorized to use the name Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity Inc. or the service marks of Tau
Epsilon Phi Fraternity on the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida campus or in the Gainesville community.
Only chartered chapters are authorized to operate a chapter and use the distinctive marks of the Fraternity. Tau
Epsilon Phi Fraternity welcomes any information from any and all sources at University of Florida in Gainesville
identifying such unlawful conduct. Please contact Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity, Inc National Headquarters at
tep@pipeline.com or 856-782-9837.
1~ X
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
Group to raffle BCS ring
* THE RING WAS DONATED
ANONYMOUSLY.
By NICOLE LYNN GREINER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 2006 Bowl Championship Se-
ries National Championship ring
will find a new home Monday.
The Make a Play Foundation
will raffle off a ring, which is only
given to players and coaches, that
was donated anonymously by a
UF football player.
Each tickets cost $10, or fans
can purchase three tickets for $25.
Gators fans can enter the raffle
through the Web site, makeaplay-
foundation.org or by calling 352-
514-2681.
The raffle will end Sunday at
midnight, and the drawing will
take place Monday at noon.
"That would be freakin'sweet,"
said Tana Conner, a senior tele-
communication major.
Conner said she plans to buy a
ticket, and if she wins she would
give the ring to her father. "It
would, like, make his life," shesaid.
Fans are encouraged to buy as
many tickets as they want, said
Alecia Pynn, the founder of the
foundation.
The ring is a size 12 and can
be resized within two sizes of the
original. It is 10 karat white gold
and decorated with cubic zirco-
nias.
The foundation raffled off a
Southeastern Conference cham-
pionship ring last
Local spring and raised
News about $8,000. They
sold about 1,940
tickets, Pynn said.
"We want to use the passion
and energy for college football in
Florida to create resources and op-
portunities for youth and family
programs," she said.
The money raised goes toward
the foundation's family and youth
projects. Some money also goes to
former football players' founda-
tions.
Pynn said another UF football
player has approached her about
possibly auctioning off his 2008
SEC championship ring.Acting club takes 'dark' turn
By ERIN JESTER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Players are back again, but this time
with a darker storyline.
Their production of Martin McDonagh's "The
Pillowman" will run Friday through Sunday in the
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts' Squitieri
Studio Theatre. Admission is free. Tickets can be
reserved online at performingarts.ufl.edu/tickets.
The show cost about $5,400 to produce, accord-
ing to student production manager Martina Harte.
Student Government contributed $900 to the bud-
get for props, costumes and a set, she said.
"The Pillowman" is the second of six full-length
plays the Florida Players will put on this year.
Carolina Cuervo, president of the Florida Play-
ers, is excited the club is able to bring diverse the-
ater to Gainesville for free.
"[This show] is a little more disturbing than oth-
er shows we've done in the past," she said.
"The Pillowman" is the tale of an author who
sometimes writes macabre stories about children
being killed. When a slew of children turn up mur-
dered in the same way as his stories, the police pull
him in as a prime suspect.The play takes place during the writer's time in
prison through a series of conversations with his
brother, who is also in prison. There are also scenes
depicting the writer's stories.
"[This show] is a little more disturbing
than other shows we've done in the
past."
Carolina Cuervo
president of the Florida Players
The play is directed by senior theater student
Alex Hernandez, who is primarily an actor. "The
Pillowman" is his first full-length experience with
directing.
Although the School of Theatre and Dance usu-
ally allows six weeks of rehearsal time, Hernandez
made the decision to cut that time in half. He said
he wanted to simulate what happens in the real
world and to give the cast a chance to perform for
an audience before they lose their enthusiasm.
He said actors can peak too early with too much
rehearsal time.
"This play is peaking at just the right time," he
said.
New Class.
Not So Much Cash.1:1 oody Parties Like CJ's
FRIDAY SATURDAY
9 Domestic $5 Domestic $5.95 Domestic Pitchers
Draft Pitchers $5 Jager Bombs
$5 Jager Bombs (10 p.m. -close) $2 Lemon Drops
$2 Lemon Drops 99C Margaritas
Live Music
SUNDAY & MONDAY
FOOTBALL SPECIALS
49c Wings & Oysters $5 Jager Bombs
99t Drafts $3 Calls
7 5BEER .3501 SW 2nd Ave * CalicoJacks.net * 371-1675
'THIS WEEK THEY LEARNED THE IMPERFECT
STUDIED THE POLITICS OF THE EU, WO1
INTERNATIONAL MARKETING PROJECT AND
C;S50% OF
ALL FOOD
11am-lom Fridavs
and 4pr-7prn Monday -Thursday
Great drink specials too!
VERBS IN ITALIAN,
WVIHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS EK
Discover where you'll study abroad at usac.unr.edu,,.TU SAC&"
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6,2009
Arm 12 dead 31 hurt in attack at Fort Hood
Copyrighted Material,
S ndicated Content
Available from commercial News Providers
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
COUNTY NEWS
Commission reviews charter
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Changes to the Alachua Coun-
ty Charter will appear on the bal-
lot in March. In the meantime, a
review commission is gathering
citizen-suggested changes to the
charter, which defines the struc-
ture, powers and function of the
county government.
A commission, compromised
of 15 citizens, is appointed by
the County Commission every
10 years to propose changes to
that charter. Most of the review
commission members have been
involved in county government,
and Buddy Irby, the Clerk of
Court, will chair the group.
Any proposal passed by the
County Review Commission will
appear on the 2010 general elec-
tion ballot.
Guy York, commission mem-
ber and a vice president at Santa
Fe College, said the commissionhas only gotten a few proposals
so far, but they've interested him.
One proposal claims only
Democrats have a choice in
electing county commissioners.
Because more than 50 percent
of Alachua County's registered
voters are reg-
istered Demo-
crats, whoever
wins the closed
primary will
win the general
election, leav-
ing Republicans
Long and indepen-
dents without a voice, according
to the proposal.
Currently all of the Alachua
County Commissioners and the
Supervisor of Elections are Dem-
ocrats.
The proposal aims to increase
voter participation by making
elections for county commis-
sioners nonpartisan. There are
already six Florida counties withnonpartisan county commission
elections.
The City of Gainesville sub-
mitted a proposal to protect its
home rule authority. The pro-
posal would require any charter
amendments that limit a city gov-
ernment to be passed by a major-
ity of voters not just in the county,
but also in the affected city.
Another proposal suggests
combining the governments of
Alachua County and Gainesville.
County Commissioner Rodney
Long has already called for fire
services to be consolidated, and
the idea has been presented to the
review commission.
The review commission's
meetings are open to the public.
The next meeting will be at 5:30
p.m. on Nov. 16 in the Grace
Knight Conference Room, located
on the second floor of the Admin-
istration Building. Proposals can
be submitted at assets2.alachua-
county.us/charterreview.
/ Experience a mock law
school class, and get
inside tips on what to
expect during your 1st year
/ Work through an actual
case and participate in an
analysis of the legal issues
/ Learn about hot legal
career optionsLSATTeacher Justin Mowitz,
J.D., is a former Sergeant in
the United States Marine
Corps, and earned his
Bachelor of Science in
Aviation Management from
Southern Illinois University,
Carbondale while on active
duty. Justin recently received his Juris Doctor
from Vermont Law School and is awaiting
admission to the Florida Bar. While in law
school, Justin worked in the areas of Contract
Law, Real Property Law, and Criminal Law.
Since graduation, Justin has worked as a clerk in
a local boutique firm specializing in Construction
Law while awaiting admission to the Bar.
Tuesday, November 17th
7:00-9:00 p.m.
UF Law School Room 285B
Space is limited! To register, visit
kaptest.com/law or call 1-800-KAP-TEST.
IA(APLAN TEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONSCo-sponsored by:
I(A P LAN piaubx
MULTISTATE BAR REVIEW0 THE MEMORIAL
INCLUDES THREE FLAGS.
By DEREK GILLIAM
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Fraternity house has completed
construction on three flagpoles
to honor the memory of a fallen
brother.
Ehren Murburg died last year
while training in North Carolina
to become a Green Beret.
The memorial features the
American flag in the center, the
Florida state flag to the right and
the fraternity's flag on the left.
A memorial plaque will be
placed underneath the flagpoles
Dyslexia
-Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
Years of gain in
weeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesville
for over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
infodmorriscenters.comBUY ONE. GET ONE FREERegular cup or cone with this ad.
WEWIER
Job d."bie
SUN-WED IAM-3AM FREE WIFI
THURS, FRI & SAT
IAM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
1. Reduce Waste with Reusable Plates, Cups and Utensils
2. Recycle Aluminum Cans, Plastic and Glass Bottles
3. Dispose of Trash in Proper ReceptaclesFraternity honors
fallen brother
Saturday at 11 a.m.
The event will also host the
125th SAE Anniversary Alumni
Barbecue.
SAE will place plaques for
fallen brothers from World War
I and II, said Marcus Motes, vice
president of SAE.
The fraternity is creating the
Ehren Murburg
Local Veterans Memo-
NewS rial Scholarship,
which will pro-
vide $1,500 a semester to return-
ing veterans attending UF.
Murburg attended UF for
three semesters and left to fol-
low his dream of becoming a
member of the U.S. Army Spe-
cial Forces, said Kyle Kelly, a
member of the fraternity.
Thinking about Law School?
Decide if law school is right for you by
attending Kaplan's FREE Law School Experience
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6,2009
Editorial
ngs have been extra crazy around campus recently. UF
staff members and the public just won't let up with their
barrage of absurd actions, baffling the Editorial Board.
While we would never wish this feeling of helpless bewilder-
ment on anyone, we do hope that the Student Body shares in
at least some of our confusion. And it is on that note that we
are proud to present you with a we-need-confirmation-that-it's-
not-just-the-sleep-deprivation-that's-confusing-us edition of.
Darts & Laurels
Christopher gazed into her soft eyes. Whispering, he told her
how beautiful she is. Filled with lust, he slowly unzipped his
pants. Sound like the beginning of a romantic novel? Soft-core
screenplay? Well, like the poor creative writers we are, we for-
got to set the scene.
Christopher Wallace was allegedly masturbating while
viewing Internet pornography in Library West, according to
University Police, who issued Wallace a trespass warning last
week. Not so romantic anymore, is it? While we appreciate
that he kept it in his pants (mostly), we have to throw a keep-it-
out-of-the-libraries DART at Mr. Wallace. There's simply not
enough hand sanitizer in the world to make us feel clean after
hearing that one.
But the madness did not stop there for patrons of Library
West. Roman Schulz, a 60-year-old Gainesville resident, threat-
ened to throw hot coffee on anyone using his favorite computer
last Friday. At least we know that coffee is the worst of what
could get on us in a confrontation with Schulz. (As other library
visitors have demonstrated, the situation could be a lot stickier.)
We still have to throw even hotter coffee -or rather, a piping-
hot-grande-latte DART -back at Mr. Schulz.
Hopefully Wallace and Schulz will team up and start their
own Internet cafe, giving them a much needed reason to stay
out of UF libraries. How does "Mocha Me Moan" sound?
On to the staff. Last Friday morning, a UF nuclear engineer-
ing professor and his wife were arrested after allegedly stealing
the work of UF grad and doctoral students, trying to turn it into
$3.7 million for themselves and their sons. We just don't under-
stand how Samim Anghaie hoped to dupe NASA, the Air Force
and the Navy out of millions of dollars.
This comes at the heels of a UF department chair's resigna-
tion last month. Michael Garrett was allegedly sleeping with
multiple students, all of whom believed they were in "exclu-
sive, intimate" relationships with him. In the age of social net-
working and instant gossip, this was bound to end poorly (and
publicly).
So we have decided to throw a learn-a-thing-or-two-from-
your-students DART at the UF staff. We know this Internet
thing is newfangled nonsense to some of these old-timers, but
Garrett, 39, should be familiar with the devastating effects Fa-
cebook has on would-be players. As for Anghaie's epic plagia-
rism, even at 60 he should be well aware of turnitin.com.
Tired of all the DARTS? Well how about a queen-of-ab-
surdity LAUREL for the barefoot pumpkin lady who drove
a 2-ton dump truck around town Saturday collecting "a good
1,000" rotting pumpkins. She uses these pumpkins to decorate
her sprawling 130-acre property, and though we aren't even
close to understanding this one either, we love it!
just to prove that it isn't just Gainesville going crazy re-
cently, on Tuesday, Maine voters simultaneously approved
expansions to the state's medical marijuana laws and rejected a
law granting same-sex couples the right to marry. What in the
world is going on? For taking one step forward, two steps back
and confusing the hell out of us in the process, we would like to
present Maine voters with a big, fat DAUREL. (Yes, we can do
that because it's that mixed up.)
Finally, there was one lonely bit of news that made sense this
week. The City of Gainesville will provide the St. Francis House
with a supplementary site for providing meals to the homeless
this Thanksgiving. For doing the right thing, we're proud to
give a we-knew-you'd-come-around LAUREL to the city.
That's all for this week. Go Gators!
l the independent florida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.a Iigator.org/opinions
1IE SbPot(ZT FoR -ile Ne SrWNT uNo iS ovu tontumNy
NWD Q{8O? OUQ &CCL AQE
8S 7 /4Y)p SN T '0KC U0t _ Os- WT  A A Sxi,,1c7
401 AEVWP CFeTc
C'/ /
U
00
Guest column
Goldstone report doesn't tell full story
here has been recent commotion by supporters ofthe United Nations' Goldstone report spreading half-
truths and misinformation by claiming that the report
deals with "human rights."
The Goldstone report was controversial from its very be-
ginning. First, it's important to mention that the "fact-finding
mission" into last year's Gaza conflict was commissioned by
the United Nations Human Rights Council, an organization
so biased and prejudiced in its voting record that the United
States has considered boycotting it completely. The mandate
passed for Goldstone's fact-finding mission included only a
provision to "investigate the violations of international hu-
man rights law. by Israel, against the Palestinian people.
particularly in the occupied Gaza Strip."
The mandate failed to make room for investigations of
violations of the militant Hamas government or of the Is-
lamic Jihad faction against Israel's civilians that originally
led to the incursion, or of the complicity of Iran and Syria,
who are well-known sponsors of armed extremist groups in
the area. It also failed to recognize that as of 2005, the Gaza
Strip is devoid of any Israeli occupation, or even Jewish set-
tlers. Because of this, 15 out of the 47 members of the council,
including leading democracies from four continents, refused
to support the Goldstone mission altogether. Still, the Gold-
stone delegation departed for the Palestinian territories with
an incomplete agenda.
It is therefore no surprise that the Goldstone report con-
tains only testimony relating to Israeli acts of aggression
(most of it being notoriously unreliable eyewitness testimony
and some even bordering hearsay), without even a mention
of motives or context. During the entire fact-finding mission,
Goldstone did not bother to consult with Israeli officials or
military representatives, nor did he venture into Israeli towns
that were subject to the terror of constant rocket attacks into
purely civilian areas and collect their testimonies. Some sec-
tions of the Goldstone report read like bizarre horror stories
-Israeli forces firing from helicopters on a UN school andYoav Mor even a hospital and a mosque. How-
Speaking Out ever, the truth of the situation is that
Hamas and other insurgent fighters
deliberately used these locations for
staging rocket attacks and storing weapons. YouTube, for ex-
ample, is rife with documented videos of Hamas using wom-
en and children as human shields. After the fighting was
over, Hamas was so proud of their job that they have chosen
to reconstruct one of their headquarters adjacent to the Gaza
psychiatric hospital, because they know Israel would think
twice about encountering collateral civilian casualties.
Supporters of the Goldstone report try to save face by
claiming that the report is a peaceful one that calls for both
sides to conduct their own investigations. However, it's dear
that this is not the case, and the report is instead being used
by those who wish to demonize Israel on an international
level. It is for this reason the United States repudiated the
Goldstone report in a congressional resolution, H.Res. 867,
which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support.
You may ask yourself, how is this relevant to me? I be-
lieve this is an issue that concerns all of us as Americans. The
egregious singling out of one nation repeatedly as an offend-
er without giving the complete picture of the situation is a
miscarriage of justice that threatens the integrity of not only
the UN but also that of honest international reporting.
Israel is a beacon of democracy -just like the United
States. It is a free and open country that prides itself on being
based on the rule of law. In fact, the Israeli government has
initiated a number of investigations into abuses of its army
and has taken the necessary actions when found guilty.
Though mistakes have been made on both sides, we
should undoubtedly support a strong U.S.-Israel relation-
ship. I encourage UF students to contact Gators for Israel or
a political science professor if they want to learn more about
the situation in the Middle East.
Yoav Mor is the director of public relations for Gators for
Israel.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Are you afraid Monday's question: Did Maine 63% YES
to go to the library? mess up? 37% NO
68 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
Letters to the Editor
UF should limit library access
One doesn't have to look far to see a
growing number of incidents involving
the general public and university resourc-
es. In the last week alone, we have had a
man threaten to throw coffee on students
in the Marston Science Library and an
alleged public masturbator. God knows
what else goes unreported.
At what juncture does the university
take a stand against these incidents? Does
someone need to be injured before UF
regulates who can come to the library?
Students are held responsible for how
they behave on campus. Do something
stupid (like those incidents), and you
would most likely be gone from school, if
not suspended. The general public doesn't
face the same risk. Misbehave and Univer-
sity Police will just give you a trespassing
ticket (barely even a slap on the wrist).
We need to start limiting who has ac-
cess to our libraries and computer labs be-
fore something worse happens. Granted,
the aforementioned incidents are fairly
minor in nature, but is this a risk we need
to take? A person could argue that be-
cause these services and facilities are paid
for with tax dollars, the public should
have the right to access to them. I would
say that our many recreation centers are
also paid for with tax dollars, but we sure
as heck don't let the public in them. We
don't even allow students who forget
their Gator 1 Cards to use them.
The university needs to better regu-
late the use of library resources by people
with no university affiliation, whether this
means a registration requirement for the
general public or a mandatory check-in
(like Southwest Recreation Center) be re
you enter. We have the right as studentsto go into our own library without having
to worry about some local with no ties to
the school masturbating in front of every-
one or threatening to throw coffee on us.
Don Kershaw
3LS
PETA offers debate with grill group
In response to the Alligator article
"College Republicans hold 'PETA Barbe-
cue' that ran on Wednesday, it was sur-
prising to read that members of the stu-
dent group claimed that "loving animals
does not exclude you from eating meat." I
surely hope they don't love the dogs they
share their homes with the same way they
"love" the pigs and chickens they served
on the Plaza of the Americas.
Most people on both sides of the politi-
cal aisle are horrified to discover that ani-
mals raised and killed for food are treated
in ways that could warrant felony cruelty-
to-animals charges if cats or dogs were the
victims. Chickens often have their beaks
cut off without any painkillers, and cows
and pigs are skinned and dismembered,
often while still conscious. This kind of
abuse is standard in an industry that re-
fuses to make even the most basic changes
in the way that animals are treated.
At PETA, we do not believe that cru-
elty to animals is a partisan issue, but if
the College Republicans feel strongly that
torturing animals for our meals is accept-
able, we would be happy to have that
discussion. If the College Republicans
are willing, we would gladly participate
in an on-campus debate, at a time of their
choosing, to allow UF students to hear
both sides.
Ryan Huling
PETA Senior College Campaign CoordinatorFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
Shands explains closure
t Shands HealthCare, we remaincommitted to caring for all patients
in our communities, including those
requiring basic health care services and
those with little or no health care insurance.
On Sunday, we relocated services and
staff from Shands at AGH to Shands at UF.
That same day, we also moved our emer-
gency services from both Shands at AGH
and the Shands at UF North Campus to
the Shands Critical Care Center, located
on the new Shands at UF South Campus.
Prior to the transition, the combined emer-
gency room capacity at Shands at AGH
and Shands at UF enabled our emergency
teams to treat about 75,000 emergency pa-
tients a year. Emergency teams at Shands
Critical Care Center now have the capacity
to treat about 100,000 emergency patients
annually. In addition, opening Shands Can-
cer Hospital and Medical Center (on the
south campus) resulted in a net increase in
available staffed inpatient hospital beds in
Gainesville.
All family medicine inpatient services
from AGH, including those staffed by UF
faculty and community-based private prac-
titioners, also moved to Shands at UF, as
did the AGH obstetrical service. And we
relocated the well-respected Forensic Nurse
Examiner Program, the area's only such
program for victims of sexual assault, from
the AGH emergency department over to
the new Critical Care Center.
Regarding ongoing care for east
Gainesville, the UF and Shands HealthCare
system has the largest health care presence
on the east side of Gainesville with the UF
Physicians Southwest Fourth Avenue fam-
ily practice clinic and the UF Shands East-
side Community Practice.
The plan for Shands Cancer Hospital was
established four years ago in response the
growing demand for cancer care at ShandsTimothy Goldfarb at UF. One in
Speaking Out seven adult pa-tients at Shands
at UF has a can-
cer-related condition. In 2009, Florida will
have more than 100,000 new cancer cases,
giving our state the nation's second highest
rate, after California. Here in north central
Florida, there are at least 4,500 new cancer
cases each year. Opening the cancer hospi-
tal will allow UF and Shands to expand on-
cology care and other specialty services to
meet our patients' and community's health
care needs.
Meanwhile, we're pleased to say that
we have retained the vast majority of AGH
employees and provided them with new
positions within the Shands system. As
major employers and health care provid-
ers, Shands and the UF College of Medicine
together make a $2.5 billion impact on Flori-
da's economy. At a time of severe economic
crisis and unemployment throughout Flori-
da and the nation, Alachua County benefits
from employers such as UF and Shands.
And as the area's only not-for-profit health
care system, Shands reinvests all earnings
back into operations, programs and ser-
vices to support our mission and serve our
patients and communities.
We remain committed to our social mis-
sion to improve community health. Alachua
County has engaged the WellFlorida Coun-
cil to conduct a comprehensive health-needs
assessment. Shands is funding a portion of
the total cost of the project, along with the
Alachua County Health Department, Choic-
es, North Florida Regional Medical Center
and Palms Medical Center. Collectively, we
identify short-term and long-term health
requirements based on community needs,
community growth and health care trends.
Timothy Goldfarb is the CEO of Shands
HealthCare.
I IGetting the degree.
Now get the SMILE you want to go
with it and make a great first impressi
It's never beeasier' N
invisa lgn
Call today for a complimentary evaluation 332-7466 or visit wwwPappas & Tapley
Orthodontics
Specialists in Orthodontics
on.
invisalign
.41dt
2009
'.ptorthodontics.comGerard donated in his
mother's name
His gift provided shelter for
the Tyler family after a fi re.
Support the Red Cross
and save a life, starting
with your own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
or visit redcross.org
American
Red CrossonSunOpen 1Oam-9pm
Grocery
just Around
the Corner
-Sausages -Ham
-Deli Meat- Cheese -Salads
-Fish -Cakes -Candy-Juices
& More
3312 SW 35th Blvd
ThNext to Kohl's entrance |E
The Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Spring semesters.You will receive classroom
training, firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
~ff~rnc~ w~flall Iig a to,*"r,
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6,2009
LOCAL NEWS
Club gives smiles to orphans
By BRIAN RICHIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Some UF students are working hard to put a
smile on the faces of children.
Gator Smiles, a campus service club, raises mon-
ey to pay for the surgeries of children overseas with
deft lips and palates.
According to the National Institutes of Health
Web site, a cleft lip and cleft palate occur when the
tissue that forms the roof of the mouth and upper lip
don't join before birth.
Members also give financial and emotional sup-
port to children at Shands at UF.
President and co-founder Lauren Uhazie said the
goal of Gator Smiles is to pay for as many surgeries
as possible for children in Asia because these chil-
dren won't be put on the adoption list.
Gator Smiles started in the spring of 2007 by
Uhazie and UF senior Michael Rosato. Uhazie said
the idea came from her sister, Stephanie.
"She was inspired by a man from our churchwho adopted twin girls with cleft lip and palate
from China," Uhazie said. "He showed our church a
video about the orphans in China and how they des-
perately need surgeries so they can eat correctly."
"She was inspired by a man from our
church who adopted twin girls with
cleft lip and palate from China."
Lauren Uhazie
Gator Smiles president
Gator Smiles works with Love Without Bound-
aries, a nonprofit organization that donates money
and provides surgeries for children in China. Club
members choose the children their donations will
help, and they receive post-surgery pictures.
Gator Smiles raises money each year through
fundraising events like an annual 5K run and ulti-
mate Frisbee. The club is planning a Texas Hold 'em
poker tournament for the spring and a car wash on
Sunday.UF sends students
to school with texts
Five dollars and a phone is all
you need to help put a UF student
through college, thanks to a new
text-based donation program
launched by UF this past week.
The program allows anyone to
donate $5 to the Florida Opportu-
nity Scholars program by texting
"UF" to the number 90999.
Up to five donations can be
made each month.
The fund is for first-generation
Florida students whose families
make less than $40,000 a year.
In October 2008, coaches Ur-
ban Meyer and Billy Donovansaid they would head a campaign
to raise $50 million for the fund.
So far, $8 million has been raised.
Meyer recently committed
$1 million to the program over
six years. Machen pledged his
performance bonuses, which to-
tal $285,000, to theOn fund in December.Campus Chris Brazda,
spokesman for the
UF Foundation, which handles
donations to the university, said
this is the first time the foundation
has used texting to raise money.
-THOMAS STEWART
DOWNTOWN
PP WORLD'S GREATEST DAD EKE Robin Williams stars in this thoughtful dark comedy.cn em a 6:30 & 8:30pm I Sat 4:30, 6:30 & 8:30 1 Sun at 2:30, 4:30 & 7
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORGgaI I
inesvil
-Telious foodmc,Delousod~ $28PF 1,OWNTOWt
) Snacks and Beer \ ABBEBSHP
Cuban Sandwiches, Plates, PastriesXCde and more! 15 W. University Ave o (352) 373-4841
Downtown Acrss from 8 sec p 371-2000 next to Durt Nell s wwD~rbrhpcrUniversity Ave.
.Gator Gifts
" Gator Accessories
" Gator Stationery
" Pandora Jewelry
" Vera Bradley
Mon-Sat 10AM-7PM Sun 12PM -5PM
201 SE 2nd Place Suite 112
DowntownGainesville
352-376-3266:08 lSeconds
Thursday Niht -_ --- j-Cuollege Night
-Ladies Drink Free
-!$15- Longnecks for Everyone
Friday
-$3 Jack and Jager
Saturday
-$2 Longnecks
-$4 U-Eall-It
Hil W. nivermity Ave.I I
Where Food & Love Meet!
Downtown at 12 SE 2nd Avenue
352-378-6307
tiamogainesville.com
Late Night Dining
Lauren Joos / Alligator
Lesford Duncan drapes himself in a Jamaican flag and a dreadlock hat at
the African Student Union's 2009 Scholarship Pageant "The Missing Piece"
Thursday night in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
THE GIVF GUIDEWINTER 2009
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to
more than 52,000 readers!I
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
students, faculty and staff looking for
graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Deadline:
Friday November 13
Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
352.376.4482
the independent ori
Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 9
ASU scholarship pageant
teaches cultural heritage
U ABOUT 100 ATTENDED people that act beyond them- their waists. The audience
THE EVENT IN THE REITZ. selves that are able to lend a cheered as Martinez removed
helping hand to help people her jacket and threw it to the
in their community," Armah men.
By CLAKLIN I ILLU
Alligator Writer
Contestants at the African
Student Union Scholarship
Pageant traced their roots to
about five different countries
but emphasized the impor-
tance of uniting cultures dur-
ing a two-hour show at the
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
Thursday night.
About 100 people attended
the pageant. Nichole Armah
was crowned Miss ASU and
Lesford Duncan was crowned
Mr. ASU. Both walked away
with a $150 scholarship.
Director Courtney Hubbard
said the theme of this year's
pageant, "The Missing Piece,"
emphasized its goal of provid-
ing the audience with a knowl-
edge and awareness of African
culture they may have lacked
before the event.
Armah, a freshman applied
physiology and kinesiology
major, said the theme repre-
sented the idea of bringing
people together in a world
where they tend to fend for
themselves.
"The missing piece is thesaid.
As Miss ASU, Armah said
she hopes to reach out and
work with other UF cultural
student groups and volunteer
in the U.S. and Africa.
"The missing piece is the
people that act beyond
themselves that are able
to lend a helping hand to
help people in their com-
munity."
Nichole Armah
UF freshman
Contestants also modeled
clothes representing their na-
tive countries and showed off
their talents. They also had to
share their opinion about what
the concept of the missing
piece meant to them.
Polly Sanchez-Martinez
stepped onto the stage and
held a Haitian flag in one hand
and a Dominican Republic flag
in the other to represent her
heritage. She then handed the
flags to the two shirtless men
who accompanied her, and
they wrapped the flags around
-PEACHA VALLEY
C + A -F -E
BREAKFAST .LUNCH e DINNER Sister restaurant of
Stonewood Grill & Tavern
Breakfast, lunch, and dinner
served anytime
F ull menu take out
Catering
3275 SW 34th St. (Behind Hooters) "Experience The Freshness"
(352) 376-1834 Open Daily 7am-8pm
LIFEsouth
For more information, contact clay Gibbons at.
352-334 000 or jcgibbons@lfesouth org
Sponsored by:
waigatorDuncan, a senior biology
major, danced onto the stage
sporting dreadlocks and a Ja-
maican flag cape to show off
his heritage.
During the talent portion,
he took a more serious tone
sharing a Bible verse and
preaching about God. He used
his performance to encourage
audience members to help oth-
ers.
"This is my calling," Dun-
can said. "This is what God
gave me as a talent."
Other talent performances
included a spoken-word reci-
tation by Sanchez-Martinez, a
skit and poetry reading from
Tola Ilegbusi, a basketball
video from Kola Akinduro and
a hair-styling demonstration
from Armah.
Paul Alcius, a senior micro-
biology major, attended the
event. He said he liked how
the contestants embraced their
cultures, which some people
are ashamed to do.
"But I think that it's good to
recognize your roots and stay
true to yourself, and that's
what everybody did tonight,"
Alcius said.
gators march for babies
Register, Raise Money and
Join Us to Help Save Babies!
www.gatorsmarchforbabies.org
TURLINGTON PLAZA
REGISTRATION 1:00 PM
KICK-OFF 2:00 PM
march ofdimes AWARDS 3:00 PM
WITH SUPPORT FROM
F,undq SUpportor
C M0N7AT
The Collier Companies alligator
Maddie's
Pot Rescue Project
of Alachua County
www.MaiiliesPetRescuDfAlachu.urg
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
Foundation auctions local art for hospital fundraiser
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
Founders of the Sebastian Ferrero Foundation Horst and Luisa Ferrero, left and center, and local
Gainesville artist Irene Salley, right, talk at the Art for a Cause event at the space next to Luca's Pasta
on West University Avenue on Thursday night.By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
The Sebastian Ferrerro Founda-
tion kicked off its latest fundraiser
Thursday night at Luca's Pasta,
where people sipped wine, listened
to music and browsed about 25
paintings for sale.
The organization, formed after
3-year-old Sebastian died from a pre-
ventable medical overdose in 2007,
raises money to build a children's
hospital in Gainesville.
"This is all about love," said
painter Irene Salley, who donates 100
percent of the profits from her paint-
ings to the cause. "People tell me my
work gives them joy, happiness and
passion, but my work is about love
most of all."
Luisa Ferrero, Sebastian's mother
and founder of the organization,
hopes that the show, which will con-
tinue through Sunday, will bring in
$70,000 to $80,000.
"This is all done for the children,"
Ferrero said. "Giving is a big part for
healing."
Salley can relate to the healing
process. Her granddaughter Jose-
phine drowned last year. However,
she is quick to point out that the
event is not about tragedy but rais-
ing awareness.
"Yes, I had a dramatic experience,
but one doesn't have to go throughthis to open their eyes and hearts,"
she said. "This isn't a problem for a
few but for the whole community.
"We have a responsibility to our
children," she said. "They will find
comfort there."
Although the event's mission is
serious, the atmosphere Thursday
hummed with conversation and
light jazz as patrons admired the art.
Robert Yorke, a fine arts student
at Santa Fe College, said he admires
Salley's style for its flow of the brush,
which makes the paintings easier on
the eyes.
"People tell me my work
gives them joy, happiness
and passion, but my work is
about love most of all."
Irene Salley
Painter
"I like how she fuses contempo-
rary with her own style," he said.
"You have to make what sells, but
you also have to stay true to your
talent, and she does that."
At press time, eight paintings
have sold for a total of $13,240. The
total value of the paintings is more
than $85,000.
For more information about the
organization, visit sebastianferrero.
org.
UF receives federal grants to increase alcohol awareness
GatorWell aims to find out how many students binge drink
By MELISSA QUINN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is increasing alcohol awareness after
receiving two grants from the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education in July and October.
The money will be used to create a newadvertising campaign, which will debut in
the spring.
The number of students who binge
drink has increased nationally, and the
university plans to raise awareness, said
Maureen Miller, alcohol and drug preven-
tion specialist for GatorWell.Last year, GatorWell created 12 adver-
tisements to dis-
UHF couragen studentssemester to find out how many students
binge drink.
The organization will also conduct in-
dividual interviews with students to de-
termine the best way to impact the Student
Administration from binge drink- Body.
ing. The goal of the new advertisements is
GatorWell will hold discussions with to address high-risk drinking and to get
focus groups at the beginning of the spring students' input on why they drink.
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF any one GNC Product
Cannotbecombi nec.OneCou ponpercustomer3914 SW Archier Rd
onl -i14 .,P.1 b
& ailS ecs 7-6020CE~M11309
llnivers -tiquor
Crown Royal 75ml.$ 21.99
Jack Daniel's Green La'el
1.751.$ 23.99
50 Pack Light seer.$ 11.99
University Ave. & 34thOpen daily from 7 am -10 pm,
Friday & Saturdays until12 am
114 SW 34th St, Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 376-7020Advertisers
The Alligator will not be publishing
Wednesday, November 11
due to the Veteran's Day Holiday.
The DEADLINE for Thursday, November 12
is Monday, November 9 at 4 p.m.
The DEADLINE for Friday, November 13
is Tuesday, November 10 at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and
Classified advertising.
Display: 3767448-2
Classifieds: 373:-3.463
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Donovan: Local action could
lift meal limit after holidays
COMMISSION, from page 1
Ana Goni-Lessan / Alligator Staff
The Rev. John D. Gillespie of St. Augustine Church speaks against a cap on the number of meals served at
St. Francis House on holidays at City Hall on Thursday afternoon.was exceeded.
However, Vann thinks the limit
will be lifted but not imminently.
The community, with a little bit of
compromise, was able to put its
plan of action in place in a short
period, he said.
"Now we can amend the permit
at a later time," Vann said. "So we
won't have to worry about people
experiencing hardship or loneli-
ness during the holidays."
The City Commission passed
general code provision, which
regulate food distribution centers,
in 1992, long before any current
elected official was elected.
"It's not that we're inhumane,"
Hanrahan said. "We have rules to
follow."
Commissioner Jack Donovan
said there are constraints on the
city's laws that make it difficult
to feed the homeless. However,
Donovan urged the Gainesville
community to continue the fight in
January, after the holiday season.
He believes their actions will lift
the limit.Hanrahan shared an anecdote
to support the commission's deci-
sion. She said a resident, who lives
near the St. Francis House, has
complained about fighting, filth
and unbearable sexual activities at
the shelter.
Hanrahan said the number of
homeless people in Gainesville is
declining.
Gainesville City She alsoCommission mentioned
Gainesville's
proposed one-stop homeless ser-
vice center, which will provide
food and shelter and allocate more
than half a million dollars in fed-
eral stimulus money.
The center was proposed in
2005 as part of Gainesville's 10-
year plan to combat homelessness.
A date for the center's construction
to begin has not been set.
"I don't think anyone who has
participated carefully in this dis-
cussion wouldn't say we haven't
been trying," Hanrahan said. "We
spent hundreds of hours on this
topic."
Some audience members jeered Crist about his support for stimulus plan
BBQ, from page 1
ing their candidacy.
"We really can't wait to make a strong
presence for Gov. Crist," said Steve Reiss,
the chairman of Gators for Charlie Crist. The
group had about 30 students at the event.
"I'm really excited to see what Rubio stands
for -how he contrasts with Charlie Crist,"
Reiss said.
Reiss said that he understands people think
Crist is the more moderate candidate but that
the governor has a proven record of being fis-
cally conservative, strong on Second Amend-ment rights and tough on crime. out hard against Crist's decision to support
Earlier this week, Crist told CNN host Wolf the stimulus.
Blitzer he didn't endorse the federal stimulus "The truth is that's printed money and
package, but because he knew it would pass, that's borrowed money," Rubio said about
he wanted to utilize it to benefit Floridians. the stimulus funds. "That's money that gradu-
"I don't like the stimulus that actually ates of the University of Florida
passed. I would have had less spending in it," State are going to have to work their
the governor said in an interview before his News whole life to have to pay off in
speech. "But once you realize it's coming, I higher taxes, higher interest
think what you have the duty and the need to rates and less opportunity."
do is to fight for our fellow Floridians." The crowd went wild when Rubio took the
His Republican opponent, Marco Rubio, stage to give an opening speech.
who served as speaker of the house from 2006 When Crist took the stage, the audience also
to 2008, has been working to brand himself as stood and cheered, but jeers about his support
the true conservative in the race. He's come for Obama could be heard in the crowd.The governor gave examples and anec-
dotes of his record on cutting taxes, education
and the Second Amendment to emphasize his
conservative credentials.
After Crist left the stage, Laura Ingraham
gave a speech about America and Republican
values. Ingraham, who hosts her own radio
show and sometimes fills in for Bill O'Reilly
on Fox News, started her speech by making
fun of liberals and the president.
Proceeds from the event will fund the Ala-
chua County Republican Party's activities
throughout the year. Tickets were $45 for stu-
dents and cost between $65 and $125 for non-
students.
03111 IU
200
4600 SW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 326908
352.373.7959 1 cottageGroveatGanesvin.comiButler Plaza NewberryS uare
1 232 332-3937
$23 Student Special
(includes golf cart)
Valid: Mon-Thurs (All Day)
Fri-Sun (After 11am)
Not Valid Friday 9/11 & 9/18
Valid thru Thursday,09/30/09
IRONWCOGD
Cal 334-3120 ForYour Tee Time Today
2100 NE 39th AvenueDon't Tell Fix it Up
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Mention Lhis ad and receive special discount
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 11-6-40-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor515@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-17-09-25-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 11-13-09-10-1
3 blks from campus!! For rent 4/2. Each
room $400/mo. Includes utilities & Internet.
Beautiful pool & courtyard. A great place to
live in a great location. 813-690-8989. 11-
13-09-10-1
0
ex I n -9 t -no --Croissmu
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Oxford Terrace I -Furnished 1BR/1BA in fur-
nished 4/4 Condo. Near Sorority Row- Avail
Jan-June(or longer) $530/mo inc $30 toward
util. parking spot, washer/dryer, internet
NYFL@aol.com 11-16-09-6-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275* www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! *Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BIR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
P OLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans,
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer,
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
0*SPYGLASS*0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
4
9
S
Available from Commercial News Providers
I
40
dCopyrighted Material
Syndicated ContentI
I
0 0
0 0 9
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
SGI0 \
w&4~~~ G ieq
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
New Life Community
Chapel
International Day: Celebrating
Our Uniqueness
Sunday Oct. 18 : 10:30 AM to
NOON
International Dinner, guest speak-
ers and music
All are welcome, but space is
limited.
RSVP by Oct 15
New Life Community ChapelChabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship
Imagine a religion embracing
many different beliefs. including
yours.
Join us on Sunday at 11 AM
4225 NW 34th St.
Info: 377-1669 or www.uufg.org
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube
Westside Park Rec. Center Gator Wesley Foundation
Sundays at 10:30 AM Sunday worship 11am at the
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org Presbyterian and Disciples of
phone: (352) 214-4462 Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
Episcopal Chapel House located 104 NW 14th Street.
Chapel of Incarnation For full schedule of events visit
Chapel of Incarnation gatorwesley.com
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship, Trinity Metropolitan
holy fun! 352-372-8506 Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Creekside Community
Church
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 10:30am
For more info email Mary at
madmadamoo@gmail.comSunday Worship, 10:1 5a.m.
11604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
Universal Faith Ministries
Universal Faith Ministries Inc
invites you to our open session
Bible Teachings Tues at 7pm
Night of prayer Fri at 7pm andSunday worship at 11 am
1930 NE Waldo Rd Gainesville
You may call 352-505-3005
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
ERnr
Faith Presbyterian Church
1 Oam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.Istpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-1 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meets: 7th Day Adventist Church
2115 NW 39th Avenue
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-8127Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay 0 Sun Key 0 Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
11-16-09-76-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise
1bdr. from $469
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place
1 bdr. from $459
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail now. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50lbs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-9-
09-20-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-6-09-14-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010)
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th St
352-376-1619 352-373-4500
Regency Oaks South West Villas
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave
352-378-5766 352-336-9000
We Speak Spanish
11-20-09-20-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neighbor-
hood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood floors,
fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $900/mo. $30/
mo ontime discount. 773-407-1774. 11-19-
09-20-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES!Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2
1/1 in 3/3 in Campus View Condos. 1235
SW 9th Road, 3rd floor unit. Newly built, w/d,
new appliances, Females only please. $515,
from January to July 31st. Can move in early.
Please call 727-776-7098. 11-6-10-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09-
15-2
FAMILY AREA WITH PETS, OK
Two Bd with Two Full Baths, new carpet, just
painted, new refrigerator. Fenced in back
yard, patio, and large W/D room plus stor-
age. Avail Nov 1st. $660. Only $50 Sec, with
reference. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-09-10-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2pw ffmo ftoumkG
afflbsalspaA l
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
For Rent For Rent UJ mmtesunfurnished unfurnished
$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f.
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com
11-18--09-15-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $695+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-17-14-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
COTTAGE 1BR/1BA w/carport
$500/mo Near university in historic district.
Call 352-332-8481 11-18-09-10-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 11-12-
09-5-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
www.merrillmanagement.net
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
Central H & Air, Carport
319 NW 16th Avenue
$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo
Central H & Air, Dishwasher
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. CallI
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
1Blkto UF! Central H & Air,
Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
4th Avenue. Call Merrill
Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
13-2
1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BILK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 11-25-09-13-22901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Incids Wtr, Swg,
pst control and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
3BR House for rent
Wood floors, front/back porch. 2035 NW 35th
Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. $750/mo.
Available now. Flex lease. 352-318-8822
11-13-09-5-2
F subleases
$280/mo+util.Sublease nxt spring/sum.Lg 1
br/1 ba in 3br/3ba Stoneridge apt.Inc:wash/
dryer,dshwshr,all essentials!Lg walkin clos-
et! Walk to Butler plaza.2 bus rts 12&35.
Gym, pool, bball/tennis crts also.Call 813-
909-6447 11-6-5-3
1/1 apt w/fenced backyard. 2 blocks from
campus near midtown. Pets OK. $625 OBO.
Available spring & summer. Walk every-
where! 813-382-6031 11-6-09-5-3
1/1 in a small, quiet complex off 34th st. Avail.
Jan 2010-end of Jul 2010. W/D and D/W in-
cluded, pets allowed, gated private patio, ce-
ramic tile floors. $739/mo. Negotiable terms.
Jenna 863-860-4834 jennadg@ufl.edu 11-
10-5-3
avail. Dec 1st 2/2 in Treehouse Village with
w/d, gym, pool, on bus line.
Mary Seales: 352-372-3096 or
seales@vanrooy.com ref: L202 11-12-5-3
New 1BR/1BA in 3/2 for spring/summer -2
blocks from UF for $650 negotiable. Female.
Easy to move-in w/parking & furn avail. Util,
W/D, internet included. Call 954-593-6753
11-16-09-6-3
1Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-6-09-15-4
1 month free-Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-6-
15-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-13-
09-16-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4
SWEET 2/1 HOUSE
Prive location, 708 NW 10th Ave. includes;
all Utl's, W/D, and Swimming pool. Avail Now
$440. Plus sec. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-
09-10-4Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
11-12-09-10-4
$350 FEMALE ONLY
1/2 of utilities, FREE WATER! 786-797-2778
mad05@ufl.edu 11-9-8-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
Female preferred. Share 2BR/2BA $445/mo.
Free cable/internet. Archer Rd &
1-75. Master suite, walk-in closet, W/D. Quiet,
private, wooded view.
Pool, gym, Common area furn. 1 cat. Lease
thru Aug '10. 352-339-0502 11-6-09-5-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking room-
mate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to UF and
Santa Fe. $400 + 1/2 of the utilities (cable
and internet included), W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Gene at 561-827-4970. 11-13-09-
5-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
years! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-51 br/1 ba by Regal Cinemas & UF
507 NW 39th Rd #126- Hawthorne Reserve
Condos. $60,000 short sale. Call Stacy at
Trevor Waters Realty 352-682-8530 11-9-
09-5-5
4bed/3Bath home in Savanna Pointe, just off
the Prairie. $479,500. Rural setting yet
urban proximity. MLS#308127. Dawn Realty
Visit VernonClouser.com for all the Details.
Off Williston Rd, just West of Country Club
11-17-8-5
4 Bed 3 Bath $217/mo! FORECLOSURES! 3
bdrm only $199/mo! Won't Last! 5% dw, 15
yrs @ 8% apr For Listings (800)366-9783 ext
5669 11-6-1-5
ALAPAHA RIVER RANCH AUCTION: 500?
ACRES ABSOLUTE! 4,600? Acres of-
fered in 14 parcels- on the Alapaha River,
Willachoochee, Georgia. 11AM, Saturday,
November 21. Excellent Timber Investment,
Recreation or Farming Opportunity! Preview:
10AM -4PM, November 13, 14 and 20.
Higgenbotham Auctioneers: (800)257-4161.
Mike Lofton, GREL#16478 GAL#168 11-6-
1-5Goshen, AL. (near Troy), 2197 Co. Rd.
2242. Excellent for retirement or relocation
-nice house, fenced pasture on 61? acres.
AUCTION Nov 17, 2009 at 11am (or ear-
lier upon price agreement) at Pike County
Courthouse. Contact Attorney Joe W. Adams
(334)774-5533 11-6-1-5
A Bank Repo for Sale! 5 Br $25,000! Only
$225/Mo! 3 Br $12,500! Only $199/Mo!
5% down 30 years @ 8% apr. for listings
(800)366-9783 ext 5853 11-6-1-5
NATIONWIDE ONLINE LAND AUCTION
400+ Props 1 168 Absolute ALL Starting
Bids: $100 REDC I VIEW FULL LISTINGS
www.Auction.com/land 11-6-1-5
FORECLOSED ONLINE HOME AUCTION
800+ Homes I BIDS OPEN 11/16 Open
House: 11/7, 14 & 15 View Full Listings &
Details Auction.com REDC I BrkrCQ1031187
11-6-1-5
NATIONWIDE ONLINE LAND AUCTION
400+ Props 1 168 Absolute ALL Starting
Bids: $100 REDC I VIEW FULL LISTINGS
www.Auction.com/land 11-6-1-5
Finish the crossword over one
of our great daily lunch specials!
s tt e' THE SWAMP RESTAURANT
1642W. University Ave. | 352.377.9267
www.swamprestaurant.com
et ~-e. * *.O * 0
~. S
0%
br
S.
plum'
-Pu's-
CopyrightedMaterial w
"10n- ~ mSyndicated ContentUP
Available from Commercial News Providers
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
SFurnishings J f Computers Motorcycles, Mopeds Autos Help Wanted
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
*Full $100 Queen $125 King $200
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846.12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
SMALL APT SIZE REFRIGERATOR
Ideal for dorm. Good condition. $40/OBO.
Call 352-336-4493 11-13-5-6
computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-712-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
Did you know that with as little as $40 down
you can be riding a new quality bike today?
Schwinn Shop has the best selection of new
and used bikes. 1225 W University -2 doors
down from Leonardo's 374-2064 11-6-15-9
CF Fo r Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
Handcrafted jewelry. Farmers Market in
Gainesville Wednesday 4-7pm. Jewelry is
made from quality stone, glass, and metal
materials. Contact Jared at Schrockstar
Custom Designs (352)246-9528. 11-6-1-
10
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warranty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 col-
ors in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
11-6-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 11-6-1-10
Motorcycles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.COM***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
CIZAutos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-16-09-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-1295 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
07 CHEVY LS
5-speed, CD, airbag, new cond. 43k miles.
Leaving for Europe -must sell. $6950/OBO.
Call 352-486-2812 11-10-09-5-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 11-19-10-12
Police Impounds! Honda 1999 Civic $200!
Nissan 2001 Altima $350! Ford 2001 Taurus
$700! For listings call (800)366-9813 ext
9275 11-6-1-12
W IWanted Z
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-6-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
6-09-74-13
Help Needed
OVolunteers: to drive adult cats to Gville to
neuter/spay & return
*Working Computer needed desperately.
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-13This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
the independent floridaalligator
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled stu-
dent, preferably in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work with
accounts receivables and accounts payables.
Other duties consist of manipulating Excel
spredsheets, answering phones, and gen-
eral office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please send resume, along
with a cover letter to: Business Office, The
Independent Florida Alligator PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Email: mbell@
alligator.org AND tcarey@alligator.org, or
Fax: 352-376-4556. No phone calls please.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
16, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
UF HelpWanted HelpWanted 7 services Services nertainment
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
STUDENT WORK
GREAT PAY
Customer Sales/Service
Flex Sched, PT/FT Avail,
Work around classes,
conditions apply,
352-371-9675
11-12-09-20-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Full time NANNIES needed for Jan
one toddler $10/hr M-F OR 2 elem age $12/
hr M-F + E & wkds; grad students welcome;
exp req; Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume,
photo, short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
NANNY for 1.5 children ages 1 & 2.5
20 hrs/wk; 4hrs/day, variable am/pm
Noah's Ark Nanny: resume, photo,
class sched, bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
Transcription/Office Asst
Must be pleasant, enjoy people & have expe-
rience; also admin. & grading psych tests.
Email res. info@villagecounselingcenter.net
11-12-09-10-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER -Join Our Team!
Unique long term opportunity. Full time
position with 100% employee owned Co.
Extensive training/benefits-health, 401K, etc.
Indesign, photoshop, MAC/PC experience
a must. Apply now, Renaissance Printing,
4130 NW 16th Blvd. Drug Test. 11-6-7-14
YARD WORK Mowing. Car detailing. Pool
maintenance. Back up shipping. Errands.
Miscellaneous duties. Must have a valid driv-
ers license and good driving record. Own ve-
hicle. Truck preferred. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 11-13-09-10-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
11-19-09-12-14
Barn help needed 1 day per week
Exchange for boarding or lessons
EXPERIENCE NECESSARY!
Call 359-4149 11-17-09-10-14Opus Cafe -Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at
a fast paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website, www.opus-cafe.
com, click on the employment tab, and
follow the directions.
11-16-09-8-14
Mommy's helper for energetic 2yr old
Fun, smart, creative female student
to help in AM; 4hrs/day; 2-5 days/wk
email bio, availability, references
and more to UFmommy@gmail.com 11-10-
09-5-14
Medical Office Manager for mid-sized
Dermatology practice. Duties include perform-
ing or supervising ICD-9/CPT coding, billing
and collections; A/R; payroll management;
employee supervision and maintenance of
employee records and benefits; insurance
evaluation and contracting; interfacing with
clinical staff and physicians; preparing finan-
cial reports and interfacing with accountant.
Seeking a mature, energetic individual with
experience but will train motivated candi-
date. Salary, benefits and possible incentive
commensurate with experience. Bachelors
degree desired. Email resume ofmgrbeers@
AOL.com or fax to 352-332-2966.
11-12-09-5-14
Spring Design Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking young artists
with experience in
Fireworks or Photoshop to learn from our
Web design
team. Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-09-10-14
Spring Programming Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking talented stu-
dents with experience in Web programming
and development.
Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-10-14
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email your
course listing and a brief description about
yourself to ufl@sharenotes.com
START EARNING TODAY! 11-20-09-10-14
WANT HOME MOST WEEKENDS WITH
MORE PAY? Run Regional with Heartland
Express! Up to $.43/mile company drivers!
12 months OTR required. HEARTLAND
EXPRESS (800)441-4953 www.heartland-
express.com. 11-6-1-14
PTL OTR Drivers. NEW PAY PACKAGE!
Great Miles! Up to 46cpm. 12 months experi-
ence required. No felony or DUI past 5 years.
(877)740-6262. www.ptl-inc.com 11-6-1-14
W IservIces
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
mail gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
Writing a paper? Send it to:
GETABETTERGRADE@gmail.com.
We'll check grammar-syntax.
Quick turnaround. Inexpensive. 11-10-09-
10-15
Web application. Customized to meet your
needs, big or small. Store and retrieve data
pertinent to daily, monthly, and yearly op-
eration of your company. Contact Patrick at
Garnersoft 284-8132 11-6-1-15
INTERIOR SCAPES
EXTERIOR SCAPES
Design & installation. Tropical foliage. Exotic
plants. Florist quality. Also, cold-hardy trees,
palms, shrubs -many varieties. And, bou-
gainvilleas, hibiscus, camellias -many col-
ors. Licensed & insured. Free estimates.'Gainesville. Dept ofAg #47236781. Designer
Foliage & Landscaping 352-287-0399 11-6-
1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 11-6-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 11-6-1-15**ADT, FREE Home Security System! ($850
Value.) Purchase Monitoring Services & $99
Activation. That's It! PLUS Remote & Panic
Alert FREE. (888)511-5869. 11-6-1-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout
Florida. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put
us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.flor-
ida-classifieds.com, info@florida-classifieds.
com 11-6-1-15OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
COMIC SALE
Discounts of 35% or more on all toys & back-
issue comics. Hoyt's Cosmos of Comics 501
NW 23 Ave 378-0182 cosmosofcomics.com
11-6-1-21
fl Health Services WJZi
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8-GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
WEZPets
Help Needed -Rescue/Rehome
OKittens: toms, wormed. litter trained
OSmall Dog: neutered, shots, housebroken
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-24
38-16
63Lost & Found
Mr Personal s
LOST: RING Worn about 40 years. Bent withHIV ANTIBODY TESTING 2 rubies. Size 7 or so. Lost on Oct 24th atAlachua County Health Dept. Call park on 400 NE 16th Ave during the Breast
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) Cancer Walk. REWARD OFFERED. Call
Jessie at 352-283-9178 11-6-09-5-25
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-707012-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
Blastoff Network. It's free! Fun and easy!
Get paid when you shop onine. Make money
when you spread the word! Register online.
http://my.blastoffnetwork.com/singleton5l.
Questions (352) 208-9582 11-6-09-5-18
Event NtiCes
ZUMBA Party and Food Drive to benefit
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. Friday, Nov.
13, 5:30-7pm. Doors open 5pm. Donation $7
+ 3 canned goods or $10 cash. 601 S. Main
St. 904-742-0188 www.ZumbaGypsy.com
11-6-1-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21Michael Davis
Black Male
(DOB 05/04/87); 511",
140 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Felony Violation of
Probation for Possession of
a Controlled Substance with
Intent to Sell and Operating
a Motor Vehicle Without
Valid License.
ALACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
Sports
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks
Column
(
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,578)
KICKOFF: Saturday 7:15 p.m.
TV: ESPN2
We here at the alligatorSports
Brand Picks column know Florida has
already punched its ticket to Atlanta,
but this weekend will go a long way
toward determining who it faces for
the Southeastern Conference title.
The winner of the Alabama-LSU
matchup will control its destiny in the
SEC West, and there's a lot at stake
here based on who wins.
Just not for who you'd think.
LSU WILL COVER THE +7.5 SPREAD BE-
CAUSE .Frankly, I can't handle any-
thing other than a Tigers win. I put my
big Phil on the Hill reputation on LSU
this preseason, telling all who would
listen that I thought the Tigers would
be good. I actually believed in sopho-
more quarterback Jordan Jefferson,
which should make you pause before
listening to a prediction from me ever
again. Jefferson averages less passing
yards than Tim Tebow (I didn't know
that was possible) and has managed
a measly 1.9 yards per rush. My best
hope is a defensive slugfest -this is
the SEC's No. 2 and No. 3 teams in
scoring defense -and gambling fool
Les Miles gets on a hot streak and finds
a way to ruin Nick Saban's season. Ev-
eryone would love Miles again, and
I would be nearly insufferable to be
around. I can't think of a better end-
ing.
-PHIL KEGLER
ALABAMAWILL COVER THE -7.5SPREAD
BECAUSE .Look, I'll be straight with
you.
I'm only in this for a free ride to
California.
If the Gators make it to the BCS
Championship in Pasadena, I'm run-
ning off to Hollywood to pursue my
real dream: starring in a movie about a
rag-tag group of small-college sports-
writers who trade places with the bas-
ketball team they cover after the coach
SEE PICKS, PAGE 18
IDID NOT KNOW THAT
U UF football coach Urban Meyer is
not even in the top 20 of fan voting
for Liberty Mutual's Coach of the
Year award. You can vote at
http://www.coachoftheyear.com.UF SOCCER
Gators' depth key to Gamecocks matchup
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
The No. 8 Florida soccer team had more op-
portunities, put more shots on goal and played
tighter defense than Tennessee on Wednesday
in its 1-0 double overtime win.
But, by the end of the game, the biggest factor
favoring the Gators was their depth. UF used six
players from its bench while UT only used two.
Both teams were exhausted after 102 min-
utes of play, but the Gators had enough energy
to celebrate after sophomore Lindsay Thomp-
son's golden goal, while the Volunteers slowly
walked off the pitch after Thompson ended their
season.
"Tennessee was getting tired. Our
subs helped us a lot because we
put fresh players on the field and
basically wore Tennessee out."
Erika Tymrak
UF freshman midfielder
Six Tennessee players stayed on the field
from start to finish Wednesday.
"Tennessee was getting tired," midfielder
Erika Tymrak said. "Our subs helped us a lot be-
cause we put fresh players on the field and basi-
cally wore Tennessee out."
As top-seeded Florida (15-4-2) plays South
Carolina (16-3-1) tonight at 8:30 in the second
round of the Southeastern Conference Tourna-
ment, the Gators will try to once again drain
their opponent.Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Erika Tymrak, who is second on the team with 17 points, played 99 of a
possible 101 minutes against Tennessee. Florida used six subs in the double-OT win.
In a tournament where teams could poten-
tially play three games in five days, having the
ability to use a lot of players might be the decid-
ing factor in the championship.
"Depth is huge," UF coach Becky Burleigh
said. "Whenever you can use a lot of people and
you're looking to play a multi-game situation,
it's important."
Unlike the Tennessee game, Florida usuallyuses about the same amount of players as its op-
ponents do. But Burleigh said her team is still
generally deeper in those games because the UF
subs are just as talented as the team's starters.
Opposing coaches have noted how good the
Gators bench is after games.
"When we sub someone in, they can't even
tell the difference," defender Kat Williamson
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 19
Media overblows Spikes' eye-gouging situation
hen Brandon Spikes to win that one, so why not just gone to In his autobiography, former
was done explain- play it safe? tear Spikes NFL linebacker Bill Romanows-
ing why he wanted But before Spikes spoke, Ur- down for ki talks about intentionally
to have his suspension for the ban Meyer talked about how this. stepping on an opponent's man
Vanderbilt matchup lengthened all the negative publicity has ESPN's parts, and later in that game,
from a half to the full game weighed on his stud linebacker, Mike Gol- trying to pull the ball away from
Wednesday, a smattering of and I believe him. Mike McCall ic called a running back in a dogpile.
reporters thanked him for his Spikes looked genuinely McCall-in' t Spikes' ac- "All I could get a good grip
time. sorry and perhaps even a little Like I See It tion, "one on was his finger," Romanows-
I felt like we should have ashamed, and he was worried gg of the big- ki wrote. "So I just grabbed it
apologized too, on behalf of the about being a distraction to his gest chick- and crrraaaccckkk. Broke it like
media at large. teammates. en-bleep things I've ever seen in a chicken bone. I could hear him
It's not like missing the Van- This is where I feel like the my life, ever. Ever." scream in agony."
dy game really matters, and media owes Spikes something. Granted, that was on the ra- I get that the intent of what
that's probably what the sus- Sure, what he did was bad. I dio so it has to be exaggerated Spikes did could have been just
pension should have been in don't mean to diminish that. He a little to have any effect, but as bad as what Romo was aim-
the first place for his eye-goug- broke a rule and should be pun- come on. ing for, but the point is that this
ing attempt on Georgia running ished accordingly. Golic played football, so he isn't a special case.
back Washaun Ealey. What I have a problem with knows what happens in dog As Ealey himself said this
The Gators don't need Spikes is the lengths that some havepiles.
U Phil Kegler and Bobby Callovi join
host Adam Berry to preview the
Vanderbilt-Florida game as well as
discussing the latest Gators football
news. Check it out on iTunes.SEE MCCALL, PAGE 19
alligatrsports.org
E The UF volleyball team hosts Georgia and
Auburn this weekend. The women's swim
team takes on Michigan today, a team it has
never lost to. The tennis teams continue play
at the ITA National Indoor Championships.POLL QUESTION
Today's question: Do you feel Brandon
Spikes' one-game suspension is:
too short, too long or appropriate?
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
PICKS, from page 17
and players get fed up with their criticism.
Hilarity ensues -especially in the interview scenes -and
we all learn a lot about ourselves in the process.
So far, everything has gone according to plan, as Florida is
undefeated and controls its own destiny. But we need insur-
ance in case the Gators lose in the regular season, and that
means Alabama has to be undefeated in the SEC Champion-
ship so UF can bounce back if something goes wrong.
Phil Kegler is the only one on our staff who doesn't want
to be in the movie (he refused the role of the Mark Madsden
bench-warming, towel-waving dancing fiend) and wants to
rain on our parade.
That's the only reason for picking LSU in this one, as the
Crimson Tide will have the home crowd behind it, and there's
no way Lord Saban lets his former team spoil the season.
-MIKE McCALL
Sitting atop the standings for another week at 48-41 is Kyle
"Baseball season ended in August" Maistri, who skipped
the World Series in favor of a marathon viewing of "I Didn't
Know I Was Pregnant." Congratulations, Kyle, you just had a
baby in your pants.
Starting a two-way tie for second at 47-42 is Bobby "Get
Money, Get Paid" Callovi, who cracked open his piggy bank,
got on his Big Wheel and peddled down to the bank, where
the teller requested he endorse his check in something otherthan Macaroni-and-Cheese-colored crayon.
Also in second at 47-42 is the Tampa Tribune's Mike "I'm
trapped in a glass case of emotion" DiFerdinando, who is
having the worst week of his life because .he passed up
a chance to drive to Greenville, N.C. and experience an East
Carolina football game on Thursday night.
Checking in at fourth with a 43-46 record is Mike "Josh
Haden could easily turn that BC tattoo into ECU" McCall,
who made the trip DiFer wasn't willing to in the name of his
beloved Pirates. At least they managed three points in front of
the home crowd of 12.
Rounding out the top five at 42-47 is the Gainesville Sun's
Ed "You can still look swole in winter attire, right?" Aschoff,
who does all his jacket shopping in at Baby GAP so his guns
can be on full display when it's cold out.
Leading the bottom table and starting a tie for sixth at 41-
48 is the Florida Times-Union's Mike "I'm done with this" Di-
Rocco, who performed what can only be described as a near-
hissy fit Wednesday after media availability was cut short.
One more of those and we're putting you in a nursing home.
Also sitting in sixth at 41-48 is Phil "You ever done Ny-
Quil?" Kegler, who accidently got sauced after coming down
with a cold. NyQuil seems innocent until you graduate to the
harder stuff -Robitussin and Dimetapp.
Checking in at eighth with a 39-50 record is the Orlando
Sentinel's Jeremy "What really goes on in a dogpile?" Fowler,
who spent the week having all his male friends jump on top
of him and violate him in any way they saw fit. He's a really
E INJURY statistical breakdown
L REPORT VANDERBILT
-OUT 18.2 Points Per Game
QB LarrySmith (hamstring) 22 Points Allowed Per Game
DE Steven Stone (foot) 151.7 Passing Yards Per Game
-QUESTIONABLE. 179.6 Rushing Yards Per Game
RT Thomas Welch (ankle) 160 Passing Yards Allowed Per Game
190.8
51/146 (35%)
56/148 (38%)
21/30 (40%)
21/23 (65%)
+3Rushing Yards Allowed Per Game
3rd Down Conversions
3rd Down Defense
Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %)
Red Zone Defense (TD%)
Turnover Margindedicated journalist.
Sitting in ninth at 37-52 is the Miami Herald's Joe "Gonzo"
Goodman, who showed up to the press box at Jacksonville
Municipal Stadium in costume as Hunter S. Thompson. He
has always written trippy stories that are most enjoyable
while on psychedelic drugs, so this was the logical next step.
And continuing his reign in dead-last place with a 32-58
record is the Palm Beach Post's Ben "Filling holes is my spe-
cialty" Volin, whose inappropriate double entendres are now
being used on us Alligator guys as well. A new level of creepy
every week.
UL (+20) at WVU
SC (+7) at ARK
BAY (+14) at MIZZ
LSU (+7 5) at BAMA
UVA (+14) at MIA
FSU (+85) at CLEM
HOU (+1) atTULL
OKLA (-6) at NEB
USC (-10) atASU
VAND (+35) at U F
UL (+20) at WVU
SC (+7) at ARK
BAY (+14) at MIZZ
LSUL (+7 5) at BAMA
UVA (+14) at MIA
FSU (+85) at CLEM
HOU (+1) atTILL
OKLA (-6) at NEB
USC (-10) at ASU
VAND (+35) at UF
FLORIDA
36
11
194.4
252.2
138.8
97.9
47/100 (47%)
27/110 (25%)
30/39 (44%)
11/14 (29%)
+3KIM
WvU
SC
BAY
BAMA
MIA
CLEM
HOU
OKLA
usC
VAND
MDR
WVU
ARK
BAY
BAMA
MIA
FSU
HOU
OKLA
us
UFBC
ULL
SC
MIZZ
BAMA
MIA
CLEM
HOU
OKLA
usC
UF
PK
WVU
ARK
MIZZ
LSUL
MIA
FSU
HOU
OKLA
us
UFMD
wvU
SC
MIZZ
BAMA
MIA
FSU
HOU
OKLA
usC
VAND
JF
WVU
SC
MIZZ
BAMA
MIA
FSU
HOU
OKLA
usN
VANDMM
wVU
ARK
MIZZ
BAMA
MIA
FSU
HOU
OKLA
usC
VAND
JG
WVU
SC
MIZZ
LSUL
UVA
FSU
HOU
OKLA
ASU
VANDEA
wVU
SC
MIZZ
LSU
MIA
CLEM
HOU
OKLA
usC
VAND
BV
WVU
ARK
BAY
BAMA
MIA
FSU
TULL
NEB
usC
VAND
INJURY
-REPORT
-OUT
LB Brandon Spikes (suspension)
WR Carl Moore (back)
CB Jeremy Brown (back)
LB Brandon Hicks (hamstring)
-DOUBTFUL -
DT Brandon Antwine (shoulder)
-QUESTIONABLE.
RB Mike Gillislee (hamstring)
-PROBABLE -
S Dorian Munroe (knee)
WR Deonte Thompson (rib)
RB Chris Rainey (shoulder)
r ---- --- -- 9
Srin h rsqhiUL' COLDS TON
Captain Morgan 1.75L .$19.99 (C R
Three Olives 1.75L.$ 24.99
L yellow Vodka 1.75 .$11.99
39th Ave in Publix Plaza
SFETY BETS] :Any Love-It size signature,'
SMART FROM THE START i _ with this coupon 
L0~ fS~A f ---- ---IN THE
alffiiie the
EVERY
THURSDAY
WB e'athe"CI c
*iv DU
*Siat! rday
352-378-7033 0 .JSmile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D along with proof of SS# and local
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome,
ABiotest
F-o Natur kr Lif,
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FIL 32601
352-378-9431-~ tff~.A
MCCALL, from page 17
week, this stuff happens all the time.
What makes Spikes different is that he was
caught on camera -from a great angle, too -
and seeing that in slow motion can shock the
conscience.
But there's another factor here.
Every week this season, Florida has been sur-
rounded by a new cloud of speculation, suspi-
cion, praise or criticism.
Reporters are experts on something new each
time, and this is driven by what we all perceive
as the need for more and more content to satisfy
fans.
After the Georgia game, I figured everyone
would be satisfied, and things would be quiet
for a week. But we just can't let that happen.
Once Spikes stuck his hand inside Ealey's
facemask and rummaged around in there like he
was looking for treats in a Halloween candy jar,
we were off to the races.
It's time to freak out.
ESPN's Pat Forde went so far as to say Mey-
er's one-half punishment sends a message that,
"Nothing, not even thuggish behavior, will be
allowed to substantively interfere with our pur-
suit of a repeat national title."
That's absurd. Forde even says in his column
the suspension was weak because the Commo-
dores aren't good, so he's essentially arguingwith himself.
If the Gators don't need Spikes to win Satur-
day, what would letting him play in the second
half have to do with a repeat national title?
Nothing. He was just taking a more extreme
angle to get some attention.
I've always had a hard time understanding
why some coaches and players dislike the me-
dia.
By and large, we're gentle and fun-loving peo-
ple, and you'd think we'd all get along since our
lives revolve around the same subject, right?
Now I'm starting to get sick of the media too.
I even hate myself a little.
Don't get me wrong, what Spikes did is ter-
rible whether it happens all the time or not. It
makes matters worse that the game was basi-
cally over when he did it. This wasn't to gain a
competitive advantage or anything, it was just
stupid.
But that shouldn't give us license to run wild
with it.
I'll admit I've written some stupid things in
the past because I thought it would make people
read and garner some attention. It's hard not to
on occasion.
But it makes me sick to read this out-of-con-
trol garbage now, and I'm going to do my level
best to stay above the fray.
I can't wait to see what storyline we cook up
for next week.said. "That's a huge compliment
to everyone on the team."
Williamson was one of four
UF players to actually stay in the
whole game Wednesday. But, of
those players, three were defend-
ers and the other was goalkeeper
Katie Fraine.
Tennessee used two midfield-
ers for the game's entirety, some-
thing the Gators rarely do. Wil-
liamson said the backline stays
consistent for the entire game
while forwards and midfielders
usually rotate.
Attacking players have to
break through the backline by
sprinting and being elusive, but
defenders only need to stay in
front of their opponents.
"Forwards and attacking
midfielders do a lot of runningaround, and you also have to play
defense too," Tymrak said. "They
try to rotate up so we have a lot
of (fresh) legs so the defense can
play us long balls."
Burleigh wants her players to
give as much effort as they can
when they're on
the field this week-
endwhichismuch
easier when the oc-Soccer casional break is
involved.
"Everybody is expected to
play at the same level, no matter
if they start, or play 10 minutes,
or two minutes or the whole
game," Williamson said. "You're
expected to play as hard as you
can. That's just how it is here and
I love it. That's one of the reasons
why this team is so successful."
1?S;41CART RENTAL
1i-AND-,1S GREEN FEES
WestEnd I WMsun vWu' L 1Coupon Required.
Golf Club Mo-hurs. afterI 10:00am.Offer I
REEN e 12/31/09@yi= M$g 5 FEE --- ---
FOR ONLY I-M RIN6 EEP GREEN FEES
GOLFING LESSONS
$6900
SIX 2 HOUR LESSONS llII@DJR Wull
12830 W Newberry Road dewberry, FL W [P[AI3 mies est f 175 (xit76 o SR26)Coupon Required.I
Mon Thurs after
1 000amn Offer
SExpires 12/31/09L Wei -Agt
IStop by the Verizon Wireless Gator FanFest located outside of Gate 2 of the O'Connell Center.
See the Gator Radio Network pre-game show live! Win prizes, play games, got autographs
from Florida athletics teams and more! FanFest starts at 4 p.m. and goes until kick-off!
Don't forget to bring canned
goods to FanFest
for the Gator Canned Goods
'k Challenge for Kids!
res f c o m m o d o re s
to a Galors t o ek ates
T,,off one o tFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Four Gators play full game
SOCCER, from page 17
SHOP ILENE'S
NEW DESIGNER
2441 NW 43 St. (25-B) * 378-1611
Education. Ho.n.,r, these contents do not necessarily represent the policy of the US.
Department or Education, and you should not assume endorsement by the federal gilernment.
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
k
Ii
I9p
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2009
Florida will face stiff challenge in Vandy's kick returner
Vanderbilt's Warren Norman returns a kickoff for a touchdown during a 14-10 loss to
South Carolina on Oct. 24 at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, S.C.By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
krnaistri@a IIigator org
Florida coach Urban Meyer appreciates
good special teams play, even from his op-
ponents.
All week, Meyer, who oversees UF's spe-
cial teams coaching responsibilities, has been
focusing in on the one Vanderbilt player he
feels could actually give the Gators trouble
-freshman return man Warren Norman.
"He'd get my vote (for Southeastern Con-
ference Freshman of the Year) right now,"
Meyer said. "If I had to vote right now from
what I've seen -I'd have to do some home-
work -he'd get my vote. To have three kick-
off returns as a true freshman -we have a
helluva returner, I'm not sure he's had three
in his career."
Norman took his third kickoff back for
a touchdown -ranking him only behind
Kansas State's Brandon Banks, who has four
returns this season -against Georgia Tech
last week in his eighth college game. Bran-
don James, Florida's return man Meyer was
referring to, has had one kickoff return for a
score in his four years as a Gator.
The Commodores' return specialist will
create the biggest matchup problem for the
Gators on Saturday at 7:15 in Ben Hill Griffin
Stadium, but Meyer has prepared unusually
hard for Norman, watching film Monday in
addition to Sunday, the normal film day.
"You've got to break down in football
position and cup an athlete. That's a term
we use around here that means take away
the cutback lanes, squeeze the air out of the
seams and make a tackle," Meyer said of the
gameplan.
When he first came to Florida, Meyer felthe didn't have the personnel to kick to dan-
gerous return men such as Norman, so he
would call squib or sky kicks and sometimes
just kick away from the returner entirely.
Now, starters Ahmad Black, Major Wright
and Joe Haden headline a kickoff coverage
unit loaded with talent and athleticism.
Moses Jenkins (concussion) and Bran-
don Hicks (hamstring) are on the coverage
team when healthy, but both will miss the
game against Vanderbilt. Meyer thought he
would also be missing Mike Gillislee, who
he specifically pointed out as a key to stop-
ping Norman, but the freshman running
back will be available Saturday.
The Gators could use all the help they
can get on Norman, who has
also rushed for 593 yards and
three scores, as he is likely to
pose a greater threat on spe-
Football cial teams than in the back-
field.
Vanderbilt will be starting
redshirt senior Mackenzi Adams for the first
time this season, and UF will be able to stack
the box with little threat of a down-field
passing game.
VU coach Bobby Johnson will be count-
ing on Norman to provide the offense with
solid starting position, something the true
freshman has done all season, as he ranks
fourth nationally in kickoff return yardage.
"He has a knack of seeing openings
ahead of him and then not doing a lot of cut-
ting and juking and things like that," John-
son said. "He just sort of makes one cut and
goes, and goes fast, especially on two of the
returns. He sort of blasts through there with-
out teams being able to converge on him,
and he has enough speed to get into the end
zone without being caught."
Save on great tailgating items each week, only at your neighborhood Publix.
For you, the tailgate party is the truest measure of your Gatorso pride. The bigger, juicier, and tastier the food, the
more instinctive your allegiance. At Publix, we get that. That's why we have everything you need for game day,
all in one place. We call it The Ultimate Tailgate Party. You get in, get what you need, and ultimately, Rule the Lot.
Publix.
Proud Sponsor of the University of Florida Gators®Ground Chuck Patties
Publix Beef, USDA-Inspected,
Ground Fresh Several Times Daily
SAVE UP TO 30 LB
Original Recipe Buns,
8-Count
Hamburger or Hot Dog, Rich With Eggs, Sugar, and Milk
From the Publix Bakery, 12-oz pkg.
Publix Yellow Mustard
16-oz bot.
Publix Tomato Ketchup
All Natural, 24-oz bot.
Glaceau SmartWater
Electrolyte Enhanced Water, 1-L bot.
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
vs. VANDERBILT
Saturday, November 7, 2009
Prices effective Thursday, November 5
through Wednesday, November 11, 2009.
Visit theultimatetailgateparty.com for your next play.3 29 l
219
-99
129
(101000
