Sthe independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 5 We Inform. You Decide.-'Rcyet
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
A balcony that collapsed with two women on it is propped up by a post Thursday evening at Lyons Apart-
ments.Collapse sends
two to hospital
By RAVIKA RAMESHWAR
Alligator Staff Writer
rrarmeshwar@alligator org
Two people, including a preg-
nant woman, plummeted 15 feet
on Thursday when the landing in
front of their unit in Lyons Apart-
ments gave way.
Both were transported to
Shands at UF, where they are in
stable condition, according to
Carol Davis, Gainesville Fire Res-
cue spokeswoman.
Three other people were re-
moved via a fire truck ladder from
building 1810 because the broken
landing made it hazardous for
them to leave their apartments.
"There was a complaint about
the railing on that staircase not
less than one month ago," said
property manager Spring Sta-
ples.
The railing was fixed, how-ever the stairwell and the balcony
above were not identified as a
problem, according to Staples.
Building and fire inspector
Jerry Coughlin said no one is
allowed on the second floor of
building 1810 until everything is
replaced.
"Whether or not the other
buildings are safe. .that's the
question," he said.
Resident Natasha Arbaczaus-
kas said she has never felt safe
in the Lyons. She can point out
mold, water damage, wood rot
and crumbling Formica.
In order to fix the mold issue,
she was told she would need to
sign a new lease.
She also said the leasing office
took six months to fix a leaky fau-
cet.
Staples said the building is
routinely checked up on, and the
last check was about a year ago.
UF ACADEMICS
Law school goes virtual
By EMILY FUGGETTA
Alligator Staff Writer
efuggetta@gmail com
Michelle Jacobs is only a few inches tall
during third and fourth period Thursdays -
unless you zoom in on her.
Jacobs, a professor in UF's Levin College
of Law, teaches Crime in the Virtual Context
using Second Life, a computer simulation
program that allows users to create comput-
er versions of themselves and interact with
each other in a virtual classroom.
Jacobs said she already had her own Sec-
ond Life persona when she discovered stu-
dent-created Gator Nation Island and was
both hesitant and excited to become involved
with it on an academic level.
"With any new technology you risk mas-
sive failure when you are an early adopter
but the possible benefits were intriguing to
me," she said. "I'll confess I was surprisedto learn that people at UF were advanced
enough to consider it."
Gator Nation Island's designer and archi-
tect, Joshua Javaheri, originally built the is-
land for his senior project in UF's digital arts
and sciences program.
Javaheri said the tough-
est part of designing the
virtual space was finding a
balance between maintain-
ing the appearance of UF's
Levin College of Law and
the surrounding areas and
Jab making it easily recogniz-
able by the students in the
class.
He worked with UF's Digital Worlds In-
stitute and the law school to create the virtual
campus, and Javaheri said he worked hard to
meet both of their expectations.
"I worked on a plan that would suit both
SEE SECOND LIFE, PAGE 12Alligator welcomes
prospective staffers
The Independent Florida Alligator
will hold an open house today from
2 to 5 p.m. to meet students interested
in reporting, copy editing, graphic
design, cartooning, generating online
content and more.
Section editors from the nation's
largest student-run newspaper will
interview students from both UF and
Santa Fe.
"A lot of people have the impres-
sion that we only employ journalism
majors," Editor in Chief Kristin Bjorn-
sen said. "That's not the case."
Applicants are encouraged to bring
their own story ideas, resumes and
writing samples.
"Patience is important because somany people come," Bjornsen said.
"It's not possible to have story ideas for
every applicant, so if they come in with
a few of their own, that'll better their
chances of being published."
However, the Alli-Local gator is more than just
NewS a newspaper. The staff
is also interested in stu-
dents with multimedia experience.
"We're looking for people who can
come up with creative ideas for online
content and think outside of the print
edition," Managing Editor / Online
Jennifer Jenkins said.
The Alligator is located at 1105 W
University Ave.
-RACHAEL PINO
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"0oday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 16 Thunder
stormsSPORTS 21 88/72
visit www.alligator.org* Junior offen-
sive lineman Carl
Johnson (right) is
one member of the
Gators' versatile
front five. Johnson
will likely start at
left guard but can
also step in at left
tackle as needed.
See Story, Page 21.
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Critical Mass
Ride begins at 5:30 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Held on the last Friday of ev-
ery month. Join cyclists for
a ride through the streets of
Gainesville to promote bicycle
culture.
First Shabbat at Hillel
Today, 7 p.m. and
Saturday, 10:30 a.m.
Located at Hillel
2020 W University Ave.
Hillel will celebrate the first
Shabbat of the semester Friday
with candle-lighting, three ser-
vices (Orthodox, Conservative
and Reform) and a free Kosher
dinner. Events will continue
Saturday at 10:30 a.m. with
services.
Havdalah Service
Today, 7:45 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Hillel will end Shabbat with a
learning discussion and short
Havdalah service.
Auditions for the Hoggetowne
Medieval Fair
Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Hippodrome State Theatre
The Hoggetowne Medieval
Fair is held in late January in
Gainesville. For more infor-
mation, e-mail hoggetowne-
auditions@gmail.com.
Luau at Broward Pool
Sunday, 2 to 4 p.m.
Cool off from the hot
Gainesville sun. Sponsored
by Hillel and Jewish Student
Union.
Florida Educator Association
Meeting
College of Education
Terrace Room
Tuesday, 7 p.m.FORECAST
TODAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72SATURDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
90/72
Education majors interested
in getting involved with
political action, commu-
nity service and attending
professional development
workshops are welcome to
attend UF FEA's first meet-
ing of the semester. There
will be free food and give-
aways.
UF Society of Professional
Journalists
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Weimer 3032
Learn how to become in-
volved in SPJ's national
campus chapter of the year
at its first meeting of the new
semester. Master Lecturer
Mike Foley will be speak-
ing. Refreshments will also
be served.
FACES Modeling Troupe
Meeting
Pugh Hall
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
Positions for fashion team,
public relations staff and
runway models are open.
Library Showcase
Wednesday,
11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Library West
InfoCommons, Third floor
See what the UF and Alachua
County libraries have to of-
fer. Library technologies,
services and resources will
be featured. There will be
demos, giveaways and free
food.SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
88/72MONDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/71TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
87/70
UF American Solar Energy
Society meeting
Thursday, 7 to 8 p.m.
Rinker 235
Interested in clean, green and
sustainable energy? Learn
more about the American Solar
Energy Society's UF chapter at
ufases.org. Upcoming events
include National Solar Tour,
One Less Car and solar pow-
ered vehicle project.
MGC Showcase: Evolution
Friday, 6 to 10 p.m.
Reitz Grand Ballroom
Sponsored by WOW! and
Gator Nights. Each organiza-
tion from the Multicultural
Greek Council will showcase
their values, traditions and
history through live perfor-
mances. After the show, at-
tendees can meet every frater-
nity and sorority in MGC and
learn about recruitment.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to
bkelley@alligator.org with
"What's Happening" in the
subject line. Please include a
one- to two-sentence synopsis
of the event.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
$1-00 12 oz. Draft Beer 4 E U C :
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERSNoon-6 p.m 25%OF anv one G1C Product7 D yCannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer7 Days a Week 3914SWArcerRd
In shop only Dail S ecials 376020 Exp 9/30/09
with purchase of menu entree
SAFETY BELTS
A We .2124 SW 34th St
- in Sweetbay PlazaDeliver Sun.-Wed. Thurs.-Sat. SMART FROM672-6111 11AM-3AM 11AM-4AM THE STARTa the independent florida
l drEgtm
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 5 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill, astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkeger@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Ca Ilovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Allie Conti, aconti@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Allie Conti,
Brian Kelley, Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry, Emily Blake,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Ashley Cruel,
Sanika Dange, Ashley Hemmy,
Joe Holzer, Amanda Milligan,
Jennifer Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Helen Callis, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Brittany Fayne,
Jon Levine, Joaquin Martinez,
Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
smckearnan@alligator.org
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSIN ESS
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida
ADMINISTRATION
352-3764446 (Voice), 352-3764556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , P 0 Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
Campaign encourages Gators to use buses, bicycles
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
For the second year in a row,
UF students, faculty and staff
are choosing not to drive them-
selves crazy while getting around
Gainesville.
Registration for the second
annual One Less Car Challenge,
which promotes saving the envi-
ronment by finding alternatives to
driving, began Monday and will
last until Nov. 20.
Stephanie Sims, the implemen-tation plan coordinator for the Of-
fice of Sustainability, said some
of the alternatives the challenge
highlights include cycling, public
transportation from the Regional
Transit System and Zipcar, a hy-
brid-car rental service.
Sims said this year the challenge
is also using GreenRide, a carpool-
coordinating software program, to
give people the option of carpool-
ing to and from campus. Students
will be able to register for Green-
Ride though the Office of Sustain-
ability's Web site and find carpool
partners in their area."I feel like it would just be
good for people to try some
different ways of getting to
campus."
Andrea Grossman
UFjunior
She said the software also re-
cords each participant's alterna-
tive commutes and keeps track of
the points they earn throughout
the challenge.
Teams and their members re-ceive points for using alterna-
tive transportation and referring
friends to the challenge, Sims said.
Anna Prizzia, the director of the
Office of Sustainability, said she
rides her bike to work each day to
avoid searching for parking and to
get fresh air.
"Being the director of the Office
of Sustainability, I find it very im-
portant to walk the talk and lead
by example," she said.
Andrea Grossman, a junior
environmental science major and
intern at the office, said she also
bikes to campus from her apart-ment.
Grossman said biking helps her
get to campus faster.
"I feel like it would just be
good for people to try some dif-
ferent ways of getting to campus
because they might find some-
thing that is more convenient for
them and that also helps out the
environment,"she said.
To showcase these different
forms of commuting, the challenge
will host an Alternative Transpor-
tation Fair Tuesday from 9 a.m. to
2 p.m. on the Reitz Union North
Lawn.
60K Fla. residents anticipated to contract HINI virus
Students with flu symptoms asked to stay at home
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
This fall, students may have more to
prepare for than just exams.
It is expected that about 60,000 Florid-
ians will contract the swine flu this flu sea-
son, according to Dr. Phillip Barkley, direc-
tor of student health at UF.
"Right now, all the cases of influenza in
the U.S. are HINI," he said.
Swine flu, also known as the HINI vi-rus, has become the sole influenza virus this
flu season. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention estimates the U.S. has had
more than one million cases, Barkley said,
adding those in the high-risk category in-
clude students under the age of 24.
However, Barkley said this is no cause
for chaos.
"Certainly the biggest difference with
this particular flu is there is no particular
human immunity," he said. "The good
thing is the severity of the disease is on themild side."
Barkley said UF students who had cases
of HINI were treated over the summer,
adding many students are able to take care
of themselves.
Local Barkley said the StudentNews Health Care Center antici-
pates more cases this year and
that vaccines will be available on campus.
However, he was unable to specify an exact
release date.
According to UF's environmental healthand safety Web site, symptoms include fe-
ver, cough, sore throat, runny nose, body
aches, headaches, chills, fatigue, diarrhea
and vomiting.
Treatment is as simple as bed rest, fluids
and Tylenol, according to the site.
Barkley said students are highly advised
not to go to class if they are sick.
"Don't affect other people," Barkley
said. "Do others a favor."
For those students who do find them-
selves with flu-like symptoms, a treatment
page can be found on the campus environ-
mental health and safety Web site at www.
ehs.ufl.edu/hlnl/.
Donate your gently
used items
Visit our Thrift Shop d
231 7 SW 13th St.
352 -378-4663 * Habitat
Call for pick-up for Humanity'
00%0
for Worship
THE RELIGIOUS
SOCIETY OF FRIENDS
Sundays at 11 AM
702 NW 38th Street
352-372-5911
Www.cox.com/gators * 1-866-463-6714 o~z0_1 VEvi- bi1
-Conveysation
-Tutoying for Children
-Spanish classes
Open RoCut
Lang Ace AcacteyL
214 \N. UmLversitg Ave
S3 2 2te B
~wwope 4rocat&catemUcvvi CO
352-24-6-2357I
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
NATIONAL
UF ranks high on green list
By HILARY SHEINBAUM said UF communicative disorders junior Kris-
Alligator Contributing Writer ten Davis. "I always see trash cans around cam-
pus encouraging students to 'Put it in the can
Gainesville is not the least bit chilly, but UF
just got a little cooler.
Sierra Club Magazine recently ranked the
school at No. 15 on its third annual Cool School
list, earning UF an A for its eco-friendly efforts.
The club bases its school rankings on eight
factors, including energy, efficiency, transpor-
tation and waste.
"Sustainability is one of our priorities here.
It's clearly important to students," said UF
spokesman Steve Orlando, adding that envi-
ronmental programs, including Zipcar and
buying locally grown produce for dining halls,
are campus-wide efforts.
"Every new generation places the environ-
ment as a higher priority," he said. "You really
can't lose with that."
The University of Colorado at Boulder,
which ranked No. 1, earned 10 out of 10 points
for transportation. UF received eight points for
transportation, according to the list.
"I think UF is an environmentally friendly
school because of all the seemingly small pro-
grams that are implemented right on campus,"Gator fan."'
"I love that taking the bus and leaving my car
at home saves me gas money, parking hassles
and is good for the environment," she added.
Other high-ranking schools
include Harvard University
and Yale University, which
placed 11th and 14th, respec-
/ tively.
According to the Web site,
if two or more schools tie for a
spot, the club considers other
Orlando factors such as consistency
across categories.
While the University of Central Florida
stands at the No. 57 spot with a C-plus, other
Florida schools such as Florida State University
and the University of Miami did not make the
cut.
The Sierra Club is the oldest, largest and
most influential grassroots environmental or-
ganization in the U.S., according to its Web site.
The group works to protect communities, wild
places and the planet.tihe lop)5 mos
CCo-fricflI
u n v er s I e s
rank university
1 Univ of Coorodo
2 Un. of Washngton
3 Mddlebuy Cdlege
4 Un of /ermont
5 Coege f the Aantic
6 E ergreen State Coege
7 Univ of Cafcrnla Sana
8 U of afoa bexee,energy waste grade
ia 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
I Source: Sierra magazine's 2009 Cool Schoolssurvey of the Top 100 most eco-friendly schools
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator
SE
S
T
SEE SOPHOMORE
GATOR AFTER -
FRESHMAN 15
S
GA
TH
SEE SENIOR
GATOR READY
TO TAKE ON -+
THE WORLD!E FRESHMAN
GATOR
CARED OF
HE SWAMP
EE JUNIOR
TOR AFTER
REE YEARS
AT UF
Through it all, you've been there
done that seen it and even read
about it in
alIigatorTEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONS
GMAT GRE LSAT
MCAT DAT OAT PCAT*
ENROLL BY SEPTEMBER 15
Th , Highr[ S,-r Gu -Wne -1ph -nly t Kr. -n -1ur. 1k1n 11nd 1.1mpletd w1(h1n the Unid S(,te, P-e 1 R-c C0 , M &x-Ic , Umted Kndom, -nd Fr. PGRO4ns
PREP SMARTER, SCORE HIGHER-GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK.I
I!(A PLANStaff
IF
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ADMINISTRATION
UF to hire up to 100 new faculty
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
Just over a week after UF sent
notices to many of the 60 employ-
ees being laid off, UF President Ber-
nie Machen announced an initia-
tive to use $10 million in stimulus
money to hire up to 100 new faculty
this year.
Machen made the announce-
ment Thursday during his State of
the University speech to the Faculty
Senate.
"The areas that are gonna be hir-
ing new faculty are high-demand,
based upon student interest," Ma-
chen said after his speech. "The
areas that have layoffs are areas
where the colleges decided they
don't have high demand."
"We have a responsibility to
you to allow you (students) to take
classes so you can graduate," he
said.
But John Biro, president of UF's
chapter of the United Faculty of
Florida, the faculty union, said the
plan is unfair to faculty being laid
off.
"It's absolutely unconscionable
to have a policy where you're trad-
ing in proven and loyal and suc-
cessful faculty," he said. "It's like
trading in your used car."
Biro said the plan is proof that
Machen is using budget cuts to
change the face of the university
without properly vetting it with the
university community.
"It's a few people's ideas of what
should happen without bringingeveryone else on board," he said.
He said faculty morale is low-
er than he's ever seen it and that
moves like this discourage the best
faculty from seeking jobs at UF.
"Who will want to come here?"
Biro asked.
Of the 60 employees being laid
off this year, 11 are faculty. And
since last August, UF has lost a net
of 81 faculty members, a decline of
2.1 percent. In the last two years,
Machen said, UF has lost 5 percent
of its faculty.
Machen said the new faculty will
be hired this fis-
cal year and will
start in July, the
beginning of the
next fiscal year.
For the first
year, their sala-
ries will be paid
Machen y stimulus
money, and in
the second year, differential tuition
money will pick up their salaries on
a permanent basis.
The number of faculty hired will
depend on the mix of junior and
senior faculty, Machen said, but it
could mean up to 100 new hires.
He said it will also help reduce
the faculty-student ratio, which is
just more than 20-to-1.
"We're still the lowest in the
state of Florida," he said, "but if
you look at our peers around the
country, our faculty-student ratio is
too stretched out."
UF's plan to reduce enrollment
by 4,000 will also help that goal.
UF's enrollment is now at 49,600,compared to 52,112 last fall.
Machen said really good schools
have a faculty-student ratio of 15-
to-1, but said UF will never be able
to reach that.
Reacting to the recent news that
UCF's enrollment topped UF's at
the start of classes, Machen said,
"Good for them."
"We're not concerned with
size," he said, "we're concerned
with quality."
Machen also announced that
research awards were up 2 percent
this year to $574 million, after fall-
ing from $635 million to $562 mil-
lion last year.
By comparison, UF took in $339
million in research awards in 1999-
2000.
Machen reported that student
parking decal sales were down 9
percent. This decrease comes as UF
is creating new parking spaces, with
a 927-space parking garage on the
corner of Gale Lemerand Drive and
Mowry Road that opened Monday.
After Machen's speech, the Sen-
ate was briefed on the swine flu
pandemic.
"Right now, the severity is a
two on a five-point scale," said Phil
Barkley, director of UF's Student
Health Care Center. Barkley asked
faculty to take it easy on students
who get sick because UF has re-
quested that students with flu-like
symptoms stay home and isolate
themselves until 24 hours after their
fevers have disappeared.
"Please be flexible with students
this fall when it comes to making
up work," Barkley said.Bernnke f?.gnim
ht bv ID thefft
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
G M
s t.,t. I."-
@ 7 M v .F-iUe or-Vr
tONIGHT
@ 7PMvs. FlU
First 2500 fans will receive schedule magnets courtesy of
Sun Spants!
SUNDAY
@ 1 PM vs. USF
Orange & Bluau! Celebrate the end of summer with the Gators!
First 250 fans will receive a lei and wear your best Hawaiian
shirt for a chance to win a prize!
James G. Pressly Stadium
Admission is FREE!Campus USA Credit Union Invitational
August 28 -29
Free admission passes for the Florida matches available at
www.campuscu.com
Sign Up to be a Wise Guy!
* Free t-shirt with registration!
* Be a part of the 2009 Volleyball student section!!
TONIGHT
@ 7 PM vs. UNLV
TOMORROW
@ 7 PM vs. Colorado
Aii home matches are played at the Stphen C. O'Connell Center
Armomoation subct Go change whout prior notice.
2'
L-
CAMPUSOPEN A';LL NIGH T?
No need for sleep.
Thoughts of ?nvnC1blty.
Reckless sk-taikdns, ?mpulsiveness.
O>evastat1vns 4epression,
they) incre4lWe energy and creat+dV1+.
What's going on? Could be bipolar disorder (manic depression).
The National Depressive and Manic-Depressive Association
has helped bipolar disorder patients for more than 10 years.
We can help you, too.
Don't wait -bipolar disorder can ruin your life, or even end it.
Visit www.ndmda.org or call 1-800-826-3632
We've been there. We can help.
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
If you're anything like us, fall is one big wake-up call (and
if you're even more like us, you totally missed your 7 a.m.
wake-up call on Monday).
Basically, we have to be reacquainted with two things: re-
sponsibility and something called "the morning." Morning is
no longer a time for old people, children, Regis and Kelly. It's
now a time for you to get up-and-at-'em, too. So head over
to Deja Brew with a copy of The New York Times and try
pretend you buy into Ben Franklin's famous proverb.
Oh, wait.
Well, as a consolation for a week of mornings lacking in
caffeine and a Wednesday without Maureen Dowd, we offer
this week's Welcome Back edition of.
Darts & Laurels
Hey, beggars can't be choosers.
We're sorry to have sent you into a bout of post-trau-
matic stress over the conspicuous absence of the Grey Lady
on campus, but fret no more. Student Government is in the
process of reinstating The New York Times readership pro-
gram and should have the paper back in those blue boxes
on Monday. For listening to the outpouring of distraught
paperless students and working to help us get our news on
once more, the Department of Darts & Laurels would like to
send an if-only-you-could-make-those-boxes-possible-to-
open-we'd-be-golden LAUREL to SG Treasurer Maryam
Laguna. Some of us only know what day of the week it is
based on whose column is running in the Times, so your
efforts will not go unnoticed.
Something else that didn't go unnoticed, apparently,
is the fight that broke out in front of Club Decadence on
Wednesday morning. As two women broke into a straight-
up brawl, a crowd of about 50 people gathered to watch.
Sometimes fights are cool -if you've ever seen someone
confront an always-late RTS bus driver, you know this.
Fights involving violence are not, however. For standing
around and watching like gladiatorial gawkers, we would
like to send a DART to the crowd that did nothing to stop
the fight. While we're at it, we might as well throw a half-
LAUREL to the two women for taking it outside (because
God knows that if people started throwing 'bows inside
that shoebox, nine people would have been killed). Unless,
of course, the place is bigger on the inside than on the out-
side a la "House of Leaves." Who are we kidding? If Club
Decadence ever posed any sort of metaphysical question to
anyone, we would die of the shock.
To anyone who has ever bemoaned the fact that Ameri-
can Apparel manages to sell $20 T-shirts that consist of ap-
proximately two ounces of fabric, you're about to have some
more fodder for your proverbial cannon. Currently being
sold in AA stores is something called Bag-O-Scraps, which
is exactly what it sounds like. For a nominal fee of $8, you,
too, can own scraps from the floor of an actual American
Apparel factory. For pushing their we-sell-you-$3-shirts-at-
a-9,000-percent-price-markup credo to a whole new level,
we'd like to throw a not-even-the-late-Billy-Mays-could-
sell-us-this-one DART at American Apparel. We could
possibly relent on 'em, considering they are throwing in a
'zine with the box, but we realized that if you're buying gar-
bage, you probably don't have the requisite brain power to
make it through four to five pages of reading material.
Those of you who are lamenting the death of the Bright
Futures book stipend may be getting a break yet again. We
would like to throw a thanks-for-saving-us-when-Florida-
almost-made-us-pay-for-some-of-our-college-experience
LAUREL to a new Web site called textbookaid.org that
will help students get a tax break. All documented, out-of-
pocket, college-related expenses can be reported for up to a
$2,500 tax break. We're starting to regret forgoing the bag
(and the receipt) at Goerings Book Store. So much for being
environmentally conscious.
That's all for this week. See you Monday morning.
a l e independent foridaalligator
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSAllie Conti
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
:J
/00
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
Today's quest
a bagfull of clon: Would you buy Monday's question: Do you miss
thing scraps? getting the New York Times for
free on campus?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.a Iigator.org/opinions
79% YES
21% NO
324 TOTAL VOTES--
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Alligator headline misleading
What incredible happy news I first thought
from reading the Alligator headlines on Aug.
27: "Machen: No more cuts." On the Web site
version, I found a less misleading headline
for the story: "Machen predicts end to bud-
get cuts." The "end" of budget cuts will hap-
pen after we have "more" budget cuts. I liked
the positive quotes from Machen: "economy
seems to be stabilized," "gonna be a positive
year after a 'negative year."' All preceded by
he's "ready to predict there will be no more
cuts to UF's budget next spring."
The skeptic is prepared. The story goes
on to say the president intends to hire more
faculty through stimulus money (applause)
so as to curb the "brain drain." I thought the
brain drain was happening due to low salaries
but there seems to be no mention on how to
raise salaries to deflect the "brain drain." The
hope is to have money for new hires, but no
money for higher salaries? I read nothing on
the non-continuation of contracts in Academic
Technology. So we can look forward to more
"cuts" in November. Machen is quoted as say-
ing, "What we're anxious to do is get back
into a hiring mode." If UF wants to hire more
people, it better "cut" them so you can make
room to hire more. Maybe a more appropriate
Alligator headline could have been: "Machen
predicts end to budget cuts [by next spring af-
ter a painful winter]."
Jorge Gonzales
Gainesville resident
New York Times program to be re-instated
After hearing many people voice their con-
cerns over the possible funding decreases fromour Collegiate Readership Program, I want to
take this opportunity to set the record straight
on a few things and hopefully assuage some
of your fears.
Over the last few years, The New York
Times has suffered from a steady decline of
readership that has affected their bottom line.
In turn, their rates have gone up as they try to
survive this dark period for print media. Thus
we have been working with them to be able to
continue to provide the best services for our
student and apologize for the momentary gap
in delivery. We are expecting delivery to re-
sume this coming Monday.
We at Student Government recognize the
importance of The New York Times as an in-
valuable service to the Student Body for im-
portant information and promise to work dili-
gently to ensure that the Grey Lady and other
respected papers remain available on campus.
One way everyone can help is by decreasing
our reliance on the unsustainable paper edi-
tion and using the online edition of the Times
that is free for anyone who wishes to read it.
Thank you all for voicing your concerns
and engaging your elected officials. I hope we
can all unite to work together toward solving
problems like this in the future.
Maryam Laguna
Student Body treasurer
Student Government steeped in mystery
Why is it that our Student Government
does not allow students to know what is going
on? During my time at UF, I have seen a Stu-
dent Government steeped in mystery and one
that rarely interacts with the Student Body. I
have seen SG officials ignore students, breakthe law and show an overall d
issues facing us. As the laws
Bracco demonstrates, SG doe
know what is going on. SG ha
individuals the right to know
public meetings, but it even,
not allow students to have th
of our elected officials. The cc
crecy in SG needs to end, an
know where our $14 million i
U ..
Machen's stance on cans h
What a surprise. President
like Budweiser marketing o
beer cans in Gainesville.
His argument is that thes
cans will promote binge drink
age drinking and that they
trademark of its school colo
search on the UF Bookstore
a UF-licensed inventory that
wine-stoppers, Gator pilsne
"collector" glasses (coinciden
as a standard shot glass), Gat
Gator mixing glasses and Gat
So how is it that orange ar
being sold off campus are m
our students than an array o
items being peddled in the he
the official bookstore? It see
is OK with promoting drinki
they stand to profit from it.
U ..iscontent for the Bill concentrates too much power in SG
it filed by Frank At Tuesday night's meeting of the Student
s not want us to Senate, the Unite Party passed a bill called the
s not only denied Executive Order Establishment Act, a bill that
what happens at represents a serious threat to the democratic
goes so far as to process within Student Government.
e voting records Myself and several other Orange and Blue
irruption and se- Party senators brought up legitimate points
d we deserve to against the bill, but the majority party passed
s going. it anyway.
Gary Benedix First, the bill is illegal, as it attempts to
3LS force Senate to give up powers to the execu-
tive branch, which is illegal under the Student
Body Constitution.
Second, it's just bad policy. We live in a
hypocritical nation that supports separation of powers in
Machen doesn't government, and we should not allow Student
range and blue Body President Jordan Johnson to circumvent
the Senate's authority to establish agencies
e school-colored and set their level of funding.
king and under- And this year, the executive branch's bud-
nfringe on UF's get proposal is structured so that President
rs. But a quick Johnson has almost unilateral power over
Web site shows funding, with a "slush fund" that he can give
includes Gator to agencies as he sees fit. Coincidence?
r glasses, Gator I don't think so.
fly the same size All this bill does is concentrate even more
zr bottle coozies, power in an executive branch that constantly
or wine glasses. oversteps its bounds. The bill's author said
d blue beer cans these provisions were legal at other univer-
ire of a threat to sixties like UCF and USF, but UCF and USF
alcohol-related aren't riddled with SG corruption. After all,
art of campus at both of these schools have online voting for SG
ns to me like UF elections, so I ask the Unite Party, why don't
ng .as long as we copy them in that manner as well?
The answer is clear: because online voting
Alison Hightower won't help the Unite Party. Irresponsibly in-
7BA creasing President Johnson's power does.
Alden Gillepsy
District D Senator, Orange & Blue Party
r Q
Buy Now
For the best selection
of used textbooks
Buy Here
And know you're getting
the right book
Buy Smart
And avoid shipping chargesAssessment
Treatment
School Liason
Home-based Programs
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 I 5930SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
The new film by Francis Ford Coppolacinema o opens tonight 6:30 and 9pm
Tickets and Information 352-375-HIPP I THEHIPPORG
Advertise in the country's
largest college newspaper.
With a daily readership of more than 50,000,
reach every market in Gainesville.
Contact us at [352] 376.4482.11 e249If pf
STUDENT LOANS
Cash For Anything!
FBest Jewelry and Loan
15a3 NW 3rd Ave -371.4367 -371-GEMS
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
New cart service offers free rides around Gainesville
By KATHRYN STOLARZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Zipping around on doorless
six-seat carts may soon become the
most convenient and environmen-
tally friendly way to move -and
it's free.
ZIPcarts, a new Gainesville
transportation service launching
Sept. 5, shuttles people within
the perimeter of 16th Avenue, the
southernmost edge of UF's cam-
pus, Southeast Seventh Street and
34th Street.
Since the beginning of the test-
ing phase on Aug. 17, about 1,000
students have gotten rides on two
green and yellow carts, according
to Jordan Long, 21, Santa Fe Col-
lege business management junior
and one of three company found-
ers.
When five dolled-up girls
flagged down a cart Sunday eve-
ning to catch a ride, their reaction
was immediate excitement.
"This is going to be one of my
favorites."
"Give me the number. I'm put-
ting it in my phone right now."
"Oh my god. This is awesome."
According to Long, their reac-
tion is common.
"So far, everyone loves it," he
said. "They're just amazed that
there is a free service that is so con-
venient."
Sophomore Kelsey Bryant
waved down a ZIPcart driving by
in her neighborhood at about 11:30
p.m. Monday and got a ride to a
Sigma Chi house party. She called
the service heaven-sent.
She usually walks when she
goes out at night, she said.
"I don't understand the (RTS)
routes real well at night," she said.
"SNAP sucks. SNAP takes forever.
You get scared waiting."
The university has also re-sponded positively to the idea of
the service.
"Anything that's going to pro-
vide alternative transportation to
someone under the influence of
alcohol is a great idea," said UPD
spokesman Jeff Holcomb.
But safety and convenience
aren't ZIPcarts' only perks -the
ZIP stands for Zero-emission In-
town People movers. The electric
carts, which are street legal on
roads up to 35 mph, run on electric-
ity, so they don't emit greenhouse
gases. They cost about $1 per day
or between 1 and 2 cents per mile
to run, according to cofounder
Majid Vasigh, a UF alumnus and
criminal lawyer.
The company will transport agroup of county commissioners
from around the state from the
Gainesville Hampton Inn to a con-
ference at Santa Fe College around
8 a.m. today to showcase ZIPcarts
as an example of the county's sus-
tainability efforts.
The idea for the company was
sparked last year when former
Tampa neighbors Ryan Clarke,
cofounder, and Vasigh were rid-
ing on Hop Tampa, downtown
Tampa's free, eco-friendly shuttle
service.
"We joked about how cool
it would be to start one of these
things and do it right and do it bet-
ter," Vasigh said.
This July, they decided to make
it happen.While vacationing in Cancun,
Mexico, Clarke discussed the idea
with Long, Clarke's friend since
high school, and they agreed to
start the company. Vasigh hopped
on board, and the three devoted
their summer nights and week-
ends to developing and planning.
"We were really serious about
it," Clarke said.
"Where better to do it than in
a college town where the kids are
getting drunk and walking or driv-
ing home, and where there are lots
of muggings and [robberies]?"
He said the goal of ZIPcarts is
trifold -to keep drunk drivers
off the roads, reduce greenhouse
gas emissions and profit by selling
advertisements, which will appear
iviaui iripp~ /iiigaor Mian
Ryan Clarke, a creator of ZiPcarts, poses next to one his carts while on the job Thursday night. ZlPcarts
is a free, green service that takes passengers all over inner Gainesville and runs until the bars close.on the sides of the carts and water
bottles given to customers.
The three presented their idea
to Gainesville's Public Safety and
Towing Subcommittee later that
month.
"The consensus was a great
thumbs up," Vasigh said.
Clarke, Vasigh and Long front-
ed more than $75,000 in startup
costs, including six carts -the two
currently operating and four more
on order -license plates, T-shirts,
business cards and taxi lights for
the roofs, but Long said the ven-
ture is more than worth the trouble
and cost.
Rain skirts, plastic sheets that
drape over the sides of the carts,
should be delivered within a
couple of weeks so the rides can
be given rain or shine, Long said.
The company is also looking into
ordering 11-seat carts to transport
larger groups.
The company is also creating an
iPhone application and a mobile
Web site package for the Blackber-
ry. They will also install GPS loca-
tors on each cart sometime within
the next month to serve those who
can't explain where they are be-
yond an address, Vasigh said.
Long plans to have at least six to
eight carts running in Gainesville
by the end of the year. After estab-
lishing a firm base in Gainesville,
he hopes to expand the company
to colleges across Florida and
Georgia and eventually franchise
the company throughout the na-
tion.
"I want to do all kinds of stuff,"
Long said. "This is just a stepping
stone."
Call 877-ZIP-1352 to schedule a
ride. For more information and to
find out about advertising oppor-
tunities, visit the Web site at www.
FreeZIPcarts.com.
NATIONAL
Tax credit may give up to $2.5K to those without aid
By JESSICA CHAPMAN
Alligator Writer
Long lines, pricey books and empty
shelves are often the norm for students dur-
ing the first week of classes.
But now some students might get paid to
go through the hassle.
College students and families who do not
receive financial aid, scholarships or grants
might qualify for the American Opportunity
Tax Credit, part of the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act passed in February by
the U.S. Congress.
The credit will give students up to $2,500
for their out-of-pocket expenses, focusing on
textbooks.
The tax credit is only available through the
2009 and 2010 tax years and is an extension of
the Hope Credit, which was designed to help
offset education costs, according to a release
by the National Association of College Stores,
which partnered with the IRS to raise aware-
ness.
Although the Hope Credit was custom-
ized for students who come from lower in-
come families, the American OpportunityTax Credit will include a broader range of
taxpayers.
"It really is a great opportunity to fill in
some holes [from out-of-pocket expenses],"
said Richard Hershman, director of govern-
ment relations for the National Association
of College Stores. "It's a win for students and
families. There's no reason not to get this."
Students or parents can claim the credit
when filing for taxes in the spring.
All course materials apply for the credit as
long as documentation, such as transcripts, a
list of textbooks and receipts, are provided.
"In the meantime, just keep track of your
expenses," Hershman said.
The first $2,000 in out-of-pocket expenses
goes toward the tax credit and is returned.
Any amount more than $2,000 will have 25
percent of the remaining expenses paid back
up to $2,500, according to the American Op-
portunity Tax Credit Web site.
The tax credit is also 40 percent refundable,
providing up to a $1,000 refund for qualifying
taxpayers.
Hershman said the tax credit was designed
to ease some of the stress felt by college stu-
dents during the economic recession.UF freshman Danielle Agostino said the
tax credit will provide relief for her parents,
and she plans to take advantage of the oppor-
tunity.
"It's really hard right now," she said, add-
ing she didn't qualify for financial aid. "A
large number of students get financial aid,
but a large number don't, too." However, eco-
nomics professor Mark Rush said UF students
will not be affected as much as community
colleges and other universities throughout
Florida.Rush explained thatbecause manyUF fam-
ilies have higher incomes and most students
qualify for the Bright Futures Scholarship,
they won't need or qualify for the credit.
"It won't have a huge impact on UF," Rush
said. "There will be some students [at UF who
really need it, but] community colleges may
be a big beneficiary."
More information and examples on the
American Opportunity Tax Credit can be
found at www.textbookaid.org/Default.
aspx.
How To Get Money For Your Books:
* The American Opportunity Tax Credit is offering up to $2,500
to students for out-of-pocket expenses.
To be eligible, students must claim the credit
when they or their parents file taxes in the spring.
While filling out tax forms, students or their families must complete Form 8863,
attached to any 1040 or 1040A form.
Students must keep receipts, transcripts and the list of textbooks and course materials.
The documents must be sent off when filing the claim.
For more information visit textbookaid.org.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
More than 12K pav rtbpect% to Ktenned
N.url Apnt
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Conimercial News Providers"Scavenging for Sheet Music
Team T.I. Red from the Mentor-
Mentee Program scavenger hunt
finds a sheet of music by asking
student near the music building
on campus Thursday night. The
program is sponspored by the Col-
lege of Human Health and Perfor-
mance to help new students learn
about the campus.
lVldtt IFIPP/ M111gatUr aall
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
I~ I
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
r --I
Free In-House Lunch Special:
Bring a friend and get a free gyro with purchase of
any one gyro and two beverages
customerr must present this coupon to redeem special.
Avalabe 1:9 am- 930pm M-F)
expires 20th September
'352-378-5179 1120 W University Ave.
The
Bar & Grill
HOUSJ3352-378-7033
1718 W. Univ. Ave.
Saturday
Free ee
L i V b.,JThousands of Alligator alumni have credited their success
to their experiences, what they learned and the friends
they made at the Alligator.
The Alligator is currently looking to fill the following positions:
section editors, online staff, writers, graphic
designers, columnists, photographers,
bloggers, copy editors, advertising interns
and sales representatives
OPEN HOUSE
Interviews will be held on-site, so please bring
your resume, clips, and portfolio if you have one.
the independent florida
alligator
Located at 1105 W, University Ave,
two blocks east of UF campus,
across the street from the Bank of America.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Man irm prison% *Omvain aI irftuaI %ilav for 18 vr a
"Copyrighted Material
Syndicated content
Available from Commercial News Providers"
P~add a strong resume builder.
egin to build yourbusiness experience
To compete in today's job market,
you need experience. The Alligator offers
students just like you that opportunity. As a sales
intern or representative, you will gain valuable sales
experience through personal contact with clients.
You will learn the media business from a hands-on
perspective.
If you can work fall and spring semesters, come
see what makes us a reflection of your college
market. You must be enrolled in classes.
Le the Alligator be your first step toward a
successful future.
Applications are available at The Alligator
Application deadline:
Monday, August 31stT H E
CANCER
P ROJECT
Finally!
A prescription with
effectsjou want.
Blueberries and red beans
of the many foods rich in a
are powerful remedies in th
against cancer. Research
fruits, vegetables, and othe
vegetarian foods may help
cancer and even improve
rates. A healthy plant-base
lower your cholesterol, incr
energy, and help with weig
diabetes. Fill this prescripti
local market and don't forg
have unlimited refills!V
side
just a few
ntioxidants,
e fight
shows that
r low-fat
prevent
urvival
d diet can
ease your
ht loss and
on at your
et-you
For a free nutrition booklet with cancer fighting
recipes, call toll-free 1-866-906-WELL or visit
www. CancerProject.org0
12, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
UF RESEARCH
UF creates new grape variety
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
UF scientists have just released a tasty creation.
They debuted a new variety of grape this sum-
mer that they had been growing, propagating and
testing for about 16 years, according to Dennis Gray,
one of the developers.
Gray, a professor and developmental biologist
with UF's Institute of Food and Agricultural Scienc-es, said the variety, named the Southern Jewel by a
Florida wine maker, is adapted to grow in Florida
and the Southeast U.S. because it can withstand the
humidity and resist diseases in the environment.
According to Gray, the Southern Jewel is a seed-
ed grape with a thick, edible skin and is classified as
a muscadine grape.
"However, unlike most muscadine grapes, which
produce clusters of four to six grapes, the Southern
Jewel variety produces clusters of 12 to 16 grapes,"
he said. "It has an extremely fruity flavor, and the
berries are quite large, sometimes the diameter of a
quarter."
Jacob Paulk, the largest grower of mus-
cadine grapes in the U.S., is growing the
Southern Jewels at his farm in Wray, Ga.
He said he hopes the plants will help the
muscadine grape market, which is limited to
the Southeast, to grow.
Paulk said the market is limited because
any temperature under 10 degrees Fahren-
heit would kill muscadines. People in the
Southeast are familiar with them because the
native muscadine grapes were grown in this
region, but the grapes are not as well known
in the Midwest or Northeast.
"New, good tasting varieties will help
us sell," Paulk said.
However, the plants are still young and
not yet ready for picking. When they are
ready, he hopes the new variety can be
picked in bunches and packed in the field to
save some labor in the factory.
"I'm looking forward to seeing it and packing
it," Paulk said.
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
Virtual class links students with international experts without travel fees
SECOND LIFE, from page 1
parties' needs," he said, "which, as any architect can attest
to, is always a challenge."
According to Javaheri, the Second Life classroom uses
multimedia from in-game Powerpoint presentations to You-
Tube showings on the tiny televisions.
Students also have the option to communicate with one
another and Jacobs via headset or chat.
Jacobs said while the virtual classroom isn't a substitute
for taking a class in person, it is more engaging than a stan-
dard online class.
"The beauty of the environment is that they are experi-
encing what they are studying," she said. "It's no longer hy-
pothetical, dry discussion but a lived experience."
Aside from the virtual face to virtual face interaction, Ja-
cobs said learning in Gator Nation Island classroom offers
the ability to connect the students with experts around the
world without the cost of booking fees and plane tickets.
"Now, an expert in Europe can simply log in and be right
in the class with my students," she said. "It's wonderful."
Aside from the virtual face-to-virtual face interaction, Ja-
cobs said learning in Gator Nation Island classroom offers
the ability to connect the students with experts around the
world without the cost of booking fees and plane tickets.
Although the interface is made as user-friendly as pos-
sible, Jacobs said the learning curve could make it a chal-
lenge to some.
"This is not for someone who has little patience or is
afraid of technology. It would be too frustrating," she said.
But according to Jacobs, the effort it takes to get used to
the Second Life classroom is worth the benefit of using an
interactive virtual classroom over a dry online class.
"It's not just you (the student) and a computer screen.
Rather you are in an actual class with other students," she
said. "You are still interacting with other human beings in
real time and benefiting from the intellectual exchange that
is the hallmark [of classroom learning]."fl~II
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
An avatar of Michelle Jacobs, Crime in the Virtual Context professor in the Levin College of Law, stands in a virtual
mock courtroom on Second Life's Gator Nation Island. The class is the first at UF to be taught in a virtual class-
room.Police search for
robbery suspect
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Writer
Gainesville Police are still searching for a man who
was involved in an attempted armed robbery of a family
early Thursday morning.
His accomplice, Joe Meadows Jr., 20, was found nearby
and was identified by the family as one of the attackers.
Armed with handguns and duct tape, the two men en-
tered the home through an unlocked sliding glass door at
about 12:20 a.m., a GPD arrest report stated.
When they got inside, the men found a
Local 16-year-old boy sleeping on the couch and
NewS attempted to tie him up. The boy's mother,
father and two younger brothers heard the
noise and went downstairs.
According to the report, the men threatened the family
with guns but left when the mother ran outside to call for
help.
With the help of GPD police dog Redd, officers found
Meadows hiding on the back porch of a nearby apart-
ment, the report stated.
After interviewing the family, officer Jon Rappa wrote
in the report that the shaken-up 9-year-old boy tugged
on the officer's pant leg, crying and said, "This has never
happened before."
Meadows was charged with four counts of aggravated
assault, one count of aggravated battery and five counts
of armed burglary.
ais=%iiiiliillillk
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
Verfygfnwireless
Take theInternet.
Leave the bulk.
The HP Mini netbook. Connected. Portable. Affordable.
Introducing the ultra portable HP Mini netbook with America's Largest and Most Reliable 3G Network
built-in. Loaded with an 80GB hard drive, webcam, and Windows XP, it's anything but small.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with a 1- or 2-yr. agreement.
HPMini netbook
NOW $ 99
ONLY 1
$299.99 2-yr. price, less $100 mail-in
rebate debit card with 2-yr. activation
on a Mobile Broadband plan from
$39.99 monthly access. Activation fees,
taxes & othercharges apply.
41,.Windows
Switch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249) Click verizonwireless.com/getdiscount Visit any store
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Open 7 days a week.
Technicians available at select locations.
CLERMONT 1415 F. Hwy. 50 352-243-6826 LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwy. 27/441, Ste. G. 352-350-2861 OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave. Rd. 352-237-3434 BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
GAINESVILLE 3401 S.W. Archer Rd. 352-378-8828 LAKE CITY Lake City Mall 386-719-2173 OCALA WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352-237-8697 1-800-899-4249
Oaks Mall Kiosk 352-331-0379 LEESBURG Lake Square Mall 352-787-2449 1-800-899-4249
3401 SW Archer Rd. 352-378-8828 OCALA 2613 S.W. 19th Ave. Rd. 352-620-0025
3626 SW Archer Rd. 352-491-2500
In Collaboration with Visit verizonwireless.com
Alcatel-Lucent _Aceptamoss La l .-to find a Club near you.
0 ~ mtricula Consular
0ur Surcharges (i nc.Fed. Univ. Svc. of 12.9% of interstate & int'l telecom charges (varies quarterly), 7C Regulatory & 92C Administrative/line/mo., & others by area) are not taxes (details: 1-888-684-1888); gov't taxes & oursurcharges could add 7% -27% to
yourbill.Activationfee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Agmt, Data Plan, credit approval & rebate form. Up to $175 early termination fee, up to $. 10/MB after allowance. Mobile Broadband is available to more than 280 million people in the US. in 259 major metros. Offers & coverage
not available everywhere. Rebate debit card takes up to 6 wks. & exp. in 12 mos. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. 2009 Verizon Wireless. NETS.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished furnished furnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
LIVE FOR $319!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
*TheLandingsUF.com 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13 St
12-9-75-1
SUPER HERO SAVINGS
HULK-Smashing Prices!
As Low As $299/person!
3515 SW 39th Blvd
Let Greenwich save you Green! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
& The ,
atSnaFe
Walk to Santa Fe College!!!
Limited Time Only
Rates starting at $399 or
Receive a $1000 rebate check on us!
4/4's or Brand New 3/3's!
Fully Furnished, Free Ethernet
Free Cable and Utilities
Roommate Matching, Free Tanning!
352-379-9300 www.thecrossingatsantafe.com
12-9-75-1
STARTING @ $369
$0 to sign, 4 more info text
LEXINGTON to 25278
ALL INCLUSIVE & FURNISHED
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-12 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
Female roommates needed for 3/3 @
Windsor Park, own bed/bath, washer/dryer,
near 34th & Archer. Close to UF on bus stop,
pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $420, inc. utili-
ties. Prefer clean & studious. 407-361-1154
8-28-09-46-1
350/mo Countryside @ the University 4/4
with W/D Newly remodeled. Furnished. Call
352-274-3089 or email
redfox8979@gmail.com
8-28-30-1
Three bedroom out of four are available for
rent, furnished with utilities included. Near
UF and Shands, $400.00 a month. Call 352-
795-1870 or 352-266-4114. 9-3-09-30-1
Rooms for Rent- UF students pref
$325/mo + 1/3 of the bills/room/tenant
3BR/3BA, $300 sec dep. 1 Yr lease Aug 1st,
09 -July 31st '10 Call for info 386-445-0043
8-28-09-27-1
$295/Rm Univ Commons 4BR/2BA Privately
owned = rent below mgmt company's rate !
Fully furnished, full size washer and dryer,
quiet 3rd floor with balcony. Free cable TV w/
HBO. Also on 5 bus routes. $50/month utili-
ties. No Pets. Brad @ 813-854-5628 or
bkseshep@tampabay.rr.com 8-31-09-16-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-1
*$350 for a room, meals & convenience*
One block N of UF campus. Includes utilities,
laundry room, computer lab and parking.
Fall/Spring leases for a shared dormitory.
352.377.4269 www.cloliving.org 117 nw 15 st
8-28-09-17-1
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-1Univ. Terr. Gainesville, 3921 SW 34th st., 1st
fir., 4 bd, 4 ba, cent A/C, cable, wash., dry.,
full kitch., Sept rent free! $300/mo.ea., $25/
person finders fee, owner/manager/gaines-
ville Immediate occupancy. 352-472-9778
9-4-09-27-1
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Beautiful 3/3 condo
Windsor Park, dir on bus route, new furn.,
beaut. remod. bathrooms and hardwood
floors, upstairs, front bldg, 1300/mo, 772-
349-3221, bdduf86@comcast.net 9-23-
09-30-1
ALMOST SOLD OUTt
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gate&Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
BEAUTIFUL 7TH STREET STATION
TOWNHOUSE. Close to UF. 2BR/2pvt BA +
1/2 BA. New floor & carpet. Secure parking.
$815/mo. Please call 407-227-7223 8-28-
09-10-1
Oxford Terrace-Private bed/bath in big 4/4.
Rent includes: wi-ficable, utilities & w/d in
unit. No sm or pets, M or F welcome.
407-774-7176 or beweiss59@hotmail.com
Clean / Ready to move-in! 8-28-09-9-1
PROF/GRAD STUDENT. All Amenities.
Studious & quiet. Safe & secure. $350/mo.
Leave message 333-8300. 9-4-09-14-1
lbr/lba in 4/4 luxury condo $410/mth,
all inclusive (utilities, internet, tv, phone,
washer/dryer), fully furnitured. very close to
campus. contact 352-235-4762 or
toxapheneufl@yahoo.com 9-16-20-1
University Terrace West***
4BR/4BA. Individual leases. Fully furnished,
utils included, W/D. $399/mo Call 352-278-
9347 www.bogartproperties.com or rent the
whole place for $1600. 8-28-5-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE FOR 2B/2BA
Nantucket Walk Condo. Fully furnished.$600/
month. Luxury style condo with parking
balcony,w/d in unit, granite counters,etc.Call
2566981203.carab@ufl.edu 8-28-09-7-1
2 girls need 1 more for BEAUTIFUL 3BR/3BA
condo. Close to UF min to SF. Near RTS bus-
stop. Lrg-priv BR/BA & walk-in closet. Tall
ceil, outside lanai, pool. $550 ALL UTILITIES
INC! No pets, yr lease reqd. 305-304-1703
8-31-09-6-1**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 8-28-6-1
LIVE IN LUXURY @ Windsor Park! A MUST
SEE APT! 3Bd/3Private BTH All Inclusive:
water,light,cable, and h-s internet plus more!
ONLY $470 no security deposit! Call for more
details 305-984-4245 9-1-09-71
3 ROOMS FOR RENT
$525-$650/mo All utils incl. Near SFC, Oaks
Mall & UF 786-325-7941 9-21-09-20-1
Looking for 2 female UF Grad student
roommates for a townhouse in Marchwood.
$399 plus utilities. 3 bedroom, 2 bathroom,
fully furnished, complete kitchen, and
fireplace. Located on SW 43rd st near SW
20th av. Contact Sarah at sonofrio@ufl.edu
8-28-09-5-1
Two furnished 1/1's available in 2/2 at
Capstone Quarters. One room available im-
mediately other room available in Dec. All
inclusive for $550. $550 S.D. + 1st months.
rent. Call Valerie Rivera @ 904-910-7506
8-28-09-5-1
FIRST MONTH FREE!!! Apt for rent. 4bd/2ba.
$400/mo/room. Three bnlks from campus.
Newly remodeled. Pool, Internet. 813-690-
3781. 9-11-09-14-1
DUCKPOND
Prof/grad student. fully furn large room in qui-
et house. Bike to campus. $350/mo. Leave
message 872-8388 9-4-09-10-1
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
8-28-09-5-1
$700/month, 2BR/2BA Furnished Apt with
washer/dryer, walk-in closets, 2905 SW
Archer Rd, minutes from UF and Shands,
on bus route. 954-452-3600 or diwool@aol.
com. 8-28-09-5-1
$300/mo.each 4 bdrm/2bath, washer &
dryer with utility pkg. CLEAN! @ University
Commons. 352-266-4114. 9-8-09-10-1-Furnished. 1 br/1 ba, Windsor Park. Room. 2
mi from UF, $ 420/mo. Avail Right now. Elec,
cab.tv, internet,gym, pool, washer/dryer,
closet. Basketball, .soccer & tennis courts.
305-408-4330,305-962-2525 or
c2000_1@msn.com 9-2-09-7-1
NS male to share 2/1.5 furnished town-
house. Cresap Arms:4blk north of Lib.W/
Chipotle, 6min walk to Turlington. $600/mo
incld:cable/internet, kitchen, W/D, DW, TV,
resv.park, balcony, 1/2utils. 239-994-6249
8-31-09-5-1
Beautifully Furnished 2/2 condo at Creeks
Edge, Ground floor, pool, 24hr gym, tennis
court, on RTS route 8, less than 2 miles to
campus, $1100 call 904-501-1990
9-8-09-10-1
NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE
for 3BR/2BA townhouse. $550/mo all inclu-
sive. W/D, on direct bus route, minutes to
campus. No pets. Please call 813-892-3996
9-23-09-20-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
1, 2, 3's *SUPER RENT DISCOUNTS!
1BR $509 * 2BR $579* 3BR $775
HUGE FLOORPLANS!* Pets Loved!
Bus Stop * Pools * Green Courtyards!
Park Free Across From UF! 335-7275
12-9-09-75-2
The ONLY Apartments Downtown
Studios-$645*1/1 from $699
2/2 from $900* 3/3 $500/bed
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets
207 SE 2nd Place-Next to Starbucks
352.338.0002-arlingtonsquare.org
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor-
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by4 pm will appear two publica- rections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after the first
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the nextwww.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentO F nfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO UF!
Studios & 1 Beds starting at $499!
Pet friendly, Free Parking Near UF
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
New Life Community
Chapel
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
Phone: (352) 214-4462
I SIp
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Livel
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.comBest Price & Great Location
Large 1 & 2's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
BIVENS COVE
1/1 -From $649 2/2 -From $699
3/2 -From $824 4/3 -From $1099
Close to UF/Shands * Pet Friendly
(352) 376-2507 * 3301 SW 13th Street
12-9-09-75-2
Room $299. $99 first month.
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site, 505-9264 or 870-0904
8-28-09-30-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
2/2 & 3/3 with GARAGE!
W/D, Alarm, Huge patio!
We love pets! $875-$1012
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org
12-9-75-2
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1 402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
located 1 04 NW 14th Street.
For full schedule of events visit
gatorwesley.com
Southwest United
Methodist Church
Open and inclusive, Family away
from home, Informal Worship,
Classes and activities will be
planned using student input.
Sunday worship 1 0:A5am
2400 SW Williston Rd
352-378-4931
0 .- 0Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fal!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www .ThePolosUF.com 352-335-765612-9-09-75-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
Get it while it's HOT!
Starting at $299
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
3813 SW 34th st
Call NOW! 372-8100
12-9-09-75-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 9-8-09-
59-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
IFaith Presbyterian Church
1 Oam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meeting at R.K. Yonge school
1080 SW 11th Street
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-
8127SORORITY ROW 2BDs!
2br/2.5ba from $899
W/D included. No Move-in Fees!
Pets welcome! FREE Parking!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spygiass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-212-9-
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscae 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisiand.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Across From UF! PET FRIENDLY!
Two Bedrooms starting at $599!
1 MONTH FREE! $0 MOVE-IN FEES!!
303 NW 17th Street, Ste A
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME**
SECLUDED, UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 9-14-
09-68-2
1 & 2BR/1BA
W/D. Tile throughout, front gated patio. Pet
friendly. From $635/mo. Call 352-377-1633.
www.lenoxcorner.com 8-31-09-56-2We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $575 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450 -Only 4 left!
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $475 -Just a few left!
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
8-28-09-45-2
* NANTUCKET WALK *
*UPPER WEST SIDE*
Brand new luxury apartments! Walk to class!
All-inclusive! nantucketwalk@cmcapt.com
352-240-6961
12-9-09-74-2
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni-
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st.
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2
BIKE TO UF! 1st mont free!
5BR 3BA, lawn service incl,
Fireplace, carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent
3920 SW 20th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
43-2
NW 39 Av fancy 3br/1.5ba w/loft Ig open
bright Costly laminated wd-looking fir. $740-
775 XL 3/1.5 loft apt, new ceramic firs carpet
$850. Nice 2br/2ba gated patio, trees $550-
580 2/1.5 fancy firs $610 373-8310/219-3937
8-31-28-2
VICTORIA STATION! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2.5 BA TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings,
separate Dining room, pool,
$800/rent, 3552 SW 30th Way #146
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
WALK TO UF! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR duplex, CH/AC, will consider small pet,
$695/rent 120-A NW 10th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
GREAT MOVE-IN SPECIALS!
1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments!
Contact us for pricing & availability!
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
3BR $99 Move you in! $750/mo
Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D, fenced yards,
pet friendly, wd firs, 352-505-9264 or 352-
870-0904
8-28-09-30-2
4/2 $99 Moves you in! $1000/mo
Super Special, Walk to UF, cent AC, W/D
hkup, carpet & wd firs, extra room, large
fenced yard, pet friendly 352-505-9264
8-28-09-30-2
2/1 Apt. $99 Move-in $500 total.
Historic downtown, cent AC, W/D hkup,
10min bike to UF, front porch, pets ok,
great size. Yes $500 whole apt! 505-9264
8-28-09-30-2
$499, 1BR apt, spacious,very quiet, energy
efficient, private gated patio, Trees w/lots of
greenspace, 1824 NW 9th St. prefer grad/
mature person.(352)376 0080; (352) 284
3873; postj@bellsouth.net. 8-31-09-22-2
SOUTHFORK OAKS! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR 1.5 BA TH, Pool, w/d hkups, close to
everything! $675/rent,
2300 SW 43rd St #1-3
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2
POOL HOUSE! 1st MONTH FREE!
2 BR with bonus room or 3rd BR,
Large screen porch & deck, wood floors,
fireplace, Living & dining rooms, $995/rent
includes pool svc, 738 NW 24th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
37-2i i74e
16, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
STEPS TO CLASS! 4 BR 2.5 BA house,
Living, dining & sunrooms, w/d hkups,
CH/AC, $1800/rent, 1107 SW 1st Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
39-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
ARBOR
Ask about our move-in specials!
Close to UF & Shands
2411 SW 35th PL
866-604-7097
M-F 9-6, Sat 10-2
www.arborgainesville.com
12-9-09-74-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2, Sun 1-5
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off. 2/2 Close to UF &
bus route. Great for grad students! Builiding
is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev tenant. W/D, D/W,
tile & carpet in BDs $800 for the whole place
Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
9-4-09-27-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT! 2 br/1 ba;$599, near
UF & downtown; 1830 NW 10th St. quiet;
greenspace; spacious, tile floors, balcony;
upstairs; prefer quiet mature person;postj@
bellsouth.net application reqd.352 376 0080
8-31-09-22-2
GREAT LOCATION! 1ST MONTH FREE!
2 BR 2BA in Concordia, w/d, pool, quiet loca-
tion! $750/rent, 405-B NW 39th Road
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
29-2
Nantucket Walk Luxury 1 BR/1 BA Condo
1460 NW 3rd Place, 640 sq ft, stainless ap-
pliances, black granite countertops, tiled,
covered balcony, reserved parking, H/AC
DW, W/D $1000/mo 813-766-4003 9-1-09-
21-2
3BR/1BA House Available August 1st. Cent
H/AC, ceiling fans, carport. $900/mo. 217
NW 36th Terrace. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-
6968 9-4-09-24-2
611 NW 34th Dr. Available August 1st.
3BR/2BA house. Cent H/AC, ceiling fans.
$950/mo. Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968
9-4-09-24-2
Downtown House 110 SE 4th PI 3BD/1.5BA
Central heat/air. On street parking, fenced
yard, w/d hookups. Walk downtown & bike/
bus to campus! $730/mo + 1st, last $500 dep
Call 373-6551 9-8-23-2
WWW.TheFloridaRenterslnsurance.COM
Renters Insurance from $9 per month
Online Quotes 9-16-09-31-2
LAS PAMPAS! 2 BR 2 BA townhouse,
Wood laminate floors, screen porch, pool,
loft $800/rent, 3482 NW 37th Avenue
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
25-2
Prime location Beautiful extra large 2BR/1 BA
unit M-21 Summit House 1700 SW 16th
Ave. Near UFNA/Vet/Shands. $600/mo.
Pool, parking. Private lease. 480-390-4528.
Deposit. 9-4-09-19-2
GREAT HOUSE BIKING DIST TO UF!
1st month free 3/2 in quiet area, fireplace,
garage, washer/dryer, $1095/rent,
3919 SW 28th Terrace
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-18-2LOTS OF SPACE! 1ST MONTH FREE!
3 BR 2 BA w/ living, family & dining rooms,
2 car carport, fenced yard, w/d, lawn svc,
$1000/rent, 126 SW 40th St.
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
LIVE BY THE GOLF COURSE!
1st month free! 3 BR 2 BA TH, garage, vault-
ed ceilings, living & family rooms,
$895/rent, 1627 NE 40th PI
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 1st month free!
3/2 house, carport, living & family rooms,
newer carpet,
$825/rent, 1901 NW 38th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CHEAP RENT! 1st month free! 2/2 MH,
Wood laminate floors, fenced yard, w/d hk-
ups, $595/rent, 5238 SW 66th Street
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
Tumbling Creek Condos. Creekfront Condo
within walking distance of UF 1BR/1BA
CHNA W/D Water Sewer Garbage provided
$550 rent $550 deposit 352-493-3487 352-
493-515 8-31-09-14-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 9-16-09-25-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $550 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
1 MONTH FREE in Spacious 4br/3ba Home.
Near Campus across from Best Buy and on
Bus Rt. Fenced backyard, w/d hookups, d/w,
brand new c/ac. $1250/mth Call 786-999-
8440 8-28-09-12-2
1BR EFFICIENCY $360/MO
No pets. Year lease. Shady lot. 1022.5 NW
4th Ave. 352-359-1508 8-31-09-12-2
GRANTWOOD 2 MONTHS FREE!
2 BR 2 BA Townhouse, loft, wood laminate
floors, Washer/Dryer, pool, courtyard,
$750/rent, 2508 SW 35th PI #47
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 2 MONTHS FREE!
3 BR 3 BA Townhouse, wood laminate floors
& ceramic tile, porch, Washer/Dryer,
$895/rent, 858 SW 58th Terr
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-
09-23-2
CUTE 3 BR HOUSE! 1st month free! Garage,
Newer flooring, w/d hkups, $775/rent
1730 NW 31st Place
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 9-11-09-
23-2
FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D hk-
ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/mo
Phone (352) 359-8311 9-30-09-34-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
1/1s from $416* (Rate includes specials)
Close to UF & Oaks Mall.
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*+ $100 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
2 BRs from $532* (Rate includes specials)
SW Archer Rd
Homestead Apts. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-21st TWO MONTHS FREE* +$200 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
2BRs from $616* & 3BRs from $707*
(Rate includes specials)
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd.
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st MONTH FREE*!
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Private Patios
1BRs from $485* (Rate includes specials)
Gator Village 372-3826
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
I I I A 
( .H. [ I)
$99 Moves You In!
1, 2, 3 Bedroom
$0 RENT
UNTIL OCTOBER
Rents start at $750.00
Open 'til 8:00pm
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday
Call Today 352-331-2966
2625 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL 32608
Equal Housing Opportunity.
Rath/Harper and Associates.
8-28-09-10-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*I
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
Studios from $391* (Rate includes specials)
Walk to Butler Plaza
Sundowne 352-377-2596
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE* + $100 Gift Card
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!!
1 BR from $424* (Rate includes specials)
1/2 mile to UF
Sunrise 352-372-4835
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-25-2
* Totally Renovated 1 Bdrs
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees
*$535 Month*lncludes Specials*
2 MONTHS FREE + $300 Gift Card
Free Tanning/Cyber Cafe
Great Location!
Courtney Greens 375-3077
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-1 1-2
1st TWO MONTHS FREE*!
$39 Moves You In! No Pet Fees!
Quiet, Great Location
1 Bdr from $441 (Rate includes specials)
Summer Place 372-2818
3316 SW 41st Place Just off SW 34th Street
www.gremco.com
8-28-09-11-2
OWNER
FINANCING
ON 19.99 ACRES
IN NEWBERRY, Fl
Fenced and cross
fenced, high and dry
Oak trees, zonedAG
and low taxes.
$269K
Call Gigi Tajalli
@ 352-281-0001
Watson Realty Corp.Available Aug: Cute & Clean Vintage 4bd/
2.5ba behind Applebee's. Bike to UF! Wd
firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms!
907 NW 11th Ave. $1350/mo. Others avail-
able! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670
8-31-09-12-2
HOUSE avail 1st wk of Aug. 4BR/2BA, 1.5
mis to UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF
bus rte. Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fire-
place, cent H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $1200/
mo. Call 376-6183 or 327-2931 9-3-09-5-2
Beautiful Historic Home
Walking Distance To UF. 4BD/2BA w/ Irg
fenced yard, W/D hook-up, Heat/AC & More.
$1495. Avail Aug 1, Call Tom @ 2626423
8-31-09-12-2
Home 3BR/2BTH Close SF/UF
Lg Shady Fenced Lot, All Aplncs. NW Gville.
$1000. 772-631-1448, 305-401-6817
8-28-09-7-2
NEXT TO UF CAMPUS
1BR/1 BA, W/D in unit.
Pets ok with deposit. $500/mo 378-5801
8-31-09-10-2
GET A FREE BEACH VACATION!
Large 2 BR 1.5 BA Townhomes
Close to UF & On 2 Bus Routes
Open House Everyday 359-6386
www.gopinnaclepoint.com
9-4-09-13-2
2 bedroom/2 bath for rent in Looking Glass,
2 parking spaces, great location right across
from Stadium & Library West! $960/month.
e-mail d.villoch@gmail.com 8-28-10-2PRIVATE VIEWS -FENCED YARD -
DOGGIE DOOR. Cabin & 20 acres, 7 mi
south of Newberry -Paddocks, riding trails.
$575 -Pets welcome. 330-329-8834,
writer777@att.net 8-31-10-2
4BR/2 1/2BA Town home in gated com-
munity Cricket Club on Tower Rd. Newly
remodeled with hardwood floors through-
out. Washer/dryer in unit. Pool, club house,
fitness room, tennis courts and duck pond
on premesis. $1100 352-665-9838 Robert
Stawicki 8-28-10-2
ROCKWOOD VILLAS 3 bed/3 bath $1,100.
Each room has a private bath. End unit in
quiet neighborhood. 2 pools, sand vball court,
tennis courts. Close to the mall, UF, and
SFCC. On bus route. Call 352.514.3424.
9-9-09-15-2
1 MONTH RENT FREE! 4 Bed 4 Bath Condo
at Univ Terrace. W/d, walk in closets, new
carpet, Right near pool. Less than 2 mi to UF
w/bus stop out front. (386)747-8672 $350/
mo per pers. or $1300/mo forwhole unit. +util
8-28-09-8-2
REDUCED PRICE Immediate occupancy
House Duckpond area 4BR/2.5BA. W/D,
storage bldg, fireplace, wd firs, glassed-in
porch. 1st, last + $200 dep. $375/mo/rm or
$1500/mo for all + utils. George 466-0165
8-31-09-9-2
1 BR/1 BA available now. Near Shands. Large
screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. Pets ok.
$525/mo, $575 sec dep. 3300 SW 23rd St.
Apt #2. Call 352-371-3473, please leave
message. 9-4-09-12-2
.a V000 M0 004P -* 
"Copyrighted Material I
Syndicated Content I
Available from Commercial News Providers"
-
Is.r(
U
S
r 
wIanII
-PR--I
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
For Rent For Rent For Rent For RentuRoommatesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
2BR + small bonus room/1 BA. Near Shands.
Availalbe now. Large screened-in porch. W/D
hook-ups. $685/mo, $700 sec dep. 3300 SW
23rd St. Apt #1. Call 352-371-3473 please
leave message. 9-4-09-12-2
1Bdrm in 4/2 home, Fall sublease, close to
UF and SFC, quiet neighborhood,3 male
grad student roomates, $425/mo call Dan
954-551-9846 8-28-09-7-2
Looking for a place to live
before school starts?
Homes available for immediate occupancy
Low payments!
Call for details: 352-378-4411 8-31-09-8-2
Historic 3 Br 1 ba House for Rent. Walk to
downtown, behind Melting Pot. C/H Air, New
carpet & paint. Front porch, fenced back yrd.
$900 mo, 1st, last $500 Dep. Small pets ok
with approval. Call (352) 258-6582
or e-mail tamorcutt@yahoo.com 8-31-09-
7-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
Houses
Close to Campus
2/1 713 NW 30th Ave 650
3/1 503 NW 6th Ave remodeled $950
3/1 1607 NW 8th Ave wood firs $975
4/2 541 NW 34th St new appl. $995
4/2 3737 SW 4th PI 1918 sq ft $1350
4/2.5 212 NW 21st St 1 mo. free $2000
4/2.5 16 NW 29th St brand new $2000
Edbaurmanagement.com
1731 NW 6th St-375-7104
8-31-09-7-2
2 Bedroom-2 Full Bath Modern Condo. One
Car Garage plus reserved parking. Tiffany
Condos -NW 23rd Blvd. $850 mo + $500 dep
tiffany@NFMLLC.com, 352-514-1800. Pics
at tinyurl.com/tiffany4 9-8-09-12-2
Want to
make a
Difference?
Become a
Crisis Line
Counselor
For the
Alachua County
Crisis Center
Training begins
September 12, 2009
Contact Ali Martinez
352-264-6782
amartinez@
alachuacounty.u sNon-Smoking Female. 2 miles east of UF.
On bus route. One bedroom for rent. Share
full bath. CLEAN cat OK. $240/month. Inc.
Util. Call Jane 871-6065 8-28-09-5-2
Beautiful 3/2 house nice NW area.
Options:washer,dryer,cable tv. Includes:dish
washercentral AC,garage,nice above ground
pool,1500 sq/ft, sun room,great yard. $1100
month Call:352-283-8366. 9-2-8-2
* 2/1 House -Stephen Foster
* 2/1 House -Hippy-style SW
@ 2/2 Condo -Large, clean
* 2/1 Condo -Cute
$550-$750. 352-374-4216
8-28-09-5-2
GRAD STUDENT NEEDS 1 ROOMMATE:
$450 rent plus utilities for 1 Room in 2bed
2bath, 1190SQ.FT. apt. in Bellamay Grand.
Call Abby @ 484-951-5736, email:
abbyc@ufl.edu 8-28-09-5-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosed front patio
W/D, Wood floors, Fireplace
3 blocks from UF! Pets loved!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10th Street
12-9-09-75-2
1 BLOCK TO SHANDS
2BR/1 BA units. $725, $800, $850.
Furnished/unfurnished.
Summit House. 359-6785 8-28-09-5-2
DUCK POND 1ST MONTH FREE!
$1085 MO 3 OR 4 BR/2BA.
LR/DR. LGE YARD. QUIET.
CLOSE TO UF. NEW PAINT.
904/415-0370 kbskiis@yahoo.com 9-1-09-
7-2
WALK TO UF 1 OR 2 bedrooms in 4/2 APT
Ind. lease 295/month 1/4 utilities no pets
1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002 or email
hodgeproperties@cox.net for more info
8-28-09-5-2
2 bd 2.5 bath townhouse SW 43rd St. Near
Archer Rd & 1-75. Community pool & 2 park-
ing places. Water and trash included. $800
941-773-8887 941-301-7577 8-28-09-5-2
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils incl $495/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466
8-28-09-5-2
*3BR/1 BA House
819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
*2BR/1.5BA Townhouse
7130 SW 45th PI $600/mo.
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114
10-29-4-09-
Quiet, Green, 1/2 mile to UF, Reduced Rent
and must see! 2BR/2.5BA Townhouse, 1200
s.ft, 4112 SW 15th PI., fenced yard, A/C,
W/D hook-up, DW, Pets OK, SW 20th Ave.
busline,$786/mo. Call Lalit 352-378-6817,
871-8205 8-28-09-5-2
CUSTOM UPGRADED 2BDRM BATH
TILE IN LR KIT HALL BATH NEW CARPET
IN BDRMS W CEILING FANS LIKE NEW
STAINLESS APPL IN KIT NEW TUB TOILET
VANITY IN BATH FULL SIZE W/D AVAIL
CABLE/INTERNET CENT H/A 1 1/2 MI TO
UF SHANDS BUTLER PL ON BUS RTE NO
PETS $685/MO 7272423-9463 JOE 8-28-
09-5-2
Great deal 3/2 home @ 4139 NW 19th
Drive. New study w/ ceiling fan, carport,
W/D hookup, screened porch, fenced yard.
Quiet neighborhood, Norton Elem. district.
Pets negotiable $895/month. Call 371-2118.
8-28-09-5-2
Upscale 2/2 Condo in Haile Plantation $1175
Fireplacebalconywasher dryer,cathedral
ceilings,split floor plan,two master suites and
computer station.Community pool, workout
center walking trails 3523753677 8-28-09-
5-2
Clean, spacious 3/2 condo. Quiet, yet cen-
trally located just 1.5 mi. from law school.
Very low utilities, W/D, pool. Sorry, no pets.
Just $1000. Call 352-262-9119 9-11-09-
14-22BR1 BA HOUSE Only $575/mo
Near Newnan's Lake.
653 NE 73rd Terr. 514-6281 8-28-09-5-2
1 BR/1 BA apt. $400/mo
3 Blocks to UF.
Water incl. 115 NW 9th Terr. 514-6281
8-28-09-5-2
Condo 4/2/1/2 covered parking, swimming,
exercise room, screened porches, laundry
hook ups,clean updated unit, pets less than
40 lbs okay. $1,000.00 rent + deposit Susan
352-262-4617. 8-31-09-5-2
Perfect 3BR HOUSE for grad students or pro-
fessionals. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer
Rd conveniences. Hardwood fir, cent H/AC,
nice yard. 2627 SW 31st Terrace. $775/mo.
215-7199 8-31-09-5-2
Casablanca East #303
Newly renovated condo
2 Bed/1.5 Bath 5 min. from UF
$700 w/ washer & dryer
Tile floors & New carpet 786-280-8895
8-31-09-5-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
9-15-09-15-2
2BR/1BA cent heat mobile home on shady
lot. From $345-$425/mo incl water. No pets.
4546 NW 13th St. Last month free. 376-
5887 10-9-33-2
2-BR apartment in historic home, Duck Pond
Area, bike to campus, washer/dryer, quiet
and private, 905 NE Third Ave., $550 month-
ly, 352-494-7837,
chriseversolel@gmail.com. 9-1-09-6-2
Peaceful & Private Condo in a gated
community with all the Amenities of resort
style living for $750 price is negotiable.
Please contact Linus at (352)215-0630 or
email us at djord2630@yahoo.com
8-31-09-5-2
Near Law school 3/2 ($350-$400/BR) Lg
yard w/ fruit trees, nice porch, ceiling fans,
gorgeous wood floors & ceramic, W/D HU,
1/4 utils. Newly remodeled. Negotiable lease
terms. Call Tom 954-529-4031 8-31-09-5-2
4BR newer double-wide on 5 acres in
Newberry. 6-stall barn, board fence, horses
welcome. $1300/mo. Call 850-329-7669
9-15-15-2
Beautiful 2/2 Apt for $840/month located in
downtown Gainesvile. 2 miles from campus
and close to shops and restaurants. Apt in-
cludes washer, dryer, balcony, pool, and
alarm system. Available now. Call (561) 827
5358 9-8-09-10-2
hEd Baur
M___anagement Inc.
Ready now--- check our website for specials
Tiffany, 2br/2ba, 3059 NW 28 circle, $700
Cypress Point, 3br/2ba, 5426 SW 4 PI, $800
Monteceilo 3br/3.Sba 522 NW 50 Blvd $1100
Wood Crk Village 3br/2ba 4019 NW 23 Cir $900
Casablanca East 2br/i .5ba 2635-905SW 35 PI $550
Whispering Pines 2br/2ba 3443 SW 24 St $800
Edbaurmanagement.com -1731 NW 6th St
352-375-7104
8-31-09-5-2
$650. Washer/Dryer provided; upstairs; 2
br; ceiling fans, CHA, quiet, prefer grad
student or professional; greenspace,
parking, close to UF/downtown. 1822 NW
10th St. 352 376 0080 9-8-09-10-2
HALF OFF 1ST MONTH'S RENT. 33dI2B3a
home off of Archer Road, near Pita Pit. $900/
mo with $500 sec. dep. Large deck with
fenced yard. Pets ok with addi dep. Call 213-
1567. 9-14-5-2
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY
Corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft Rent reduced to
$1400 + $1400/OBO dep. Motivated to rent!
Avail now. 3608 NW 22nd Pl. Call 352-214-
1956 9-9-09-10-2ROOM FOR RENT in 2/1 apt., 2nd fl, clean,
light, walk to UF, rts 13, 16 & 17. $330/mo
incl. water & tv. students only. 407-922-0029
9-1-09-5-2
* 1BR condo, 2nd fir. $625/mo;
* 2BR condo, 1stfIrw/ patio $750/mo
Both newly remodeled. New appliances incl
built-in microwaves & W/D. 1 mi from UF.
772-801-9884 9-1-09-5-2
1 room available in AWESOME 4/2 near Law
School. Perfect for student or young profes-
sional. Rent is 485 + utilities. Looking for fun
respectful roommate. (321) 303-2214. Avail.
immediately 9-1-09-4-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
3/1 within 5 miles of UF and downtown. tile,
wood,w/d, newer apple & ac, fncd yd. Walk to
NE Park to enjoy playground,dog park, ten-
nis, baseball, racquetball & soccer. Some
pets okay. Avail 9/1. $875/mo. 338-1452.
9-2-09-5-2
Downtown Bed & Breakfast District: historic,
huge 3/2, 2/1, and 1/1. Water inc. Laundry
inc. $1900, $700, and $650 respectivel y.
Walk downtown! 373-7566 M-F 9-5. 9-17-
14-2
2br/1ba House $795/mo walk to UF!
Located behind Norman Hall. Includes 2
parking spots, high speed internet, shared
washer/dryer. Renovated '09 -tile, paint,
appliances. Private owner 352-375-5975.
9-11-09-10-2
t-subleass
THE POLOS 2/2 $475 a room. pets OK. TOP
FLOOR, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, WALK-
IN closets, screen porch, ALL appliances!
TONS OF AMENITIES! CALL Nicole 321-
663-9545 8-31-5-3
FEMALE wanted, $550 furnished, all-inclu-
sive sublease 1/1 in a 2/2 at JEFFERSON!
352-895-6346 or neha63@ufl.edu
9-8-09-10-3
OFRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Renovated, beautiful condo. 'Close to
Shands, VA, campus. Prefer female. $525/
mo includes utils. Call (386)871-7184 8-28-
09-30-4
1st MO FREE RENT. Countryside Share
4BR/4BA upgraded furn condo w/ 2 other
students. 1.5 miles to UF on bus rte, pool,
W/D, cable & utils 2c. $425/mo. Call 386-
672-6969 or 386-295-7929. Avail Au g 1 st.
9-4-09-26-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
Pool, laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-
4626 9-30-09-26-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$395.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST
Call Frances 352-375-8787
Rent Florida Realty
10-28-09-60-4
Male, grad student, small furnished apt on
side of private home close to UF. One per-
son only. No pets. Cable, patio, clean, quiet.
$500 pm, utilities included. 336-5808 8-31-
09-16-4Young professional seeking grad/law stu-
dent house roomate. Quiet neighborhood,
short drive/bike ride to campus, walking dis-
tance to Starbucks! Must love dogs. $450 per
month.
E-mail Chris: trinitytennis@gmail.com 8-31-
09-13-4
Female roommate pref for furn/unfurn
1br/1ba in a 2br/2.5ba townhouse in quiet
SW neighborhood near UF & Shands. AVAIL
NOW, M-to-M lease, $450/month & $250
refundable deposit. Call Ann 352-870-7414
8-23-10-4
$350 MOVES YOU IN! Need 1 roommate to
rent rm in a 3/2 FULLY FURNISHED house.
5 mins to UF. 10 mins to Santa Fe. No sec or
util deposit. Split utils, maid & yard man, W/D,
Irg yard, family & living rm 813-362-7729
8-28-09-4-4
Southfork Oaks; 2 Bd/2.5 Ba;
Clean, studious, female rmmate needed.
$415/mo + utilities. Water incId.
Call cell 954-579-9368. Leave message
8-28-11-4
Room $299. $99 first month
has everything, walk-in closet, pvt BA,
W/D, DW, built-in micro, tile & carpet, pool
on site. 505-9264 or 870-0904 8-28-09-
9-4
Female for upstairs 4/bed 4/bath Countryside
@ UF Condo fully furnished, $435 inc utilities
cable/i nteret W/D pool work-out fac. semes-
ter renter ok, great bus route. 904-612-3944
9-8-09-15-4
AVAILABLE NOW 1 BD in 4BD/2BA house
with 3 females. Rent is $400/mo + 1/4 utili-
ties. Pets welcome. Cable hook ups and
wireless internet. weelo25@ufl.edu 8-31-
09-10-4
Roommate wanted to share 3br/2ba house
w/pool near UF campus. No pets, No smok-
ing.
$395/month +1/3 utilities.
Call 321-537-6212 for more info 9-8-09-15-
4
GREAT PRICE!
$380 & all utils incl. 1/1 avail in fully furn 4/4
apt. New carpet & paint, cable, wireless in-
ternet, pool, W/D in unit. SW area on 2 bus
rts. Bus stop on site. 954-593-3063 9-4-09-
13-4
Hate long bus rides? Be in class/Shands/
VA in 5 mins. Share 2/1 at Summit House
Condos, $375/mo + 1/2 util.$200 sec. dep.
No pets per complex, Available immed. Call
Tim 352-843-0220 9-15-19-4
Male college student preferred. 4BR/4BA
Countryside condo. Own bathroom, W/D,
hi-speed internet, on bus rte. Utils included.
$430/mo. 863-634-1893. Available immedi-
ately. 9-10-09-15-4
1 BR in 3BR/2BA GREENLEAF
Furnished condo. W/D, free TV cable. $350/
mo + 1/3 utils. Call 352-260-3359 9-10-09-
15-4
Roommate Wanted in Rockwood Villas 1
bedroom private bath available in a 3/3. Room
available immediatleyAugust rent free. On
bus route to UF and Santa Fe College. Call
Jeff at 352-538-7521 8-28-09-6-4
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-side
condo. $435/mo/room, + utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mi. Bball, pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Fir. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, Sebastian 352-874-8905 8-31-
09-7-4
CLEAN+QUIET STUDENT/PROF WANTED
Private bed/bath in 2/2 1300sf pvt condo
15m toUF,2m toMall-QuietNice Nghbrhood
common areas frnshdw/dpoo.NO sik/pets
$425+1/2 util. call alex 352-514-0405 8-28-
09-6-4
Enjoy A Romantic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-$375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
8-28-6-4
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
Roommates Real Estate Furnishings Bicycles Mrcycles, Mopeds
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv,
ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space
pvt BA (morn) Ig yd fenced, pets ok, trees,
wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive,
near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297
7-31-7-4
Handyman spec Disc 4 wk share 2/2-furn
rm avail now $200/NR dep $300/mo $75/
wk +1/2 GRU 2 wk adv Laund/cook svc avail
NS/NA/ND Car a+ 30day vacate notice. Near
bus/shops. Some pet ok. Donna 331-0762
8-31-6-4
Female roommate needed, beautifully
renovated, furnished condo,1 mile
from UF, $399/MO includes cable,
internet, utilities, pool + fitness room
and on bus routes, 352 262-2871
9-4-09-10-4
Roommates wanted to share nice 4/2.5 fur-
nished NW home in quiet neighborhood 1.5
miles to UF. Large yard. $450-$500 includes
utilities, cable in all BR's, hi speed internet,
W/D. NS & no pets. 352-284-0771. 8-28-
09-5-4
Roommate needed for 2/3 condo in Chase
Hollows. $400/mo fully furn BR w/ cable,
wireless, w/ in-state calling. Pre-professional
preferred. Call 352-283-5062 or
e-mail felineequineyaoi@hotmail.com
8-31-09-5-4
$375 + divide utilities. 2 spacious rooms
avail. in 4/2 furnished house. Female college
student pref. 10 min from UF. Bus stop in
front of house & goes straight to UF. W/D in
house. Avail. immed. No pets 954-667-7290
9-9-2-4
FIRST MONTH FREE
Share 3br/2.5ba townhouse on SW 35th
PI with one roommate! $399/mo+1/2 utils,
cable, internet. Close to campus, great bus
route. Call Lee 239-353-9010(day) or 239-
353-5340 (evenings). 9-9-09-10-4
Share furn T/H w/UF U/G. 3BR/2.5Ba M-M
lease. 1st & Last moves you in. $325 up-
stairs,$250 ground. No dogs. Screened patio
& pool. 786.514.5319/786.299.8626/2006 Homes of Merrit 3/2 excellent condi-
tion 28x56 double wide in Westgage Mobile
Manor.Storage shed all appliances included.
Great home for students. Only $39,999
352-214-8310 or email
dblochkell@yahoo.com 8-31-09-9-5
2BR/2BA Mobile home. Lot 38-E Oak Park
Village. All appliances, new heat-pump AC,
fireplace, screened patio & shed. Fresh
paint, spotless. $15,995. Call 352-493-1965
or cell 352-949-5847 8-31-09-5-5
4Br 2Ba Foreclosure! $11,500! Only $217/
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 3
Br $199/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext
5798 8-28-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 500+
FLORIDA Homes REDC I Free Brochure
www.Auction.com RE No. CQ1031187
8-28-1-5
OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS!!! Ocala, FL 55+
active community. Decorator 2/2/2 with spa-
cious family room, 2,034sqft located on Golf
Course. Cadillac, Golf Cart & home-based
Jewelry Biz (175k inventory) included in sale.
Owner retiring $299,000 TAKES ALL! Call
(954)850-8293. 8-28-1-5
6Br 4Ba Foreclosure! $29,900! Only $238/
Mo! 5% down 30 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 4
Br $269/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext
5760 8-28-1-5
Owner Must Sell. 4+ acres- $57,300 Nice
oak trees, private access to lake. All utilities
in. Ready to build when you are! Financing
avail. Call now (866)352-2249. www.flland-
bargains.com 8-28-1-5
LOG CABIN SALE ON 5 ACRES WITH
DOCKABLE LAKEFRONT only $69,900.
1680 sf log cabin kit on 5 acres with lakefront
on 12,000 acre recreational lake. Boat to
Gulf of Mexico. Excellent financing. Call now
(866)952-5339, x1560 www.grandviewhar-
bor.com 8-28-1-5
ORTEGA LANDING Waterfront condos and
marina on Ortega River in Jacksonville, FL.
3 bedroom, 3 bath condos approx. 2,600
SF from $999K. Private elevator access,
covered parking, GE Monogram appliances,
9 ft ceilings. Marina slip memberships and
I ; bI 800 800( 0895) ()FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200*
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Mattress Set -Purchased new for guest bed-
room -never used. Paid over $350 -Sell for
$250 -like new. Close to UF. Call James
373-6078 8-28-09-7-6
05 PC Bedroom set -$275
ODining table w/ four chairs -$125
*Queen & Full mattress sets -$90/set
Call Billy 215-3403 9-9-09-14-6
\Like New corner fireplace,tools,screen and
logs over$ 800.00.and an etagege with 3
glass shelves.Has pineapple frons on each
corner.Cost over$ 1200.00 both for$ 900.00.
352-378-5622 8-28-3-6POWDER COAT
BIKE FRAMES
$75 AND UP 352-377-2231
8-31-09-5-9
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
PARKING SPACES
FOR RENT $60/mo.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-6968 9-4-09-24-
10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Call for se-
mester rates: 352-538-2454. 9-4-09-14-10
PLAY & BUY DRUMS, GUITARS, MORE
@ STUDIO PERCUSSION
www.STUDIOPERCUSSION.org
(352) 338-8302 9-18-20-10
OSOOJET BOATOOSO
'97 14' SeaDoo, 4-5 seater, perfect for lakes,
rivers, intercoastal. Runs great, looks great!
Must sell, moving. Comes w/ wakeboard, ski
rope & skis. $6500/OBO Call 352-316-1637
9-4-09-10-10
METAL ROOFING. 40 yr Warranty-Buy di-
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock,
w/all accessories. Quick turn around.
Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg,
(888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com
8-28-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 8-28-1-10
macsen.latimer@ufl.edu 9-8-09-7-4 ea gaaae rww
visitortegalanding.com 8-28-1-5 Co p- r llMotorcycles, Mopeds
f Real Estate Furnishings
_______________________***MWWRPMMlTflRCYCLES9Cfl*
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
2001 2BR/2BA Mobile Home
in Oak Park Village. Includes appliances,
10x10 shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687
8-31-09-15-5
Tumbling Creek Condo. Creek Front
1 BR/1 BA Wood flooring $59900
352-493-3487 8-31-14-5BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490
will deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP'S
Buy -Sell -Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel 12-9-
09-74-7
CUIIPJ E R a
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Bicycles
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424- W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
Triathlon?
Learn more about triathlons at one of our
FREE clinics! All experience levels welcome!
352-573-9481
www.pointyhelmetcoaching.com
8-28-09-6-9FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***Www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2006 49cc Venus Scooter: runs great, de-
pendable, 90 miles per gallon, fully serviced,
and has a metropolitan look. Bought it for
$1,400 and selling it for $850 352-328-6122
9-4-6-11
cor Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
*Running or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
2000 NISSAN MAXIMA GLE
Good condition. 149k miles. AC/heat, CD
player, sunroof, tinted windows. $4500/OBO.
Call 352-318-0821 8-31-09-5-12
MOST WANTED
Wendy Gayle
Hart
White Female
(DOB 02/12/69); 5'07",
135 lbs, Brown Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Traffic Offense: DUI Alcohol
or Drugs 3rd Violation
ALACHUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Autos Wanted Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
2003 VW PASSAT
55 k miles, sunroof, beige. Very nice. $5995-
472-3441 9-3-09-5-12
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED
BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free
Mammograms, Breast Cancer Info www.
ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible,
Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964.
8-28-1-12
Buy Police Impounds!! 01 Honda Civic $550!
98 Honda Accord $800! for listings call
(800)366-9813 ext 9271 8-28-1-12
$500! Police Impounds! cars, trucks, suv's
from $500! Honda, Toyota, Chevy and more!
for listings (800)366-9813 ext 9499 8-28-
1-10
W Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgoldjewelry, scrapgold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 9-11-09-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Looking for someone to help me learn to rake
knit a hat, second and fourth wednesdays of
each month. These hats are made for peo-
ple in Haiti. Come and have fun with Lenora.
Call 219-6948. 9-11-09-74-13
Unlimited Music & Video Downloads
Music, videos, movies, TV shows, games,
ringtones, audio books, etc. to your iPhone,
iPod, or cellphone. No per download fee.
www.fastappsdownloader.co m/91288
8-28-09-5-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
* -6"Copyrighted Materia
* Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial New~
I I
1 S a.3.
I$ WANTED
GRAPHIC CALCULATORS
Will pay cash. Call 352-284-8140 8-28-09-
5-13
NEED TWO SUPERSTAR PARTNERS
FOR A HUGE 'NOW' OPPORTUNITY
Very small investment / fast return
Call: Dave (352)222-7930
Email: Fortune@DaveFeather.com 8-31-
09-4-13
WJ IHepWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
3 closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
- - Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
s Providers 82-14
Executive Assistant- Crime Prevention
Security experiencing huge growth, great
career opportunity! Experience preferred.
Background check, drug test & valid FL
Drivers License required. Great benefits! Fax
resume to Jessica @ 376-9236
9-9-09-14-14
CATERING or RESTAURANT EXP
Catering Staff for special events.
Call Omi 352-215-1363 8-28-5-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2009
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-4-09-11-14
Tutors needed -grad students pref. Writing
English Composition & Literature, & geogra-
phy for local non-profit serving learning dis-
abled students. We'll work with your sched-
ule. Please call 352-335-8966 for more info
8-31-09-7-14
Brand new start-up company is looking
for Reps in ALL areas. We train & support
at no cost. Be your own boss. Make the
fortune you've dreamed of. No $ to start.
http://stokton.org/vacancies.html 9-10-
09-14-14lHowiGotAnA H
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra
cash? We are hiring notetakers for fall '09.
Go to www.HowlGotanA.com
8-31-09-7-14
Office Assistant -F/T -Passion -Numbers/
language/organization/fitness. Eye for detail.
1 year + commitment. Resume to: 625 NE
1st St. 32601 or paulsrothstein@yahoo.com
8-28-09-5-14
BABYSITTER needed for a boy and a girl
ages 14 & 10. Daily pick up at 4pm at bus
drop and escort to home, prepare dinner
and help with homework. Daily 4-7pm. West
G'ville. Call 352-514-4339 8-28-09-5-14
PARK PLACE CARWASH
is looking for highly motivated employees,
morning & afternoon shifts available Apply in
person 7404 NW 4th Blvd. No calls please.
9-14-09-15-14
STUDENTS ONLY: 20 hour per week IT help
desk position with local government. Flexible
hours, great environment. Please submit re-
sume to resume.submit@actcfl.org. 8-28-
09-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 hrs/wk. $7.25/hr. Proficiency typing,
Word, Excel, internet surfing. Indicate avail-
able hours, critical. sival950@yahoo.com
8-28-09-5-14
MOSES MEDIA INC. has 18 immedi-
ate openings for National Internet Sales
Reps for our downtown office. Will train.
Commission based. Applicants must have
great communication skills, be self motivated
and computer literate. Telemarketing exp. a
plus. Please call Mr. Williams 352-337-2800
9-4-09-10-14
Part time home and office. $9.00/hr. start.
Weekends and weekdays. Mowing experi-
ence preferred. 591-3000 8-28-09-5-14
Movie Extras, Actors, Models Wanted -Up
to $300/day! All Looks Needed! Call NOW
1-800-458-9303 9-21-20-14
Long hair models needed Work in a easy
going beautiful outdoor setting. Hip length
and longer only. No exp. ness. earn $80-300
while enjoying the day. 352 792-1824
9-4-09-10-14
Consultants wanted at the Center for
Instructional Technology and Training at the
University of Florida to assist in Faculty lab.
Applicants must be familiar with Windows
and MS Office, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver.
A friendly and cheerful attitude is essential
for this customer service position. Pay
starts at $8.00/hour. Contact Jennifer Smith
jksmith@ufl.edu, online application at:
http://www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php.
9-4-10-14
WEB GRAPHIC ARTISTS wanted at the
UF Center for Instructional Technology and
Training. Develop your portfolio! Please visit
our website for more information. Schedule
is flexible; pay starts at $10.00 per hour. Call
392-7249 ext 230, online application at http://
www.citt.ufl.edu/employment.php
9-4-10-14
MOTHERS HELPER
2:30-6 weekdays for 13 and 11 y/o kids.
References and reliable car
required. 352-379-1017.
9-4-09-10-14
PCA and CMA needed immediately to work
in Gainesville and Starke area. Male staff are
encouraged to apply. Call 352-284-2336 or
fax C.V. to 352-373-2254 8-28-09-5-14
IVEY'S GRILL
has openings for servers & dishwasher/
cooks. Apply in person before 11am or after
2pm. Closed Mondays. 8-28-09-5-14
Micanopy Animal Hospital is looking for an
experienced veterinary technician for a part-
time position. Must be able to work week-
ends. Fax resume to 352-466-4267 or email
to micanopytech@gmail.com. 8-28-09-5-14EARN SERIOUS CASH!
INDEPENDENT SALES REPS WANTED TO
INTRODUCE HEALTHY ALL NATURAL
ENERGY DRINK TO CAMPUS MARKET.
SELF-MOTIVATED, ENTREPRENEUR
TYPES ONLY.
CALL 1-800-342-3083
www.theactiondrink.com/zilli
8-28-09-5-14
Dermatology Practice has an opportunity
for FT/PT employment. Excellent Benefits,
Competitive Salary. Retirees, Second Career
and Shared Shift welcome to apply. Excellent
opportunity for PA applicants too. Please
send resume to fscds2009@yahoo.com
8-28-09-4-14
SUPERNANNY NEEDED
Busy professional couple with 5 children
Need nanny/housekeeper/assistant
20+ hours per week. Email resume and ref-
erences to: Tony@mcknight.ws 8-28-09-
5-15
MWFSat. NANNY for 3: 15 hr/wk
MWF nanny for 1: 25 hrs/wk
newborn to 3yrs; in-home prior exp;
must be avail for 1 year min;
Noah's Ark Nanny email resume,
pic, sched. to gnv@nanoneone.com 8-28-
09-5-14
einstein's OASIS hair salon HAIRSTYLISTS
needed. up to 70% comm benefits 331-4340.
600 NW 75th St. Suite "C". 9-15-15-14
Tutors needed -grad students pref. Math,
economics, & science for local non-profit
serving learning disabled students. We'll
work with your schedule. Please call 352-
335-8966 for more info. 8-28-09-4-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
SDR Auditor
Seeking serious, responsible detailed per-
son for part-time position at corp. Must work
some weekends. send resume to
flhenry@lifesouth.org 8-31-09-5-14
Record Specialist
Seeking responsible, organized, reliable per-
son for part-time position. Basic computer
skills, ability to lift 20 lbs., work -20 hrs/wk.
send resume to fl hen ry~lifesouth.org 8-31-
09-5-14
Geek your way to wealth & earn cash while
attending college! Fora confidential interview
call 1-800-577-2021 and please leave your
name and number TWICE 12-9-68-14
LIFE SKILLS COACH -needed for after-
school activities/care teenage boy with au-
tism. 2:30-6:30 M-F. References and reliable
transportation required. Experience and train-
ing preferred. Call 246-2353. 10-16-30-14
Notes & Note Takers
Wanted Immediately.
Freshman & Sophomores in Demand.
We pay top dollar for Notes & Note Takers.
email: tamunotes@gmail.com 9-10-09-3-
14
Tutors needed 1-on-1 at-risk elem, mid
school students. 1-4 afternoons per wk. $10/
hr. 15-20 min south of UF. Fed wk study req
for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally
352-384-1155, st23@cox.net 9-9-09-10-14
Do you have an entrepreneurial mind?!?!
We are a textbook company looking to ex-
pand into the Gainesville area. We are look-
ing for a student to hire who is very smart,
capable, and eager to work to be a manager.
The role would be to assist us in setting up
infrastructure and assisting with managing
operations. This opportunity is very unique
with long-term potential. Only serious appli-
cants only. Send us your resume at Yoav@
bookxchange.com and tell us why you are
the one for the job!!
This is a paid job! 8-28-09-3-14
Homework Tutor Needed
for an 8th grade student at Oak Hall
Middle School.1-2 Hours after school
Monday thur Thursday Call 352-318-0447
9-2-09-5-140 J
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
W Help Wanted Services Health Services Event Notices TJketEP
EVENT TELLERS!!
PT Cashiers needed. Days, nights
Weekends. Flexible hours. Great 2nd Job!
Bank Teller experience required Apply at
Concessions Office, South End Zone Ben
Hill Griffin Stadium, next to The Gator Sport
Shop (352) 375-4683 x6500 8-28-09-2-14
DRINK SELLERS NEEDED!!!!
All Gator Home Football Games. Join the
excitement and make money too! The South
End Zone of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, Enter
at gate 2, on Aug. 29th at 10am. Bring Photo
ID and $8.00 for required shirt. Call (352)
375-4683 ext. 6500 8-28-09-2-14
Sell Gators Merchandise On Campus!
Earn pay and commission selling Gators
handbags, memo boards and more.
Email resume to andy@tessuta.com
9-2-09-5-14
Cellular Sales / Customer Service Gator
Paging & Cellular is hiring pt/ft for outgoing
personable fun energetic personalities Sales/
Customer Ser Exp a must 2108 SW 13th St
we're a Metro PCS Dealer 9-2-09-5-14
Gatorfood is looking for drivers for the fall.
Get paid quick- collect all tips and delivery
fees in cash each night! Must be 21 and have
a clean driving record. Please call (352) 379-
3663 for more information. 9-4-6-14
Nanny/Tutor needed for 10 & 7 y/o af-
terschool M T Th F (130-5) W (1230-5).
Experienced, must be dependable and have
reliable transportation. Send resume to
kthcrfts@gmail.com 8-31-2-14
Publication Designer Wanted
Design printed program flyers and online
sports-theme magazine for Easton-Newberry
Sports Complex in Newberry. PT to start w/
FT possible. Exp with Mac software desired.
Resume: dougengh@teacharchery.org
9-8-7-14
PT Nanny for 3.5 yr old boy. Mon/Wed/Thurs
7-8:30 am & Tues 5-6:30 pm. Minimum 1 yr
commitment. Background check & referenc-
es required; CPR & experience preferred.
Must be nonsmoker with car & cell phone.
Excellent salary. 225-3349. 9-4-09-5-14
Heating/Air Tech Training. 3 week acceler-
ated program. Hands on environment. State
of the Art Lab. Nationwide certifications and
Local Job Placement Assistance! CALL
NOW: (877)994-9904. 8-28-1-14
W Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 9-16-
09-60-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve 'The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
Laser Hair Removal, Electrolysis, & Skin
Care @ Advanced Hair Removal & Skin
Institute- 352.331.6797- Ask about student
discounts & sorority specials. Check out our
website @ www.hairskininstitute.com
9-30-09-27-15
Private home office experienced childcare.
Close to UF. 3 months to 3 years old. $17.50/
day & pay only for the day(s) you need.
Please call 352-372-1769 9-11-09-14-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience.
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582
9-25-20-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers! One Call -
One Order -One Payment The Advertising
etwor s of Florida -Put Us to work for You!
(866)742-1373 www.national-classifieds.
com, info@national-classifieds.com 8-28-
1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (866)858-2121, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 8-28-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 8-28-1-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16Affordable Therapy at Stillpoint
This months Specials:
1 Hour Massage Therapy or.
1 Hour Acupuncture/Acupressure/Herbal
Consult. or Chiropractic Treatment Session
$ 40.00!!! Licensed, Experienced
Professionals 10 minutes from campus on
39th ave. schedule today. 376 1320 9-17-
20-16
Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
LAPTOP BACKPACKS!
All Jansport backpacks on sale. Many styles
with padded laptop compartments. All have
lifetime warranties. 1 mile N. of UF on 13th
St. Lloyd Clarke Sports 352-372-7836 9-3-
10-18
SHOE SALE
Over 200 styles are on sale 10-50% off.
Great selection of running shoes, sandals
and cleats too! Let us help you find the right
shoe. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.
9-3-10-18
NEED A RUNNING BUDDY?
Come join our running group Sunday nights
at 6:00pm. Meet at Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St (1 mile N. of UF) 3-6 mile loops -
Great company. www.lloydclarkesports.com
9-3-10-18
NEED TEAM UNIFORMS?
From super-technical to ultra-basic, we make
any type of jerseys you may need. Our team
department is fast, competitive and profes-
sional. Call Palmer @ 372-7836 for all of
your team needs. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504
NW 13th St. 9-3-10-18
CHACOS
Great sandal for walking all over campus.
Adjustable straps for a custom fit & they last a
long time. Flip flops too! Lloyd Clarke Sports
1504 NW 13th St. 352-372-7836 9-4-10-18
BOARDSHORT SALE!
Awesome colors & prints all on sale.
Billabong, Quiksilver, Element, Fox, Hurley &
Oakley. Check it out. Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1
mile N. on 13th St. 9-4-10-18
MODELS NEEDED
Hair and Fashion. No exp.
Editorial and photo. 331-4340.
EINSTEINS 600 NW 75th St. "C" 9-8-10-18
2
9
1
7
5
3
4
6
88
7
5
6
4
9
2
1
33
6
4
2
8
5
9
79
5
3
4
7
6
8
28
2
9
3
5
7
4
66
4
7
8
1
2
3
5
95
1
6
2
8
7
9
3
44
2
8
3
9
1
6
7
5THE BIGGEST POSTER SALE.
Biggest and Best Selection. Choose from
over 2000 different images. FINE ART,
MUSIC, MODELS, HUMOR, ANIMALS,
PERSONALITIES, LANDSCAPES,
MOTIVATIONALS, PHOTOGRAPHY.
MOST IMAGES ONLY $7, $8, AND $9
SEE US AT Reitz Union Colonnade ONTIX WANTED:
UF alumni needs 2-4 tickets to UF v Ga and
UF v SC 706-207-0512 or email thomasin-
afc@yahoo.com 8-31-5-22
WJZRides
Monday August 24th thru Friday August
28th, 2009. THE HOURS ARE 9 AM -6 PM aSIDE
THIS SALE IS SPONSORED BY
Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. 8-28-
09-5-20 GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New DeparturesBREAST CANCER AWARENESS Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
FUNDRAISER EVENT Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -AlsoPole Dance Demonstration. Wine & Cheese Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtraFriday, August 28th, 7-9pm, Artwalk. charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W352-373-6628 8-28-3-20 -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
Entertainment CHARTER BUS / CHARTER BUS RENTAL 
/
LIMOS / 352-494-1734 ask for Harold
WE BEAT ALL COMPETITOR PRICING
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET ASK ABOUT SPECIAL DISCOUNT OFFER
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301 www.reliancecoach.com 9-22-20-23
1 min from Gainesville 468-2255 Pets
12-9-09-99-21 M
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
Designated drivers are the greatest!Tri-County Bird Hospital
Recept/Tech PT for more info call 352-318-
1247. Apply in person Mon thru Fri. 9-4-
09-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's
lost what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
JCoPrn'9ed MaterJal
SdafdContent
Available from Commercial Mews Providers"
a
7
3
9
5
6
4
8
2
Sports
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
Meyer: Best depth
we've had on 0-line
0 THE GATORS GO EIGHT-
DEEP WITH VERSATILE
LINEMEN.
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
km aistri@alIlIigator org
When football and versatil-
ity are in the same sentence,
300-pound linemen aren't usually
what come to mind.
UF coach Urban Meyer has had
the luxury of leaving the offensive
line in flux during fall practice be-
cause he has multiple projected
starters who can play more than
one position on the line.
One of those players is junior
Carl Johnson, who said it is impor-
tant to have flexibility on the line in
the event of an injury.
"If it's a very tight game -let's
use Ole Miss last year -you don't
want to have a specialist go down
and you need a specialist to put
back in," Johnson said. "The way
coach (Steve) Addazio teaches us,
he teaches offensive linemen to be
versatile."
Meyer said versatility hasn'tbeen something the Gators have
had since he's been here.
The only two starters who are
locked into place are Mike Pounc-
ey and Marcus Gilbert, who are
holding down the right guard and
right tackle positions, respectively.
Other than those two spots,
Meyer said he would go with
sophomore Matt Patchan at left
tackle, Johnson at left guard and
Maurkice Pouncey at center if the
season started tomorrow.
Johnson and Maurkice Pounc-
ey, who can slide back and forth
between left guard and center if
need be, were always expected
to make the starting rotation, but
one scenario saw Johnson moving
to tackle and Pouncey moving to
guard to make room for redshirt
freshman Sam Robey at center.
"Having the ability to move
Carl Johnson gives you flexibility,"
Meyer said.
For now, Patchan has done
enough to win over the coaches by
proving he could add the weight
needed to start at the college level
Bulking up was no easy task,
as Patchan is known for being a
SEE O-LINE, PAGE 22.
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF offensive lineman Carl Johnson is expected to play left guard this season, but he has taken reps at left
tackle. Johnson and center Maurkice Pouncey give the Gators the ability to use various looks up front.
Meyer changes hazing cultureNext time you're on your knees in walk through her
a dark frat house getting beaten we'll kick your ta
with a sack of doorknobs, try * ' or shave your ey
calling Urban Meyer for help. brows.' It took us
He doesn't stand for hazing. while to break th
Meyer spoke last week about how dif- M kO MCall great culture A
ficult it was to change the culture of haz- Mik had here."
ing freshmen when he arrived at Florida, McCaIl-in' It Meyer set aside
a comment that provoked a backlash Like I See It time for testimon
from former coach Ron Zook mmccall@aaligator org als after practice
The Zooker's feelings notwithstand-
ing, he left a bit of a mess behind in this
department, and Meyer had to clean it
up. He had to put freshmen in a separate
locker room in his first year to keep the
team from self-destructing.
"We had some fights and stuff be-
cause they treated the freshmen like they
weren't people," Meyer said. "'Don'te,
a
at
e
e
where players -
young and old -stand in front of the
team and talk about their families and
personal problems.
"They open their hearts to you, and
once they do that, they're officially part of
the family," he said.
The second part of joining the family is
SEE MIKE, PAGE 22UF VOLLEYBALL
Gators bond over summer
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
a berry@aligator org
The Florida volleyball players had a lot
to learn and little time to put it all together
before their 2008 season began -from how
drills were run to what certain terminology
meant -even each other's names.
Far from the nametag-wearing group
that went through training camp last fall, 14
of the team's 15 players were in Gainesville
for at least part of the summer this year,
playing pick-up games together and work-
ing out under the supervision of Matt
DeLancey, the assistant strength and condi-
tioning coach for UF Olympic sports.
The only player who wasn't at UF
throughout the summer was junior set-
ter Brynja Rodgers, who was finishing up
classes at New Mexico State before trans-
ferring to Florida. Everyone else -even
the three new freshmen -chose to attendclasses and train during the summer semes-
ter, the most players to do so during coach
Mary Wise's 19 years at UF.
With the players a year older and more
accustomed to sharing the court, the open-
ing match of the season is something to be
excited about -not ner-
Wisevous. Unlike last year,
Florida's season-opening
tournament, which be-
gins with a 7 p.m. match-
up with UNLV tonight
and concludes with a
7 p.m. match Saturday
against Colorado, won't
have to be part of the
feeling-out process.
"We've been planning for this season
since way back in January, when we started
individual sessions," Wise said. "That's the
beauty of it -we could actually be proac-
tive because we had players to work with.
SEE VOLLEYBALL, PAGE 22
POLL QUESTION
Today's question: How far will the UF volleyball team go
this season?
Previous question: Who will be the best defensive
player for UF this fall? (see right for results)POLL RESULTS
Percent (Vots
Spikes 51o (127)
Dunlap 22% (55)
Hill 9%(23)
Ja. Jenkins 6% (16)
Haden 6%(15)
Wright 6% (14)
250 TOTAL VOTESALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
What's worse: the news cutting into the talk of Ted Kennedy's death with Rick
Pitino scandal coverage, or Pitino dragging Kennedy's name into his mess? .
Billy Gillispie is one more drunken night away from having as many DUIls as NCAA
Tourney appearances. .An SPCA leader and critic of Michael Vick left her dog in
her car for four hours, leadingto its death. Uh oh.
22, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
Starting lineup
still to be decided
O-LINE, from page 21
picky eater who is unwilling to scarf down
less-than-nutritious food.
"He eats healthy. When I say healthy
healthy, I mean Neanderthal healthy," John-
son said.
Meyer is expected to name the starting
lineup for Sept. 5 against Charleston Southern
after the Gators' practice on Wednesday.
Assuming the starters re-
main the same, Robey, junior
Maurice Hurt and sophomore
James Wilson are all expected
Football to see playing time off the
bench this season.
The potential for so many
different looks has kept at least one defensive
lineman off balance -UF junior defensive
end Carlos Dunlap.
"Florida's offensive line is as good as any,"
Dunlap said. "Seeing how they change up the
positions so much, that messes up the defense.
You're so used to seeing somebody at guard,
when he gets at tackle, he plays different so
you have to adjust your game."MIKE, from page 21
having the black stripe removed from the freshmen's helmets,
an honor bestowed on athletes who display the kind of work
ethic, focus and grasp of the playbook that Meyer is looking
for.
What do you think fosters more team cohesion, working to
earn respect in practice and sharing personal problems or shav-
ing someone's eyebrows?
It's not talked about much, but the level of respect among
teammates that Meyer pushes is just as big a part of his success-
ful formula as emphasizing special teams or speed.
Meyer has always been a proponent of letting the best play-
ers play, regardless of age, and making sure the freshmen are
treated like human beings is a necessary step on the way.
It's especially important now, as a talented group of fresh-
men has a chance to learn from a team that could go down as
one of the best ever. And Meyer knows he needs a few newbies
to step up and produce this season.
Receiver David Nelson, who said he felt "pushed aside" as a
freshman in 2005, has watched the whole transition unfold.
"Now, the freshmen come in and we embrace them as one ofours," Nelson said. "As soon as they get that stripe off their hel-
met, they're a part of this family and what we have here. We do
a great job of knowing that. In the past, freshmen have come in
and had substantial roles on offense, defense and special teams.
We know they mean a lot to us, and there will be a special fresh-
man this year to contribute to this team."
Throughout two-a-days, all of the freshmen I interviewed
had nothing but good things to say about how the veterans
have treated them. Their experiences seem to be in pretty stark
contrast to those of Nelson and his classmates, showing just
how much of an improvement Meyer has made.
Shortly after Meyer spoke last week, Zook issued a state-
ment saying he has never condoned or even been accused of
condoning hazing, a pretty necessary move considering the
possible implications on recruiting.
Zook gets blamed for too much around here. He left the
program in pretty good shape, but this is one area he has no
defense in. It's pretty black-and-white.
When Zook left, freshmen were getting hazed, and wheth-
er or not he told them to do it isn't the issue. It happened on
his watch, and Meyer deserves praise for actively turning it
around.
Summer workouts increase familiarity before season starts
VOLLEYBALL, from page 21
This team, 14 of them here this summer,
made that learning curve even faster."
Wise admitted recently she was a little
nervous before the 2008 season, a rare feel-
ing for a coach who now has 18 straight
Southeastern Conference championships
to her name.
Each player made the choice to stay the
summer and train at UF individually, but
the result of their decisions will be seen
through the team's performance, as theinexperience and unfamiliarity that wor-
ried Wise before last season should be a
thing of the past.
"We feel like we're a step ahead al-
ready, that we don't have to use these
first couple matches as practice, that we're
ready to go and ready to compete from
the first match," senior libero Elyse Cu-
sack said.
The higher level of familiarity allowed
the Gators to bypass the preseason for-
malities that slowed them down last year
and will help improve the Gators' com-munication on the court, but sophomore
outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel said it also al-
lows them to play more aggressively and
confidently.
"It helps us on the court because when
you have that trust in your teammates,
you know that they're going to have your
back," Jaeckel said. "With passing, you
have to know your responsibilities and
you have to trust that the other person is
going to do theirs too. If you have doubt
in your teammates, you might try to do
too much."
The new Trojan 2GO* condom card. Two premium Trojan condoms,
one sleek package. Fits discreetly in your wallet. Available at checkout.
To find Trojan 2GO at a store near you, go to TrojanCondoms.com RnytLIme. Anywhere.
@2009 Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
Marsh hurts ankle,
held out of practice
By MIKE DIFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator org
Defensive tackle Lawrence
Marsh missed practice Thursday
with a sprained ankle.
UF coach Urban Meyer said he
expects Marsh to return to practice
Monday.
Marsh started 13 games for the
Gators last season, racking up 28
tackles and three sacks.
TRATTOU AT TIGHT END: It looks like
Meyer is going to be taking a page
out of his friend Bill Belichick's
playbook.
The coach revealed Thursday
that defensive end Justin Trattou
could see time at tight end this sea-
son in goal-line situations.
Meyer said that he plans to use
Trattou, who has been practic-
ing with the first team offense in
goal-line situations, the same way
Belichick used Mike Vrabel-
Vrabel, a linebacker now with
the Kansas City Chiefs, caught 10
passes, all for touchdowns, includ-
ing one each in Super Bowl XXX-VIII and Super Bowl XXXIX while
in New England.
Meyer said freshman Desmond
Parks will likely redshirt this sea-
son. Other than starter Aaron Her-
nandez, Parks was the only tight
end with the potential to see play-
ing time.
"If we have an (injury) at tight
end, that's an issue," Meyer said.
BRANTLEYTOSEE TIME: Sophomore
quarterback John
Brantley could be
logging some steady
playing time this fallFootball for the Gators.
Meyer said he
hopes to use Brantley in game situ-
ations this season and not just in
mop-up duty.
"I don't want to make any
promises because that always
comes back to haunt you, but he's
earned playing time at Florida.
We're anxious to get him in the
game," Meyer said. "He's earned
it. It's not charity work. How
much? That remains to be seen, but
he'll play."
Brantley threw for 235 yardsHarrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF defensive tackle Lawrence Marsh emerged as a starter at nose guard for the Gators last season. The
junior injured his ankle but is expected to be back in practice on Monday.
and three touchdowns in 2008. he'd put the ball in the hands of se- bama in last year's Southeastern
CRUNCH-TIME COOPER: When
asked who other than Tim Tebow
he would trust to make a big play
late in a close game, Meyer saidnior receiver Riley Cooper.
"I say that because he's done it
before," Meyer said.
Cooper's 5-yard touchdown
catch with 2:50 left against Ala-Conference Championship Game
helped the Gators hold off the
Crimson Tide and earned them a
trip to the BCS National Champi-
onship Game.
kickoff EDITIONS
Reach your Target Market before the game!
Call today! 352-376-4482
fl- i 1 p -1-t f -alligatI
COO PTO A
DPPONENT FEARS 3AO Er
Charleston Southern
Troy
Tennessee
Georgia
Vanderbilt
Florida International
Florida State
SEC Championship*Deadline: September 2
Deadline: September 9
Deadline: September 16
Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
To Be DetermineoaIgat1 Jrspot
-anLda5y ChIllenge
If you think you have what i takes we
take us down (bring the troce winlvl) -tell us why in 100
words or less.
Send it 10
sports@1alI9
by 5p.m. sIti
We will publish the fve winne
Anything goes, but foul language
gets You eliminated*
Don't be chicken.
Stop your friends from
driving drunk.September 4
September 11
September 18
October 30
November 6
November 20
November 25
December 4-
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2009
Florida will count on youth in home opener against FlU
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@ailigator org
On the surface, the No. 7 UF soc-
cer team looks like an experienced,
senior-heavy squad.
In Friday's season-opening win
against Miami, the Gators (1-0-0)
started seven fourth-year players,
and the game's lone goal came when
seniors Tricia Townsend and Ashlee
Elliott connected on a pass that El-
liott headed in.
But the roster is brimming with
youth. Freshmen and sophomores
comprise 75 percent of the team,
and five newcomers saw action last
week.
One reason for the Gators' lop-
sided roster is a 2007
signing class that con-
sisted of four players.
When UF takes on
Soccer Florida International
(1-0-0) tonight at 7,
defender Nicky Kit
will be the only remaining Gator
from that class.
Against Miami, coach Becky
Burleigh started two freshmen, mid-
fielder Erika Tymrak and defender
Kathryn Williamson. While they
both got their first college start in
Coral Gables, the paths they took to
get there are much different.
Williamson redshirted last year
after unsuccessfully rehabbing her
torn ACL. She injured her knee
making an awkward cut during a
Thanksgiving club tournament."My knee went one way and my
body went the other," she said.
Williamson said she pushed her-
self too hard during rehab trying toprepare for her first season at UF,
eventually forcing her to have a sec-
ond surgery last August.
She was reduced to a cheerleaderlast year but said everyone was so
enthusiastic on the sidelines that she
grew into her role. That is not to say
she was content, though.
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF defender Nicky Kit is the only player from the 2007 signing class still on the Gators' roster. The junior
played in every match last season, including 19 starts at left back."I wanted tobe out there so bad,"
she said.
Burleigh announces UF's start-
ing lineup on Thursdays so the unit
can jell before the weekend matches.
Many fringe players, Williamson
included, nervously await the an-
nouncement. When she finally
heard her name called, Williamson
tried not to get too excited.
"I still was hesitant because I
didn't know," she said. "People
could change (the lineup) at the last
minute."
The same month Williamson
suffered her tough injury, Tymrak
played right midfield for the U.S.
National team at the 2008 FIFA U-17
Women's World Cup. Tymrak, a
2009 Parade All-American, played
in three of six matches and recorded
assists in two wins. Practices under
U.S. coach Kazbek Tambi helped
prepare her for college soccer.
"(Tambi) always had us play
with guys, so we were used to play-
ing quicker," Tymrak said. "And
college is quicker and faster than
club soccer."
But Tymrak needed the veterans
to teach her how to play in UF's for-
mations, specifically when to drop
back on defense and when to attack.
"I play in the (midfield) and An-
gela Napolitano plays in there with
me, so she would help me. And then
Lauren Hyde and Ashlee (Elliott)
would help me defensively, pulling
me back," she said. "Basically every-
one on the field would give me clues
to help me out."
Y,(T-t
Still need housing this Fall?
Ask about our Last Minute Move-In Special!
Brand new -Key-card access -Huge walk-in closets
Only steps from class, The Swamp & sporting events!
Check out website for video tour!
352.338.7467C=
1TH [I[T
Only 6 Blocks from UF Campus!
