0 Florida has defeated
Georgia in 16 of the last
19 meetings between
the two teams. UF
will try to extend its
nation-best 17-game win
streak, which started
with a victory over
Arkansas last season.
the independent floridaalligator
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Photo Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Friday, October 30, 2009
Heisman
Handoff
By BOBBYCALLOVI obtains the record will be that he
Alligator Staff Writer needed four years to do it, and
bcaIIovi@aIIigatororg Walker accomplished his feat in
only three years before bolting forrAith just onie more tou~ch- the professionallevel.
down run, Florida quar- While everyone would have ex-VT terback Tim Tebow will pected the reigning Heisman Tro-overtake Herschel Walker as the all- phy winner to make the naturaltime Southeastern Conference lead- transition to the well-established
er in career rushing touchdowns. NFL, Walker surprised everyoneThe Heisman Trophy winner will with his next move.not only have the chance to do it in In 1983, the NFL didn't allow col-
his hometown of Jacksonville but legiate players to forgo their senior
also against Walker's former team. seasons in order to pursue a draft
If Tebow breaks the record in selection and subsequent contractJacksonville Municipal Stadium in the NFL.against Georgia (4-3, 3-2), the result Walker made the decision to leavecould be met with criticism. Georgia early anyway and signed aUntil 2002, the NCAA did not contract with the USFL, which hadcount bowl statistics and decided only been in existence for a year.not to retroactively include them, so The all-time SEC great went onWalker's postseason success is not to play for the New Jersey Generalsaccounted for in his 49 career touch- until 1985, when he moved to the
downs. Dallas Cowboys of the NFL after
In three bowl games, Walker financial hardship struck the fledg-rushed for five touchdowns to bring ling USFL.his actual total up to 54. Walker went on to a fairly un-Another knock on Tebow if he impressive NFL career, spanning
UF quarterback Tim Tebow needs only one more rushing touchdown to
surpass Herschel Walker and become the SEC's all-time leader.roughly a decade, and Tebow has
brought a lot of attention back to the
former Bulldogs star.
Despite the possible complaints,
unless the NCAA changes the rule,
Tebow's next touchdown will put
him ahead of the legend
"It has been an honor to even be
mentioned with Herschel. It is very
humbling and I'm sure when I sit
back and think about I'll realize how
cool it is," Tebow said. "To be able
to break the record against Georgia
would be extra special."
Overtaking the career rushing
touchdown record will just be an-
other notch on the belt of Tebow's
illustrious career.
He already broke the SEC record
for most total touchdowns with 124
this season, surpassing former Gator
Danny Wuerffel.
Another record on his mantle is
the career SEC passing efficiency at
170.19.
Tebow already has a record of
doing pretty well against Georgia
In 2007, he threw for 236 yards
and a touchdown as well as running
for two more touchdowns.
Last season, he completed 10 of
13 passes for154 yards and a touch-
down and added 39 yards and three
touchdowns on the ground.
In Tebow's last game against the
Bulldogs, he will have more on his
mind than just breaking Walker's
record.
The No. 1 Gators (7-0, 5-0) will
look to improve their poor perfor-
mances in the red zone after empha-
sizing it in practice all week.
UF has scored touchdowns on
just seven of its 25 trips into the red
zone against conference opponents.
"Offensively we have to do a
better job in some areas," UF coach
Urban Meyer said.
"Third downs we were not good.
Red zone production, we usually do
it on Wednesday, we are going to do
it earlier this week. We just need to
improve."
Although the team has struggled
inside its opponents' 20-yard line,
when the ball gets down to the goal
line, Tebow has been just as good as
he has been since he arrived at UF-
The senior has scored five of his
six touchdowns on runs of less than
5 yards, and it only took one attempt
to punch it in on all of those runs.
He did not have as much success
last week against Mississippi State,UF quarterback Tim Tebow completed 10 of 13 passes for 154 yards and a touchdown against Georgia in 2008.
He also rushed 12 times for 39 yards and three touchdowns.
failing to score on his two tries from
just 1 yard out.
But when the Gators get down
near the goal line, they are still go-
ing to let Tebow try to take it in him-
self.
"The single wing element has
been so successful around here,"
Meyer said.
"The ability to take someone else
out of the box is No. 1, No. 2 is he
is a big powerful runner; he is also
Tim and is going to give you every-
thing he's got."
Tebow has been watching the
Florida-Georiga rivalry since he was
4, and living in Jacksonville made it
easy for him to attend the game fre-
quently.
Growing up a Gators fan in Jack-
sonville made this rivalry extra spe-
cial for the Nease High graduate.
He said he doesn't expect there
to being any extra emotions in his
last time playing in the rivalry with
a chance to pass Walker.
In his hometown, Tebow is 1-1 as
a starter, and in his one loss, he had
to endure watching the entire Geor-gia team celebrate a touchdown in him.
the end zone. "Going home and playing in that
The play that still weighs heav- game makes it special for me, hav-
ily on the minds of the Gators and ing a lot of people there supporting
even got a response out of Meyer, as me," Tebow said.
he called two late timeouts after the A win would be one step closer
game was out of hand. to a third national title in Tebow's
All the great memories from pre- career, but one more rushing touch-
vious games are not the thing he down could mean passing a player
thinks of first, when reflecting on many consider the greatest college
what has made the game special for football player ever.
tby5Dn® NUMBERS
Wins for UF coach Games without a
Urban Meyer against turnoverforthe
rivals FSU, Georgia, Gators since Meyer
Tennessee and Miami. took over as coach in 2005,
behind only West Virginia over
Loss for UF coach Urban that time span.
Meyer against that same
group of teams, coming Catches by Riley
against UGA in 2007. O0D Cooper and Aaron
Hernandez this year.
Game without a
turnover for UF this Catches by everyone
season (Charleston else on UF's roster
Southern). combined.
0 0
Jeff Demps Tim Tebow
0 0 0 000 a 0 0 0
Deonte Aaron Marcus I Maurkice I Carl David Riley
Thompson Hernandez Gilbert Maurce Pouncey Mike Johnson David Rile
Hurt Pouncey Nelson Cooper
Prince Miller Justin Jeff Kade Demarcus BrandonHoustin Owens Weston Dobbs Boykin
Darius Darryl Rennie
Dewberry Gamble Curran
S S
Bryan Evans Reshad JonesJanoris
Jenkins
A.J. Green8 S
Major Wright Ahmad Black
OS® MBL
Ryan Brandon A.J.
Stamper Spikes Jones
DE8 i
Terron Carlos
Jermaine Sanders Omar Dunlap Joe
Cunningham HunterHn
*O0@ 000
Cordy Glenn Ben Josh Davis Aron White
Chris Davis Jones Clint Boling Taverres King
Joe Cox
@ Shaun
Chapas
Richard
SamuelIUF offense vs. UGA defense IUF defense vs. UGA offenseI
0the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 49 We Inform. You Decide.-0 esYK
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
UF professor resigns after sex allegations
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator org
A UF department chair resigned earlier this
month following accusations that he had sex
with students.
Michael T. Garrett, 39, former chairman
of the counselor education department in theCollege of Education, submitted his resigna-
tion in late September and officially resigned
Oct. 2.
UF learned of the allegations in early Sep-
tember and launched an investigation but
dropped it when Garrett left.
As a result, UF made no decision on wheth-
er the allegations were credible.
Even so, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikessaid UF would probably not rehire Garrett
and would tell other potential employers the
same.
On "The university condemns
CampUS and, in fact, prohibits relation-
ships between faculty members
and students they supervise," Sikes said.
Officials in the education college held an
open meeting Monday night where they dis-cussed the situation and read statements from
students who had been romantically involved
with Garrett.
"I have sadly come to learn in the past
couple of months that there are several other
students who simultaneously shared that false
hope and trust in Michael, believing as I did
SEE RESIGN, PAGE 10
ON CAMPUS
Vigil honors victims
of breast cancer
Jamie Dollinger, the assistant director of the Women's Affairs cabinet at UF, stands with her candle at the
Candle Light for the Fight vigil for breast cancer on the Plaza of the Americas Thursday evening. The vigil was
held to raise awareness about the cancer during Breast Cancer Awareness Month.By MOLLY LARMIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Candlelight flickered in the
humid Thursday night, as the
normally bustling Plaza of the
Americas quieted during a vigil
for breast cancer.
About 50 people, their faces
framed by the soft orange glow
from their candles, formed a
semi-circle at 7:30 p.m. to cele-
brate Candle Light for the Fight.
The event was hosted by UF
Student Government's Health
Affairs and Women's Affairs to
conclude Breast Cancer Aware-
ness Month.
Claire Fluker, cabinet director
of Women's Affairs, organized
the vigil to create a more inti-
mate awareness setting where
students were encouraged to
participate, she said.
For half an hour, the hushed
crowd listened to testimonies
from students whose lives were
affected by a disease that, ac-cording to the American Cancer
Society, could kill as many as
40,000 women in the U.S. this
year.
"It was the scariest
thing anyone could ever
tell me. I thought, 'How
could this happen to
us?"'
Synticee Denmark
vigil attendee
Members of Zeta Tau Alpha
sorority handed out pink rib-
bons, and representatives from
the other organizations pro-
vided brochures explaining the
"ABCs" of breast health.
Synticee Denmark described
how she reacted when her moth-
er was diagnosed with breast
cancer during her freshman year
at UT.
"It was the scariest thing
SEE CANDLE, PAGE 5
Recession forces students to recycle Halloween garb
Denslow said it's typical forDenslow: Trend typical during economic downturns Halloween sales to be affected
By MATT HARRINGER cation and behavior major, is Hutton is allowed to wear many consumers this year might by a weak economy. He expects
Alligator Contributing Writer on a tight budget this year, and a costume Saturday night, but follow the same trend because of candy sales to be less flexible
she'll be working at McDonald's she'll be recycling angel wings the recession. He expects most than costume sales since trick-or-
Stacy Hutton is going to be an through the weekend instead of from a previous year's costume. people to make their own outfits treaters would be upset with last
an el for Halloween -a ain i n to costume parties or the David Denslow a UF rofes- or like Hutton wear their old year's candy.H o j. e
Hutton, a junior health, edu-UF-Georgia game., 
,
sor and research economist, saido ,s
ones. SEE ECONOMY, PAGE 10
0 UF hosts South
Carolina tonight
needing a win to
take home the SEC
regular-season title.
Defender Kat Wil-
liamson (right) has
started every game
after sitting out '08
due to injury.
See Story, Page 16.Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST
OPINIONS
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS2
6
11
14
16Partly
cloudy
85/66
visit www.alligator.org
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
News Today
WHAT'S HAPPENING
On-campus residents share
wireless Internet concerns
About 40 residents of Maguire
Village andUniversity Village South,
two of UF's graduate and family
housing facilities, met with officials
from the Department of Housing
Thursday night to discuss problems
with their wireless Internet.
Azfar Mian, the director of hous-
ing for administrative services, an-
swered questions from the residents
about the reasons behind their unre-
liable wireless connection.
Based on a survey of the resi-
dents, which was completed by the
Department of Housing, the wire-
less system gets overloaded from
about 6 p.m. to midnight as resi-
dents return home, Mian said.
Alvaro Gurovich, a graduate
student of applied physiology and
kinesiology, said he has had to go
into work at 4 a.m. to upload data
because his wireless Internet did not
work.
"We work for the university,"
Gurovich said. "We produce for the
university. Our job made this uni-
versity, and we can't have fair access
to our data, to our servers."
Other residents expressed con-
cern because, as parents, they can-
not leave their children to use the
wireless on campus.
In response to the residents' com-
plaints and suggestions, Mian said
he would look into having wireless
access points in each building, rath-
er than have 36 total for the Maguire
and University Village South facili-
ties.
He also said he would consider
increasing the bandwidth of the
wireless network so it could support
more users.
Mian also said he would look
into using a wired connection.
He said he will assess the prices
of these alternatives and meet with
the group again.
"What you have said, I'm taking
that to the heart," Mian said.
-CAROLYN TILLO
Campus group demonstrates
against Planned Parenthood
Margaret Sanger, the founder of
u 26
L4AST DAY to Register or
Change Pafly-AMffliatn
_for the Primary Electionugust 24
October 4
LAST DAY to Register
fo e General EectonNovember 2
Pam Carpenter
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
www.VoteAlachua.com
(352) 374-5252FORECAST
TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/66SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/63SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/63
Planned Parenthood, was the topic
of interest Thursday when UF's
Pro-Life Alliance held a demonstra-
tion on the Plaza of the Americas.
The organization called the
demonstration Margaret Sanger Ex-
posed and talked about her attitude
toward eugenics, or selective breed-
ing, through sterilization and birth
control. They stated Sanger and
Planned Parenthood specifically
target minorities and people with
disabilities for abortions.
"A lot of people see Planned
Parenthood as a great thing that
provides birth control and sexual
education," said Patricia Aguerra-
vere, junior art history major and
historian for the Pro-Life Alliance.
"People do not realize that it's the
largest abortion provider in the na-
tion and targets minorities due to
their socio-economic status."
Members handed out brochures
detailing various statistics on abor-
tions by race to support of their
argument. The organization also
linked Sanger to the eugenics move-
ment as an influence on Adolf Hit-
ler.
Students had mixed feelings
about what they learned.
"I'mpro-life,but I feel ifyouwere
raped you should have a choice,"
said Tiffany Bass, a UF freshman.
Bass agreed with the organizations
opinion of Planned Parenthood and
felt that they do target minorities.
UF junior Andrew Scheuermann
on the other hand felt the organiza-
tion used emotions to get people
riled up.
"I think it would be horrible if it
was true, but I don't believe it," he
said.
-ANDREW WYZAN
Free Fest show offered on
campus Saturday
Get a free taste of Gainesville's
biggest music festival after one ofMONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/55TUESDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/57
the Gators' biggest games Saturday
night.
Five bands will play a free show
an the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
as part of The Fest 8, a punk music
festival taking place Friday through
Sunday in Gainesville.
Punk, indie and ska music will
be represented at the show, which
features After the Fall, Sakes Alive!,
We Are the Union, So Many Dyna-
mos and The Swellers.
All five bands are from out of
state, and some are touring with
new albums.
The Fest includes more than 300
bands playing in about 13 venues
during the festival.
Weekend passes are being sold
for $80, and tickets to individual
shows are available.
-J. HUNTER SIZEMORE
Fest 8
The Fest 8, this weekend's punk
festival in Gainesville, features 200+
bands playing
in 15 venues
over 3 days.
Wh It i0 this can feel
da unt ing,
AlgtrOn
line has you
covered with
band reviews,
suggested sched-
ules, interviews and
tips on getting tickets. For coverage
from now until Sunday evening,
visit alligator.org/blogs/fest
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Saudy, Ocobe 31 -0 pm
Free shots for anyone in costume
Prizes for best costume
Game Time Spe cials: $4 Jager Shots
Beat the Clock: Domestic Pitchers start at $ 
-
Goes up every 15 minutes
All Game Day $3.50 Bourbon Meyers
Visit our website for additional specials.a the independent florida
NotoficiallyrVOLUME 103 ISSUE 49 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligatororg
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Ma istri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara I ngebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Jon Levine,
Joaquin Martinez, Samantha Owen,
Melany Valderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSI NESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligatororg
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligatororg
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
AROUND GAINESVILLE
After 250 years, composer comes to life for interview
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writer
He was a musician before the
days of punk rock angst and raw-
to-the-bone hip-hop. He was be-
fore rhythm and blues and before
MTV.
But Thursday evening, Johann
Sebastian Bach was back -he just
looked a little different.
Re-animated in an original
program engineered by Digital
Worlds Institute artist-in-resi-
dence Arturo Sinclair, Bach ap-
peared in a live video Web cast forLiveVibeTV, a 60-minute produc-
tion presented by the UF College
of Fine Arts.
"Bach was, I believe, one of the
greatest geniuses in the history of
humankind," said Steven Thomas,
a cellist and faculty member at
UF's School of Music. "He belongs
up there with Einstein and that
group."
It's been more than 250 years
since Bach's "Brandenburg con-
certos" and "Toccata and Fugue in
D minor" joined the ornate melo-
dies of the Baroque music period,
but Bach, the esteemed composer"We live in a world with a
lot of distractions. Here
we were able to really
focus and experience [the
show]."
Lucinda Lavelli
Dean of the College of Fine Arts
of the 18th century, was enthu-
siastic and willing to answer the
questions from the live audience
of about 50 at Digital World In-
stitute's REVE facility in Norman
Hall.Resembling the technology
used by Pixar Animation Studios
and DreamWorks Animation
SKG, Bach's lips moved, his eyes
twitched and his voice boomed
throughout the studio.
"We live in a world with a lot of
distractions," said Lucinda Lavel-
li, dean of the College of Fine Arts.
"Here we were able to really focus
and experience [the show]."
The program was a collabora-
tion of two of the college's pro-
grams: the Digital Worlds Insti-
tute and the School of Music.
The first of four scheduled pro-grams, this pilot episode of LiveVi-
beTV was all about the music.
Hosted by UF senior English
major Cameryn Justice, the show
featured the music of Thomas and
Brazilian guitarist Welson Tremu-
ra as well as No Southern Accent,
a UF student a cappella group.
The show ended with a collec-
tive performance from all of the
participating musicians, a mash-
up of music that would have made
Bach proud.
The show broadcasted live on-
line and can be viewed at livevi-
betv.com.
UF hopes to send emergency text with fewer delays
0 OFFICIALS DID NOT ANNOUNCE won't announce to students or the company in about 23 minutes for all the texts to be sent to UF might have to replace Blackboard Connect,
WHEN TODAY'S TEXT WILL BE SENT. charge of sending the messages when it plans cell phone carriers, said Kenneth Allen, UF's the company in charge of the system.
to conduct the test, UF spokesman Steve Or- emergency manage- "This is essentially their last shot," he said.
lando said. U F ment coordinator. Ed Miller, president of the company, saidAfter a flubbed test of its emergency mes- Orlando said this time UF is hoping the Administration That doesn't in- the problem has already been fixed and he'ssaging system Wednesday, UF will send an- mesgsdl esn utwti 0mntscude the time it takes not worried at all.
other batch of text messages to students and messages will be sent out within 10 minutescldthtiettasnowridatl.
employees some time today. or less. for carriers to deliver the messages to individ- "I'll sleep soundly tonight," Miller said
On Wednesday, because of a glitch that de- ual phones, Allen said. Thursday afternoon.
layed messages for about 14 minutes, it took Orlando said if today's test doesn't go well, -THOMAS STEWART
UF March of Dimes Collegiate Council Proudly Presents.
6th Annual
gators march for babies 
,
UF
Founding Supporter WITH SUPPORT FROM:
COX alligador
The Collier Companies
Parifilgi Plwplls Inagln t on-n an. ,n.1. Reduce Waste with Reusable Plates, Cups and Utensils
2. Recycle Aluminum Cans, Plastic and Glass Bottles
3. Dispose of Trash in Proper Receptacles
aIligsTorHelp wanted?
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FINDTHE Nis TE No MEN W Till 60 TIN6 TipsInoder Lo make F Letmr elsiu
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
ON CAMPUS
'Drill instructor' gives billiards tips
By ANDREW NORRIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a free clinic Thursday night, Domi-
nic "The Drill Instructor" Esposito put
about 30 spectators through a billiards
boot camp.
Esposito, a staff writer for Pool & Bil-
liard Magazine as well as a recognized
top 20 billiards instructor, showed on-
lookers drills and techniques to help im-
prove their game.
"All skill levels can enjoy what I'mgoing to do tonight," Esposito said in an
interview before the clinic. "While I'm
speaking in a language that beginners
can ascribe to, the advanced player can
connect to the things that they really care
the most about and fill in the gaps."
Esposito, who lives up to his nick-
name by dressing in full drill instructor
garb, said his title came from his meticu-
lous way of teaching fundamentals.
"I'm pretty specific about what we do
and why we do it," Esposito said. "Shoot-
ing the shot right, shooting the right shot,
I Imaking sure that the fundamentals of the
game from stance to stroke to alignment
and also selection and execution are all
there."
Esposito's appearance was well re-
ceived by students, although there were
some complaints about the event's tim-
ing.
"All skill levels can enjoy what
I'm going to do tonight. While
I'm speaking in a language that
beginners can ascribe to, the
advanced player can connect to
the things that they really care
the most about and fill in the
gaps."
Dominic Esposito
"the drill instructor"
"I think it's a good idea that we could
get him here; the only downside is that
if it wasn't the Thursday before Flori-
da-Georgia, I think we'd have a bigger
crowd," said Mike Shelestak, a UF gradu-
ate student. "It's pretty cool seeing some
of the things he can do though. You see
some of that stuff on TV, but you never
really get anyone to explain to you how
to do it. "
The clinic was sponsored by the Reitz
Union Game Room. Esposito was paid
$350 for his appearance.
Esposito's clinic was the first of two
parts; the second will will take place in
January. The second clinic will cost par-
ticipants $50 and will be more one-on-one
training and in-depth training secrets.
Smile.
Saving lives is not only a
good thing, it makes you
feel good too.
Plasma Donors Needed Now
Please help us help those coping with
rare, chronic, genetic diseases.
New donors can receive $20 today
and $60 this week!
Ask about our Specialty Programs!
Must be 18 years or older, have valid
I.D. along with proof' of SS# and lozal
residency
Wireless Internet Now Available!
Walk-ins Welcome.
ABiotest
F-o Nature For Lis,
1112 N. Main St.
Gainesville, FL 32601
352-378-9431Greffidrink specials tool\, rinpftpos
Sailor Jerry 1.75L.$19.99
Crown Royal 1.75L. $39.99
SVEDKA1.75L.$19.99
39th Ave in Publix Plaza
TO "RVYOU HNOME WHEN HE'S DH NK TO WHIDon't Tell Fi nAIt Up
Oad
Specializng in Collision pairs on all makes
mention t is ad and receive special discount 3
33 SE 13th Road wwvw.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
Student Government presents.
FALL HOUSING
'a'- M ff ,|| ||||brought to you by Housing Affairs.
~UNV RSITY
ag'ine "yill A PA R T M E N T S
GACG
Gainesville Apartment
an odmnu ud
Campus Lodge B E A C " GainesvilleSmoking ban
starts Sunday
The first phase of UF's campus-wide to-
bacco ban will go into effect Sunday at UF's
Health Science Center and all Shands at UF
facilities.
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium went smoke-
free in September, and the rest of the cam-
pus will follow suit on July 1.
In preparation for the Nov. 1 phase of
the ban, UF and Shands have been putting
up posters detailing the new policy and re-
moving ashtrays in affected buildings.
They've also been letting employees and
patients know about ways to quit smoking,
like free counseling sessions
On and free or discounted medi-
Campus cations.
People don't seem to be
rushing to the free sessions, however.
Kim Rose, a Shands at UF spokeswoman,
said she hasn't seen an uptick in enrollment
and Roger Keroack, who runs the sessions
for employees and their spouses at UF, said
attendance has been dismal.
UF can counsel about 45 people a semes-
ter, but a combined 20 people have either
taken the class already or signed up for the
semester's last one -which started this
week -even though UF allows employees
to participate during the workday without
using leave time.
Keroack said more people might sign
up when the campus-wide ban gets a little
closer.
"Maybe in May people will get serious
about it," he said. "Who knows?"
-THOMAS STEWART
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
Dominic Esposito demonstrates a warm-up drill for pool in the Reitz Union Game
Room Thursday night.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
Zoo gets scary for Halloween
By LAUREN DELGADO immersed in everything they do,
Alligator Contributing Writer
Halloween in Gainesville is about
to get a whole lot wilder.
The Santa Fe College Teaching
Zoo, located on 3000 NW 83rd St.,
will host its Halloween event "Boo
at the Zoo" from 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
on Saturday.
Zoo grounds will be transformed
into different Halloween themes by
student zookeepers. Three candy
stations will be open in each section
to give candy to trick-or-treaters.
Jack Brown, director of the zoo,
gave zookeepers an incentive to in-
spire them.
"The winning area that does the
best job on their particular theme
gets the following Wednesday off of
lab for free," Brown said.
The day off is no small occasion
for the student zookeepers, who are
required to work weekends, holi-
days and summers.
"The animals are here all the
time, and they need to be cared for,"
he said. "Our students are totallydhc dsoanything a normal keeper
would do."
Our students are totally
immersed in everything
they do, which is any-
thing a normal keeper
would do."
Jack Brown
Santa Fe College zoo director
The students carry out daily
animal care, which includes clean-
ing cages, preparing animal diets,
giving medications or providing
enrichments for the animals. Enrich-
ments are different ways to make an
animal's environment more exciting
through the use of new foods and
toys.
"Boo at the Zoo's" guests will be
the enrichments for the animals Sat-
urday. All of the animals are left on
exhibit for the guests, adding to the
experience.
"If the animals were adverselyaffected by the crowds or the com-
motion, we would put them off dis-
play," Brown said.
Although there will be games in
the front lawn, the main focus will
be in the zoo. The zookeepers want
to share their enthusiasm for the ani-
mals.
"I really love the enrichments,"
said Alexandra Henwood, a third-
year student at the teaching zoo.
"You see different behaviors [from
the animals]. It's not an inside job,
which I would hate."
According to Brown, the zoo's
purpose is two-fold: to teach its
students and to teach its visitors.
The community plays a big part for
the teaching zoo. With habitats and
populations declining, the fate of the
animals is left to the people.
To aid the community, visitors
need to bring one canned good for
their admission, with all cans going
to local food banks.
"It's our chance to give back to the
community," Brown said. "Whether
that be through these cans of food or
just a fun, safe place to spend Hal-
loween."
(~ROI XFAR CUARANTFL
o A'14 B~utler Plaza NebrySue
l 335-1232 332-3937
2007 -I
GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS
25% OFF anv one GNC PrOdUCI
14 Cannotbecombined.OneCouponpercustomer
lull.-3914 SW Archer Rd
6,4600 SW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32608
352.373.7959 1 CottageGroveatGainesville.com
Dare to Care Donate a Bear!
Donate new or nearly new teddies
to the American Cancer Society's
Bears for Cares
Please bring donations to the
Gainesville American Cancer
Society Office or Contact Margaret
Shaw at 352-376-6866 ext. 5063 or
e-mail at margaret.shaw@cancer.orgFLA -GA
PARTY
Celebrate the Gator victory
over the Dawgs at Caf6
Gardens Saturday. We'll
have extra TV's on the patio
and Beer Specials like $1
domestic pints, $1.50
longnecks and & $2 bottles
of selected imports along
with 25 cent wings and the
all the other fantastic food
that has made Caf6 Gardens
a Gator landmark for a third
Cafd Gardens 1643 N W I" Ave.Students share stories
on cancer's impact
CANDLE, from page l
anyone could ever tell me," she said to the crowd. "I thought,
'How could this happen to us?'
Her mother lost her battle with cancer last April. Denmark
said that cancer awareness should be everyone's responsibility
and encouraged students to find a way to get involved.
Eboni Peoples, 20, a UF health education and behavior ju-
nior, said Candle Light for the Fight was more
On personal than daytime events.Campus "It makes you want to say 'Hey, Mom,
have you been to your appointment?' Or 'Hey,
Grandma, what are you doing about this?'
After observing a moment of silence, Andrew Ruiz, presi-
dent of Colleges Against Cancer, walked onstage to deliver a
closing message.
Ruiz became a cancer awareness advocate after his mother
died from breast cancer six years ago.
"As you blow out your candles, make a wish," he said to the
crowd, "and that wish is to eliminate this horrible disease."
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
Editorial
he week is winding down at the Alligator as we pre-
pare for Halloween, Florida-Georgia, the Fest, sleep.
Fortunately, we've been working on our costumes
all semester. Thanks to many long nights at the Alligator,
accompanied by stimulant-fueled weekend study binges,
we're happy to present you with a we-feel-like-zombies-
every-day-so-we-don't-need-to-dress-up-for-Halloween
edition of.
Darts & Laurels
In our current states, we felt right at home Wednesday
when a flash mob brought the zombie apocalypse to the
UF campus. Sporting fake blood and tattered clothes, the
flash mob attracted a lot of attention, and we loved the idea
(playing off the now infamous UF Emergency Zombie Plan).
Unfortunately, with such a small turnout, the whole thing
looked less like the apocalypse and more like a D-horror
movie without all the bad dialogue to laugh at. That's why
we're going to throw a think-bigger-next-time DART at the
Theatre Strike Force, who organized the event.
This Sunday, the Alligator Editorial Board will have a
little less whining to do about lost sleep, as we gain an hour
thanks to Daylight Saving Time. For providing us with one
precious hour before early Monday classes, we would like
to present a we-love-our-antiquated-agrarian-time-system
LAUREL to Daylight Saving Time. It might not have any
relevance or benefit in today's society, but delaying an 8:30
a.m. writing lab by any amount of time is always a good
thing.
On Wednesday, President Barack Obama signed the Mat-
thew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention
Act into law, providing gays and lesbians with federal hate
crime protection.
This legislation is on the heels of last week's directive to
federal agencies not to pursue or prosecute licensed medical
marijuana users or distributors. For the recent rash of action
in what advocates have called an unproductive term -and
with health care reform finally, well maybe, on its way -we
would like to deliver a keeping-campaign-promises-is-awe-
some LAUREL to the Obama administration.
We were also happy to hear that Obama had time to tour
a southwest Florida solar power plant this week. Noticeably
absent from the event, in addition to the sunny Florida weath-
er, was Gov. Charlie Crist. Crist is facing a tough Republican
primary, and with last winter's Crist-Obama power hug still
plaguing him, it's understandable that he wants to distance
himself from Democrats. But snubbing Obama while he de-
livers $200 million in stimulus money for Florida's aging
power grid, and claiming that he didn't know Obama would
be in town, means we must throw a don't-hide-from-the-
man-hug DART to Gov. Crist. Because, if more hugs means
more money, then we need all the hugs we can get.
Finally, with the Florida-Georgia game approaching fast,
we are happy to hear that an anonymous donor has pre-
sented Student Government with a 10-foot wooden oar to
celebrate the longstanding rivalry. While we would like to
thank this donor by name, we are not surprised that he chose
to be anonymous, given that cutting down just about any
1,000-year-old cypress tree, let alone one from the Okefeno-
kee National Wildlife Refuge, is likely illegal. But this oar
is amazing. and with that in mind, we would like to give
an oars-can-be-paddles-too LAUREL to Mr. Anonymous,
because if we have it our way, UF's SG president will have
many future opportunities to give Georgia's president a
post-victory paddling to remember.
That's all for this week! Go absurdly huge oars!
a ll te independent forida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org/opinions
IT- FOP -T+-A e
44
Guest column
Mayor explains stance on serving meals
Editor's note: This is an excerpt from an e-mail sent
by Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan regarding an an editorial
and story published by the Alligator.
Q: Is it true that the City Commission took action to
prohibit St. Francis House from serving more than 130
meals at holidays?
A: There has been no recent action or direction by the
City Commission related to meal service at St. Francis
House. Approximately 18 years ago, long before the ten-
ure of any current elected official, the City Commission
passed general code provisions that regulate food dis-
tribution centers for the needy that are not operated at a
place of religious assembly (sec. 30-111) and those that are
operated at places of religious assembly (sec. 30-91). These
code provisions address, among other things, a limit on
the number of meals within a 24-hour period, distance
requirements and management plan requirements. These
code provisions make no special distinction for holiday
meals. This ordinance has not been reviewed by the City
Commission at any time during my nearly 12-year ten-
ure.
Q: Why is there a 130-meal limit in the first place?
A: This has been a provision in the Gainesville Code of
Ordinances since before 1992. The intent was, and is, sim-
ply to distribute the services to destitute people across
the community, rather than to concentrate them all in one
location. St. Francis House has never been legally autho-
rized to serve more than this number and has, or should
have, been aware of this during its entire existence at its
current location.
Q: Isn't this immoral? Aren't people then left to
starve?
A: Every place of religious assembly throughout our
community is authorized to serve meals and house home-
less persons, subject to the limitations and permit require-
ments set forth in City Code Sec. 30-91. However, theadministrative enforcement of those
limitations and requirements have
been temporarily suspended since
March 28, 2008, when the City Com-
mission directed the city manager
not to issue or deny any permits un-
Pegeen der Sec. 30-91 until the Community
Hanrahan Development Committee studied
Speaking Out those regulations and returned with
proposed amendments. The Com-
mittee is returning to the City Com-
mission with recommendations on Nov. 5.
Q: The City of Gainesville has been listed as one of
the nation's "Meanest Cities" toward homeless for clos-
ing Tent City and enforcing this meal limit. What is
wrong with the city?
A: In reality, the cities who have been placed on this list
are actually all communities that are doing SOMETHING
to help homeless people, albeit imperfectly. There are
many communities that do little or nothing for homeless
people, so those that take up the responsibility end up with
"more than their fair share" of work to do. Unlike most
government programs, one of the difficult issues around
helping homeless people is that the better the services you
provide, the more people who come forward to seek those
services. In an environment in which there is no require-
ment for basic human needs to be met in all jurisdictions,
those who do provide services end up taking up the bur-
den for those who don't, and the better your services are,
the more people you attract who need them. In reality,
Gainesville is a city of 130,000 that is trying to provide al-
most all of the homeless services in a multi-county region
of more rural, suburban and disadvantaged communities.
To read Mayor Hanrahan's complete Q&A, including her
complete responses, explanations of laws and ordinances and
ways citizens can help the homeless, please visit Alligator.org.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Would you Thursday's question: Do you
want an absurdly large oar? think AGH should have been
closed?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org49% YES
51% NO
37 TOTAL VOTES
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
East Gainesville not dependent on AGH New radio format rewarding, enriching
Your editorial column "Closed Doors" May I add my voice in support of WUFT-
was patently ridiculous. According to Map- FM's current programming format, and I
quest Shands at AGH and Shands at UF are hope you will hear from many more who
1.42 miles apart. I hardly think a three-min- share my view that the new format offers
ute travel time will result in "cutting off ac- an exciting, rewarding and enriching listen-
cess to those in need" and your hysterically ing experience. It's impossible to fact-check
dire predictions for infant mortality, STDs, the claims by those 40 music-lovers with the
homicide deaths, economic decline, crime, funds to buy a full-page ad in the Sun.
etc. But I for one would regret any decision
Of course, as a nonprofit corporation, to step back to what they believe was a "bal-Shands will indeed redirect "savings" back ance" between music (actually about 19 1/2into the community. For the record, I am hours in 24) and news/commentary (4 1/2a Shands at UF employee, but am not in hours).on business decisions. If I was, Pediatrics This group also urges readers to callwouldn't have been moved to AGH and in during this pledge week with an implied
bac a n Kathleen Fette threat that they will only contribute if the
College of Health Related Professions graduate old format is restored.
Guest column
Michigan ordinance
or an off-year election, Nov. 3 is shaping up to be pretty
interesting day at the polls.
The more obvious reasons for this, and the ones get-
ting the most attention from cable news channels, are a few rac-
es (including the gubernatorial elections in Virginia and New
Jersey and a quirky special election for the U.S. House seat in
New York's 23rd congressional district) being decided Tues-
day that some political folks are characterizing as bellwethers
for the mood of the country.
Maybe more significant, there are a few ballot initiatives be-
ing voted on that may serve as an indication of just how much
progress the LGBT rights movement has made. Maine is voting
on Question 1, which could reject via a "people's veto" a state
law that legalized gay marriage; Washington state is voting on
Referendum 71, which is asking voters to approve or reject a
state law that expanded domestic partnership rights to match
those of marriages.
But maybe the most relevant ballot initiative to Gainesville
is the vote on Ordinance 1856, in which voters in Kalamazoo,
Mich., will decide whether or not to approve a city ordinance
that extended discrimination protections to LGBT people.
Why? Because what's playing out in Kalamazoo almost ex-
actly matches Gainesville's vote on Charter Amendment 1, and
eerily so.
Charter Amendment 1 was a proposed amendment to the
Gainesville City Charter that had the intention of eliminating
discrimination protections in areas like housing and employ-
ment based on sexual orientation and gender identity. (Pro-
tections for many other categories, like race and religion, are
already protected under state law.)I find this offensive, and it has motivated
me to double the amount of my membership
contribution this year. Options for listening
to good classical, folk and jazz music are
there. Missing from the ad is another alterna-
tive--choosing from one's collection of CDs.
And these folks must have lots to choose
from. So please, stay with what you've got
going for many of us. Thank you.
Gene Cowell
Gainesville Resident
Station switch to NPR a good move
I am sure you are getting a large num-
ber of emails on the WUFT programming
switch, so I will try to keep mine short. Iam writing.
I saw a full page ad in the Gainesville
Sun today urging me to contact you (and
copy all the other individuals included on
this email) to complain about the format
change; on the contrary, I would like to
thank you for switching to an all-talk sta-
tion.
I enjoy the NPR programming, and I
am excited that I am now able to access
that programming all day on WUFT.
As far as pledging is concerned, my
husband and I are so pleased with the
change that we have made our first dona-
tion to the pledge drive this year.
Thank you for the format change!
Meagan Gregory
Gainesville Resident
similar to local Charter Amendment 1
The group pushing for the amend-
ment's passage, Citizens for Good Public
Policy, said that protecting LGBT people
constituted giving them "special rights"
and insinuated that keeping protections
13 afor transgender people would lead to
Joe Dellosa men entering girls' restrooms and rap-
letters@alligator org ing them. Gainesville voters called BS
both on that argument and the amend-
ment itself, voting it down on March 24.
But evidently, what's past isn't prologue for the anti-LGBT
protections group in Kalamazoo pushing for the rejection of the
ordinance. (The "yes" vote in this election is the pro-LGBT pro-
tections vote; the "no" vote is the anti-LGBT protections vote.)
The group, Kalamazoo Citizens Voting No to Special Rights
Discrimination, is trying to say that these protections, far from
working against discrimination, are in fact discriminatory
against people who don't want to work with or provide ser-
vices to LGBT people. In other words, they're saying that Ordi-
nance 1856 discriminates against people who want to discrimi-
nate (well, yeah) and that "elevating the beliefs of one group
over those of another is indeed both a 'special right' and dis-
crimination" (because not getting fired because of the person
you love is, indeed, a special right).
(On a sidenote, even if we're going to follow Kalamazoo
Citizens Voting No's argument that we shouldn't elevate one
group's beliefs over another and that sexual orientation and
gender identity is a choice, I'm skeptical that they're going to
spearhead the effort to repeal discrimination protections based
on religion.)And, of course, there's the "men in girls' restrooms" argu-
ment again. The group's talking points sheet is titled, "Is There
a Man in Your Daughter's Bathroom?" And they've even
pilfered wholesale Citizens for Good Public Policy's TV com-
mercial featuring a pedophile following a little girl into the
bathroom for an Internet ad, except they swapped the word
"Gainesville" for "Kalamazoo." (You can compare the two on
YouTube -tinyurl.com/KzooAd and tinyurl.com/GvilleAd -
if you're curious.)
Perhaps the sneakiest thing Kalamazoo Citizens Voting No
is doing is distributing signs and fliers that say "No Discrimi-
nation: Vote NO on Ord. 1856" -a clear attempt to hoodwink
low-information voters into thinking that the "no" vote is the
vote in favor of discrimination protections.
I'm not presumptuous enough to tell Kalamazoo voters
how they should cast their ballot. After all, I've never even been
to Kalamazoo (though I've heard it's a really pretty city, espe-
cially in the autumn). And besides, I'm pretty sure they can
make up their own minds.
But for what it's worth, I can say that I had never been
prouder to live in Gainesville when voters -both locals and
students -rejected Charter Amendment 1 by 16 percentage
points. And contrary to what the at times cartoon-like absurd
campaign waged against LGBT protections wanted us to be-
lieve, our city is better for it, and we're better people for it.
It's disheartening to see the same scare tactics that were used
here being used in Kalamazoo, but with any luck, the outcome
will be the same.Fingers crossed, Kalamazoo.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His weekly column appears
on Tuesdays.
| BUY NETOFREERegular cup or cone with this ad
New Class.
ot So Much Cash.
" Nobody Parties Like CJjs
FRIDAY SATURDAY
9 Domestic $5 Domestic $5.95 Domestic Pitchers
Draft Pitchers $5 Jager Bombs
$5 Jager Bombs (10 p.m. -close) $2 Lemon Drops
$2 Lemon Drops 99c Margaritas
Live Music
TUESDAY
College Night All you can eat wings $8.95
Ladies drink free well drinks $1.50 Domestic Bottles
w/school ID $5 Jager Bombs
3 B75' EER * 3501 SW 2nd Ave * CalicoJacks.net * 371-1675Skateboards
$59 and uD
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
Verfn wireless
Satisfy your app-et'te.
Instant access to exciting applications including games, VZ Navigator" and V CAST Music with Rhapsody.*
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.99 or higher with at- or 2-yr. agreement.
405 NORTH
F-M
Nokia TwistTM
-Unique square design that twists
open to reveal a QWERTY keyboard
-V CAST Music with Rhapsody* and
Visual Voice Mailsm capable
NOW $ 99
ONLY
$149.99 2-yr. price -$50
mail-in rebate debit card.GOMi1GPSAo
si"1.oilirnl 
I 7t-
60U9
-Large 3" touch screen with tactile feedback
-Optional snap on attachments like a full QWERTY
keyboard or optional game controller
NOW $ 99
ONLY 49
$149.992-yr price- $100 mail-in
rebate debit card. Requires a
Nationwide Calling Plan.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249)
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES open 7 days a weel
Technicians available at select locations.
CLERMONT 1415 E. Hwy. 50 352-243-6826 L/
GAINESVILLE 3401 S W Archer Rd 352-378-8828 L1
Oaks Mall Kiosk 352-331-0379 LE
3401 S\W/ Archer Rd 352-378-8828 0
3626 SW Archer Rd. 352-491-2500CIick verizonwireless.com/getdiscount
DY LAKE 870
AKE CITY Lake
ESBURG Lake
CALA 2613 S WON. Hwy. 27/441, Ste. G. 352-350-2861
City Mall 386-719-2173
Square Mall 352-787-2449
19th Ave. Rd 352-620-2025Visit any Communications Store
OCALA HUB/EAST 2606 SW 11
OCALA WEST 4414 SW CollegE,2-237-3434
In Collaboration with
Alcatel-Lucent e sAceptamos Lar
Matricula ConsularBUSINESS CUSTOMERS
1-800-899-4249
Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subjectto Customer Agmt and Calling Plan. Device capabilities: Add' charges & conditions apply. Offers & coverage, varying by service, not available everywhere. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. Rhapsody and the Rhapsody
logo are trademarks and registered trademarks of RealNetworks, Inc. Tetris & D1985-2009 Tetris Holding, LLC. Game Technology 2009 Electronic Arts Inc. EA and the EA logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Are You Smarter
Than a 5th Grader?'" and @2009 JMBP, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All company names, trademarks, logos and copyrights not the property ofhVerizon Wireless are the property of their respective owners. All Rights Reserved. 02009 Verizon Wireless OCTUSwitch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.I
Visit verizonwireless.com
to find a Club near you.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
STATE NEWS
Rivals to battle for huge paddle
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
This year a new tradition will
be put in oarder.
Student Body President Jor-dan Johnson said an anonymous
donor presented him with a
10-foot-long oar to heat up the
rivalry between UF and the Uni-
versity of Georgia. The trophy
will join the likes of the Golden
FLORIDA G1CRXA
RFVALRYA RO
The new Okefenokee Oar trophy will be presented to the Student Body
president of the winner of Saturday's UF-Georgia football game.Boot between Louisiana State
University and University of Ar-
kansas and Paul Bunyan's Axe
between University of Minneso-
ta and University of Wisconsin.
Johnson and UGA's Student
Body President Katie Barlow
will highlight the old rivalry's
new addition during a 2 p.m.
CBS broadcast in the parking
lot of the Jacksonville Municipal
Stadium this Saturday.
Johnson said the oar isn't just
for the winning school's Student
Government but for the whole
Student Body.
"It instills a sense of pride to
the game, a sense of responsibil-
ity to students from both sides
and a sense of sportsmanship
and great tradition that SEC
football is known for," he said.
Johnson said the oar is made
from wood in the Okefenokee
Swamp, which is common in
both states and is engraved into
the histories of both Florida and
Georgia.
SG press secretary Eric Con-
rad said the oar was carved from
a 1000-year-old tree.
The wood symbolizes the
conflict that arose when Florida
and Georgia drew the state-
boundary line through Okefeno-
kee Swamp, a conflict that came
long before the rivalry on the
football field.
Barlow said both schools
have been talking about having
an award for years, adding the
oar will add to the tradition and
rivalry of the game.
"It's just something to kind of
symbolize the victory," Barlow
said.US enrollment
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
Gator Fans, season tickets are on sale now for Florida Men's and Women's
Basketball! Call 800-34-GATOR or visit Gatorzone.com to purchase yours today
G O ,to Fans Geof93~~i
teGaOts 9Ol to P l lo~
TonW tiemu"
,,ioj at -
d~n standsec
0' No\ ~opespI %C \NLn SOY T5dRdufr t.,uavI
40allga or3 mortsgTg s0DCA CASH
Tune in for the latest Gators for
sports news and analysis from our Gold -Jewelry -Watches
beat writers and columnists. BEST JEWELRY & LOAN
Check it out on alligatorSports.org or 523 NW 3rd Ave. 371-4367
subscribe on iTunes. pawn brokers
Friday r
eat DJ I
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
LOCAL
St. Francis House residents
receive free dental advice
By ANNIE QUINTANA
Alligator Contributing Writer
In comparison to finding
a place to sleep or food to eat,
oral hygiene isn't a top prior-
ity for homeless people.
The Pre-dental American
Student Dental Association
wants to change that.
Thursday night, mem-
bers of the Pre-dental ASDA
served dinner to the home-
less and gave a presentation
on good oral hygiene at the
St. Francis House.
About 30 shelter residents"We wanted to reach
out to a part of the
community that is
often neglected."
Alex Samuel
Pre-dental ASDA board
member
had hot meals provided
by the members of the Pre-
dental ASDA and watched a
presentation on proper den-
tal care, such as appropriate
ways to brush and floss.
"We wanted to reach out
to a part of the communitythat is often neglected," said
Alex Samuel.
Samuel, who is on the
board of directors for the
Pre-dental ASDA, wanted
to spread awareness of the
importance of maintaining
good oral hygiene and pre-
venting serious medical con-
ditions.
Rich Miller, a St. Francis
House resident, paid close
attention to the presentation.
"It's hard to get dental
care," Miller said. "More
work needs to be done for
the homeless out here."
Some decide not to wear costumes
ECONOMY, from page 1
Last year's Halloween candy was dis-
counted because stores were surprised by
the recession and overstocked, he said, but
this year he expects fewer discounts because
stores are controlling inventory better.
Sales at Center Stage costume shop are
steady, according to manager John Albrit-
ton.
"Halloween is the one time a year you
can be yourself," Albritton said. "You can
be a kid and dress up."
He thinks Halloween sales will be sus-
tained in a college town like Gainesville be-cause it's the last party for students before
midterms and the holidays.
Albritton expects some students to cele-
brate Thursday, Friday and Saturday night,
even if they're going to Jacksonville for the
football game.
Local But Chelsea Pulido, a soph-
News omore business administration
major, is using the football
game as an excuse not to dress up.
Pulido said with the tighter economy,
her mom isn't giving her as much money,
and even if she does go to a Halloween par-
ty before the game, she won't be wearing a
costume this year.He sent nude photos via phone
RESIGN, from page 1
that they were involved in an exclu-
sive, intimate, committed relation-
ship," a statement read, according to
an article on InsideHigherEd.com.
"Those students, consequently, are
also experiencing intense pain right
now.
The article quotes three anony-
mous students who said they had in-
timate relationships with Garrett, two
of whom admitted having sex with
him.
One former student said she had
sex regularly while she was enrolled
in his class. Another told Inside High-
er Ed that she exchanged nude pic-
tures with him.
"His classes were intimate," one
student said in the article. "We ex-
posed really personal stuff, and he
would continue to talk to us about
personal stuff. That's what he initiated
contact with."
E-mails and a voicemail message
requesting comment from Garrett
were not returned Thursday.
One former student and teaching
assistant of Garrett's said she was
shocked to hear about the allegations
against him when contacted on Thurs-
day.
"He was one of the best profes-
sors I had ever had," said the recent
UF graduate, who wished to remain
anonymous.
'He just really, really, really cared
about his students."
She said Garrett was always very
professional and conceded that shecould see how some female students
might have felt an attraction for him,
but she never thought he would cross
the line with any of them.
Another former student, Amy
Mazak, also said the allegations came
as a surprise and that Garrett was one
of her favorite professors.
"He talked about his family a lot in
class, and I even met his young son on
several occasions,"
Mazak wrote in an
e-mail. "His son
was the world to
him, that was obvi-
ous."
Garrett, who
was hired in 2006,
was on the fringes
Garrett of another scandal
earlier this year when UF investigated
the abuse of university credit cards,
known as purchasing cards.
UF learned that an employee in
his department had been sharing her
card, a violation of university policy,
with other members of the depart-
ment, including Garrett.
The employee had her card can-
celed, but UF decided not to take any
action against Garrett.
According to a biography on the
UF Web site, Garrett has authored
dozens of articles and book chapters,
many about the counseling of Native
Americans.
Garrett, who was paid about
$106,000 at UF -according to salary
information from March -grew up
on a Cherokee Indian reservation in
western North Carolina.
DOWNTOWN g ainesville
SIG UL 's $2rioWNTOw,
BURGER BABBERSHOP
15 W. University Ave. -(352) 373-4841
omw: \1 -F am o rm
WWW.DTBarbershop.com
I UID UAPTAIN ABU KAU)
.I I I Sundance Audience Award. A story of friendship set in Jordan.cinema 6:30 & 8:30pm I Sat 4:15,6:15 & 8:15 1 Sun at 2:30,4:30 & 6:30
Call a sales rep today to advertise
your downtown business.
Alligator Advertising: 376.4482" Gator Gifts
" Gator Accessories
" Gator Stationery
" Pandora Jewelry
" Vera Bradley
Men-Sat 10AM- 7PM Sun 12PM-5PM
201 SE 2nd Place Suite 112
DowntownGainesville
352-376-3266'Delicious food
Snacks and Beer
Cuban Sandwiches, Plates,Pasbriesfee, and more!
Downtown Across from 8 sec,371-2000 next to ,urly Nellys
Where Food & Love Meet!
Downtown at 12 SE 21d Avenue
352-378-6307
tiamogainesville.com
Late Night DiningU)C
HUF Uiversity Ave.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2 and 3 bedrooms only $799
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 11-6-40-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
ROOM FOR RENT
Lg master suite in new home; 15 min to VA,
Shands & UF. NS, professional only. Util,
cable TV & wireless internet incl. $525/mo.
219-3410 11-3-09-20-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-2-09-15-1All Inclusive Canopy Apts-Only $465 mth.
Relet room in 4/4, Brand new, amazing ame-
nities, 1 mi from UF, www.canopyuf.com.
Call Marisa 352-359-1456 for more info. 11-
2-09-14-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1
DUPLEX EFFICIENCY Private entrance
1BR/1 BA, full kitchen, double stainless sink,
garbage disposal, microwave, ref/freezer,
Dish TV, covered patio, shed. Utils incl $475/
mo. Tower & Archer Rd. 352-372-6466 11-
3-5-1
Fully furnished Apartment, utilities included.
1/1 in a 3/3 on the second floor at the end of
the apt complex with no one next to the apt.
$435 a month. Best Deal!
Call Tim
(352)275-9083
10-30-09-3-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 11-13-09-10-1
WOODLANDS SPRING LEASE_1/1 in a 3/3
town house. Furnished. $565 a month(all
utilities/cable/internet included)Walkin closet,
bathroom, new appliances, washer/dryer
CALL 321-431-7955 10-30-09-1-1
3 blks from campus!! For rent 4/2. Each
room $400/mo. Includes utilities & Internet.
Beautiful pool & courtyard. A great place to
live in a great location. 813-690-8989. 11-
13-09-10-1
For FRentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 * www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now!!! 3/3 for $336/person.
Cable w/HBO and Showtime included!
Private Dog Park-Tanning-Fitness Center
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's -$659 * 3/2's -$799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$459, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
14 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
We have REAL 1/1s
Dump your roommate & save on gas!
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS one month FREE!
300 NW 18 Street
4 blocks to UF -GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450
1600 NW 4 Avenue
BIKE to UF -CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft big, only $450
1220 NW 12 Street
No application fee, most pets ok.Call
E.F.N. Properties, 352/371-3636 or email:
Rentals@EFNProperties.com
10-30-09-88-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
12, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
For Rent For Rent For RentiRoommates Roommatesunfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
10-30-09-66-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Pine Rush Villas 4117 SW 20th Ave
375-1519 1br/1lbth -$399 2br/1lbth $499
$100 AMEX Card On bus Route
*Reduced rates include 2 months free*
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Homestead Apts 3611 SW 34th St.
376-0828 *Archer Rd. Area"
2BR/1 Bth only $499 & 2BR/2Bth only $624
Reduced rates include 2 months free
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com*
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Gator Village Villlas 321 NW 21st Lane
372-3826 1 br/1 bth $472
NW Gainesville large floor plan * patio*
Limited Availability *
Near Downtown off 6th Street
Reduced rates includes 1 month free!
-applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com-
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Sunrise Villas 3010 SW 23rd Terr.
372-4835 1lbr/lbth from $408
Close to Campus/Shands and VA
*2 Month's Free included in special.
$100 AMEX Card
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com-
10-30-09-67-2
No Move-In Cost at any of the following
GREMCO Properties!! Available today!
Summer Place Villas 3316 SW 41st Pl.
373-2818 1br/1lbth $425 (*off SW 34th St.*)
Reduced rates include 2 months free
Near Main Postal Facility and Shopping!
*applications and additional information
available at www.gremco.com**
10-30-09-67-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA,
1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
mo Phone (352) 359-8311 11-2-09-20-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail now. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
Homes available for immediate occupancy!!
Lowpayments!
$49 Deposit!
Call today! 352-378-4411 10-30-09-17-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
11-5-09-20-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-9-
09-20-2
*@@WALK TO CLASS@@@
3 blocks to UF, near the Swamp. 3BR/1BA
house. $900/mo Andree Realty 375-2900
10-30-09-14-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
2BR/1.5BA, 1200 sq ft twnhse in heart of
Duckpond. W/D, great location, very quiet,
great for grad student or prof. 508 NE 4th
Ave. Avail. now. $750/mo. 352-379-4952
11-3-09-15-2
**STUDENTS** 1 bedroom apt in historic
building between UF & downtown. Walk or
bike everywhere. 116 NW 7th Terr. $485/
mth. Call 870-2760. Others available 11-
4-09-15-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-6-09-14-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010)
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th Ave
352-376-1619 352-373-4500
Regency Oaks South West Villas
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave
352-378-5766 352-336-9000
We Speak Spanish
11-20-09-20-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neighbor-
hood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood floors,
fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $900/mo. $30/
mo ontime discount. 773-407-1774. 11-19-
09-20-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES!Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750 per month. Call 317-5060
11-5-09-10-2
1/1 in 3/3 in Campus View Condos. 1235
SW 9th Road, 3rd floor unit. Newly built, w/d,
new appliances, Females only please. $515,
from January to July 31st. Can move in early.
Please call 727-776-7098. 11-6-10-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09-
15-2
FAMILY AREA WITH PETS, OK
Two Bd with Two Full Baths, new carpet, just
painted, new refrigerator. Fenced in back
yard, patio, and large W/D room plus stor-
age. Avail Nov 1st. $660. Only $50 Sec, with
reference. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-09-10-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f.
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com
11-18--09-15-2
3/2 Biven's Cove $824/mo
November Free
lots of amenities! rcromwell201@gmail.com
10-30-3-2
WALDO 1 Bedroom,1 bath duplex apt in
downtown Waldo. 20 mins to Gvlle. Newly
renovated, clean. $575 mo. 1st, last & se-
curity, references. (352) 378-2141 Lv msg.
11-3-09-5-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $695+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-17-14-2
Walk to UF 3BR/1 BA house, grandaddy oaks
fenced yard, cent H/AC, DW, W/D, scr back
porch, enclosed front porch for additional liv-
ing space. Completely redone, immaculate.
Pets ok. Avail now. $1050/mo 378-4684 11-
4-09-5-2
-subleass1 month free-Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-2-
10-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-4-
09-10-4
SPRING SEMESTER 2010.WALKING
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. Parkside 11 town-
house. Female roomate wanted for 1 bdr 1
ba $525.Sue 305-785-7733 10-30-09-5-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4
SWEET 2/1 HOUSE
Prive location, 708 NW 10th Ave. includes;
all Utl's, W/D, and Swimming pool. Avail Now
$440. Plus sec. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-
09-10-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.
Fenced back yard. 395/mo. Washer/dryer.
Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930 11-
2-09-5-4450/mo + utilities (negotiable). At the
house we have all modern working applianc-
es, a fenced-in backyard, a car overhang,
plenty of parking. Located close to shopping
centerss & 1 mile from the UF law.
Pet friendly. M/F O.K. Contact Josh at:
561.676.2662, jbarnhill@ufl.edu or Ben at:
bbabcock@ufl.edu
11-3-6-4
Female roommate wanted to share
3bed/1 bath house w/my 3yo daughter and
me. Residence is on bus route 8. Room is
unfurnished. Must be mature and like chil-
dren. No smoking, no drugs, no partying.
Back-ground check will be done. $200/mo,
plus half GRU bill. Call 352-214-4601. 10-
30-09-2-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
11-12-09-10-4
$350 FEMALE ONLY
1/2 of utilities, FREE WATER! 786-797-2778
mad05@ufl.edu 11-4-5-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
JULi,
495/month + util. Looking Glass Apts sub-
lease.Private Bedroom + Private Bath in 2/2.c
Washer/dryer included. NO move in fees, NO
deposits. No Pets. 2 mins to campus. Perfect
location! Share apt with great female room-
mate. Avail DEC, JAN or possibly sooner if
needed. Call 352-871-0162 10-30-09-6-3
Roommates Available from Commercial News Providers
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED S
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-6-09-15-4
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
_1_J Esat Real Estate Real Estat Real Estate 1 .1Furnishings
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Bank Owned Properties -Must Sell!
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
See ALL bank owned homes and condos @
www.allisonables.com/foreclosures
Allison Ables -Keller Williams Gainesville
11-2-38-5*@@WHY PAY RENT?@@@
Creekside Villas. 1BR/1BA condo. Only
$69,900. New kitchen, new paint, new floor,
new appliances. Fireplace, near Sam's Club.
Andree Realty 375-2900 10-30-09-14-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
1 br/1 ba by Regal Cinemas & UF
507 NW 39th Rd #126- Hawthorne Reserve
Condos. $60,000 short sale. Call Stacy at
Trevor Waters Realty 352-682-8530 11-2-
09-5-5
'0oGui
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
New Life Community
Chapel
International Day: Celebrating
Our Uniqueness
Sunday Oct. 18 : 10:30 AM to
NOON
International Dinner, guest speak-
ers and music
All are welcome, but space is
limited.
RSVP by Oct 15
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newliffcommunitychapel.org
phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Creekside Community
Church
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 1 0:30am
For more info email Mary at
madmadamoo@gmail.comChabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)I
-www.JewishGator.com
Unitarian Universalist
rISunday worship at 11 am
1930 NE Waldo Rd Gainesville
You may call 352-505-3005
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
Fellowship and much morel. (directions and
Imagine a religion embracing events calendar at
many different beliefs. including www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
yours. n
4225 NW 34th St. Faith Presbyterian Church
Info: 377-1669 or www.uufg.org 10am Worship -Lunch Following
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube 9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11 am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
located 104 NW 1 4th Street.
For full schedule of events visit
gatorwesley.com
Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
"Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
Universal Faith Ministries
Universal Faith Ministries Inc
invites you to our open session
Bible Teachings Tues at 7pm
Night of prayer Fri at 7pm andwww.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.1stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-1 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Caf6-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meets: 7th Day Adventist Church
2115 NW 39th Avenue
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 5:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-8127Major Land Auction -4,466 +/- Acres of-
fered in 26 tracts of 10 acres to 797 acres
each. Located in New River Gorge Area
of West Virginia. Timber -Recreation -
Investment -Hunting -Development. Auction
on November 14. Go to www.woltz.com to
see photos, property details, preview dates
and auction terms, or call (800)551-3588 for
a brochure. Jim Woltz (WV# 1000) Woltz
& Associates, Inc. Real Estate Brokers &
Auctioneers, Roanoke, VA. 10-30-1-5
4Br 2Ba Foreclosure! $11,500! Only $217/
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 3 Br
$199/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext 5798
10-30-1-5
NATIONWIDE ONLINE LAND AUCTION
400+ Props 1 168 Absolute ALL Starting
Bids: $100 REDC I VIEW FULL LISTINGS
www.Auction.com/land 10-30-1-5
FORECLOSED ONLINE HOME AUCTION
800+ Homes I BIDS OPEN 11/16 Open
House: 11/7, 14 & 15 View Full Listings &
Details Auction.com REDC I BrkrCQ1031187
10-30-1-5
LAND BARGAIN 21+ AC Only $89,900
Beautifully wooded acreage close to FL/GA
border. Enjoy end of road privacy! Perfect
for weekend getaway/ cabin in woods/ horse
farm. Possible subdivide. Excellentfinancing.
Call owner now (912)674-0320 10-30-1-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
-computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
C u0u l P IER
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
or Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
Did you know that with as little as $40 down
you can be riding a new quality bike today?
Schwinn Shop has the best selection of new
and used bikes. 1225 W University -2 doors
down from Leonardo's 374-2064 11-6-15-9
SFor Sale
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warranty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 col-
ors in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
10-30-1-10
OWN A COMPUTER, WORK FROM
ANYWHERE. Two Step Process. Request
Online Info, Review. Set-up phone interview.
$150OPT / $500OFT. Serious people ONLY!
Training provided: www.rjdglobal.com 10-
30-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 10-30-1-10* * *
14, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
E rycles, Mopeds Autos Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
*www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
2003 BMG Trailblazer Silverfox Scooter
2,323 miles; Red; 49cc; Single cylinder
Excellent Condition
$900 (includes title and helmet)
Contact (727)-793-4752 10-30-5-11
PINK & BLACK SCOOTER 2008
Only 8 miles on it! Electric
Inc charger. Exc cond. $700. 386-684-6153
11-4-09-5-11
WE EAutosI
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS 0
ORunning or not!0
ONEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
10-30-09-50-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
10-30-09-32-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PIK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
1999 Honda Civic $200! 2001 Nissan Altima
$350! 2003 VW Jetta $400! POLICE
IMPOUNDS! for listings call (800)366-9813
ext 9271 10-30-1-12
WJIWantedZ
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-6-09-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11 -
6-09-74-13
Help Needed
OVolunteers: to drive adult cats to Gville to
neuter/spay & return
OWorking Computer needed desperately.
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-13
STUDENT WANTED FOR CONSULT AND
PRODUCTION ADOBE PHOTOSHOP/
ILLUSTRATOR -HRS VARY WILL WORK
WITH YOUR SCHEDULE. 213-1219 10-30-
09-2-13BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14ASTUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
E ll HelpWanted iFinish the crossword over one
of our great daily lunch specials!
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made a A ESIPRSIRN
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising uc 1642W University Ave. 352.377.9267tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad- 14Www.swa prestaurant.COmvertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
the independent floridaalligator
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled stu-
dent, preferably in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work with
accounts receivables and accounts payables.
Other duties consist of manipulating Excel
spredsheets, answering phones, and gen-
eral office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please send resume, along
with a cover letter to: Business Office, The
Independent Florida Alligator PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Email: mbell@
alligator.org AND tcarey@alligator.org, or
Fax: 352-376-4556. No phone calls please.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14* 6 g 400 -ece 0
'.3m e
Copyrighted Materialp
9~ .o Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
-w
rwVI
IW
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
FHelp Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services Evntotices
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Bartender Openings.
Earn $250/day. No Exp req! Will train
PT/FT Call 305-929-8559 x850 11-3-09-
20-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
STUDENT WORK
GREAT PAY
Customer Sales/Service
Flex Sched, PT/FT Avail,
Work around classes,
conditions apply,
352-371-9675
11-12-09-20-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Full time NANNIES needed for Jan
one toddler $10/hr M-F OR 2 elem age $12/
hr M-F + E & wkds; grad students welcome;
exp req; Noahs Ark Nanny; send resume,
photo, short bio to gnv~nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
NANNY for 1.5 children ages 1 & 2.5
20 hrs/wk; 4hrs/day, variable am/pm
Noah's Ark Nanny: resume, photo,
class sched, bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
DAILY AFTER SCHOOL COACH NEEDED
M-F -forteenage boywith autism and learning
disabilities. Reliable transportation required.
Please mail resume/inquiry to smasgville@
gmail.com. 10-30-09-5-14
Campus Reps Wanted. $99 per referral
send namelocationemail to:
questions@kfun.tv 11-3-09-5-14DENTAL FRONT DESK
Scheduling & insurance billing for local den-
tal practice. Self-starter with experience.
Mon-Thurs. Fax resume 352-375-4268 11-
3-09-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT. PT
1-5 or 6pm, 15-20 hrs/wk. Proficient typ-
ing, Word, Excel, online surfing. $7.25/hr.
siva1950@yahoo.com 11-4-09-5-14
SERVERS
Evenings & weekends. Experienced & friend-
ly. Apply in person between 2-5. Napolatanos
606 NW 75th St. 11-4-09-5-14
Transcription/Office Asst
Must be pleasant, enjoy people & have expe-
rience; also admin. & grading psych tests.
Email res. info@villagecounselingcenter.net
11-12-09-10-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER -Join Our Team!
Unique long term opportunity. Full time
position with 100% employee owned Co.
Extensive training/benefits-health, 401K, etc.
Indesign, photoshop, MAC/PC experience
a must. Apply now, Renaissance Printing,
4130 NW 16th Blvd. Drug Test. 11-6-7-14
YARD WORK Mowing. Car detailing. Pool
maintenance. Back up shipping. Errands.
Miscellaneous duties. Must have a valid driv-
ers license and good driving record. Own ve-
hicle. Truck preferred. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 11-13-09-10-14
Veterinary Asst. -Exper. Preferred.
P/T or F/T hours. Must be avail. to work Mon.
& Fri. 7:30-6:00,& Sat 8:15-12:30. Fax or e-
mail resume to 352-373-7211 or
timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com 11-5-09-
5-14
RV delivery drivers needed. Deliver RVs,
boats and trucks for PAY! Deliver to all 48
states and Canada. For details log on to
www.RVdeliveryjobs.com 10-30-1-14
JUST GRADUATE?
TRAVEL-WORK-PARTY-PLAY
50 STATES. National co. now hiring 18+
sharp guys & gals to work & travel entire USA.
2wks PAID Training, transportation & lodging
furnished. PAID DAILY. Returns guaranteed.
Call Today Start Today (888)741-2190. 10-
30-1-14
THlE GIFT GUIDE
WINTER 2009
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to
more than 52,000 readers!
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
students, faculty and staff looking for
graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Deadline:
Friday, November 13
Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
3a2376t4482
Ilthe independent florida.111g POWANT HOME MOST WEEKENDS WITH
MORE PAY? Run Regional with Heartland
Express! Up to $.43/mile company drivers!
12 months OTR required. HEARTLAND
EXPRESS (800)441-4953 www.heartland-
express.com. 10-30-1-14
LF Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm:aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
www.Capturimage.com
photo & video studio and location shoots, for
parties, portraits, YouTube, etc. Thurs night
open after hours by appt. Halloween special.
Good rates, basic to deluxe.
10-30-8-15
Writing a paper? Send it to:
GETABETTERGRADE@gmail.com.
We'll check grammar-syntax.
Quick turnaround. Inexpensive. 11-10-09-
10-15
How's your Complexion?
My facials are custom tailored to your skin's
specific needs! New clients get 10% off!
Call Jennifer at COMPLEXIONS to make an
appointment! 352-225-6696
11-4-09-5-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout
Florida or choose from any state nationwide.
Put Us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.
national-classifieds.com, info@national-clas-
sifieds.com 10-30-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 10-30-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 10-30-1-15
F Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advisingIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Halloween Bash @ Kava Lounge
Every Sat Doors open @ 10pm-5am 18+
BYOB
Kava Lounge
1007 W University Ave Gainesville 10-30-
1-20
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
Coolest Homepage On The Internet- Free!
Videos, Games, News, Social Networking
Gateway- Free, REALLY! Cash Back Online
Shopping.
http://ppl.blastoffnetwork.com/Florida
10-30-6-21
WJZTickets
Buying FL vs GA Tix
Top $$ Paid- Local Pick-up. 1-877-596-1234
10-30-09-21-22
Need 7 tickets to UF/UGA
Call 904-755-1998 or email
ufugatix@vzw.blackberry.net. 10-30-09-2-
22WJL ideZ
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8- amN
38-16
WLZEs~nZsGMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Alachua County Health Dept. Call Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196*amii Clhirn rarctir'4 12-9-74-23
y pSince 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
WJICOnnetions
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
loveWEIPets
Furry, feathery, scaly .no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Help Needed -Rescue/Rehome
*Kittens: toms, wormed. litter trained
OSmall Dog: neutered, shots, housebroken
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-24
Sports
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Picks
Column
SITE: Jacksonville Municipal
Stadium (cap. 84,000)
KICKOFF: Saturday 3:30 p.m.
TV: CBS
We're eight weeks in, and it seems
the cream is already rising to the top.
We invited five "real" writers to partici-
pate in the alligatorSports Brand Picks
Column for the first time this fall, and
so far, the only thing they are "real"
good at seems to be losing. Four of the
top five places are held by alligator-
Sports guys with Phil Kegler being the
lone Alligator guy in the bottom five.
We're sure it'll only be a couple more
weeks before we bask in our complete
dominance. Anyway, now let's debate
a top-10 showdown that will likely de-
termine the Pacific-10 Conference.
USC WILL COVER THE -3 SPREAD BE-
CAUSE .the Trojans always do? Is that
too easy a solution? This is the game
where USC reminds everyone of its
dominance and all but clinches a share
of the conference title for the eighth
straight year. While Autzen Stadium
poses a tough test, Trojans freshman
quarterback Matt Barley has the ex-
perience of a fourth-quarter, go-ahead
drive against Ohio State earlier in the
season. This should be the best de-
fense the Ducks have faced this sea-
son since their season opener against
Boise State, and Oregon quarterback
Jeremiah Masoli had a whopping 135
total yards against the Broncos. This is
the week Kyle Maistri can stop quack-
ing and realize USC will be the confer-
ence winner yet again. -PHIL KEGLER
OREGON WILL WIN BECAUSE .The
Ducks are simply the class of the Pac-
10. For the second straight week, I'm sit-
ting here telling all of you out there that
Oregon will obviously cover the line, as
the Quack Attack will be too much for
the Trojans to contain in Eugene. DiFer
foolishly tried to argue for Washington
and his boy Jake Locker, but the Hus-
kies were trampled 43-19 by the Ducks,
who easily cleared the 10-point line. La-
Michael James is just the latest in a long
line of great LaInsertActualNameHere
SEE PICKS, PAGE 20Redshirt freshmen duo hungry for first title
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligator org
McKenzie Barney and Kat Williamson
know all about last year's Southeastern
Conference champions.
While the Gators were busy running
through every conference rival en route to
a perfect SEC record in 2008, Barney and
Williamson watched from the sidelines,
hobbled by knee injuries.
"When you're hurt as a freshman,
it's the toughest thing because
you're coming into an already-es-
tablished social group."
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach
Tonight at 6, as No. 10 Florida (13-4-
2, 7-1-2 SEC) hosts No. 13 South Carolina
(15-2-1, 7-2-1 SEC), the Gators will have a
chance to live up to the expectations set by
last year's team. With a win, UF -the team
picked in the preseason to take the confer-
ence -will have its fourth-straight SEC
title. As the Gators have scrapped back to
the top of the conference with five wins in
their last six games, the play of Barney and
Williamson has been pivotal.
Barney has scored five goals in SEC play
and was recently moved from midfielder to
starting forward while Williamson has been
a staple for the Gators' backline, starting ev-
ery game this season.
The two redshirt freshmen missed all ofSteven H. Keys/ Alligator
UF defender Kat Williamson tore her ACL in the fall of 2007 then damaged the patellar
tendon in her knee in April 2008.
their first year with ACL-related injuries.
"When you're hurt as a freshman, it's the
toughest thing because you're coming into
an already-established social group, and
then you're not really a part of it directly,"
coach Becky Burleigh said. "But I think both
(Barney) and Kat's personality lent them-
selves to being a big part of the team even
though they weren't playing."Barney's problems began as a senior at
Sammamish Skyline High in Washington.
While practicing with her team in Septem-
ber 2007, Barney made an awkward cut and
tore her left ACL.
Barney rehabbed and was healthy again
after six months, but on just the third day of
preseason practice last season, Barney went
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 18
This year's UF-UGA game won't be worth remembering
f you're a senior like me (I
would technically classify
myself as a redshirt junior,
but that's besides the point), and
you spent the last three Florida-
Georgia games getting wasted
at the Landing or in the parking
lot of Jacksonville Municipal Sta-
dium, I feel sorry for you.
For the life of me, I can't un-
derstand why "sports fans" insist
on being three sheets to the wind
-for UF-UGA, maybe seven or
eight sheets would be more accu-
rate -by the time they're ready
to watch their team play.
Call me crazy, but I like to
clearly understand what's going
on, especially during big games,
and sometimes even rememberwhat I watched/thought the next
day. I would count control of my
bladder as a plus as well, though
not totally necessary I suppose.
In my three years at college,
the Gators and Bulldogs have
squared off in some games I'm
glad I can remember.
My freshman year, Florida
was coming off the crippling Au-
burn loss, and it would be easy to
argue the 21-14 win over Georgia
served as the spring board for the
eventual national title.
In 2007, both teams came in
with two losses and absolutely
desperate to salvage their sea-
sons. UGA stomped in the end
zone on its way to a Sugar Bowl
berth, and the rest is history.Kyle Maistri
Kyle Points
kma istri@alligator org
other national title.Last sea-
son, a Flor-
ida team
out for re-
venge beat
the hang-
over out
of Georgia
fans on its
way to an-
Which brings me to Saturday.
Given all the great recent and
distant history between these two
Southeastern Conference pow-
erhouses, I strongly recommend
that anyone making the 90-min-
ute excursion to Jacksonville
really take the time to focus on
what's important this weekendand forget about any potential
distractions.
And just this once, I'm refer-
ring to the game when I say dis-
traction.
It's apparent from the unfa-
miliar lack of buildup throughout
the week that this isn't exactly the
Big -with a capital 'B' -game
that it has been in the past.
The Bulldogs are just an av-
erage SEC team this season, and
the Gators are playing some of
the most boringly successful
football in recent memory. If you
find defense "exciting," good for
you. I do, too. But who among us
wouldn't argue UF was far more
entertaining last season when it
SEE KYLE, PAGE 20
TEEING OFF WITH MIKE MCCALL
E Tatum Bell, running back/luggage-thief extraordinaire, says his Florida Tuskers
can beat the winless Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Tuskers are the class of the
UFL so far, but they should probably focus on sticking around for another season
first. .Speaking of the UFL, comments sent to its "contact us" e-mail address
are replied to with a message stating that unsolicited e-mails will be "deleted
without reading it." That's no way to treat your fan.alfigatOrSports.org
E The undefeated UF men's and
women's swimming and diving
teams host Georgia on Friday in
the Gators' first home meet of the
season. Check out our Web site.alligatorSports Ptddast
U Kyle Maistri and Phil "Kegs" Kegler join
host Adam Berry to preview the UF-UGA
game. The trio waxes poetic on a litany of
subjects ranging from the Heisman to jorts
and Crocs. Check it out on iTunes.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 17
jigI
L1 4'rI
18, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
UF WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
Gators vie for first SEC title since '97
By JESSICA ETTER
Alligator Writer
It has been 12 years since the wom-
en's cross country team has won a
Southeastern Conference title.
"They put enough pressure on
themselves," coach Todd Morgan said.
"They know SEC titles are never easy to
win and so it is going to be a fight, but
they are ready for it this weekend."
The No. 5 women's team was a pre-
season favorite to win the conference
title, and now the Gators will have a
chance to make good on that projec-
tion as they travel to Oxford, Miss., to
compete in the SEC Championship on
Saturday.
After finishing two runners in the
top 10 at the Pre-NCAA Invitational on
Oct. 17 and finishing in second place at
the meet, the Gators realize the goalsthey set out at the beginning of the sea-
son can be accomplished.
Morgan prohibited his players from
talking to the media this week in an ef-
fort to keep them away from the hype
and focused on the
task at hand.
The runners are
-focused on the SEC
* f Championship on
Saturday as well as
the South Regional
/3 meet on Nov. 14 and
Morgan the NCAA Champi-
onships on Nov. 23,
Morgan said.
The team finished second at the
2008 SEC Championship but want to
place higher than that this season with
the addition of three new runners.
Graduate student Stacey Johnson,
whose eighth-place finish at the Pre-
NCAA meet was the best on the team,will run in her first SEC Championship
meet, along with freshmen Sydney De-
vore and Mandy Perkins.
"Most of our girls are running the
best they have ever run," Morgan said.
"We have several that could be our first
girl across the line on any given day.
There is a lot of talent on that roster."
Although the women's team has
many talented athletes, Morgan said
Arkansas and Tennessee are two teams
that are capable of winning the race on
Saturday.
Arkansas, who was the only other
team to receive first-place votes in the
SEC Cross Country Coaches' Poll, was
projected to finish in second while Ten-
nessee came in third during the pre-
season poll.
The Gators will have a week off af-
ter the SEC Championship before the
NCAA South Regional meet in Tusca-
loosa, Ala.
Williamson, Barney rehabbed injuries together
SOCCER, from page 16
for a header along with three other players.
"Knees were everywhere, elbows were everywhere,"
Barney said. "Someone's leg knocked my knee or some-
thing, and I thought I heard the famous 'pop' in the air."
This time, Barney tore her right ACL.
Williamson also tore her ACL in the fall of 2007, but she
did not allow her ligament to fully heal. She tried to prac-
tice again three months after the tear, and she damaged
her patellar tendon in the same knee in April of 2008.
Williamson did not have surgery on her knee for an-
other three months, as local doctors failed to diagnose her
injury.
"It was extremely difficult not knowing what was
wrong and how to fix it," she said.
Once they finally got their respective surgeries last
year, Barney's and Williamson's time was almost entirely
dedicated to getting back on the field.
They would wake up, go to therapy, go to class, go
back to therapy, do special workouts at practice, go back
to therapy again, sleep and repeat."Kat and McKenzie are workhorses, and they want to
get back and they want to play," trainer Emily Kiefer said.
"Motivation for them is not an issue."
Kiefer said the only thing holding the players back
was time. Williamson's less-severe injury required three
months to heal while Barney's demanded six months.
As they sat on the sidelines, Barney and Williamson
were told by Burleigh to watch specific players. During
the games, they would hear the coaches'
comments about mistakes made by their
healthy teammates.
"Me and Kat learned so much last yearSoccer from watching, and I think it really trans-
ferred over to this year," Barney said.
After all the time spent on the sideline, keeping their
weight off their weakened knees, Barney and Williamson
have learned how to appreciate life on the field.
"I feel so fortunate to actually be actively part of this
team, because I felt like so long I was just verbally con-
tributing instead of physically having my presence out
there," Williamson said. "It's a great experience. I love it.
I love every minute out there."
/ iv/rsi Brr -PEACHA VALLEYI C.- A -F -ECaptain Morgan 1.75L.$19.99 BREAKFAST -LUNCH DINNER Sister restaurant of
and GETTWO LITERCOKE fora Penny Stonewood Grill &Tavern
-Breakfast, lunch, and dinner30 Pack Light eer@$11.99 served anytime
University Ave. & 34th -Full menu take out
-Catering
S AFETY BELTS. 3275 Sw 34th St. (Behind Hooters) "Experience The Freshness"
SMART FROM TNE START (352) 376-1834 Open Daily 7am-8pm
Getting the degree.
Now get the SMILE you want to go
with it and make a great first impression.
It's never bee asiert
invisalin?appas & Tapley
Orthodontics
ecialists in Orthodontics
invisalign
Call today for a complimentary evaluation 332-7466 or visit www.ptorthodontics.comkckoff EDTZONS.
Reach your Target Market before the game!
15% DISCOUNT 15% DISCOUNTForany ON ADVERTISMENTS RU Nadvertisement IN 5 OUT OF 7 EDITIONSthat runs prior to DEADLINE FOR SIPE A1LKikf dton and OFFER:ispicked up) (no WED, NOV4,200
ch anges . NOD OHERD 0ICO N
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
olrpotos! opponent features!
team rosters! gator features!
and much more!
October 30
November 6
November 13
November 20
November 25
December 4
allig'at orGeorgia
Vanderbilt
Men's Basketball Tipoff
Florida International
Florida State
SEC Championship*Deadline: October 28
Deadline: November 4
Deadline: November 10
Deadline: November 18
Deadline: November 23
Deadline: December 2
to place your ad, call 352-376-4482ESPN/USA Today
Coaches Preseason
Basketball Poll
1. Kansas (27 first-place votes)
2. Michigan State (3)
3. Texas
4. North Carolina (1)
5. Kentucky
6. Villanova
7.Purdue
8. Duke
9. West Virginia
10. Butler
11. Tennessee
12. California
13. Washington
14. UConn
15. Michigan
16. Oklahoma
17. Ohio State
18. Minnesota
19. Mississippi State
20. Georgia Tech
21. Georgetown
22. Dayton
23. Louisville
24. Clemson
25. Syracuse
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Class of '12 to lead UF on road
* THE TEAM WILL FACE UA
AND MSU THIS WEEKEND.
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Writer
achiang@alligator org
After 18 years of conference
dominance, coach Mary Wise
has seen many successful grad-
uating classes pass through
Florida.
Perhaps none of them ac-
complished as much in their
first two years as these sopho-
mores.
The class includes setter
Kelly Murphy, middle blocker
Cassandra Anderson and out-
side hitters Kristy Jaeckel and
Colleen Ward -all of whom
have started every match this
season.
They will lead No. 10 UF
(16-3, 10-2 Southeastern Con-
ference) as it heads to Tusca-
loosa to face Alabama (6-16, 4-8
SEC) at 8 p.m. before traveling
to Starkville to take on Missis-
sippi State (5-18, 1-11 SEC) on
Sunday.
This is not their first go-
around. The sophomores now
know what to expect from life
on the road in the SEC.
"It was kind of trial by fire a
year ago, but what a difference
a year makes," Wise said. "You
can talk about what it's like to
play at Alabama or Mississippi
State, but they have alreadybeen there now. We aren't
spending any extra time on do-
ing those types of things."
The four sophomores are al-
ready on their way to becoming
the faces of the program this
season as Anderson leads the
team in blocks; Ward has the
most kills; Jaeckel is second on
the team in digs; and Murphy
has the most triple-doubles, the
most assists and the highest
hitting percentage.
"The youth of our team
is something we can use
as an advantage, but it's
also something we also
can't use as an excuse."
Kristy Jaeckel
UF sophomore outside hitter
"I think we've definitely
grown a lot," Jaeckel said. "It's
hard sometimes to make the ad-
justment at first between high
school and college because the
speed of the game is just com-
pletely different."
But it's not like they didn't
have an impact in their fresh-
man year either.
Murphy, Jaeckel and Ward
were all named to the SEC All-
Freshman Team, and the trio
finished atop UF's total kills
list last season.
The sophomore class made
history in 2008 as Murphy be-
came the first player in schoolhistory to win the AVCA Na-
tional Freshman of the Year.
She also broke the school re-
cord for most triple-doubles in
a career in her first season with
six and now has five more to
add to that total with another
nine matches remaining in her
sophomore season.
"I think it's just really excit-
ing." Jaeckel said. "The youth
of our team is something we
can use as an advantage, but
it's also something we also
can't use as an excuse.
The fourth member of the
group was quietly impressive
in her freshman season as well.
Anderson has led the Gators in
blocks ever since she first set
foot on campus while also be-
coming one of just seven fresh-
men in school history to aver-
age more than one block per
set.
"Cassandra is one of those
players who may go under the
radar of our fans or the media,
but she is at the top of our list
because she leads us in block-
ing," Wise said. "We under-
stand that the only chance we
have of making a run in the
NCAAs is with blocking."
But all of these accomplish-
ments and records don't mean
anything to the sophomores.
Their primary focus is on help-
ing this program do something
it has never done before -win
a national championship.
TONIGHT VS. SOUTH CAROLINA
@ 6 PM
*THE FIRST 1,000 FANS AT TH-E MATCH WILL
RECEIVE A FREE T-SHIRT!
* THE FIRST 2 50 UF STUDENTS WITH A VALIP CATORI
WILL RECEIVE FREE PIZZA AT HALFTIME!
m m b -h , -ndal ay '"'T.' -d ma dVern70nwireless
James G. Pressly Stadium
Admission is FREE!$23 Student Special
(includes golf cart)
Valid: Mon-Thurs (All Day)
Fri-Sun (After 11am)
Not Valid Friday 9/11 & 9/18
IRONWGDD
Call 334-3120 For Your Tee Time Today
2100 NE 39th AvenueDyslexia
-Slow Reading?
-Poor Comprehension?
-Poor Spelling?
Years of gain inweeks of treatment!
Serving Gainesvillefor over 22 years.
The Morris Center, Inc.
352.332.2629 15930 SW Archer Rd
info@morriscenters.com
E m -WOutside hitter Kristy Jaeckel is one of four second-year players who have
started every game for UF this season.
Short of Cash? Donate Plasma! Thousands do.
DCI Biologicals 150 N.W. 6th St Gainesville (352) 378-9204
"Where It Pays to Care"
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
PICKS, from page 16
Oregon running backs, as the freshman has rushed for 657
yards and six touchdowns in his last five games. Plus, Phil Keg-
ler went a pathetic 3-7 last week against the lines while I posted
a less-than-modest 9-1 mark. The better man will surely win
this one yet again, just ask DiFer. -KYLE MAISTRI
On to the picks!
Leaping to the top and ending Mike DiFerdinando's reign
with a 44-35 record is Kyle "The Tuskers are the best profes-
sional sports team" Maistri, who will be heading to St. Pete
tonight to catch a UFL game. That's certainly an improvement
over his normal Friday night routine of watching Sex and the
City reruns in a pink Snuggie before crying himself to sleep.
Also moving ahead of DiFer in second place with a 43-36
record is Bobby "I currently cover Gator gymnastics" Callovi,
who hasn't updated his Facebook employment in a year and
half. He lists Tamagotchi, Pokemon and Beanie Babies under
his interests and nap time, recess and "going potty" under his
activities.
Falling to third at 42-37 after ending his hopes for a wire-
to-wire title is Mike "This is just like that movie with the fog"
DiFerdinando, who woke up in the middle of the night in a cold
sweat, soaked in his own urine after having to drive through alight fog on our trip to Starkville.
Checking in at fourth at 41-38 is Mike "It's playoff time!"
McCall, who was more interested in the start of the MLS play-
offs than the beginning of the World Series.
Rounding out the top five and taking the top non-Alligator
spot at 40-39 is the Gainesville Sun's Ed "Isn't my 70s basket-
ball player costume hilarious?" Aschoff, who is way to excited
to slip into a pair of John Stockton-esque shorts. At least there
won't be any mini-Eds after the irreparable damage he is sure
to do.
Beginning a two-way tie for sixth at 37-42 is the Florida
Times-Union's Mike "Brandon James could eat peanuts off my
head" DiRocco, who was used as a body double for Gimli in all
three Lord of the Rings movies.
Also in sixth at 37-42 is Phil "What's the game tonight?"
Kegler, who inexplicably garners respect for his opinions on
the latest sports lines. Picture Rain Man, without the aptitude
for correctness.
Sitting in eighth at 36-43 is the Orlando Sentinel's Jeremy
"My Giant" Fowler, who plays the Gheorghe Muresan to Bob-
by Callovi's Danny DeVito when they sit next to each other at
football games.
Falling in at ninth at 31-48 is the Miami Herald's Joe "Tus-
caloosa is due west of Starkville" Goodman, who grew up in
Alabama, where he never learned Geography. He did betterthan most Alabamians, as he's only had sex with one of his sec-
ond cousins.
Sitting in dead-last place with a dreadful 27-53 record is
the Palm Beach Post's Ben "Paparazzi" Volin, who was happy
to pass around his phone this week showing off pictures he
snapped of scantily clad girls at a downtown lingerie party.
How do you spell creeper? V-O-L-I-N.
MSST (+3 5) at UK
SC (+6) at TENN
UT (-9) at OKST
USC (-3) at ORE
KAN (+6 5) at TTU
UM (-75) at WF
MISS (-4) at AU B
RUTG (+7 5) at CONN
WVU (-3) at USF
UGA (+15) at U F
MSST (+3 5) at UK
SC (+6) at TENN
UT (-9) at OKST
USC (-3) at ORE
RAN (+6 5) at TTU
UM (-7 5) at WE
MISS (-4) at AUB
RUTG (+7 5) at CONN
WVU (-3) at USF
U GA (+15) at UIFKM
UK
SC
UT
ORE
KAN
UM
M ISS
RUTG
WVU
UF
MDR
MSST
SC
OKST
ORE
TTU
U M
AUB
CONN
WVU
UGABC
UK
SC
UT
ORE
KAN
U M
M ISS
RUTG
WVU
UF
PK
UK
SC
UT
USC
TTU
U M
MISS
RUTG
WVU
UIFMDF
MSST
TENN
UT
USC
KAN
U M
AUB
CONN
WVU
UF
JF
MSST
TENN
UT
USC
RAN
U M
MISS
CONN
WVU
UGAMM
UK
SC
UT
USC
KAN
U M
M ISS
CONN
WVU
UF
Jo
UK
TENN
OKST
ORE
TTU
WEF
MISS
RUTG
WVU
UIFEA
UK
SC
UT
USC
KAN
U M
M ISS
CONN
WVU
UF
BV
MSST
TENN
UT
ORE
TTU
U M
MISS
CONN
WVU
UGA
KYLE, from page 16
was hanging 40-plus on the reg?
I have no reason to believe this game
won't look a lot like last week's Missis-
sippi State matchup -minus the pick-
sixes -so just this one time, I find it
acceptable for fans to make cornhole the
main athletic event in their itinerary Sat-
urday.
Cross the bridge, show up early, grill
out and throw back a few cold ones with
84,000 of your closest friends because theenvironment might just be the most re-
deeming quality of this year's 87th edi-
tion of the rivalry.
There probably won't be any danc-
ing in the end zone after a score or
fourth quarter timeouts to rub salt in the
wounds of a 49-10 loss. (Do yourself a fa-
vor: load up the YouTube clip and keep
an eye on No. 72 in Red and Black. Big
man gets down.)
There probably won't be any fire-which is why I will leave you with some-
thing from my youth.
I distinctly remember going to a
spring training baseball game with my
dad at beautiful Roger Dean Stadium in
Jupiter, sitting in the bleachers on a hot
summer day.
A charismatic beer vendor walked by
our section and gave us a classic sales
pitch: "Buy a beer! Your friend looks bet-
ter blurred!"
works at all. I suspect the same will be true Sat-
We're all getting ready to sleepwalk urday for our old friend -the Florida-
through another ugly 10-point win, Georgia game.
statistical breakdown
UF
35.3
10.1
198.7
258.3
135
94.6
40/87 (46%)
23/98 (23%)
28/35 (46%)
10/13 (23%)
-1Points Per Game
Points Allowed Per Game
Passing Yards Per Game
Rushing Yards Per Game
Passing Yards Allowed Per Game
Rushing Yards Allowed Per Game
3rd Down Conversions
3rd Down Defense
Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %)
Red Zone Defense (TD%)
Turnover MarginGEORGIA
27
27.7
226.7
108
238.3
127.3
37/94 (39%)
32/99 (32%)
16/17 (53%)
22/25 (48%)
-11INJURY
R EPOR T
-QUESTIONABLE
CB Chad Gloer (hamstring)
DE Kiante Tripp (shoulder)
CB Vance Cuff (suspension)
FB Shaun Chapas (neck)
LB Marcus Dowtin (finger)
LB Akeem Dent (hamstring)
-INJURY
REPORT
OUT
DT Brandon Antwine (shoulder)
DT Justin Trattou (shoulder)
LB Jelani Jenkins (ankle)
WR Carl Moore (back)
CB Jeremy Brown (back)
CB Moses Jenkins (concussion)
CB Wondy Pierre-Louis (hamstring)
DOUBTFUL =
S Dorian Munroe (knee)
QUESTIONABLE
LB Brandon Spikes (groin)
'PROBABLE
DT Lawrence Marsh (ankle)
DT Jaye Howard (knee)
RB Jeff Demps (neck)
Bring in this coupon to receive a
FREE MEAL with the purchase of
any breakfast, lunch or dinner meal.
Monday thru Wednesday
M nday, Noveber 2 thru W dneday, Noveber 4, 2009
Open daily from 7 am -1o pm,
Fridays & Saturdays until 3 am
'14 SW 34th St, Gainesvil,, FL 32607
(352) 376-70200
24, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2009
Copyrightdd
Syndicated
Available from CommerciMaterial
Content
:ial News Providers
ii
Save on great tailgating items each week, only at your neighborhood Publix.
For you, the tailgate party is the truest measure of your Gatorso pride. The bigger, juicier, and tastier
the food, the more instinctive your allegiance. At Pubix, we get that. That's why we have everything
you need for game day, all in one place. We call it The Ultimate Tailgate Party. You get in, get what
you need, and ultimately, Rule the Lot. Pub lix
Proud Sponsor of the University of Florida Gators®Publix Ham J599
Ringleader 
.
Without Garnish, Braided Egg Bread
Stacked With Ham, Dressed With
Lettuce, Cheese, and Tomatoes,
Serves 8 to 10, each
SAVE UP TO 4.00
low
Publix FOR
Tortilla Chips. 400
Assorted Varieties, 9-oz bag
(Excluding Publix GreenWise
Market Chips.)
SAVE UP TO 1.18 ON 2 FCookie Bites, 14-Count339
Assorted Varieties, Bite Size Treats,
Many h avors to Choose -rom or Choose a
Mixed Package, From the Publix Bakery,
8-oz pkg.
SAVE UP TO .40
Rotel
Diced Tomatoes.
Assorted Varieties, 10-oz car
SAVE UP TO 1.95 ON 5r500
Gold Peak J0
Tea FOR U)
Assorted Varieties, 16.9-oz bot.
SURPRISINGLY LOW PRICE
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA vs. GEORGIA
Saturday, October 31, 2009
Prices effective Thursday, October 29 through Wednesday, November 4, 2009.
Visit theultimatetailgateparty.com for your next play.
