the independent floridaaiiueMiga to
G u id e Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published b Campus Comm ato I of Gaiesve Forda
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 52 We Inform. You Decide.SRey8
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009
Friends remember grad as animal lover
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
kbein@alligator org
Charles Roop met his long-time
girlfriend, Erin Pelton, when they
were lab partners in chemistryclass.
"When people asked how we
met we would joke that 'we just
had chemistry,"' he said.
She was an animal lover, and
the couple had a dog and three cats
together. Pelton, 24, graduated lastyear from UF with a degree in ani-
mal biology.
Local Roop said she had
N ewS been working most
recently on getting
into veterinary school to pursue
her dream of working in a mixedclinic with both small and large day night when Pelton was hit by
animals. a car on Archer Road.
"She was a very strong person Pelton had just gotten off an RTS
-smart, nice, trustworthy," Roop bus and was crossing at the back of
said. "She loved what she did." a group of other pedestrians when
Pelton and Roop's 4 1/2-year she was hit, said Gainesville Police
relationship ended abruptly Mon- SEE PELTON, PAGE 8
ON CAMPUS
UF to give swine flu
vaccine to 800 students
UF's Student Health Care Center will
start vaccinating hundreds of students
against the novel HINI flu, also known
as swine flu, today at 8:30 a.m.
The center received 800 doses of the
vaccine for students Monday afternoon
and hopes to administer them all today.
Students who made appointments
online will be seen from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30
p.m. and given one spray of the vaccine in
each nostril.
As of about 8:45 p.m. Tuesday, all the
appointments were filled.
Kat Lindsey, marketing coordinator
for the health care center, said she expect-
ed all the slots to be filled up by the end of
Tuesday night.
If any doses of the vaccine are still
available at the end of today, they willlikely be administered another day, Lind-
sey said.
She said students will be asked to sub-
mit their completed medical questionnaire
and sign in on the front lawn of the infir-
mary before their appointments today.
Because of the large number of people
being seen in such a short period of time,
the University Police Department will be
on hand in case there are any problems,
she said.
In addition to the 800 doses designated
for students, UF was given another 200
doses for caretakers of children 6 months
or younger.
Appointments can be made over the
phone for students, faculty or staff who
qualify, Lindsey said.
-THOMASSTEWART
College of Engineering
receives $3M grant
U GRANT WILL FUND COMPUTER the third floor of the Computer and Infor-
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING. mation Sciences building, which houses
the engineering college, to make way for
UF's College of Engineering announced the Harris Gateway to Learning and Inno-
Tuesday it will receive a $3 million dona- vation.
tinfrom Harris Corporation, a communi- ofThe renovation will begin in the springtion a d isforpation a com -of 2010, according to the release.nations and information technology com- The donation isn't the first one from the
pany based in Melbourne. Harris Corporation to UF.The money will be used to set up an en- In 2005, the company donated just overdowment to fund research projects in the $1 million to fund professorships in the en-field of computer science and engineering, gineering college.according tosa f news could fund in- It also funded the creation of an endow-
clude mobile communications, high-per- ment for graduate student fellowships in
formance computing and the way informa- The company employs about 850 UF
tion is stored and used in the health care graduates, according to a UF news release.
fields, the release states. -T H a STew aRT
A lt 4 -THOMASSTEWART
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersToday
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 17 Partly
CROSSWORD 20 cloudy
SPORTS 22 81/56
visit www.alligator.orgAndres G. Farfan / Alligator
Snazzy Shoes
UF student Amanda Aschenbrenner paints a new pair of TOMS Shoes at the
Reitz Union Colonnade on Tuesday afternoon. About 40 pairs were sold. For
every pair of shoes sold, the company donates a pair to a child in need. See
story, page 5.
0 Defensive ends
Jermaine Cunning-
ham (right) and
Carlos Dunlap
started slow but
have combined
for six sacks in the
last two games. UF
has 23 sacks on
the season.
See Story, Page 22.sa resu o eg I w rnve
2, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
News Today
Bone Marrow Donor Drive
Today, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Reitz Union Ballroom
UF and Alpha Epsilon Delta will
be holding a drive to register bone
marrow donors. Registration
involves only a cheek swab, no
needles. Help the group save leu-
kemia patients.
Exchange Study Abroad Fair
Today, 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Stuzin Hall, Room 200
International Exchange business
students will be hosting booths to
represent their exchange univer-
sity and country. This social pro-
vides an opportunity for UF and
exchange students to meet, talk
about their country/university,
learn about study abroad options
and exchange contact informa-
tion. Please contact international.
business@cba.ufl.edu with any
questions.
AmericanInstitute of Aeronautics
Graduate School Workshop
Today, 6:15 p.m.
Florida Gym, Room 260
This workshop will feature Dr.
Peter Ifju, who will talk about his
research on Micro Air Vehicles
and Unmanned Air Vehicles.
New and returning members are
always welcome, and free pizza
(catered by Gumby's Pizza) and
drinks will be offered.
Golden Key General Meeting
Today, 6:45 p.m.
This is the last general meeting
before the induction ceremony, so
come out to learn why Golden Key
is the world's most prestigious
honor society. Come learn about
our service and charity projects
with free pizza and soda. Please
send an e-mail to aagazarm@ufl.
edu if you have any questions.
UF MEISA Meeting
Today, 6 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Want to learn more about the mu-
sic industry while meeting other
musicians? Come to the sixthmeet-
ing of the Music Entertainment
Industry Student Association
(MEISA). The group will be hand-
ing out the first issue of the MEISA
PICKS Newsletter, finalizing the
benefit show and brainstorming
for our radio show.
IRHA's Urban Art Gallery
Today, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.TODAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/56THURSDAY
SUNNY
78/49
Graham Gallery (Second floor of
Graham Hall)
IRHA is hosting its urban art
gallery open reception featur-
ing graffiti, stenciling, spoken
word, break dancing, beat box-
ing, hip-hop dance and freestyle
hip-hop by artists from around
the state. For more information,
contact IRHAArtGallery2010@
gmail.com
African Student Union
Pageant
Thursday, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
There will be lots of free food,
so don't miss out. Penny voting
for each contestant will last until
Nov. 5.
Got an event?
And want to post it in this
space? Send an e-mail to bkel-
ley@alligator.org with "What's
Happening" in the subject line.
Please include a one- to two-
sentence synopsis of the event.
Make sure all submissions are
formatted properly.
SG president receives oar
trophy for UF football win
UF students walked away
with more than just a win af-
ter Saturday's game. They also
got a 10-foot oar carved from a
1,000-year-old cypress tree.
Student Body President Jor-
dan Johnson was presented with
the Okefenokee Oar after the
game. The oar represents a new
trophy presented to the winner
of the UF-Georgia game.
"It was so much more than
just being able to win a special
game," Johnson said. "It was the
start of a tradition."
The oar references a rivalry
that precedes the battle on the
football field. SG Press Secretary
Eric Conrad said it symbolizes
the historic conflict between UF
and Georgia that occurred when
the state boundary line was
drawn through Okefenokee.
Johnson said he is takingFRIDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/52SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/56SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/63
suggestions from students about
where to put the oar. Some sug-
gestions have included a case in
the Reitz Union, the Swamp Res-
taurant and Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium.
"But one thing's for sure,"
Johnson said. "It's not going into
my office because it won't fit."
-CAROLYN TILLO
Housing fair helps students
find apartments, houses
Students can explore housing
options during the off-campus
housing fair today from 10 a.m. to
2 p.m. at the Reitz Union Colon-
nade.
Ani Sanchez, cabinet director
for housing affairs, said the fair
will include information from
35 to 40 complexes and compa-
nies, including local apartments,
condos, apartment management
companies and real estate com-
panies.
Sanchez said students can ask
questions about leasing, the com-
mute to campus, apartment ame-
nities and parking.
She said the fair also helps stu-
dents by bringing together all of
the representatives in one loca-
tion.
"Instead of driving to every
different apartment complex and
sitting there and speaking with
them, it's fast and convenient,"
Sanchez said.
Apartment and condo repre-
sentatives will pass out brochures
with leasing information. They
will also give out T-shirts, candy
and prizes ranging from iPods to
school supplies.
-CAROLYN TILLO
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.a the independent florida
NotoficiallyrVOLUME 103 ISSUE 52 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Flonda
N EWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligatororg
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSI NESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncThe Alligator has sales intern positions available for
the Spring semesters.You will receive classroom
training, firsthand sales experience, and an
opportunity to improve your communication skills.
This resume builder offers a flexible schedule with
a minimum of 10 hours per week.
ah e i " r
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
LOCAL
City gives $50K to shelters
By GAIA BONINI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Warmed by a thin insulation of news-
paper on a bed of cardboard, huddled be-
neath old coats and torn blankets, curled
up on icy sidewalks. Too cold to move, but
nowhere to go anyway.
This is winter for the homeless.
There are nearly 1,600 homeless people
in Gainesville -more than a quarter of
whom are under the age of 18 -and only
about 350 shelter beds, according to Proj-
ect Grace, the city's 10-year plan to end
homelessness in Gainesville.
But the City of Gainesville and Alachua
County have each given $25,000 to the
Cold Night Shelter Program, which funds
temporary extra shelter for the homeless
when the weather is 45 degrees and below
from December to March.
The combined $50,000 will be divided
among local organizations that already
care for the homeless. Organizations like
St. Francis House and the Alachua County
Housing Authority can apply for funding
until Nov. 16.
Any nonprofit organization that can ac-
commodate homeless people is eligible for
the funding, said Teresa Osoba, Gaines-
ville's housing and development supervi-
sor.
Kent Vann, executive director of St.
Francis House, said in the event of a freeze
warning, he will never deny someone in
need."Everyone deserves a place to go on a
cold night without being turned away,"
he said.
Vann is applying for funding from the
program for the third year in a row. He
has never been denied.
This year, he said, he hopes to get
enough money from the program for 60
more cots.
"Everyone deserves a place to
go on a cold night without being
turned away."
Kevin Vann
executive director of St. Francis House
Any extra funding would go to blan-
kets, food and overhead costs like heat-
ing.
St. Francis House houses about 35 resi-
dents at a time but can support an addi-
tional 100 if necessary, said Vann.
Vann said on a typical night below 45
degrees, about 60 extra people come to the
house. They sleep on cots inside and are
given blankets and food during their stay.
He said college towns with sky-high
rent for even substandard housing are not
good places to live without money.
The Alachua County Coalition for the
Hungry and Homeless said on its Web
site, "It is sadly ironic that there are peo-
ple sleeping on the streets, in woods and
in parking lots amid a sea of 'for rent'
signs."SFC rejects smoking ban
* SMOKING IS PERMITTED IN
DESIGNATED 'SMOKING HUTS.'
By JENNIFER BATE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Santa Fe College opted not to follow
UF's lead by banning smoking on cam-
pus.
SFC's College Senate voted 17-9
against a campus-wide ban during its
general meeting Tuesday.
Santa Fe College President Jackson
Sasser said he would not enforce the
ban unless the Career Services, College
Senate and Student Senate are in all in
favor the ban. The College Senate is
composed of SFC faculty members, un-
like the Student Senate, which voted to
oppose the ban last week.
However, all three groups agreed
that smoking is a problem at Santa Fe
and that regulations must be tightened
so people don't abuse the privilege.
Some students voiced concerns that
that the ban would push all smokers to
parking lots, where accidents would be
more likely to occur. Currently, smok-
ing is permitted in designated "smok-ing huts" and in areas away from build-
ings.
Student Senate Internal Affairs Di-
rector and Health Science Senator Eric
Florestan addressed the College Sen-
ate before the vote. He reminded the
College Senate that the Student Senate
voted against the ban 42-10 and pointed
out that the current rules are not en-
forced well.
Florestan said the Student Senate
would be reviewing the current situa-
tion to better enforce existing regula-
tions and expressed interest in working
with the College Senate in lieu of a ban.
Many faculty members said they felt
that it was better to try to enforce cur-
rent smoking restrictions before estab-
lishing a ban.
While the ban did not pass, members
of the College Senate did pass a motion
to establish a committee to re-evaluate
smoking areas and make recommenda-
tions for changes, research the conse-
quences of a campus-wide smoking ban
and work with student government to
better enforce current restrictions.
For more information and reactions
about the voting and smoking ban, visit
Alligator.org.
Support the Red
Cross Services to
Armed Forces and
change a life,
starting with your
own.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS
L - or visit redcross.org
Jessica is there for Tom's That way, Tom can be there
wife and kids. for our country.+American
Red Cross
Attention
Advertisers
The Alligator will not be publishing
Wednesday, November 11
due to the Veteran's Day Holiday.
The DEADLINE for Thursday, November 12
is Monday, November 9 at 4 p.m
The DEADLINE for Friday, November 13
is Tuesday, November 10 at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and
Classified advertising.
Display: 376-448-2
Classifieds: 373-3463
4, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
Senators, students discuss controversial UN report
Unite Party Sen. Jesse Sherman speaks to the Student Senate about an upcoming
resolution concerning the Goldstone Report in the Reitz Union Tuesday night.* A RESOLUTION OPPOSING THE
REPORT WILL BE PRESENTED SOON.
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
The Senate chambers were a bit more
crowded than usual Tuesday night when about
30 students stuffed into rows and crowded the
aisles to discuss an upcoming resolution re-
garding a report on last winter's Gaza conflict.
The resolution, which will be heard by the
Student Senate in the upcoming weeks, sup-
ports the state of Israel and denounces the
Goldstone report, a UN report accusing Israel
and Hamas of war crimes during Israel's con-
flict with Palestine.
The U.S. House of Representatives approved
a resolution Tuesday night that denounced the
Goldstone report because of its bias.
A resolution is a piece of legislation that
states the opinion of the Senate or the House,
but does not take any action.
Husam Wahdan, the president of Students
for Justice in Palestine, said he opposed the
resolution because it did not represent an issue
that affected UF students.
He questioned the ability of Senators to rep-
resent the interests of UF's 50,000 students on
an international issue."It puzzles me that such a resolution has
even been proposed," Wahdan said.
However, Rafael Yaniz, the president of
Gators for Israel and one of the resolution's au-
thors, disagreed. He said the Goldstone report
would have an impact on UF's about 7,300 Jew-
ish students. The debate lasted about an hour.
Orange and Blue Party Sen. Jonathan Ossip,
who represents the Murphree Area, encour-
aged senators to read the
House and Senate bills about
the Goldstone report men-
tioned in the Student Senate
resolution before voting.
Later on in the meeting,
Orange and Blue Party sena-
tors and Progress Party sena-
ossip tors introduced a bill that
would replace "I Voted"
stickers with an "I Voted" rubber stamp.
Author of the bill Kevin Seymour said the
stamp would make elections more economical.
He said it would save about $200 in the ini-
tial election it was used and then $400 every se-
mester after that.
Unite Party Sen. Josh Roberts, who repre-
sents the college of agriculture, questioned how
the bill would help improve the election pro-
cess. He said stickers are a matter of American
pride.
The bill did not pass.
Interim dean given official title for UF's PHHP college
Perri has been a member of the UF faculty since 1990center for ReturnngMltary PersonnelHe received his doctorate from the Uni-
UF's College of Public Health and Health
Professions has decided it likes things the
way they are.
After conducting a national search for a
new dean, UF has decided to stick with the
college's interim dean, Michael G. Perri,
who has been a faculty member since 1990,
UF announced Tuesday.Perri, who has been interim dean since
June 2007, officially becomes the dean Fri-
day, according to a UF news release.
Much of his research has been focused on
the behavioral treatment of obesity.
According to the release, he has served as
the principal investigator or co-investigator
on $30 million worth of grants and contractsfrom the National Institutes of Health, the
Department of Veterans Affairs and the pri-
vate sector.
U F As interim dean,Administration he helped gain ac-
creditation for the
college's new school of public health and
launched the Florida Trauma Rehabilitationversity of Missouri-Columbia and previ-
ously taught at the University of Rochester,
Indiana University and Fairleigh Dickinson
University.
"I am honored and excited about the op-
portunity this appointment presents," Perri
said in the release.
-THOMAS STEWART
ON CAMPUS
Students dance to new beat in Reitz
A new dance game, Pump It Up 2 Exceed, sits in the Reitz Union
Game Room Tuesday.By JARED MISNER
Alligator Writer
Dan Linehan doesn't know any
of their names. But after three years
behind the desk at the Reitz Union
Game Room, Linehan has accrued
a slew of nicknames for the Dance
Dance Revolution "regulars."
He's seen the dance enthusiasts
wait in lines 10 to 15 people long.
And as of mid-last week, UF's
DDR regulars no longer have to
wait in such long lines to get their
platform-stomping, techno-beat
hopping dance fix as the Reitz
Union Game Room installed its
second dance-themed arcade game,
Pump It Up 2 Exceed.
"There's this one guy, I don't
know his real name, but he plays
[DDR] in his socks and he brings
extra socks 'cause he burns through
'em," said Linehan, student assis-
tant manager of the Reitz Union
Game Room. "He refuses to play in
his shoes because he says he can't
'feel the machine."'
Kurt Folsom, who owns the
company that supplies the Reitz
Union Game Room with its arcade
games, expects the new dance-
themed video game to perform
just as well or better than the olderDDR game despite the new game's
75-cent-per-play price tag.
The current DDR system costs
50 cents.
"It came out hot, and it's been
very consistent," Folsom said of the
dance-themed video game craze.
"There's this one guy, I
don't know his real name,
but he plays [DDR] in his
socks and he brings extra
socks 'cause he burns
through 'em."
Dan Linehan
Reitz Union Game Room student
assistant manager
Some UF students and Game
Room regulars describe the new
dance-themed video game as
something other than "hot."
"I played [Pump It Up 2 Ex-
ceed]. I'm not a big fan of it," said
Melinda Hua, as J.P. Ruiz, a bio-
chemistry major, conquered the
DDR system behind her. "The mu-
sic isn't as cool, and it takes away
from playing DDR."
The installation of Pump It Up
2 Exceed signals a recent surging
trend in the popularity of "exer-games," video games that engage
the player in some form of physical
activity, including DDR and Nin-
tendo's Wii Fit.
School systems across the coun-
try are even installing DDR sys-
tems or other dance-themed video
games in their physical education
departments as a supplement to
childhood exercise programs.
Regardless of the health benefits
these dance-themed video games
may provide, Charlotte Dare, Reitz
Union Game Room manager, fore-
sees increased happiness among
exer-game enthusiasts with the de-
cision to install the Game Room's
second such game.
"[The regulars] were on the new
game until the time we opened un-
til the time we closed," Dare said,
referring to Pump It Up 2 Exceed's
inauguration last week.
Although Hua and Linehan
agreed that some Game Room reg-
ulars don't like the new beat-box-
ing addition to the arcade, Linehan
suggested a reason.
"The regulars are so good at the
old machine," he said. "They don't
want to be caught doing bad at the
new one. A lot of them don't like
that, but a lot of them see it as a
challenge."
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
ON CAMPUS
Students
Feed your future
See how more than 29,000 people are
working together to help inspire change.
Begin at www.pwc.tv
2009 PncwaterhouseCoopers LLP Al rghts reserved. "PncewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited ability partnership) or. as the context requires. the PricewaterhouseCooper
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. Wve are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.use shoes
as blank
canvases
By ALISON SCHWARTZ
Alligator Writer
UF students and faculty took a
crafty approach Tuesday at Style
Your Sole, an event organized by
the UF Office of Sustainability,
where participants purchased
and decorated a pair of TOMS
Shoes at the Reitz Union Colon-
nade.
"People think of sustainability
just as an environmental issue,
but we're looking at social as-
pects," said Stephanie Sims, pro-
gram assistant with the UF Office
of Sustainability.
TOMS has gained infamy for
its charitable mission: For every
pair purchased, TOMS donates a
pair of shoes to a child in need.
Paint, ribbon and glitter
were among the provided artis-
tic media. Innovative students
wrapped their canvas sneakers
in tape, painting over the lines to
create geometrical patterns and
designs.
"People think of sustain-
ability just as an environ-
mental issue, but we're
looking at social aspects."
Stephanie Sims
UF Office of Sustainability program
assistant
UF sophomore Amanda As-
chenbrenner bought her pair of
TOMS Shoes at the event, splash-
ing yellow and red paint on the
bare canvas and quoting Dr.
Seuss' "Oh the Places You'll Go"
on the side of the sneakers.
The shoes start at about $44.
"You spend about the same on
a pair of shoes anyway," Aschen-
brenner said. "But you're getting
two pairs of shoes."
Roberto Evans, owner of The
Exchange, an authorized retailer
of TOMS Shoes, guided students
through the design process. An
industry insider, he's ready for a
moral makeover in the business
market.
"People buy shoes all the time,
but they're often not made under
very ethical conditions," Evans
said. "Our buying practices can
make a big difference for others."
And, for now, that change is
evolving one shoe at a time.
Evans sold about 40 pairs of
shoes.
"We didn't anticipate such a
response," Evans said. "It's like,
'Dude, that's a lot of kids that get
shoes."'
6, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
Road Risk
RTS must act to make
crossing streets safer
he death of Erin Pelton Monday night is a tragedy to
say the least. A 2008 UF graduate with an animal biol-
ogy degree, she aspired to become a veterinarian, and
friends say she had a promising future.
Stepping off an RTS bus, Pelton followed a group of
people crossing Archer road. A driver who was not intoxi-
cated and was following the speed limit swerved to avoid the
group, hitting Pelton.
The loss of this young woman follows two similar traf-
fic fatalities that occurred earlier this year, according to the
Gainesville Police Department.
Because bus stops are not always placed at or near inter-
sections, but rather are scattered all along busy roads, some
students are left to cross three and four lanes to reach their
destination. The danger is compounded at night, when poor-
ly lit roads make crossing students less visible.
Expanding driver and pedestrian awareness about this is-
sue is critical to ensuring the safety of UF students and all
Gainesville pedestrians.
Also, by identifying stops where people commonly cross
busy roads, RTS can adjust routes to provide safer alterna-
tives.
Ultimately, we would like to see RTS place as many bus
stops as possible near crosswalks and intersections, while
identifying alternative routes specifically aimed at reducing
this risk.
The loss of one person justifies a careful consideration of
the problem. Three deaths in one year, along with those in
years past, demands prompt action.
Mix It Up
Last month, an interra-cial couple seeking
marriage license was
turned away by a Louisiana
justice of the peace on the
grounds that their marriage
was "mixed." The refusal
was met with an eruption
of criticism from civil rights
groups and public officials,
including Louisiana's gover-
nor, Bobby Jindal.
Finally bowing to mount-
ing pressure, the justice in
question, Keith Bardwell, re-
signed Tuesday, according to
an Associated Press article.
We say good riddance.
When asked about the inci-
dent, Bardwell (a white man)
admitted that he has a habit
of turning away interracial
couples because the children
of these couples will suffer in
life.
It's 2009. We have an in-
terracial president. We are
shocked that people like this
justice still exist, let alone that
they are allowed to hold pub-lic office.
But apparently Bardwell is
not a relic of bad times passed.
Rather, he is an example of the
work America has left to do.
So, it is without any sense
of irony that the liberal-social-
ist-left-wing-conspirators at
the Alligator Editorial Board
congratulate Republican Gov.
Jindal -gasp -for his out-
spoken criticism of this man
and his ignorant bigotry.
Jindal, an ethnic Indian
born and raised in the south-
ern state of Louisiana, likely
faced some of the same bigot-
ry that he publicly denounced
in the weeks since this issue
hit the headlines.
It would have been easy
to stay out of the public dis-
course, or at the very least,
make a few passing remarks
about the issue. But Gov.
Jindal kept the pressure on,
with public statements that
undoubtedly contributed to
Bardwell's resignation.
For that, we thank Gov.
Jindal.
a ll e independent ftorida
al gao
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University A , or send them to PO Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
H AN!ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator.org//opinions
t V~II N ih 4
V
>2/
I'I tf -N r Itt
' <Aft
(
IM language doesn't make literature
don't know when we, as a culture, got this idea that read- knowledge as well from books that
ing in any form is better for kids than watching TV or incorporated those subjects into an
playing video games. overall narrative.
I got a lot of flak when I made the same point briefly in Reading took me out of my com-
my column discussing "Twilight." I won't take on vampires fort zone and made me think.
again, but I still believe that reading in and of itself is over- That's why the defense that "these
glorified in our society. Hilary Lehman kids would never pick up a book oth-
"Ttyl," "ttfn" and "18r, g8r" are my newfound targets letters@alligator org erwise" irritates me. Had I grown up
-young-adult novels written in instant-message speak. only reading books made up of ab-
They're old news -the most recent book came out in 2007 breviations, I doubt I could have written an essay coherent
-but apparently, they're still popular at the library of the enough to make it into UF.
middle school where my mother is a language arts teacher. In high school, I tutored middle-school kids who had dif-
I'm not above using "OMG" or "brb" in my texting con- ficulty both reading and writing some one-syllable words. If
versations. I'm pretty sure some of my friends get annoyed I had to hazard a guess, I would say that those same kids are
by my overuse of "lol." sending hundreds of texts every month now. That won't get
However, looking over my texts and instant-message con- them into college. It won't get them a job. They won't learn
versations with friends, I would never give them to a child as anything besides the latest school gossip.
reading material. Sure, most of them have a compelling nar- Not only are books like "18r, g8r" not literature -I'd ar-
rative, but even my grammar-Nazi text ramblings overlap gue that they're more harmful than helpful.
only slightly with the English language as my high-school What is the value of the written word over other media if
teachers taught it. it no longer bears resemblance to real words? Cinema might
What can teenagers possibly learn from reading books dumb down "The Great Gatsby" from what F. Scott Fitzger-
written in text speak? Being generous, I'll say they could ald put on the page, but at least it has themes, characters, plot
learn about plot or characterization. But they can learn those and a recognizable vocabulary.
same things from watching a sitcom every night. I would rather have kids who watch PBS than read a lot of
Reading is not inherently a good or bad activity. The value what's on the shelves of young adult sections in libraries.
in reading comes from the value of the material children are The written word is an ancient and noble form of com-
reading. I don't think I gained anything cerebral from read- munication, but that doesn't make it inherently stronger than
ing the backs of cereal boxes as a child. other forms.
Growing up, I was an avid reader, and what I took away And literacy is more than being able to punch out a se-
from the hundreds of books I checked out from the library quence on a keypad and understand the response.
stays with me today. I became familiar with different sen- OMG, 4 rlz.
tence structures, with spelling and with vocabulary I hadn't Hilary Lehman is a journalism senior. Her column appears on
known before. I absorbed history, geography and science Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Today's question: Do you think it is
dangerous to cross Archer Road?Tuesday's poll results are unavailable
due to technical error.
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org1
-en' -
Copyright Mt erial
Syniciated ContenitW%
a la e* m Nw P vailalae from Commercial News Providers
Letters to the Editor
Murty's statements about Republicans biased
This is in response to Paul Murty's article on Monday
that could only be described as a "slaughter of logic."
Paul, your article was nothing short of a biased attempt
to prove that the Republicans are all evil, racist Hallibur-
ton employees who rape women. I am not kidding. At one
point in your article, you somehow deduce that U.S. Rep.
Joe Wilson was a racist for saying "you lie" to Obama.
Seriously Paul, that's the biggest stretch I have ever
seen. Your implied statement was that anyone in disagree-
ment with Obama is a racist. When Joe Wilson said "you
lie," did you somehow hear "death to minorities?" Did Joe
say that all black Americans are liars during the Obama
speech? The fact that you tried to make this connection,
in the beginning of your article no less, turned me off to
everything you had to say, and made you look like a fool.
As far as the rest of your article, you blasted Republi-
cans for some invented smear campaign against ACORN
without rebutting any of the issues. In the very next para-
graph, you started a smear campaign of your own by
equating Republican representatives with rapists, and
what the heck, threw in a Halliburton reference as well.
To sum up Paul Murty's argument: Republicans didn't
vote for some bill, so they must support rape. And they
are racists, obviously.
James G.
UFgrad student
Machen responded well to rusting bicycle problem
This letter is to commend President Bernie Machen for
an extremely prompt response to an e-mail I wrote to him
regarding the rusting hulks of bicycles that have dotted
campus since I arrived in fall 2008 as a graduate student.
I wrote this e-mail Monday afternoon expressing my dis-
may at having to constantly dodge the rusty carcases of
abandoned bikes, and was pleasantly surprised to receive
a personal response that evening. Further, a phone call
came from the appropriate person at UPD the next morn-
ing, with a pledge that the issue would be handled imme-
diately. When I arrived at ARCH today, the worst of the
problem was gone. Kudos to President Machen for mak-
ing the time to care about the small problems.
James N. Beeler Jr.
UFgrad student
Library patron should be commended for reporting
lewd behavior
I am writing to give my full support behind Tuesday's
Alligator editorial, "Public Porn." Reading that a brave
patron of Library West had the courage to turn in this
"jerking-class hero," Christopher Wallace, did nothing
short of erect a smile on my face.I sincerely hope that this will send a message to all po-
tential library patrons considering checking out their own
copy of Moby Dick at our sanctuary of wisdom and hu-
mility.
The last thing I want is the phrase "taking out a book
from the library" to mean something dirty. A few months
ago, I thought "The First Lady Touched the Queen" head-
line was a euphemism for masturbation, which should be
a clear indication that my mind doesn't need a lower gut-
ter to dwell in. But I digress.
Those looking to get their jollies needn't come prema-
turely to the wholesome library for a quick fix. So, to all
those considering committing a similar offense, let this be
a warning: Our library is not the place to thrust your "jack
of all trades" personality on the student body. That being
said, kudos to the student who came forward to report
such lewd behavior. You handled yourself well. Library
West "patron," not so much.
Kenny Picciano
UF student
Israel not being held accountable for actions
Israel has repeatedly defied United Nations resolu-
tions. What other developed country in the world would
be allowed this lawless refusal to abide by UN resolu-
tions? Moreover, since its occupation of the Palestinian
Territories in 1967, Israel has not implemented one single
resolution stipulating its withdrawal from the occupied
territories and refraining from all activities in these ter-
ritories.
The settlements, the wall, the checkpoints, the bypass
roads, the detention of political prisoners, the eviction of
homes and other endless measures continue with glaring
injustice, while the international community watches, and
the US continues to pamper Israel with more funding and
more moral support.
No wonder Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netan-
yahu thought it was a joke for President Obama to ask
him to freeze the settlements and took no heed of it. Why
does everyone bend to Israel when it is the aggressor, the
oppressor and the only country in the region that has a
stock-pile of nuclear weapons, and has not even signed
the non-proliferation treaty or allowed the inspection of
its nuclear activity?
Yet they have the audacity to divert all the attention
from its noncompliance with UN resolutions and its war
crimes and violations of human rights, which appear so
clearly in the Goldstone report, by focusing on Iran being
the threat to the region. Once again, Israel succeeded in
pulling wool over the eyes of the international commu-
nity. I think it is due time for Israel to be held accountable
for its actions.
Alex Salam
UF studentWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
Column doesn't
present all facts
aul Murty's Tuesday column was so
shamefully dishonest that I felt I had to
respond. He claims the Republicans are
not listening to voters, when it is the Demo-
crats in Congress who have pushed through
multiple 1,000-plus page bills they haven't
read (and have broken campaign promises by
not giving the public time to read them, ei-
Benjamin ther). The latest Pew poll
shows only 34 percent
Camenker support for the new con-
Speaking Out gressional health plan,
with an opposition of 47
percent. And the opposition is growing. Mr.
Murty, it is not the Republicans who are ig-
noring the will of the people.
Murty rightly calls out Rep. Joe Wilson,
R-S.C., for his indefensible outburst during
President Obama's health care speech. Then,
he undermines whatever credibility he had
by going on to say that it was "racially mo-
tivated." How patently ridiculous. But this is
the mindset of people like Murty, and race is
always at the forefront of their thought. When
Rep. Alan Grayson, D-Fla., has an outburst,
and calls a lobbyist a "K Street whore" or
claims Republicans want you to "die quick-
ly," race has nothing to do with it. Not so
for attacks on President Obama. In Murty's
world, no one can legitimately be taking issue
with Obama's "brilliant" policies. Therefore,
it must be race. I guess the Iraqi who threw
a shoe at Bush was just a racist, and had no
qualm with his administration. When Bush
was interrupted at Monticello, it was because
he was white. Obama called Kanye West a
"jackass." Is he a racist, too? Murty is simply
drowning in Kool-Aid. Hiding behind race is
intellectually dishonest and cowardly.
Murty's depiction of ACORN serves to
crystallize how far he will go to push an intel-
lectually dishonest viewpoint. The prostitute
intending to set up a brothel and import 13
very young" (underage) girls from El Salva-
dor in as sex slaves is magically transformed,
under the lenses of Murty's rose-colored
glasses, into "a seemingly poor woman that
was simply trying to support herself in life."
The pimp helping her? Erased from Murty's
narrative.
Murty argues that these two individuals are
not representative of the organization. He's
either lying or uninformed. From his record
so far, I believe the former. In fact, ACORN's
actions are systemic. It has been taped helping
the undercover pimp and prostitute in Balti-
more, Washington D.C., Brooklyn, San Diego,
San Bernardino and elsewhere. When ACORN
claimed that it had "kicked them out" from
Philadelphia, the Philadelphia video was re-
leased -proving that ACORN employees
were not only willing to help import underage
sex slaves, but lie about it. Murty does not tell
you this. He does not tell you that the Demo-
cratic Congress found it more than convincing
enough to revoke ACORN's funding. He does
not tell you that they have been disassociated
with the 2010 Census. Stop retelling news the
way you wish it happened, Mr. Murty, or it
won't be long until someone (another obvious
racist) screams "You lie!" at you.
Benjamin Camenker is a UF graduate.
8, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Santa Fe recycles costumes for kids
By MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
All around Gainesville, already-worn Halloween costumes
hang in closets, waiting to gather dust.
But through the Santa Fe College Office of Community
Service, once-worn Halloween costumes don't have to go to
waste.
Starting this week, SFC is collecting Halloween costumes
that will be donated to families in need. Costumes can be
dropped off at the SFC Student Leadership and Activities,
room S-147, today through Nov. 13 before 4 p.m.
The costumes will be donated through organizations in-
cluding the Friends of the Micanopy Library, the Children's
Home Society of Florida and schools, said Samantha Rist, an
SFC Graduate Assistant.
"It's so easy," Rist said. "All you have to do is drop the
costumes off, and kids will have new ones to wear next year."
This is the second year the SFC Office of Community Service
has held their Halloween costume drive. Last year, they re-ceived about 100 outfits.
"Sometimes it's hard to motivate people to donate," she said.
"But no one really wears their costumes more than once."
Tony Barakat, a graduate accounting student at UF, said
people don't like repeating costumes because each year cos-
tume trends change.
"I know some people who wore more than one costume
this year, and they're probably never going to wear either of
them again," Barakat said. "I wouldn't be surprised if they
wanted to donate them."
Sally Stein, program director of Friends of the Micanopy Li-
brary Tutoring Program, said drives like this mean a lot to their
elementary and middle school students. A lot of the students
in the program are on free or reduced-price lunches, so their
families don't have enough money to buy things that aren't
essential, Stein said.
Additionally, many Micanopy residents don't have access
to the same resources as people in bigger cities, Stein said.
"For them to be able to look forward to having something to
be [for Halloween] next year means a lot," she said.
Gator alum joins race for governor
By MATT HARRINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite opposition from her own
party, state Sen. Paula Dockery, a UF
alumna, filed paperwork Tuesday to run
against Attorney General Bill McCollum
for the Republican nomination for gov-
ernor.
The Republican Party of Florida and
most of the party's leadership have al-
ready endorsed McCollum, also a Gator.
Former Governor Jeb Bush announced
his support in a press release Tuesday,
and Sen. Mike Haridopolos, a UF lectur-
er, said he believes McCollum is the best
candidate for the Republican Party.
Dockery, who represents Lakeland,
isn't deterred by having to face the
leadership of her party. She said she be-
lieves her underdog status is a strength
because Republican voters don't want"There is only so much I can
do as one of 40 senators. But
there's a heck of a lot I can do
as governor."
Paula Dockery
State senator
the party leadership deciding for whom
they vote.
But Dockery's primary opponent
isn't worried.
"This announcement wasn't unex-
pected and is not of particular concern,"
McCollum said. "We're focused on our
campaign and on the striking contrast
between myself and Alex Sink on the is-
sues of great importance for our state."
Alex Sink, the state's CFO, is the
Democratic nominee for governor.
Dockery has represented Lakeland
in the state's legislature since 1996. Thesenator started to make statewide head-
lines two years ago when she began her
crusade against a $641 million deal with
CSX, one of the nation's largest railroad
companies, to create a commuter rail
system for central Florida.
"I worked very hard. The amount of
political pressure on the issue was like
none I've ever seen," Dockery said, add-
ing that she was up against 200 lobbyists
who supported the legislation.
After winning her battle, people from
across the state began urging her to run
for governor. Dockery was planning on
retiring from politics after she was term-
limited in 2012, but when she was still
receiving letters in June, she began to
change her mind.
"There is only so much I can do as
one of 40 senators," Dockery said. "But
there's a heck of a lot I can do as gover-
nor.
For more information on Dockery's
platform and a UF political science pro-
fessor's take on her candidacy, visit Al-
ligator.org.
Pelton was hit after
getting off an RTS bus
PELTON, from page 1
Department spokesman Keith Kameg.
Witnesses said the driver, whose blood test showed
had not been drinking, was obeying the speed limit and
tried to swerve out of the way. Police are still investigat-
ing the cause of the crash.
Officers responded to calls from witnesses at 6:19
p.m., and Pelton was pronounced dead after arriving at
the new trauma unit of Shands at UF, Kameg said.
Kameg said this is the third traffic
fatality of its kind this year.
"Unfortunately, this highlights an
issue we have in this community," he
said. "We have a lot of people and a
lot of cars.trying to occupy the same
space."
I J Roop said that even before the two
Kameg became a couple, he'd found that Pel-
ton was someone he could approach
and talk with about anything.
"She was a very friendly person," he said.
Dr. Ray Sudjak worked with Pelton very closely for
the past three and a half years at the Gainesville Animal
Hospital on Sixth Avenue and said she'll be missed by
everyone at the clinic.
"If I had a daughter, I'd want her tobe just like her," he
said. "She would have made a difference in the world.
she would have been one hell of a vet."Erin Pelton in St. Augustine, Fla., on March 9.Party leaders back her opponentSG collects
charity change
0 THE MONEY WILL BENEFIT GATORS
MARCH FOR BABIES.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Student Government Cabinet is hosting a
spare change drive this week to raise money for
the Gators March for Babies on Sunday.
A table will be set up every day this week from
9:30 a.m. to 3p.m. on the Reitz Union Colonnade.
Students can drop off their spare change and
pick up a flier with more information on the 5K
run, which will start on Turlington Plaza.
Daniela Guanipa, director of the Community
Involvement Cabinet, said the spare change drive
allows other students who are not involved in the
Gator March for Babies to contribute.
"It's something easy," Guanipa said. "They
don't have to go out of their way if they're going
into the Reitz to get lunch or go into the offices up
there. They can just drop off their change."
The Cabinet is also hosting a fundraiser at
TCBY from p.m. to 10p.m. on Friday.
In addition to the fundraisers, the Cabinet is
asking for each SG and Cabinet member partici-
pating in the run to donate $10.
Guanipa said she has hosted spare change
drives for other organizations in the past. She said
that they can raise as much as $300 in loose change
per day.
"People are willing to give it up, and there are
so may people in this school. I think it will be suc-
cessful," Guanipa said.
Alex Andrade, director of the Research Cabinet
said the spare change drive helps raise awareness
and money for the event. He estimated that about
$11 was collected Tuesday morning.
"The goal is just to collect as much money as
possible for the run," she said.
Students wanting to participate in the run can
sign up at Marchforbabies.org
'3
0%0)7
2, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
What is Off Campus Life?
UF's Office of Off Campus Life advocates for your rights in the community and provides support
services and education to better your off campus experience with the ultimate goal of helping you
develop into a globally-conscious Gator. OCL aims to provide programs and services that will pre-
pare you to be a great Gator neighbor, here in Gainesville or wherever the road may take you.
The Office of Off Campus Life, which is part of UF's Division of Student Affairs, has been providing
support services and resources to UF students living off campus since 2004. OCL's support services
and resources include:
-Free Online Housing Locator Service: Students can find off-campus housing, roommates, and
information like rent, room size, location, etc. at this free online site. Go to http://housing.offcampus.
ufl.edu to use this resource.
-Gator Guide to Off Campus Life: A free publication that provides tips and resources for finding
the right apartment, budgeting info, safety tips, keeping your electric costs low, a map of the city,
and much more. To get a copy of the Gator Guide, visit OCL's office at 202 Peabody Hall or visit our
website at www.offcampus.ufl.edu.
-Monthly Newsletter: OCL sends a monthly electronic newsletter to all 39,000+ off campus students
including topics like free campus resources, roommate props and flops, time management, safety/
crime prevention, upcoming events, and much more. OCL also allows submissions from you-the off
campus student. Share your off campus experiences with us and they may be selected for publica-
tion in the newsletter.
-Community Advocates: A student group that focuses on civic engagement with the greater
Gainesville community. Weekly meetings take place at various city locations including city hall, GPD,
and the fire station. Local officials and OCL staff lead the class to foster greater awareness of being
part of a community. Look out for applications for the Spring 2010 Semester.
-Monthly Lunch Series: OCL hosts a panel discussion on various topics such as safe partying,
healthy lifestyles, and fun, free things to do in Gainesville, while providing a free lunch to both panelists
and audience members.
-Breakfast Club: OCL wants to cater their services and programs to your needs. Every month, OCL
hosts a free breakfast where you can give us feedback while we feed you.
-Buzz Events: Keep an eye out for our office mascot, Buzz. Learn
more about OCL's services and events and get free swag like color-
changing cups, reusable grocery bags and shirts.
Learn More:
Visit our website www.offcampus.ufl.edu for information about Off
Campus Life resources and service.
Join our facebook group at facebook.com/UF Off Campus Life.
Follow us on twitter at twitter.com/UFOffCampusLife.U %a#L
UNiVERSiTY OF FLORiDASPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
INTRODUCTION
Florida's Residential Landlord and Tenant Act, Sections
83.40 to 83.682, Florida Statutes (2007), is referred to as "the
Act" in this publication. Most libraries have copies of Florida
Statutes if more specific information is needed.
Florida Statues are also available online through the Florida
Legislature's website, (www.leg.state.fl.us). Explanations
of the Act have statewide applicability, but any specific
references to Gainesville or Alachua County applies only to
those areas.
The rental of mobile homes or mobile home lots is not
covered in the Act. If you have a problem in this area, you
should contact an attorney.
CAVEAT
This is an educational tool and not a guide for the practice
of law. Once a problem has been identified, an attorney must
be contacted to obtain specific advice.
Full time University of Florida students can receive
free legal advice from Student Legal Services. The office
is located at 368 J Wayne Reitz Union. Call 392-5297 for
further information.
If you are not a full time student, contact the Florida Bar
Lawyer Referral Service at 800-342-8011. They can give you
a list of attorneys who can represent you for a lowered fee.
Law is subject to change. All material is correct as of June
2007.
DISCLAIMER
This original publication was written by Student Legal
Services attorneys. Opinions expressed do not necessarily
reflect those of the University of Florida, Student Government,
the Board of Trustees, or the State of Florida.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from Student Legal Services, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
2 U
20th Ave.
( 2)NW 8th Ave.
W University Ave.
F Campus
O\
U05f
m01-tTH E
ESTATES
1111Cabana Beach
Bus Routes 20 &21
See ad on page 7.
The Estates
3527 SW 20th Ave.
See ad on page 3.
University House
725 NW 13th St.
See ad on page 5.
Cottage Grove
4600 SW 13th St.
See ad on page 4.
Royal Village
ROYAL 710 SW Depot Ave.
VILLAGE See ad on page 3.
6 UNIVERSITY
C L U B
APARTMENTSUniversity Club
2900 SW 23rd Terr.
See ad on page 3.
SPECIAL. ADERISN SECTION. WENSDY NOVEMBER. 4.2009.STUDENT.LIVING.GUIDE. .ALLIGATOR. ..3.V
I'WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 3
coesus atth
en10? REE Papa John's piZO
""+ enter to win ascoeVSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
4, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
GETTING STARTED
How Do I Find An Apartment?
Check with the office of Off-Campus Life
at 352 392 1261 x 214 or their website at http://
www.dso.ufl.edu/offcampus for assistance.
Rental opportunities may also be found
in the classified sections of The Gainesville
Sun, The Independent Florida Alligator, and
bulletin boards around campus.
Can I Be Evicted If I Pay "My" Rent
and My Roommates Don't?
Usually. Most leases provide that the
tenants are jointly and severally liable for
the entire rent. This means the landlord can
evict you unless the full rent is paid.
It is possible for you to sue your room-
mates in small claims court to collect their
share of the rent and utilities. A written
roommate agreement will be helpful in prov-
ing your case in court.
Given the difficulty of collecting money
on a judgment quickly, the best thing you
can do is obtain new roommates.
So What If I Get Sued? I Have No Money!
Any judgment for money damages is
enforceable for at least 20 years and earns
interest. A judgment may be enforced by
seizing your wages, bank accounts, or your
personal property. A judgment will also ad-
versely affect your credit rating.
What Should I Do Before I Sign a Lease?
DO:
-Read the lease and make sure you under-
stand it.
-Review a copy of the lease with an attor-
ney prior to signing it.
-Expect to pay full rent, not just your share.
This is what "joint and several" liability means,
a term included or implied in nearly all leases.
Legal Assistance:
UF Students (full-time)
Student Legal Services
368 J Wayne Reitz Union
352-392-5297
A// others
Florida Bar Referral Service
Tallahassee, FL
800-342-8011Local Assista
Complaints Re
City of Gaine
200 E Universi
Gainesville, FL
352-334-503
Alachua Count
352-374-524-Obtain a copy of the lease and all attach-
ments or addendums to the lease, and put ev-
erything with your personal records.
-Have all promised repairs and improve-
ments written into the lease and signed by the
landlord.
-Insist on seeing your actual unit.
* Get clear written permission for any pets.
Check for maintenance responsibilities
when renting a house or duplex.
DON'T
D Do not sign a 12-month lease unless you
are willing to pay rent for 12 months.
-Do not sign a 12-month lease with room-
mates unless all roommates are willing to ay
rent for 12 months.
-Do not have your parents signed the lease
or a parental guarantee agreeing to be respon-
sible for rent, if possible. See if the landlord
will accept an additional security deposit in-
stead.
-Do not sign a lease with automatic renew-
al clause.
-Do not sign a lease that gives the landlord
unlimited access to the apartment without no-
tice or consent.
-Do not sign a lease based upon a model
apartment.
e Do not sign a lease before visiting the
neighborhood at various times during the day,
at night and on weekends.
-Do not sign a lease until all agreements
negotiated with the landlord are in writing.
What Can Happen
If I Don't Pay Rent?
Failure to pay rent is the quickest way to
be evicted! The landlord will serve a notice
demanding payment of rent or possession of
nce State Assistance
pairs Complaints Security Deposits, S
svlle Codes Enforcement Department of Business Regulc
ty Ave; PO Box 490 Division of Hotel and Restaura
32609 7960 Arlington Expressway
0 Jacksonville, FL 3221 1
904-727-5540
y Codes Enforcement Complaints, a// others
4 Department of Agriculture
and Consumer Servicesthe apartment. If you fail to comply with the
demand within three days, excluding week-
ends and holidays, eviction proceedings may
be started. Neither surrender of the apart-
ment or eviction ends your liability for rent!
You should contact an attorney immediately
upon receipt of a three-day notice.
Can I Be Evicted For
Any Other Reason?
Yes! Your lease can be terminated if you
violate any lease terms, rules and regulations,
or the Act. If your lease is terminated and you
do not vacate the apartment, the landlord may
file for your eviction immediately.
Termination begins with a 7-day notice.
Your options depend on whether the viola-
tions are classified as "curable" or "noncur-
able".
If you receive either type of notice, you
should contact. Neither termination of your
lease, nor your eviction from the apartment
ends your liability for rent!
Curable Violations
You will be given seven days to correct
a curable violation. Curable violations in-
clude unauthorized pets, guests, parking, or
the failure to keep the apartment clean and
sanitary. If you repeat the violation within
12 months, you will not be given another
chance.
Noncurable Violations
The landlord may terminate your lease
with a 7-day notice without giving you a
chance to correct a noncurable violation.
Noncurable violations include deliberate de-
struction or misuse of the landlord's proper-
ty or a continued, unreasonable disturbance.
407 S Calhoun St
initation Tallahassee, FL 32299
ition 850-488-3022
nts
Off-Campus Housing Information
Nora Kilroy; Off-Campus Life
202 Peabody Hall
Gainesville, FL 3261 1
352-392-2161 Ext. 214SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
What Should I Look For
In An Apartment?
Application Deposits: Never put
down a deposit to hold an apartment
unless you have a written agreement
indicating whether it is refundable.
Model Apartments: Never sign a
lease based upon a model. Insist on
seeing your actual apartment.
Cost: Can you afford it? Even if your
roommates leave?
Safety: Inspect the locks on the doors
and windows -is there a deadbolt on
the front door? Do sliding glass doors
have adequate locks to deter forced
entry? Are the hallways and parking
lots well lit? Make sure tree limbs and
shrubs in front of the apartment are well
trimmed.
You can contact the Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff's Office or the Gainesville Po-
lice Department for information on
crime in the area.
Function: At move-in, check all
plumbing and appliances. Run water in
sinks, showers and tubs, flush toilets, and
check air conditioning and heating.
Inventory: Note all defects on the
inventory sheet or check-in list signed
by the landlord or an impartial Witness.
Photograph or videotape the apart-
ment at movie-in.
Appearance: Is it clean? Do the car-
pets look worn or smell bad? Has the
apartment been painted recently? Do
the walls have nail holes?
In some Gainesville neighborhoods,
only three unrelated persons may live
together. Check with the city if you plan
on having more than two roommates.
Retain a copy of the lease and all at-
tachments or addendum to the lease
for your records. Have all promised re-
pairs and improvements written into the
lease and signed by the landlord.
Get clear written permission for any
pets.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from Student Legal Services, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
Meadowcrest
. Apartments
37irst
>~'month'srentfor $99
cents starting at $375
110 NW 39th Ave.
. (352)-378-3988
O TIP OF
ROOMING WITH
CHIMPANZEES?
4 SOLVE YOUR
ROOMMATE
PROBLEMS
WITH ALLIGATOR
QASSFIEPS
allgator -373-FINDLiI1-'
GR OE
4Li a, y3t 0tet ansilF 22
352360795 41t SftaeretGainesville 32,0
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
GETTING
EVICTED
What Exactly Is An Eviction?
An eviction is the formal end to your eight to
occupy the apartment. It does not end your duty to
pay rent. An eviction starts with a Summons. You
must file an Answer within 5 days. Contact an at-
torney immediately. If the court rules against you,
ajudgment for possession of the apartment, unpaid
rent, late fees, interest, court costs and attorney's
fees will be entered for the landlord. The sheriff
will post a notice at the apartment that requires
you to vacate within 24 hours. If you do not vacate
within 24 hours, the sheriff will remove you and
your personal property from the apartment.
How Do I Find A Good Roommate?
Check the Off-Campus Life website at
http://www.dso.ufl.edu/offcampus. Check bul-
letin boards around campus and classified ads
as additional sources. Discuss with potential
roommates preferences in food, music, personal
habits, sleeping and study hours, friends and
finances. An open and frank appraisal of each
other's likes, dislikes, and expectations will in-
crease the chances of an enjoyable shared living
experience. A written roommate agreement is
advisable.
Do I Really Need Insurance For MY Per-
sonal Property?
Yes. Unless you are financially able to replace all
your belongings, you should have insurance. ProperWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 0 STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 5
What Are My Duties As A Tenant?
-First, last and always, PAY RENT!
-Comply with all other lease terms.
Comply with all rules and regulations.
* Comply with housing and
health codes.
* Comply with all zoning restrictions.
* Keep the apartment clean
and sanitary.
-Keep plumbing fixtures sanitary.
* Do not damage the apartment.
-Do not disturb your neighbors.
insurance coverage will protect you against the loss
of your valuables in most circumstances. Landlords
are legally responsibly for such losses only under
very specific, limited circumstances that may be
very difficult to prove in court.
If you are a resident-relative of your parents,
your personal property may be insured through their
homeowner's policy. Have your parents confirm
the coverage in writing with their insurance agent.
If coverage is not available through your parents'
homeowner's policy, you may be able to purchase
renter's insurance. Even with insurance, there are
certain precautions you should always take. Always
lock your apartment securely even if you are only
going next door. Never leave jewelry, cameras,
cash, checkbooks, credit cards, electronics, or other
valuables in plain view.My Landlord Refuses
to Make Repairs, What Can I Do?
You MAY be able either to withhold your
rent or terminate your lease if the problem con-
stitutes a material breach of the lease or the Act.
You must follow the exact requirements of the
Act. You must give the landlord a written notice
demanding the repairs be made in seven days.
The notice must indicate to terminate the lease
or withhold rent if the repairs are not made. This
is a complicated process and the legal conse-
quences are very serious. Do not attempt to ter-
minate your lease or withhold rent without first
obtaining legal advice.
Can I Deduct Repair Costs
From My Rent?
No. The Act does not authorize you to make
repairs or to recover the cost of such repairs. In
fact, most apartment leases prohibit repairs by ten-
ants. When the landlord refuses to make repairs,
the Act gives you a qualified right to terminate the
lease or withhold rent. As previously indicated,
you should consult an attorney before attempting
to terminate the lease or withhold rent.
Can I use My Security Deposit
for the Last Month's Rent?
No. Landlords can legally evict you for
non-payment of rent even when your "security
deposit" is equal to your last month's rent. The
purpose of the security deposit is to protect the
landlord against damages to the apartment.Does the Law Require Interest
Payments on Security Deposits?
Landlords must hold security deposits in one
of three methods. Two methods of holding the
deposits require interest to be paid. The method
which does not require interest payment is the
one most landlords use. The landlord is required
to inform you in writing how your deposit is be-
ing held, where it is held, and whether you will
receive interest.
What Can I Do If My Landlord Doesn't
Return My Deposit?
A landlord shallhave 15 days after termination
of the lease to return the security deposit together
with interest if otherwise required, if he or she
does not intend to impose a claim on the security
deposit. If the landlord intends to impose a claim
in the security deposit, he or she shall have 30
days to give the tenant written notice by certified
mail, stating how much is going to deducted and
why. You must object to the deduction in writing
within 15 days from the date you receive the no-
tice, or the landlord will be authorized to deduct
his or her claim from your security deposit.
If the landlord fails to give the required no-
tice within the 30-day period, he or she forfeits
the right to impose a claim upon the security de-
posit.
However, if you damaged the apartment, the
landlord can sue you even when the 30-day no-
tice is not given. Because the landlord can also
get court costs and attorney's fees, you should
consult an attorney before filing any lawsuits.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from Student Legal Services, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
11..............
Be 8 PORT OF HISTORU!
wen RBSu, NoveBR 11
UNIVERSITY HOUSE
(NW 13TH STRBBT ann 7TH AMOJ
12:30 P -2:30 P-GETTING ALONG
l'.th
6, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 0 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
GETTING IT BACK
What Steps Can I Take To Protect My
Security Deposit?
When you take occupancy of the apartment,
complete a thorough written inventory of the
apartment's condition and have the landlord or
an impartial witness sign the inventory. Make
sure you keep a copy of the inventory. This
helps protect you from the landlord claiming
you caused pre-existing damage.
When you move out, clean the apartment
completely and thoroughly. Some landlords
provide a checklist outlining the cleaning
they expect you to do. Keep all your receipts
for cleaning supplies and professional carpetcleaning as evidence.
Before you leave, ask the landlord to in-
spect the apartment with you. Complete a
move-out checklist and make sure the landlord
signs and dates it. Use an impartial witness if
the landlord is not available or refuses your re-
quest. Move-in and move-out photographs or
videotape are strongly recommended in case
there is a dispute.
What Can I Do About Noisy Neighbors?
Try to reason with the neighbor to reach an
acceptable compromise. Thin walls and con-
flcting schedules make some amount of noise
disturbance an unavoidable reality of apart-ment living.
Ask the landlord for assistance. If the land-
lord refuses to correct the problem, you may
be able to break your lease. Because the law
in this area is so poorly developed, legal repre-
sentation is a necessity.
In extreme cases, call the police and report
the matter. Unfortunately, this can lead to re-
venge and reprisals.
I Can't Stand My Roommate.
What Can I Do?
Discuss the matter with your roommate
immediately. Don't ignore the problem with
the hope that it will go away. A little give andtake may result in a livable compromise.
Under the Act, your landlord is not re-
sponsible for most roommate disputes. If your
roommate is violating the lease, you should
consult an attorney.
Can My Rent Be Increased
During My Lease Term?
Not unless the lease contains a specific
provision allowing for a rent increase. From
the tenant's perspective, one of the primary
reasons for having a written lease is to lock in
the rent for the rental period. Normally, you
should not sign a lease providing for a rent in-
crease.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from Student Legal Services, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
MOVING & STORAGE
GAINESVILLE, FL Moving the Gator Community since 1980EWe can safely move your belongings
for etals! across town or across the country
3!i) 34-491 -Contact us for a FREE estimate and
*Go Gators!
www.gatormoving.biz
)1 &491u aiY1 a
10 U
A r _ 9
Student Government presents.
brought to you by Housing Affairs.
o of ww iCo
The SG Housing Fair is held every fall and spring on the Reitz Union Colonnade to help students navigate the
process of finding off campus housing. Residential companies from all over Gainesville participate in the fair
so that you can shop for an apartment in a one-stop-shop fashion. Student Legal Services will also be pres-
ent to answer questions about leases and the tenant-landlord relationship.
Come find your new place November 4 from 11AM -2PM.
We'll have tons of giveaways and free food.SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
GETTING
IT BACK
Can My Landlord Enter My Apartment
Without Notice?
No. Unless there is an emergency or you
have abandoned your apartment, the land-
lord must provide reasonable notice and
obtain your consent prior to entering your
apartment.
You cannot unreasonably withhold
consent. If the landlord persists in entering
without notice or consent, contact an attor-
ney.
How Soon Must I Renew My Lease?
There is no time period established
by the Act. You should not sign a lease
that provides for automatic renewals of
requires you to give the landlord a no-
tice of nonrenewal. If you do sign such
a lease, you must strictly comply with
the notice requirements imposed by the
lease.
If the lease does not specify other-
wise, renewals are a matter of general
contract law. The landlord cannot force
you to renew prior to the end of your
lease. However, if you do not renew by
the landlord's "deadline," the landlord
may rent your apartment to someone
else.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 7
Can I Break My Lease Because.
I am graduating? No!
My roommate left? No!
I cannot afford the rent? No!
I need to work this summer? No!
The neighborhood is unsafe? No!
Under the Act, you can only terminate
the lease if the landlord is materially violat-
ing your lease or the Act. You should obtain
legal advice before attempting to terminate
your lease. In many cases, the best thing you
can do is find replacement tenants.GETTING OUT
Can I Sublet My Apartment?
Usually. The landlord cannot unreason-
ably withhold consent to an assignment or
sublease. The landlord may require potential
replacement tenants to submit an applica-
tion including a credit check. The landlord
may also charge a reasonable sublet fee even
when you provide the replacement tenants.
Normally you remain liable under your lease
if the replacement tenants do not pay rent or
damage the apartment. Some landlords will
release you from the obligations of your lease.
If you are being released, get it in writing.Can I Just Move Out and Forfeit
My Security Deposit?
No. Some tenants will walk out on a lease
and receive no adverse action, while others
will be pursued to the fullest extent of the
law. In Gainesville's current rental market,
the odds are that you will be sued unless you
supply acceptable replacement tenants.
Your losses in court will not be limited to
your security deposit, but will include rent
for each month the apartment remains vacant
during the term of your lease, plus court costs
and the landlord's attorney's fees.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from Student Legal Services, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
txt "Cabana" to 47464 for more info
1601 SW 51st Terrace Gainesville, FL 32Fusion of South Beach and the Islands
U
Exotic Student Living
U
Now leasing for SPRING!
U
Rates as low as $414!
A
2 and 4 bedroom villas -modern furniture
lagoon style pool -poolside beach
poolside wireless access -fitness room
computer lab -movie lounge
billiards -beach volleyball -basketball
607 352.335.2000Gainesville has plenty of off-campus housing including apartments, condos, houses, and rooms for rent. Take your time O C Lwhen looking for a place to live. There is plenty of available off- campus housing; don't rush to sign a lease. Even though prop-
erty managers/owners may say space is limited, chances are there are many vacant properties still available. UNVERTY OF FLORDA
Below is a Top 10 Checklist for finding the right place for you:
1. Use the Off Campus Housing Locator Service at http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu.
2. Create a priority list. What do you care about most in a living space? Room size, rent, type of lease, type of community (large un-
dergrad population, graduate students, local residents, etc.), location, proximity to campus or bus route. all these things are factors to
consider in choosing a place to live. Write out a list of ideal characteristics you want in your future living space and keep these criteria
in mind when selecting a location.
3. Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to live alone. Know what kind of person would best compliment your personality and
choose accordingly.
4. Know your budget and choose a property that allows you to live within your means.
5. Drive around and visit the place and neighborhood you are looking to live in. Do not sign without seeing the property first. Pictures
can be very deceiving.
6. Take a tour of the complexes that interest you and get to know the management. Feel out the vibes the complex managers or staff
give you. These are the people responsible for taking care of the property, so if you feel like they take care of you, chances are they
also take care of the property. The same goes for the contrary.
7. Ask your friends for advice on where to live. Which properties worked well for them? Which didn't?
8. Check with local Law Enforcement for crime statistics on the area you choose to live in by calling 352-955-1818.
9. Go back to the property at night and make some observations. Is it well lit, do you see the security guard that management prom-
ised, is the security gate working, is it quiet enough to study, how close is the bus stop or parking to the complex or house, etc.?
10. Overall, listen to your heart. If you have any reservations about a property, do not feel forced to commit. There are plenty of living
places in Gainesville. You will find a place even if you let one property go.
8, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE 0 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
Leases
A great University of Florida resource
available to full-time students is Student
Legal Services. For any questions on your
lease, contact Student Legal Services
and set up an appointment with a lawyer
to help review it BEFORE you sign it. Visit
www.studentlegaservices.ufl.edu or call
352-392-LAWS for more information.
Roommates
-Look for roommates on the Off Cam-
pus Housing Locator at: http://housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu.
-Being friends with someone and liv-
ing with a friend can be two totally dif-
ferent things. See the Gator Guide to Off
Campus Life for some tips on how to stay
friends while living together at www.off-
campus.ufl.edu/gatorguide.php
Safety Tips
Both personal and property safety is
important as you search for off-campus
housing. Before signing a lease, contact
local law enforcement at 352-955-1818
with the addresses of where you are
looking to live and they can give you
crime statistics for that area.
Below are five tips to use when looking
at safety during your apartment search:
1. Go back to the complex at night.
How do you feel? How does the envi-
ronment seem? Is the place well lit and
populated or dark and isolated?
2. Does the property have working se-
curity gates and/or guards?
3. Check for dead bolts on the out-
side door, locks for individual doors,alarm systems, etc. and ask lots of ques-
tions about the security. Is there an extra
charge for a security system?
4. Has there been crime in the area
recently? What actions have been done
to prevent crime from happening?
5. Don't forget about purchasing
some Renter's Insurance to protect you
and your stuff from the unexpected.
Go to the Off Campus Life website at
www.offcampus.ufl.edu/toplO.php for
more personal and property safety tips.
Budgets
You can't find the right place to live
until you know how much you are able
to spend. Here are some budget ques-
tions you should think about while tour-
ing a property:
1. What is the monthly rent?
2. What's included in that rent? Utili-
ties, gas, water, cable, internet?
3. What's not included in rent? What
is the average monthly cost for gas, elec-
tric, water, garbage disposal? If manage-
ment doesn't know, contact GRU at www.
gru.com and they can give you average
costs of utilities for the previous year.
4. Want to have a pet? Factor in the
deposit and monthly cost for food, medi-
cal, and grooming care.
5. Don't forget the insurance. Before you
sign your lease, call your insurance compa-
ny and see how much itwill cost monthly to
insure your apartment or house.
6. Are you going to need fuel for your
vehicle or are you going to use the bus?
Factor in transportation/ car mainte-
nance costs to your budget.
7. How much will you spend monthlyon groceries or on a meal plan?
8. Have some fun! Don't spend so
much on rent that you don't have mon-
ey for leisure time.
9. What do you spend on clothing,
shoes, and accessories?
10. How much money can you save ev-
ery month? It's really good to save some
money every month to cover unexpected
emergency expenses. Even $20 a month
saved is good. Every little bit counts.
To help you with your budget, OCL
has a budget spreadsheet in the Gator
Guide that can be found online at www.
offcampus.ufl.edu.
Insurance
If you are thinking about renting a
house or apartment, Renters Insurance
provides important coverage for both you
and your possessions. A standard Renter's
Policy protects your personal property in
case of theft or damage and may pay
for temporary living expenses if your rental
is damaged (including loss of use). It can
also shield you from personal liability. Any-
one who leases a house or apartment
should consider this type of coverage.
Talk with your parents before getting
your own renter's policy. If you are still
financially dependent on your parents or
a family member and they own a home,
they might be able to cover you under
their homeowner's policy. Some home-
owner policies will cover a dependent's
rental property while in college.
There are several types of Residential
Insurance policies. Read your policy in-
formation carefully and ensure you have
full coverage. Policies should include theSPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
OCL
UNiVERSiTY OF FLORiDA
following items:
-Fire or lightning; Windstorm or hail;
Explosion; Aircraft; Vehicles; Smoke;
Vandalism or malicious mischief; Theft;
Damage by glass or safety-glazing ma-
terial that is part of a building; Falling ob-
jects; Water-related damage from home
utilities; Electrical surge damage
Floods, earthquakes, and hurricanes
aren't on the list. If you live in an area
prone to one or more of the three, you'll
need to buy a separate policy or a rid-
er. In areas where hurricanes can pose
a threat, you might also need to buy a
separate rider to cover wind damage.
Ask your insurance agent about this ex-
tra coverage. Gainesville is prone to
hurricanes and some areas flood.
Your living environment plays a ma-
jor factor in your overall happiness level.
Know what you want to get out of your
living space and choose your location
and roommate(s) accordingly. Don't let
anyone else push you into living some-
where or with someone you don't feel
100% right with. Gainesville is home
now. .so let Off Campus Life help you
get the most out of your off-campus ex-
perience.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from Student Legal Services, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.
Building a Healthy Foundation for the Gator Nation
The Student Health Care Center's licensed and
board-certified medical professionals are available 24/7.
UF students can use our personalized services:
Primary Care
Acute Care &Trauma Clinic
Psychiatry Services
Physical Therapy
" Sports Medicine
" Women's Clinic
" Travel Clinic" Dermatology Clinic
" Mole Screenings
" Massage Therapy
" Immunizations
" Full-Service Pharmacy
" Clinical Laboratory
" Radiology & EKG
m Allergy Injection Clinic
Phone first to make an appointment:
(352) 392-1161
UFIStudent Health Care CenterU
U
U
U
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
Live for $339!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2,3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$350/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Call Eric, 352-219-2879 12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1**LAMANCHA CONDOS**
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect,
cable tv, & high speed internet. $299/mo
Call 352-278-9347 or
www.lamanchacondos.com 11-6-40-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-17-09-25-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 11-13-09-10-1
3 blks from campus!! For rent 4/2. Each
room $400/mo. Includes utilities & Internet.
Beautiful pool & courtyard. A great place to
live in a great location. 813-690-8989. 11-
13-09-10-1
0ejrligtrsju ?
Cjrossmqj
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
For RentO F unfurnished*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 * www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE. ** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo. Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2 352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*FitnessTennis*Pool*Payground
Wash er/D ryer*Fi rep laces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
379-WALK
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-212-
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, imitation, or discrimination because of color, region, sex, handicap, family status, or national origin, or intention to make imitation, or discrimination." We wll
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising thatis know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
18, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available-
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue* Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com 12-9-
75-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, is from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Apartments off SW 20th Ave. Close to shop-
ping, bus line and a few miles from UF. Price
rage $445 to $665. Includes water, sewer,
garbage and pest control. Sorry no pets al-
lowed. Call 335-7066 Mon-Fri. 12-9-09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
11-16-09-76-2
Spacious 1 2 & 3BR $495 & up
C/HA, veritcals, Italian Tile, private patio,
some w/d hookup Some walk to UF. Much
Much more Call 352-332-7700. 11-4-60-2
$40 Moves you in. Pine Rush
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
1 MONTH FREE! Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
$40 Moves you in. Homestead
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
1 MONTH FREE! SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
$40 Moves you in. Gator Village
1 bdr. from $489 1 MONTH FREE!
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
$40 Moves you in. Sunrise
1bdr. from $469 1 MONTH FREE!
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
$40 Moves you in. Summer Place
1 bdr. from $459 1 MONTH FREE!
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail now. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.
one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceiling
fans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, secu-
rity. No dogs. 378-3704 sallygville@aol.com
11-5-09-20-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$600. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-9-
09-20-2
THE GIFT GUIDE
WINTER 2009
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to
more than 52,000 readers! I
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
students, faculty and staff looking for
graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Deadline:
Friday, November 13
Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
352.376.4482
--u* *li "atoall eig apedet or**STUDENTS** 1 bedroom apt in historic
building between UF & downtown. Walk or
bike everywhere. 116 NW 7th Terr. $485/
mth. Call 870-2760. Others available 11-
4-09-15-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-6-09-14-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010)
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th Ave
352-376-1619 352-373-4500Move in Special: No Security Deposit
2/2 Condo with washer/dryer, screened-
in porch, newer condo, near UF. Shands,
located off 34th & Archer Rd. 2 units
available $750 per month. Call 317-5060
11-5-09-10-2
1/1 in 3/3 in Campus View Condos. 1235
SW 9th Road, 3rd floor unit. Newly built, w/d,
new appliances, Females only please. $515,
from January to July 31st. Can move in early.
Please call 727-776-7098. 11-6-10-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09-
15-2
FAMILY AREA WITH PETS, OK
Two Bd with Two Full Baths, new carpet, just
painted, new refrigerator. Fenced in back
yard, patio, and large W/D room plus stor-
age. Avail Nov 1st. $660. Only $50 Sec, with
reference. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-09-10-2
Regency Oaks South West Villas Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
352-378-5766 352-336-9000 $200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
We Speak Spanish
11-20-09-20-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neighbor-
hood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood floors,
fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $900/mo. $30/
mo ontime discount. 773-407-1774. 11-19-
09-20-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES!Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f.
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com
11-18--09-15-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $695+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-17-14-2
Copyrighted Material
,Syndicatdd Cdiitent
Available from Commercial News Providers
10 adnm
4
"
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
For Rent Subleases Roommates Real Estate Furnishings F nfurnished _ U L _ aIJ
Walk to UF 3BR/1 BA house, grandaddy oaks
fenced yard, cent H/AC, DW, W/D, scr back
porch, enclosed front porch for additional liv-
ing space. Completely redone, immaculate.
Pets ok. Avail now. $1050/mo 378-4684 11-
4-09-5-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
$40 Moves you in. Sundowne
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
1 MONTH FREE! Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
$40 Moves you in. Courtney Greens
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
$40 Moves you in. Ashton Square
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120
www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
COTTAGE 1BR/1BA w/carport
$500/mo Near university in historic district.
Call 352-332-8481 11-18-09-10-2
O-subleases
$280/mo+util.Sublease nxt spring/sum.Lg 1
br/1 ba in 3br/3ba Stoneridge apt.Inc:wash/
dryer,dshwshr,all essentials!Lg walkin clos-
et! Walk to Butler plaza.2 bus rts 12&35.
Gym, pool, bball/tennis crts also.Call 813-
909-6447 11-6-5-3
[I OST WANTE
Michael Davis
Black Male
(DOB 05/04/87); 5'11",
140 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Felony Violation of
Probation for Possession of
a Controlled Substance with
Intent to Sell and Operating
a Motor Vehicle Without
Valid License-
ALACNUA COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP1/1 apt w/fenced backyard. 2 blocks from
campus near midtown. Pets OK. $625 OBO.
Available spring & summer. Walk every-
where! 813-382-6031 11-6-09-5-3
1/1 in a small, quiet complex off 34th st. Avail.
Jan 2010-end of Jul 2010. W/D and D/W in-
cluded, pets allowed, gated private patio, ce-
ramic tile floors. $739/mo. Negotiable terms.
Jenna 863-860-4834 jennadg@ufl.edu 11-
10-5-3
Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-6-09-15-4
1 monthfree-Share2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-6-
15-4
1BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-4-
09-10-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4SWEET 2/1 HOUSE
Prive location, 708 NW 10th Ave. includes;
all Utl's, W/D, and Swimming pool. Avail Now
$440. Plus sec. Call Karl 332-5030 11-9-
09-10-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
11-12-09-10-4
$350 FEMALE ONLY
1/2 of utilities, FREE WATER! 786-797-2778
mad05@ufl.edu 11-4-5-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
Female preferred. Share 2BR/2BA $445/mo.
Free cable/internet. Archer Rd &
1-75. Master suite, walk-in closet, W/D. Quiet,
private, wooded view.
Pool, gym, Common area furn. 1 cat. Lease
thru Aug '10. 352-339-0502 11-6-09-5-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
F Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
a a
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersNEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
1 br/1 ba by Regal Cinemas & UF
507 NW 39th Rd #126- Hawthorne Reserve
Condos. $60,000 short sale. Call Stacy at
Trevor Waters Realty 352-682-8530 11-9-
09-5-5BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
UIcomputers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
C 0 lP UT E R
Furnishings 12-9-74-7
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Cy Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
*Best Prices in Town*
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
Did you know that with as little as $40 down
you can be riding a new quality bike today?
Schwinn Shop has the best selection of new
and used bikes. 1225 W University -2 doors
down from Leonardo's 374-2064 11-6-15-9
W For Sale
*@@PARKING***
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOUVE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
Motorcles, Mopeds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-114W 40-
20, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
Etcycles, Mopeds Autos Wanted Help Wanted Help Wanted
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
PINK & BLACK SCOOTER 2008
Only 8 miles on it! Electric
Inc charger. Exc cond. $700. 386-684-6153
11-4-09-5-11
WL EAutosZ
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
*NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-16-09-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-1292 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
07 CHEVY LS
5-speed, CD, airbag, new cond. 43k miles.
Leaving for Europe -must sell. $6950/OBO.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
6-09-74-13
Help Needed
OVolunteers: to drive adult cats to Gville to
neuter/spay & return
*Working Computer needed desperately.
Old Town, FIL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll priest 11-6-09-5-13
WJIHepWanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcareygalligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
Call 352-486-2812 11-10-09-5-12 the independent florida
OFWanted aliao
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-6-09-74-13ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled stu-
dent, preferably in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work with
accounts receivables and accounts payables.
Other duties consist of manipulating Excel
spredsheets, answering phones, and gen-
eral office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please send resume, along
with a cover letter to: Business Office, The
Independent Florida Alligator PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Email: mbell@
alligator.org AND tcarey@alligator.org, or
Fax: 352-376-4556. No phone calls please.
I -, 
.
aLIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used cloth ing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
* 0 W 41.DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
.-0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content,
Available from Commercial News Providers
-pF
asIC
I
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 21
FHelp Wanted Help Wanted 7 services Services Personals
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
STUDENT WORK
GREAT PAY
Customer Sales/Service
Flex Sched, PT/FT Avail,
Work around classes,
conditions apply,
352-371-9675
11-12-09-20-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Full time NANNIES needed for Jan
one toddler $10/hr M-F OR 2 elem age $12/
hr M-F + E & wkds; grad students welcome;
exp req; Noah's Ark Nanny; send resume,
photo, short bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
NANNY for 1.5 children ages 1 & 2.5
20 hrs/wk; 4hrs/day, variable am/pm
Noah's Ark Nanny: resume, photo,
class sched, bio to gnv@nanoneone.com
11-6-09-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT. PT
1-5 or 6pm, 15-20 hrs/wk. Proficient typ-
ing, Word, Excel, online surfing. $7.25/hr.
siva1950@yahoo.com 11-4-09-5-14
T riv a
stby Fif
--R diguez
1. LITERATURE: What is the liter-
ary device called alliteration?
2. MATH: What is the Arabic equiva-
lent of the Roman numerals
MMDLVII?
3. TELEVISION: What comic book
superhero is either mentioned or rep-
resented in many episodes of the
"Seinfeld" sitcom series?
4. INVENTIONS: Who is credited
with inventing the electric razor?
5. MOVIES: What was Forrest
Gump's home state?
6. MUSIC: What rock group per-
formed the song "Pride (In the Name
ofLove)"?
7. CHEMISTRY: What is the symbol
for the element magnesium?
8. GEOGRAPHY: What modern
European country was called Lusita-
nia in Roman times?
9. LANGUAGE: In Latin names for
the days of [lie week, what planet is
represented by Wednesday?
10. ANIMAL WORLD: Which
insect can sting only once'?
aoq!AuoH -01
(!zin.iatA sda!) AlrnN -6
lR~ntIOd 'X
4LN *L
1t!4DS qou V
uiurdnS -E
L 'Z T
pic! 1? JO 3uiuuioq 3l ju X p[
-nsn 'Jutuosuo3 p01rdoi r jo 3s{'y 'I
S1JAXSUVSERVERS
Evenings & weekends. Experienced & friend-
ly. Apply in person between 2-5. Napolatanos
606 NW 75th St. 11-4-09-5-14
Transcription/Office Asst
Must be pleasant, enjoy people & have expe-
rience; also admin. & grading psych tests.
Email res. info@villagecounselingcenter.net
11-12-09-10-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER -Join Our Team!
Unique long term opportunity. Full time
position with 100% employee owned Co.
Extensive training/benefits-health, 401K, etc.
Indesign, photoshop, MAC/PC experience
a must. Apply now, Renaissance Printing,
4130 NW 16th Blvd. Drug Test. 11-6-7-14
YARD WORK Mowing. Car detailing. Pool
maintenance. Back up shipping. Errands.
Miscellaneous duties. Must have a valid driv-
ers license and good driving record. Own ve-
hicle. Truck preferred. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 11-13-09-10-14
Veterinary Asst. -Exper. Preferred.
P/T or F/T hours. Must be avail. to work Mon.
& Fri. 7:30-6:00,& Sat 8:15-12:30. Fax or e-
mail resume to 352-373-7211 or
timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com 11-5-09-
5-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
11-19-09-12-14
Barn help needed 1 day per week
Exchange for boarding or lessons
EXPERIENCE NECESSARY!
Call 359-4149 11-17-09-10-14
Opus Cafe -Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at
a fast paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website, www.opus-cafe.
com, click on the employment tab, and
follow the directions.
11-16-09-8-14
Mommy's helper for energetic 2yr old
Fun, smart, creative female student
to help in AM; 4hrs/day; 2-5 days/wk
email bio, availability, references
and more to UFmommy@gmail.com 11-10-
09-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
kickoff EDITIONS.
Reach your Target Market before the game!
15% DISCOUNT 15% DISCOUNTFor any ON ADVERTISMENTS RUNadvertisement IN 5 OUT Or 7 EDIT ONS
that runs prior to DEADLINE FOR SPECIALKickoff Edition and OFFERis picked up (no WED, NOV 4, 2009changes). NO OTHERDSCOUNT MAY
5% DISCOUNT APL
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
olrpotos! opponent features!
team rosters! gator features!
and much more!
November 6 Vanderbilt Deadline: November 4
November 13 Men's Basketball Tipoff Deadline: November 10
November 20 Florida International Deadline: November 18
November 25 Florida State Deadline: November 23
December 4 SEC Championship* Deadline: December 2
* lig'''a'' ' "'. r to place your ad, call 352-376-4482
*To Be DeterminedGator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl~gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
Writing a paper? Send it to:
GETABETTERGRADE@gmail.com.
We'll check grammar-syntax.
Quick turnaround. Inexpensive. 11-10-09-
10-15
How's your Complexion?
My facials are custom tailored to your skin's
specific needs! New clients get 10% off!
Call Jennifer at COMPLEXIONS to make an
appointment! 352-225-6696
11-4-09-5-15
FHealth Services
HIV ANIIB YLT ITE INJ
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) Rides
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
38-1612-8-
f Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18Blastoff Network. It's free! Fun and easy!
Get paid when you shop onine. Make money
when you spread the word! Register online.
http://my.blastoffnetwork.com/singleton5l.
Questions (352) 208-9582 11-6-09-5-18
WJLConnections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to
share a common interest with or for your true
love
Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
WEIZPetZ
Furry, feathery, scaly.no, not your room-
mate.pets. Find or advertise your pets or
pet products here in the Pets section of the
Alligator.
Help Needed -Rescue/Rehome
*Kittens: toms, wormed. litter trained
OSmall Dog: neutered, shots, housebroken
Old Town, FL 352-542-0706,
C Carroll, priest 11-6-09-5-24
M 11 .ost & Found
LOST: RING Worn about 40 years. Bent with
2 rubies. Size 7 or so. Lost on Oct 24th at
park on 400 NE 16th Ave during the Breast
Cancer Walk. REWARD OFFERED. Call
Jessie at 352-283-9178 11-6-09-5-25
Sports
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Cunningham, Dunlap coming on strong
By MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator org
It took a while, but Florida's
highly touted defensive ends are
starting to make their presence
felt.
Through the first five games
this season, Carlos Dunlap and
Jermaine Cunningham had com-
bined for just three sacks, a to-
tal linebacker Brandon Spikes
equaled in the LSU game alone.
"Those two guys off the
edge right now are playing
about as well as any pair of
defensive ends in college
football."
Dan McCarney
UF defensive line coach
They flashed little of the tal-
ent and drive that made ESPN's
Scouts, Inc. rate them the Nos. 1
and 8 defensive end prospects for
April's NFL Draft.
But they've recovered from the
slow start, racking up four each in
the last three contests.
That's the kind of production
that was expected from the duo at
the beginning of the season, and if
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 23Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
UF defensive end Jermaine Cunningham has been rated the No. 8 prospect at his position for the
2010 NFL Draft by ESPN's Scouts, Inc. Cunningham has five sacks on the season.
UF takes different mindset to SEC Tourney
Gators will face Vols in first round
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
tjett@alligatororg
Hospitality is overrated.
When Tennessee (8-8-3, 4-5-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) faces No. 8 Florida (14-4-2,
8-1-2 SEC) in the opening round of the SEC
Tournament tonight at 6 in Orange Beach,
Ala., the Volunteers might find the Gators
backline to be less inviting than the last
time the two teams met.
When UF traveled to Tennessee on Oct
16, the Gators blew an early 1-0 lead after
defender Lauren Hyde had the ball stripped
by Volunteers forward Chelsea Hatcher in
the Gators' defensive third.
Hatcher easily scored, Tennessee put
another goal on the scoreboard and Florida
needed a goal in the last five minutes to es-
cape with a tie."Tennessee kicked our butts last time,"
coach Becky Burleigh said.
When the Gators returned to Gainesville
after the match, Burleigh changed the way
the team practiced to emphasize defense.
"We're a high-risk team," Burleigh said.
"We like to play offense. We
play defense because we have
to -that's just our philoso-
phy. And so we were rely-Soccer ing a little bit too much on
our offense and not spending
enough time coaching the defense."
The coaches put players through a one-
on-one drill to help them focus on pressur-
ing opponents when they are the first to
mark an attacking player. The idea is for
one player to step up and cut off the oppo-
nent's options.
"One-on-one defending is crucial be-
cause if you mess up, then that messes upthe whole team," sophomore Sarah Chap-
man said.
The Gators also practice a half-field drill,
where forwards and attacking midfielders
approach UF defenders and try to score.
Defensive midfielders usually play along-
side the backline, but Burleigh sometimes
tells them to play behind the attack to prac-
tice defending a counter attack.
If the defensive midfielders are tracking
back, the backline focuses on containing the
attack as much as possible until the mid-
fielders can arrive to help.
During the drill, coaches will stop play
when they see the need to instruct defend-
ers on how to react based on the way the
offense runs into the penalty box.
By focusing on defense in practice, the
Gators not only improved tactically, they
also changed their mentality, Burleigh said.
The coach wants every player, attacking
players included, to be involved.
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 23
SEC SOCCER AWARDS
E Senior Lauren Hyde was named
Defensive Player of the Year. Katie
Fraine and Hyde made the All-SEC
First Team while Lindsay Thomp-
son made the second team.0 Reader Ben Volin was routed by writer
Bobby Callovi last week, but Volin still leads
our league with a 7-2 record. Callovi and
writer Mike McCall sit one game back at 6-3.
Check out our Web site for a recap.TEEING OFF WITH BOBBY CALLOVI
U While many are calling for Brandon Spikes' head for his eye-gouging, there are
some that don't think he should have been suspended, including the person who
was gouged -Washaun Ealey. Shows how awful Spikes' action was. .Stephen
Colbert has been known for his unwavering patriotism, leading him to have his
show, "The Colbert Report," be the main sponsor of the U.S. speed skating team.1
4 -, -Glamorous
wrinkles
not always
the answer
rban Meyer loves add-
ing new wrinkles to
his team's game plan.
But the two major additions
this season have not been suc-
cessful.
Sure, the Joker and Banzai
packages sound cool, and they
were successful in their debuts
against cakewalks Troy and
Charleston Southern, respec-
tively.
The honeymoon is over,
though,
and nei-
.-- ther has
looked
as ef-
fective
Bobby Callovi since.
Bobby's World T h e
bcallovi@alligatororg Banzai
was the
Gators'
version of a no-huddle of-
fense and was supposed to be
a great way to change the pace
of the game to better suit their
style of play.
All it really did was move
the huddle from a couple
yards behind the line of scrim-
mage to at the line of scrim-
mage.
Often, it seemed the play-
ers would hurry to the line just
to wait for signals from the
sideline, allowing opposing
defenses plenty of time to pre-
pare for the next play, which
is what this package was sup-
posed to counteract.
At the start of the season,
Florida used the offense fre-
quently, but it has been see-
ing a decreased role in recent
games.
Against Georgia, the Ban-
zai was nowhere to be seen as
SEE BOBBY, PAGE 23"'A"5
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 23
UF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Gators not sure of this year's offensive identity
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
etorrens@a Iligator org
Some days Amanda Butler thinks
her team will be a run-and-gun type
offense. Other times after practice,
she's not so sure the UF women's
basketball team will be as outside-
oriented as she previously thought.
She may be indecisive about the
offensive image of her team, but
Butler is sure about two things: her
team can shoot, and she's going to
make sure the Gators pound the
paint this season.
"We've got the potential to put
five kids on the floor that can shoot
the three," Butler said. "Does that
mean that we're going to live and
die by the three? Absolutely not."Last season, the UF women's bas-
ketball team averaged nearly two
more 3 pointers than its opponents.
The team also shot .365 from
downtown -as opposed to the .310
percentage opponents fired.
And while the team is comprised
of shooters, Butler listed some of the
shooters on her team from memory
like reading from a list: Jordan Jones,
Jennifer Mossor, Steffi Sorensen and
post players Sharielle Smith and Lily
Svete.
"We're great shooters, but we
have to punish (opponents) in the
paint so that they have to worry,"
Azania Stewart said.
UF may just be able to shoot from
beyond the arc all night and day, but
the team plans to stick to defense
and post play.Butler has made it clear she's
not afraid to tell her shooters when
they're trigger happy. But they're
not yet. She made that known from
the beginning.
"We've got the potential to
put five kids on the floor
that can shoot the three."
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coach
The Gators will go to the rim first
-running until they're stopped -
before going to the 3-point line.
"Sometimes they don't hit
(threes) all the time, so we do have
to go and rebound," sophomore
Trumae Lucas said. "We have to
pick those points back up that theydon't knock down from behind the
arc."
The offense will undoubtedly
take a different look with the depar-
ture of superstar seniors Marshae
Dotson and Sha Brooks, the team's
two leading scorers last year with
16.4 and 14 points per game, respec-
tively.
This may raise red flags for out-
siders, but Butler points out how she
and her coaching staff have known
since their arrival that the duo was
were bound to leave.
"There's a lot of different people
that are going to assume bigger roles
because there's not a Marshae Dot-
son and a Sha Brooks any longer,"
Butler said.
Even without the unmistakable
offensive production the pairingbrought, Butler is still preaching of-
fensive aggressiveness.
Ndidi Madu, who has been sin-
gled out by the coaching staff for her
higher level of play in the preseason,
said being assertive was one of the
most pivotal things she learned from
Dotson last year.
Madu said she's been working
on being more aggressive in the
paint and working on her low-block
scoring. A player who likes to face
the basket, Madu is striving to score
in other ways.
But she, like the other post play-
ers, feels completely confident about
kicking it out if she doesn't have a
shot.
"I never have a doubt, if I'm kick-
ing it out -it's automatic, it's going
in," Stewart said.
Florida tied for conference lead in sacks
FOOTBALL, from page 22
it keeps up, an already stout UF defense will be even bet-
ter.
"Those two guys off the edge right now are playing
about as well as any pair of defensive ends in college foot-
ball," defensive line coach Dan McCarney said. "They need
to continue that. They haven't been doing that all year. In
the last two or three weeks, I think they have been."
Following the LSU game, the Gators were 34th in the
nation for sacks, but they've risen to No. 14 and are now
tied for the Southeastern Conference lead with Alabama
and Ole Miss at 23.
McCarney said they should have "at least six more," and
he's hopeful his unit can add to that tally after regaining
some depth on the interior line.
Entering the season, Lawrence Marsh and Jaye Howard
were the expected starters at defensive tackle, but injuries
have limited Marsh to action in just three games, and How-
ard has missed two of the last three.
That left Omar Hunter, Terron Sanders and Troy Epps
inside, but Epps hasn't seen action in the last four games.
"A couple of games you're just holding your breath, tell-
ing them, 'Here's what you have to do, here's what we haveto do to win, and don't get hurt,' McCarney said "That's a
great message from your position coach, 'Don't get hurt.' It
was about time for me to go into the game."
The lack of depth didn't allow McCarney to use the kind
of rotation he had envisioned to keep his players fresh, and
the pass rush suffered.
Justin Trattou played at both end and tackle, and after
recovering from a biceps injury, he and the
now-healthy Howard and Marsh should
change things inside.
"Overall, they're doing a good job, but theFootball challenge is we have to get more out of those
inside guys," he said. "There's not going to
be five sacks a game by the inside guys, but there has to be
lots of pressure."
The increased performance from Dunlap and Cunning-
ham has coincided with a rise in interceptions. The Gators
have tallied seven of their 14 picks in the last two games,
and being able to rely on the front four to get to the quarter-
back makes life easier for the rest of the defense.
"That helps us out tremendously," cornerback Joe Ha-
den said. "As a matter of fact, sometimes it's not even about
the coverage. Say we have OK coverage, but the pass is a
little off because of the pass rush, that makes playing corner
a whole lot easier."
Change in focus leads to three straight shutouts
SOCCER, from page 22
"If you have a player that gets past
you, then you have a responsibility
to get back and help track that player
down, and not just say, 'Oh, it's not
my problem anymore, I'll let her deal
with it,"' Burleigh said.
The change in attitude has been ob-
vious on the pitch. In UF's three games
since the team changed its focus, the
Gators have recorded three shutouts.
Even more telling, in games to de-
termine the SEC regular season cham-
pionship against No. 13 LSU and No.
15 South Carolina, Florida prevented
its opponents from getting an open
look at the goal.
Anytime a player had room to
breathe, she quickly noticed a Gators
jersey attached to her.
"In the back of our mind, when we
lose the ball, we have to get it back,"
Chapman said.
Back to Tennessee's side of the field
but not back to Florida's welcoming
ways.BOBBY, from page 22
part of Meyer's plan to fix some of the offensive
problems the team has had in recent weeks.
"We didn't audible a lot, we let them play,"
Meyer said.
The Banzai package probably will linger for
the rest of the season and Meyer will try to fix
it in the offseason, but it is not going to be the
prevalent fixture in the offense as once expect-
ed.
The Joker package falls into the same cat-
egory.
The 3-3-5 defense was supposed to take
advantage of the Gators' three great defensive
ends (Carlos Dunlap, Jermaine Cunningham
and Justin Trattou), the army of quality line-
backers and the three "starting" safeties (Will
Hill, Ahmad Black and Major Wright).
Although defensive coordinator Charlie
Strong knew it would be susceptible against the
run, it was going to be effective against pass-
heavy teams and on third-and-long situations.
The only problem is that on third and long,
teams are usually unwilling to just heave the
ball down the field and instead opt to run or
throw screens.
Tennessee was the first to take advantage of
this formation, breaking off runs of 20 and 13 on
third and long and added a 21-yard screen play
on another one.
Since then, the Joker has made only occa-
sionally appearances in third-and-long situa-
tions, and the Gators have made an increased
push to add depth at defensive tackle, so they
could play more four-man fronts, despite being
plagued by injuries at the position.
If Strong wants to get Trattou and Hill, who
are both the third man at their position, on the
field, he is just going to have to rotate them in
because the joker is barely a viable option.
Just because these two wrinkles have failed
that doesn't mean Meyer or Strong have lost
their touch. Meyer's past additions have had
success and are now staples in the offense, and
Strong is directing the nation's best defense.
The Banzai's failure has not kept Meyer
down either, because he has already unveiled a
new candidate to be added to the offense.
In the last two games, he has added the I-for-
mation to the game plan with much success, but
before anyone goes claiming the I-form is here
to stay, just wait because a couple more games
could expose this too as a fraud. Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Sarah Chapman (88) and her teammates have put more em-
phasis on defense recently. It has paid off with six wins in seven matches.
24, ALLIGATOR U WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2009
Frontcourt struggles against undersized exhibition foe
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
As impressive as the Gators' guards were in their
first exhibition game Monday night, Florida's front-
court play left a little something to be desired.
Praised as being the team's deeper and more ver-
satile unit, UF's big men were mostly outplayed and
overshadowed by a two-deep backcourt that fea-
tures four underclassmen despite facing a team that
started no player taller than 6 foot 7.
UF gave up 11 offensive rebounds to an under-
sized Saint Leo squad in the first half of the 95-46
exhibition victory against the Lions. Although the
Gators went on to win the rebounding advantage 51-
38, they trailed by one about two minutes into the
second half.
UF coach Billy Donovan attributed some of his
team's early rebounding struggles to his experi-
menting with a number of different rotations in his
team's full-court press. In addition, the Lions missed
20 threes in the game, which resulted in a lot of long
rebounds.
"We weren't boxing out," said junior power for-
ward Alex Tyus, who led the team with nine boards.
"They were shooting a lot of threes. We were just
running in without touching our men, and the ball
would go over our heads."
Tyus started the game at power forward, where
he will likely see the bulk of his minutes after hav-
ing to play out of position at center all last season.
The preseason All-Southeastern Conference Second
Team selection was also the team's only non-back-
court player to score double-digit points, finishing
with 10.
Center Vernon Macklin struggled at times in his
highly anticipated Florida debut, scoring 7 points,
grabbing just four rebounds and recording no blocks
in 23 minutes.Macklin has been viewed as the solution to UF's
low-post issues from last year, as his 6-foot-10,
240-pound frame gives the Gators a legitimate big
man and frees up players like Tyus and Dan Werner
to return to their more natural positions, as they did
Monday night.
The junior said he didn't feel any pressure in his
first game back after sitting out all last season, but
he didn't look or feel entirely comfortable in his first
organized game in more than a year.
"I'm sure for him it was a little bit of an awkward
feeling, going out there in the starting lineup," said
Donovan, who has repeatedly warned against ex-
pecting too much out of Macklin. "Probably the last
time he started a game was in high school. But I think
Vern will continue to get better."
"They were shooting a lot of threes. We
were just running in without touching
our men, and the ball would go over our
heads."
Alex Tyus
UF junior power forward
Coming off the bench to fill in at center and power
forward, freshman Erik Murphy showed the poten-
tial to be a key role player for the Gators. He put up
nine points and grabbed six boards while appearing
to already be one of UF's most physical, athletic re-
bounders.
Sophomore Kenny Kadji also saw time at center,
adding six points, five rebounds and a team-high
three blocks, but he racked up four fouls and three
turnovers in only 14 minutes of play.
"If you look at Kadji, Murphy and Macklin as a
committee, in terms of their points, rebounds and
what they did, I thought it was pretty good," Dono-
van said.UF center Vernon Macklin had seven points, four rebounds and no
blocks in 23 minutes against Division-Il Saint Leo on Monday.
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers
'Delicious food
-Snacks and Beer
ban San ches, Pls Pas l ee, a more
2 Downtown At 8 sec,371-2000., nexti urty Nellys
all'gggporta1ECA, ports
Tune in for the
latest Gators
sports news
and analysis
from our beat
writers and
columnists.
Check it out at
alligatorSports.org
or subscribe on iTunes.Free Well
forI
5t
374-4984
LIFEsouth
For more information, contact Clay Gibbons at .
352-3341000 or egibbons fesouth org
Sponsored by:
S llg-59 NIGHT ".
s & Prafts 0 00
.adhes -o
arts at 6:00 pm
1702 W. UnlverElty Ave.41
