Armed
DangerousandBy BRIAN STEELE
Alligator Staff Writer
bsteele@alligator.org
MIAMI — You stumble in at around 5 
in the morning. You’re met headfirst with 
a view of your normal weight room, your 
sanctuary, warped into a Wes Craven horror 
flick. You can’t see anything besides the four 
walls, because the windows are blocked with panels. It feels like you’re in jail. 
All you can see is your workout gear, with 
pictures of chainsaws and bloodied corpses 
surrounding the area. Ropes and chains are 
littered throughout the gym, symbols show-
ing this isn’t your campus weight room.
Happy Valentine’s Day, suckers.Most of the Gators knew what was com-
ing, and they had goosebumps to prove it. For those who had not been through it, they couldn’t have imagined what UF strength and conditioning coach Mickey Marotti had planned for what he calls the “Valentine’s Day Massacre.” Unlike the actual Saint Valentine’s Day Massacre in 1929 in Chicago, when members of Al Capone’s South Side Italian gang allegedly shot seven members of Bugs Moran’s North Side gang, nobody dies in Marotti’s version.
Death, however, doesn’t seem that far off 
at the end of the morning.
Let’s just say this: Freshman defensive 
lineman Matt Patchan and junior receiver 
David Nelson call it hell. Maybe they’re re-ferring to the stadium runs the team has to 
do after a two-hour workout, during which 
the players perform each exercise — from leg 
and bench presses to sled pulls — until they 
physically cannot continue. Then, after they can’t do any more on their own, trainers help the players pump out more reps. Try running 
a stadium after your legs are quivering from 
doing more leg presses than you ever have 
amid constant yells from players wearing war paint across their faces. Even the water carriers do some shouting.
If you’re not careful, you may even see a 
50-pound dumbbell soaring across the gym toward you, courtesy of Marotti, of course. 
When asked about the Massacre, players 
just start shaking their heads and laughing in resignation. 
“The intent for those workouts is not to 
walk out of there,” sophomore right guard Mike Pouncey says. “Most guys don’t walk out of there.”
Those who aren’t walking may be throw-
ing up their late-night Five Star Pizza binge from the day before.
Marotti makes noises that, according to 
Patchan, sound like a “mating walrus.”
“It’s like an angry grunt,” Patchan says. 
“It’s real aggressive and loud. It’s like the stuff that would scare children at night. He’s the type of guy that you don’t have him tell your son a bedtime story.”
Those are some ways to describe that day. 
Here are a few others:
A turning point for a previously imma-
ture, selfish and entitled team. 
A challenge to see how this group of Gators 
will respond when they’re at their weakest, when they’re backed against a wall. 
An opportunity to become the men they’re 
capable of being. As Marotti puts it, coming face to face with your “genetic potential.” 
A time to learn they’re not a group that 
will give up when others stand up to them.
And, maybe, a chance for the Gators to 
show they can be one of the most dominant teams in college football history.
The Bad, The Worse and The Losing
The coaching staff knew it was imminent 
in January 2007. 
When junior linebacker Brandon Siler told 
them he would be leaving early for the NFL, 
the last leadership pillar had fallen. Gone was 
Dallas Baker. Reggie Nelson would soon be 
grinning his goofy grin for the Jacksonville Jaguars. Jarvis Moss would also be lining up against the best in the world.
The triumph of a national championship 
led to a depressing exodus.
“The red flag went up fast,” Meyer said.He had good reason to be worried, too. 
Those players were replaced with younger, immature counterparts who were not ready to lead. Comparing the summer of 2006 to 2007 is like watching high school players try to keep pace with Percy Harvin.
“They just wanted to know, why are 
we doing this and we had to do this and questioning everything about everything,” Marotti said.
The summer workouts weren’t taken se-
riously. After all, the Gators had just won a championship, and opponents were going to let them win another one, right?
“Guys just went through the motions,” 
David Nelson said. “We’d won it the year be-fore, so we thought we had all the answers. We thought we’d come into this year and just expect to win. We just expected things 
to come to us.”
Things didn’t.
“Selfish players. Individuals,” Brandon 
Hicks said of the 2007 team. “Anything you want to call us, we basically were.”
They were a group of young players who 
didn’t yet understand what it took to win at the college level. In high school, they were able to just show up and let their physical gifts take over. 
“It really is sick-
ening to my stom-ach when I watch film from 2007,” ju-nior linebacker Ryan 
Stamper said. “I see 
guys that just didn’t play hard. We’re 
playing for the Florida Gators, and that’s pretty much a privilege. We had guys taking advantage of that. We have kids from all over the world wanting to play here.”
Slacking doesn’t work in the Southeastern 
Conference. When LSU converted all five fourth-down attempts in the Tigers’ 28-24 win, it became obvious the Gators could be socked in the mouth and held down.“When push came to shove, we felt when 
we were going to be challenged that we were going to have a hard time,” Marotti said. “That’s kind of what happened.”
A sign in the team room says that talent 
gets you seven wins. As Meyer pointed out, 
the Gators had nine — the talent was there. Discipline 
gets you eight to nine 
wins, according to the sign, and leader -
ship will get you a championship. 
Consider the last part graded an “I” for in-complete.
“Last year was a really bad team,” Meyer 
said. “There was some good stuff, but that was not a good team. The accountability and leadership was almost minimal.”
Those issues were already clear to the  
coaching staff. They were revealed to the na-tion as the Gators were embarrassed in a 41-35 loss to Michigan in the Capital One Bowl.
That’s when Meyer had a conversa-
tion that lasted at least an hour and a half with middle linebacker Brandon Spikes. Quarterback Tim Tebow, offensive linemen Jason Watkins, Phil Trautwein and Jim Tartt and tight end Cornelius Ingram knew this was not what they wanted. 
“We looked at each other and said, ‘Man, 
we got to do it (in 2008). We can’t have an-other year like this,’” Watkins said.
The Good, The Better and 
The Winning
The following statement is unanimously 
agreed upon: The summer of 2008 was com-pletely different than the previous one.
Forget about overlooking workouts. Those 
were more important than ever. Bonds were built, and friendships that had seemed unre-alistic became commonplace. Before a work-out, Marotti would grab a player and ask him about another player, someone Marotti knew the player wouldn’t normally hang out with. If you didn’t know the teammate, it was time to do some homework. Whether it was din-ner together or a Madden tournament, there would be no more individuals. 
“The way we approached the off-season, 
guys wanted to get up every morning at 5:30 to try and get better,” Spikes said. “We do a lot of things that people really don’t do, and we do it in one day, at 5:30 in the morning. We look forward to the next day, the next challenge that our strength coach puts in front of us.”
There was no more asking Marotti why 
they should do something. It was intangible, sure, and difficult to describe, but it existed.
“You can see it in their eyes when we’re 
working out,” sophomore free safety Major Wright said.
Now, when Marotti goes about screeching 
and slapping players on the back, they holler 
back — with similar intensity.  “Everybody’s screaming and yelling,” 
Pouncey said. “It’s just crazy, man. That’s 
why we win championships around here.”
The players say Marotti has a lot of 
“juice.” Now, that juice is available in fresh, drinkable bottles in every player’s locker.  
Perhaps Pouncey will down a couple sips while reading a statistic about an upcoming opponent that sacks the quarterback more than anyone else. Spikes may enjoy a com-ment about how opposing receivers think they can run past him. All that while Tebow laughs about the next defender who opened his mouth to call Tebow overrated or say he’ll finally have a bad game against them.
It’s all about motivation with Marotti. 
Meyer agrees he has had as much to do with the turnaround in 2008 as anybody else.
“The motivation factor that (Marotti) 
brings to our whole program is the best I’ve been around from a strength coach,” defen-sive line coach Dan McCarney said. “The best I’ve ever been around.”
The Best?
Meyer was standing before his team, 
giving them a pregame speech at the SEC Championship Game against Alabama on Dec. 6. That’s until Marotti couldn’t take it 
anymore. Marotti interrupted, blue in the 
face, blood splattered on his hand from the 
glass he had just shattered. Moments earlier, he had flipped offensive line coach Steve Addazio off his chair.
Marotti screamed that critics had called 
UF soft, a finesse team. Players said he used language that doesn’t belong in a newspa-per. 
Not even Marotti knows where this side 
of him comes from. Maybe it’s that he was 
the undersized kid growing up in Pittsburgh 
who, as a sixth grader, wanted to play foot-ball and basketball with the eighth graders.
“He must’ve got picked on when he was 
little,” senior Butch Rowley joked.
That’s one way to put it.“I just try to be bizarre and make the kids 
(say), ‘What are you doing?’” Marotti said. 
Whatever Marotti did, it helped the play-
ers win another SEC Championship.
Now, they have an opportunity to show 
how much those extra bench presses mean. That running stadiums after the most dif-ficult two-hour workout of their lives was 
worth it.
Hanging out with someone they wouldn’t 
have before has led them to, perhaps, UF’s 
third national championship.
Meyer has kept his team’s emotions in 
check, made sure his players haven’t released 
all their adrenaline before today.
That ends now.  At 8:17 tonight, the Gators 
will take the final leap on a voyage that start-
ed last Valentine’s Day. 
It’s their chance to have another massacre. 
This time, they may be the ones administer -
ing the pain.NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP PREVIEW
Editor Evan Drexler        Cover photos Harrison Diamond
Alligator, Thursday, January 8, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF linebackers Brandon Spikes, left, Dustin Doe, center, and Ryan Stamper stretch during the Gators’ practice at Florida Atlantic Uni -
versity in Boca Raton on Sunday.
[BELOW] UF quarterback Tim Tebow runs an obstacle course during the Gator Charity Challenge in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on July 25, 2008.
Strength
Numbersin
“The motivation factor that (Marotti)  
Dan McCarneybrings to our whole program is the best
I’ve been around from a strength coach.”Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF running back Jeff Demps avoids a tackle by South Carolina cornerback Captain Munnerlyn during a 38-yard touchdown run in 
the third quarter of the Gators’ 56-6 win against the Gamecocks at home Nov. 15.[TOP] UF cornerback Joe Haden concentrates on the torpedo hold during the Gator Charity Challenge in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on July 25, 2008.
Dedicated coach inspires Gators 
to unite team, unlock full potentialToday
visit www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycle
Sunny
71/42FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 9
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 24Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Championship Castle
Professional sand sculptor John May works during the National Championship Fanfest in Bicentennial Park 
in Miami on Wednesday evening. Despite carrying a fighting Gator tattoo on his leg, he said he keeps bias out of his work.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 77 THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
By MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Buses that cross West 
University Avenue will be rerout-
ed for Thursday’s BCS National 
Championship Game.Gainesville’s Regional Transit 
System announced that it will change Route 5, Later Gator A and Later Gator C beginning at 10 p.m. to make sure buses steer clear of congested areas.
Route 5 will avoid West University Avenue between 
Southeast Third Street and 
Northwest 39th Road. 
Later Gator A will 
travel from Rosa 
Parks RTS Downtown 
Station, head west onto Second Avenue, cross 13th  Street to 
campus, travel through campus 
on Union Road, Buckman Drive and Stadium Road and return to downtown via its normal route.
Later Gator C will follow 
the same reroute to campus as Later Gator A before continu-
ing through Fraternity and West 
Fraternity drives to the Oaks Mall. It will follow the reverse reroute to return, according to an RTS news release.RTS buses rerouted to steer clear of fan-packed roadsSPECIAL REPORT
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
For 14 months, their Swamp was the sandy desert 
of war-torn Iraq.
But that didn’t stop them from cheering for the 
Gators, who played about 7,000 miles away in front of 
capacity crowds at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Capt. Brian Hayes and 1st Lt. Dezi King, part of an 
81-member military intelligence company in the U.S. Army, missed most of the regular season while serving in Iraq, but they still made sure to let everyone in their unit know who they thought was the best team in col-lege football.
“It didn’t take them long to realize that I was a Gator 
fan, and it didn’t take them long to let me know that they weren’t,” said Hayes, who was commander of the company.
Hayes said his company, which is based in Fort 
Campbell, Ky., near the Tennessee border, includes Tennessee and Kentucky fans as well as Alabama, FSU and University of Miami fans.
The rivalries were plentiful, he said, but one set of 
fans gave him the most trouble.
“Oh, god, the FSU guys are the worst,” he said. 
“They always come in with, you know, the biggest talk, and I keep tellin’ ‘em, I’m like, ‘It’s not gonna happen, you’re just embarrassing yourself,’” he said. “But they talk smack anyway.”Soldiers bond 
over footballBy KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
After the BCS named the Gators SEC 
champs, the Gainesville Police Department 
began preparations to keep people safe for 
the post-game parties.
“We will be working with almost every 
agency that you can think of in this city,” GPD spokeswoman Summer Hallett said. 
The GPD is coordinating with the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, the University Police Department and the 
Florida Department of Transportation.
This will be the second national football 
championship game for UF in three years.
“It’s not the first time, so it’s not like we 
don’t know what to expect,” she said. “But we’re not sitting back on our laurels. We’re planning like it’s the very first national championship the city has ever seen.”The GPD will determine the night’s 
plan based on the outcome of the game. She said fans could still get in trouble if 
the Gators lose. 
“People don’t realize what we have 
to go through to make sure everything is 
looked at and prepared to make the city safe for everyone,” she said.Police prepare for post-BCS celebrations
SEE POLICE, PAGE 8
SEE RTS, PAGE 8SEE WAR, PAGE 5
NewsLocal“We will be working with almost 
every agency that you can think of 
in this city.”
Summer Hallett
GPD spokeswoma
n UF cornerback 
Joe Haden (right) 
and the Gators are 
looking to become 
the second school 
ever to capture two 
BCS championships 
tonight at 8 p.m. For 
more, see page 24.Disney’s Space Mountain to get renovations
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — Space Mountain — one of Walt 
Disney World’s most iconic attractions — will be closing this 
spring for a makeover.
Disney reported Wednesday that the Magic Kingdom ride 
will close April 19 so that the 34-year-old attraction can be fresh-ened up. Park officials expect the ride to reopen later in the year, but no date has been set.
The renovations will include new track inside the enclosed 
coaster, but the layout of the track will remain the same. A new enclosure will be added to the ride’s queuing area, along with a new ceiling inside its prominent, white dome.n UF President 
Bernie Machen 
created a council 
to increase  
diversity among 
faculty and the 
student body.
See story, Page 4.
2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 75 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker,
  nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen,
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy,
  rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, Christina McGinley
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, Sarah Hsu
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, Joe Holzer, 
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith 
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Madeline Ross, Lexie Stout, 
  Kaia Tershowski, Daniel Webber,
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, lrichards@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton,
  Masoud Najmabadi
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 General Manager C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerFORECAST
TODAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
RAIN
71/45RAIN
70/45PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/50SUNNY
71/44FRIDAY
SUNNY
71/42WHAT’S HAPPENING
Spring 2009 Drop/Add Period 
EndsJan. 12 at 11:59 p.m. Call (352) 392-1374 for more information.
Like What You See?
Want your event posted in this space? Send an e-mail to kbjorn-sen@alligator.org with “What’s Happening” in the subject line.
STATE
Haitians denied temporary 
immigration protection
MIAMI (AP) — The Bush ad-
ministration won’t grant tempo-
rary protected status to Haitians living in the U.S. illegally while their Caribbean homeland strug-
gles to recover from four devastat-
ing tropical storms.
U.S. Homeland Security 
Secretary Michael Chertoff denied the status in a Dec. 19 letter to Haitian President Rene Preval.
Chertoff said his department 
tried to help Haiti by directing the Coast Guard to provide humani-
tarian relief and delaying deporta-
tions for three months.Homeland Security spokes-
man Michael Keegan said 
Wednesday that a “trickle” of de-
portations resumed Dec. 5.
Preval wrote Bush twice last 
year asking for the status that al-lows immigrants from countries experiencing armed conflict or environmental disasters to work in the U.S. for a limited time.
Comedian found guilty
VERO BEACH, Fla. (AP) — A 
Vero Beach judge has found co-median Ron White guilty of mi-nor drug charges.
The “Blue Collar Comedy 
Tour” veteran won’t serve jail time under a decision filed Tuesday. He will serve six months probation, pay fines and have his driver license suspended for two years.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.White was arrested after flying 
into V ero Beach on a private plane 
in September. Police reports show he was charged with possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana, 
valued at $10, and drug parapher -
nalia.
White, who didn’t appear in 
court, has said previously that a 
former employee who was angry over not getting a severance tipped off Florida police that he was car -
rying marijuana.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
Sarah Hsu / Alligator Staff
Rob Brinkman, left, Michael Canney, center, and others hold signs on University Avenue 
Wednesday evening, protesting the holding of political activist Charlie Grapski, who was ar -
rested on misdemeanor charges and has been held without bail for about three months.
By CAROLYN TILLO                                                    
Alligator Contributing Writer    
UF researchers took advantage of Miami’s 
BCS National Championship crowds this 
week to show off their new inventions.     
About 450 people attended the inner-
city showcase Tuesday and Wednesday. The display featured a robotic car, air-cooled shoulder pads for football players and a self-guided underwater device called the 
SubjuGator.                          
Dave Armstrong, the project manager for the robotic car — the NaviGator — said the 
vehicle holds $200,000 in hardware.             
The renovated SUV contains five camer -
as, eight lasers, three GPS units and 12 dual-core computers, he said.
Armstrong said people have a hard time 
realizing the car is driven by sensors and computers alone.
“There’s nobody controlling the car,” he 
said. “There’s no remote control whatso-ever.”
Although it can drive and park itself, 
the NaviGator remained stationary with its lights flashing while on display, Armstrong said.
Temperature Management System shoul-
der pads were also featured.                                          
Dr. Nik Gravenstein, co-
developer of the air-cooled ath-letic gear, said the pads prevent football players from becoming overheated and dehydrated 
during games.                                                                                      
Gravenstein compared everyday football 
padding to a three-piece wool suit. The TMS pads reduce the humidity under players’ uniforms by circulating dry air, he said.
“I hope they use them in the national 
championship game,” Gravenstein said.                                                       
The event’s festivities also offered Gators 
fans a chance to stop by a mobile video van to describe how they became a Gator, said Dan Williams, UF’s director of marketing.                                                                  
Tuesday’s event, put on by the Association 
of Hispanic Alumni, was invitation-only and featured a visitation by UF President Bernie 
Machen, he said.                                                            
Wednesday’s event, held at a picnic area 
in Jungle Island and open to the public, in-
cluded a performance by cheerleaders and UF’s the “Pride of the Sunshine” Fightin’ Gator Marching Band.UF researchers unveil gadgets to fans in Miami
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Staff Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
After 87 days in jail without a trial, 
friends and supporters of a local political activist are getting restless. 
Charlie Grapski, 43, has been held 
in the Alachua County Jail since Oct. 12 
without bond, according to a jail repre-
sentative.
About 20 protesters, including Alachua 
County Commissioner Mike Byerly, gath-ered outside of the State Attorney’s Office Wednesday evening. They requested that State Attorney William Cervone drop controversial misdemeanor charges against Grapski.
According to a Gainesville Police 
Department report, Grapski arrived at John Angel’s house around 2 a.m. Oct. 12. 
He broke a window and entered the 
house through a side door after Angel repeatedly told him to leave, the report stated.
Protesters told a different story.
“It was a misunderstanding be-
tween friends one night after the LSU game,” said Michael Canney, a friend of 
Grapski. 
Someone overheard the argument and 
called the cops, he said.
“He is not a criminal society needs to 
be protected from,” Canney said. “He is not a threat to society or himself, and he is not a flight risk. A bond should be re-instated.”
Commissioner Mike Byerly stood 
among the neon-colored signs that urged people to honk for Grapski’s release. He said he was protesting as an Alachua county citizen, not an elected official. 
Until Grapski is found guilty, he 
shouldn’t be in jail, Byerly said.
“Because of the jail’s crowding, there 
are not enough resources to hold some-
one who is not a threat to society,” he 
said.Protesters rally for GrapskiStudentLife
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Thursday’s 
championship football game be-
tween No. 2 Florida and No. 1 Oklahoma is obviously a big game, but big enough to shut down 
Congress?
Rep. Cliff Stearns hopes so.
Stearns, a Republican from 
Ocala, wrote to U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday ask-ing her to move votes scheduled for Thursday evening and Friday so House members from Florida and Oklahoma can go to the BCS National Championship Game.
Stearns wrote, “As you may 
be aware, on Thursday, Jan. 8, the University of Florida and the University of Oklahoma will play for the national football champi-
onship. Members of the Florida 
and Oklahoma delegations have expressed interest in attending the game as the congressional schedule allows. However, votes are cur -
rently scheduled to continue into Thursday night and Friday af-
ternoon. We ask that you move these votes to ei-ther Wednesday 
and/or Thursday 
morning to al-
low members to attend this historic game.”Oddly — or maybe not — none 
of the other members Stearns re-ferred to as “we” signed the let-ter, which was obtained by The Associated Press.
To help his cause, Stearns added 
a handwritten message to Pelosi.
“Madam Speaker — Kindly con-
sider. Thanks, Cliff,” he wrote.
Pelosi’s office said she would 
not agree to the request. Among the votes to be considered Thursday afternoon is certification of the Electoral College vote that gives Barack Obama the presidency.
Stearns was first elected to 
Congress in 1988. While he didn’t attend the University of Florida, his district includes the Gainesville area, where the school is locat-ed. The game is being played in Miami.
A message left after hours at 
Stearns’ Washington office seeking comment wasn’t immediately re-turned.
Pelosi denies Fla. Rep. time off for BCS championship
 EACH WINNER WILL
RECEIVE NEARLY $10,000.
By LAUREN BAKER
Alligator Staff Writer 
lbaker@alligator.org 
Creative, bug-loving scientists 
will have the chance to win some 
money in the future thanks to a UF professor.  
Nan-Yao Su, a professor of en-
tomology at UF, donated $250,000 to the Entomological Society of America last month.
Interest from the donation will be 
presented as a yearly award for in-
novation and creativity in entomol-
ogy.
Su said he made the donation 
following the death of Robert Cade, inventor of Gatorade. 
After learning that Cade’s family 
intends to build a museum honoring UF inventors and their creations, Su said he was inspired by their theme 
of innovation.
Su, who has been a professor at 
UF for about 24 years, said he will not help pick the yearly winner, but 
plans to be present when the first award is given in December 2009 in 
Indianapolis.  
How the winner spends his or 
her sum of nearly $10,000 is not im-
portant, Su said.    
“They can put it in their pocket. 
They can take their family out to dinner. I don’t care,” he said, adding recognition for the winner’s creativ-ity was the true prize.
Su said he was interested in re-
warding the creativity behind the accomplishments.He is known for his invention of 
an internationally marketed termite extermination system that uses re-
duced levels of pesticide. He said 
childlike curiosity is essential to in-
ventors.
While studying 
at the University of Hawaii, Su said the 
accepted method of termite extermi-nation relied heavily on pesticide. 
He touted creativity as the key to 
avoid becoming chained to accepted ideals.
“(Scientists) are very lucky be-cause we’re allowed to maintain our curiosity ,” he said.   
To drive home his point, Su re-
called his memory of catching drag-onflies as a child.  “If you look at a dragonfly wing, you can see a very intricate structure there. That is just amazing to me,” he said. “That is some amazement that many kids will experience.”
But innovation is not limited to 
the study of bugs, Su said. 
“Creativity is needed every-
where,” he said. “But I happen to be an entomologist.”
Professor donates $250K to spur creativity in entomologyAir-cooled athletic gear, robotic car put on display
OnCampu s“It was a misunderstanding 
between friends one night after 
the LSU game.” 
Michael Canney
friend of Charlie Grapski Stearns
4, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
 MONEY COLLECTED WILL BE 
GIVEN TO STUDENT PROGRAMS.
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
It took some time and the threat of a 
$10 fine, but UF faculty are getting the hang of Florida’s textbook affordability law.
The law, which went into effect July 
1, states that textbook requirements for 
courses at state universities and com-
munity colleges should be posted on the school’s Web site at least 30 days 
before the start of classes.
Just over 90 percent of all classes at 
UF had their textbooks posted on the 
UF Web site by UF’s deadline for spring semester, according to UF’s textbook 
adoption Web site.
About 73 percent of professors com-
plied before the start of fall semester—
the first semester the law was applied — according to information from the UF Provost’s office.
UF requires that faculty post text-
book information roughly two months before classes start, instead of the mini-mum of 30 days. This requirement 
gives students more time to shop, and it gives book stores a better idea of which books they will buy 
back from students at the semester’s end, said UF Provost Joseph Glover.
To increase faculty compliance with 
the new law, UF decided to start slap-ping colleges with less than 90 percent compliance with a $10 fine this semes-ter for each book not posted by the deadline, which was Nov. 17.
The money from the fines, which 
hasn’t been levied yet, will be given to student assistance programs in the Provost’s office, such as the Office for Academic Support and Institutional Services or the Honors Program, Glover said.UF fines faculty for 
not posting book infoBY CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Bernie Machen is expand-
ing efforts to further diversity among UF’s 
faculty and student body.
The newly created Council on Diversity 
will be in charge of collecting and analyz-ing data from different colleges and de-partments, as well as proposing policies to increase diversity around UF, according 
to an e-mail sent by Machen on the Deans, 
Directors and Department Chairs Listserv.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said the 
search for diversity is an ongoing issue. 
“Diversity is always a challenge that we 
face,” Orlando said. “It is difficult to create that level of diversity where everyone is comfortable and happy.”
Orlando said the creation of the new 
council is one way the president believes we can achieve this level.
Several universities have taken similar 
actions throughout Florida, such as Florida State University , which is in the process of creating its diversity council.The University of Central Florida, Florida 
Atlantic University and the University of North Florida also have similar groups. 
UF’s committee will examine approach-
es by fellow universities, according to the 
e-mail.
Larry Ellis, director of administration 
and equal employment opportunities at 
UF, said larger cities such as Orlando and Miami have an easier time recruiting a di-verse student body and faculty.
“People look for a rich culture that 
Gainesville doesn’t offer,” he said.
Ellis said the implementation of the new 
council is a step in the right direction.
“Our goal is to have a faculty as diverse 
as the state of Florida,” he said. “And stu-dents as diverse as our faculty.”Machen wants diversity
OnCampu s“People look for a rich culture 
that Gainesville doesn’t offer.”
Larry Ellis
director of administration and equal 
employment opportunitiesTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
800.327.4218   |   learn@dce.ufl.eduwww.Flexible .dce.ufl.edu
      Is the  class        you need  full?
UF is pleased to offer Flexible Learning Courses  
to help you achieve your educational goals. 
Talk to your advisor or visit our website for more information!•    AMH 2010 - United States To 1877  
•    AMH 2020 - United States Since 1877 •    AML 2070 - Survey Of American Lit.
•    AML 3124 - American Fiction: 1900-WWII
•    ANT 2410 - Cultural Anthropology •    DEP 3053 - Developmental Psychology  •    EDF 3604 - Social Foundations Of Education  •    ENC 1101 - Intro To College Writing  
•    ENC 1102 - Argument & Persuasion  
•    ENC 2210 - Technical Writing 
•    ENC 3250 - Professional Communication   •    ENC 3310 - Advanced Exposition•    GEY 4001 - Issues & Concepts •    HUN 2201 - Fundamentals of Nutrition  •    INP 4004 - Industrial Psychology  •    ISS 2160 - Cultural Diversity in the U.S.    •    LAH 2020 - Intro To Latin American History    
•    MAC 1105 - Basic College Algebra   
•    MAC 1147 - Precalculus: Algebra & Trig.   •    MGF 1106 - Math for Liberal Arts I  •    MGF 1107 - Math for Liberal Arts II  •    SLS 1501 - College Success 
•    SOP 4004 - Social Psychology    
•    SPN 1130 - Beginning Spanish 1 •    SPN 1131 - Beginning Spanish 2•    Many more in development! LOCAL
By HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Contributing Writer
The wait is over.
Tonight, Gainesville residents will 
root on the Gators alongside students during the BCS National Championship Game. 
If the Gators win, University Avenue 
will overflow with excited fans.
Residents described the celebrations following the Gators’ 2007 champion-ship victory in single words. 
Awesome. Amazing. Spectacular. “They come through hollering 
and we just holler with them,” said Lisa Jackson, 43, of Northwest Fifth Avenue.
If the Gators win this year, Jackson 
said she plans to stay up to celebrate with passing fans.
Bill Hardy, 45, a College Park resi-
dent, happily excused the wild excite-ment of fellow fans two years ago.
“It’s just a bunch of kids having 
fun,” Hardy said. “There are really no problems here.”Residents take part in festivities
One day, he said, one of the other of-
ficers, who was an FSU fan and had a 
desk next to his, got an FSU flag in the mail from his wife and decided to hang it up on the wall.
“So he puts his FSU flag up, not 
where he can see it, ( but he) puts it to where I can see it,” Hayes said. 
“I had to go get my own Gator flag 
and hang that up so he can stare at that,” he said.
Eventually, the two decided to call a 
truce and placed their respective flags in front of their own desks, he said.
King, who served under Hayes in 
the company, said he would 
go against military policy 
by wearing a 2006 national championship T-shirt and 
Gators hat while watching football games via a military satellite TV station on the American Forces Network.
The military doesn’t allow soldiers to bring civilian clothes to Iraq, he said.
The company returned from Iraq 
in November in time to watch UF play Alabama in the Southeastern Conference Championship game.
Hayes and King said they are both 
grateful to be able to watch the BCS National Championship Game at home.
“It is absolutely awesome,” King 
said. “It’s like, not only are you at home, but you’re like whoooo!”Football teams raised morale among troops
WAR , from page 1
SpecialReport“It’s just a bunch of kids     
having fun.”
Bill Hardy
College Park resident THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Democrats 
beat a hasty retreat Wednesday from their 
rejection of Roland Burris as President-elect Barack Obama’s successor, yielding to pres-
sure from Obama himself 
and from senators irked that 
the standoff was draining at-tention and putting them in a bad light. Burris said with a smile he expected to join them “very shortly.”
Though there was no 
agreement yet to swear Burris in, he posed for pho-
tos at the Capitol with Senate leaders, then joined them for a 45-minute meeting followed by supportive words that bordered on gush-ing. The events came one day after Burris had left the Capitol in the pouring rain in a scripted rejection.Chances good 
for Burris seat
Burris
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.Opinions
Reader response
1,453 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenMANAGING EDITORDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITOR
24% YES
76% NOWednesday’s question:  Should Roland Burris be seated in the Senate?Today’s question:  Are you going to skip class on  Friday?Bright Futures intentions fall shortColumnBCS Filibuster
Machen ideology rocks 
Capitol Hill
The first week of class is a wonderful, joyous week — 
it’s financial aid disbursement time. So when 73 per -
cent of you collect your Bright Futures checks, think 
about the implications of that money. 
The Bright Futures Scholarship Program has become 
a great entitlement that gives every high school graduate who can manage a 970 SAT — hardly Ivy League – a practi-
cally free education. 
But this was never the intent of the program. The pro-
gram was developed to encourage the brightest Florida stu-
dents who might otherwise go to out of state institutions to stay in state — hence a well-educated Florida with a “Bright 
Future.” 
It didn’t take long for the Florida Legislature, in all of its 
infinite wisdom, to completely undermine every intention 
of this program. Bright Futures is now a public entitlement 
available to nearly every student who wants it.  
The problems this creates become strikingly apparent 
when the economy is down. Bright Futures is limited to the 
amount of funding it receives from the lottery, yet it is set up 
as an entitlement for anyone who meets the requirements.  
This is great for students, even those who don’t qualify for Bright Futures, but it keeps our higher education in the gut-ter. Florida is not going anywhere but down in the rankings 
if it keeps cutting departments because of budget woes.
How can we turn this upper-middle-class entitlement 
back to a program designed to keep Florida’s best and 
brightest in state?  
Look only to the program that has nothing to do with 
keeping Florida’s best — the Florida Medallion Scholars Award (FMS), which pays 75 percent tuition to anyone who meets the minimum requirements — a 3.0 weighted high school GPA and a 970 composite SAT score. In other words, FMS creates an 
entitlement for anyone who meets pitifully low testing requirements. 
Most of these students wouldn’t get 
any sort of scholarship to an out of state school, so it makes 
no sense to pay them to stay in state. Yet this program ac-counts for 75 percent of all Bright Futures disbursement.  
I say, abolish the 75 percent FMS program.The 100 percent Florida Academic Scholars (FAS) pro-
gram applies to only the top 15 percent of college-bound students, so we should keep it as a legitimate means to keep the best students in state. With FMS abolished, FAS would 
have plenty of funding. We could then afford to raise tuition 
at Florida’s schools to competitive levels.
Since the FMS program makes up three quarters of all 
Bright Futures spending, there would still be plenty of mon-
ey left over after raising tuition. We could use this money 
to fund need-based scholarships for those who otherwise couldn’t afford college.  
These are often the same people shut of out of Bright 
Futures because they can’t meet the arbitrary testing re-quirements. Gone would be the days of Bright Futures as an upper-middle-class entitlement — it would go only to those who earn it and those who need it.
Those on the 75 percent program who don’t qualify for 
need-based aid may just have to do something unheard of in our welfare state: pay a bit for college.
College is an investment. Investments aren’t supposed 
to be free.
So happy financial aid week to everyone! Enjoy your en-
titlements, courtesy of the state of Florida.
Johnathan Lott is political science and economics sophomore. 
His column appears on Thursdays.  Tim Tebow, take a seat – the Editorial Board has a new hero.
He’s – dare we say – a Republican. Enter United 
States House Rep. Cliff Stearns stage left.
In just a mildly more important matter than a missed 
class or four, Stearns petitioned U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to accommodate his schedule with aspira-
tions of attending the BCS National Championship Game 
on Thursday.
With hopes that Stearns could work on his tan and rub 
elbows with the likes of Percy Harvin and co. down in Miami, the Ocala congressman kindly inquired to Pelosi if 
she would push the voting times on Thursday to a much 
more BCS-palatable Thursday morning.
Can we fault the man for wanting to look good in high 
definition on C-SPAN?
Stealing a page from the Bernie Machen playbook for 
how to lose friends and alienate people, Pelosi pulled the plug on Stearns’ weekend jaunt that undoubtedly would have included stops to South Beach hot spots like Mansion and Club Madonna.
The Editorial Board feels for you, Cliff.As the masses of Gators fans descend upon Miami or 
stay local to enjoy what will surely be a historic Gainesville evening, Stearns is no different –  a victim of an unapolo-
getic overseer clearly lacking any foresight. 
But as stuffy as D.C. may appear, there is no s hortage 
of bars that should provide Stearns the necessary libations 
to enjoy his evening.
We all joke about how success at UF is something we 
can take for granted, but who knows the next time the football team will be competing on such a grand stage for the ultimate in bragging rights?
While tickets to Thursday’s game appear scarce, two 
decades in Congress clearly reveal that Stearns is not some freshly-minted politico looking to exploit his newfound status. 
The man is simply a fan at heart who knows that the 
key to a well-rounded life is balancing his obligations in 
Washington and rooting for the Gators.
And even though he lumped other Florida and 
Oklahoma congressmen into his request    — whose signa-
tures were mysteriously absent from Stearns’ memo — we 
can’t fault him for thinking of his fellow football fans come 
Thursday night.
The Editorial Board applauds Stearns as a champion for 
fun in a time in which pessimism spreads across America nearly as fast as Brandon Spikes will return a Sam Bradford 
offering to the house for a quick pick six.  
Let us take solace in the fact that UF students no longer 
seem ludicrous for expecting a schedule change to accom-
modate the “outlandish” request of a repercussion-free 
trip to Miami. 
For all we know, Pelosi probably snubbed Stearns sole-
ly based on his party affiliation. 
Hey Bernie, what’s your excuse?
The Editorial Board would hardly be shocked if word 
out of Washington, D.C., reveals Pelosi to be MIA come oh, say early evening on Thursday. 
Not to mention if she’s seen boarding an orange and 
blue plane as the guest of honor of you-know-who.6, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
Johnathan Lott
letters@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
Israel attacks not in self-defense
In reading yesterday’s article 
regarding the UF student reaction 
to the conflict in Gaza, I felt that Naomi Fireman’s comments were extremely insensitive to the plight 
that the Palestinian people now 
face. 
She claimed that the attacks 
were not meant to hurt civilians, but can she explain how three UN schools – used primarily by civil-ians – were “accidentally” bombed, killing more than 40 civilians? How about the hospitals that have been 
bombed with patients in them re-
covering from the same Israeli on-slaught that put them there in the first place? Or maybe the Israeli army didn’t mean to kill any civil-ians when they bombed a mosque with noncombatants praying in-side? 
Fireman also mentioned her 
cousins who are not allowed to play soccer because of intermittent Hamas rocket fire, which rarely hits 
anything except the dirt in Israeli-
occupied territory north of the Gaza Strip. Although I sympathize with her cousins not being able to play soccer, everyone needs to take a good look at the Gaza Strip, where at least 100 members of my family can’t leave their homes even to buy food and Palestinians risk death 
staying in hospitals to recover from 
their Israeli-inflicted wounds.How is Israel defending itself by 
arbitrarily bombing houses, hospi-tals and schools left and right?
It is in everyone’s best interest 
for the fighting to stop immedi-ately – not for Israel to hide behind its claims of self-defense in making Palestinian lives a living hell.
Haitham Shriteh 
3EG
n n n
Hamas doesn’t want peace 
What would you do if you lived 
under the constant threat of rocket attack? Since Israel pulled out of Gaza in 2005, the people of south-ern Israel have been held hostage by Hamas. The truth is that there 
never really was a ceasefire to begin 
with. Since Israel left Gaza, Hamas, which is recognized as a terrorist group by both the U.S. and the EU, has fired more than 6,000 rockets into civilian areas of Israel. 
Critics love to point the finger 
at Israel for “collectively punish-ing” the Palestinians. However, 
isn’t firing rockets at Israeli civil-
ians a form of indiscriminate, col-lective punishment?Unfortunately, Hamas has also decided to pun-ish its own people by drawing the Israel Defense Forces into civilian areas. Hamas uses houses, schools and hospitals as launching pads for rockets. Most disturbingly, Hamas uses human shields – a blatant vio-
lation of international law. Israel is 
doing the world’s work by fighting a radical group that has become a cancer in the Middle East. 
As long as Hamas holds inno-
cent people hostage and continues to put its own population under fire, there can be no hope for peace in the region. Israel wants to live in 
peace with its neighbors. 
That’s why Israel made painful 
concessions to make peace with 
Egypt and Jordan.The problem is that Hamas doesn’t want peace with Israel. It wants an end to peaceful nations altogether.
Spenser Solis
4JMTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009 n ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest column
You’ve got to love fads. The concept is 
solid gold.
Somewhere along the line, some-
one tries something different, a few people decide it’s cool and all of sudden the masses 
are flocking to the brand new bandwagon.
Forget Guy Harvey T-shirts, Rainbows 
and Vera Bradley quilted diaper bags — it’s 
TapouT time.
Like it or not, mixed martial arts, better 
known as MMA, has begun its takeover of the standard UF male.
Don’t get me wrong, though. This trend 
has its upside.
MMA works in weight classes, so any small fry can rock an Affliction shirt and claim he’s a lightweight. 
I think a properly cinched rear naked 
choke will make you think twice before you stereotype a 155-pound string bean who 
doubles as a professional arm breaker when 
surrounded by eight chain-link walls.
Unfortunately for the honest few MMA 
freight trains roaming campus, this fad makes it damn near impossible to differenti-ate the practitioners from the pretenders.
I’m a fan of the Ultimate Fighting 
Championship and MMA in general, but I’m not about to steal Georges St. Pierre’s ward-
robe and walk around Gainesville with my hardest I’m-gonna-
whoop-yo-ass face.
Maybe I missed 
the mass memo ex-
plaining Affliction’s rationale, but the world 
is not shaped like an octagon, and neither is 
the UF campus.
Tough guy muscles can be left unflexed 
as you sit through lecture.
Whenever I see a bro in his TapouT gear 
at the gym, I can’t help but wonder if he’s looping his would-be entrance music in his iPod (which, naturally, is slipped into one of those arm-hugging elastic bands).
If this fad continues to grow and every-body decides they want professors to ad-dress them solely by their inside-the-octagon nicknames, I’ll have to hang up my MMA fanhood in a seldom-accessed closet in the back of my mind. 
I guess it’s possible I’m oversimplifying 
the fad.
Maybe this trend is no different than 
wearing your favorite football team’s jersey. 
Maybe these are secretly the most comfort-
able shirts ever created, even though most of them are tighter than Under Armour. 
If that’s the case, I deserve an arm bar for 
overstepping my pencil-neck boundaries.
Adam Wynn is a journalism senior.Skin-tight shirts fail to make men into campus tough guys
Adam Wynn
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
The GPD learned from former cham-
pionships, said GPD spokesman Keith 
Kameg.
“The biggest problem we had last 
time was with cars that were parked 
in lots on University Avenue,” said 
Kameg.
After the national basketball cham-
pionship in 2007, people climbed on car 
rooftops to get a bird’s-eye view of the 
chaos.
Hallett said that GPD is also greasing 
the light poles on University Avenue.
“No one looks at the guy on the 
greased pole as the cool guy, and no one thinks it’s funny when they are gross 
when they get down,” Hallett said.
For the Gainesville Police Department, 
the game is a reminder of Lt. Corey 
Dahlem, who was killed by a drunken driver after the Gators basketball na-
tional championship in April 2007.
“Our main goal is that people have 
fun. But fun is only fun when it’s safe,” 
Hallett said. “We don’t want that to hap-
pen again to anyone. It mars the event itself.”
The Miami-Dade Police Department 
is also preparing for the game at Dolphin 
Stadium in Miami.
“We are hoping for a very peace-
ful event,” said police Detective Juan Villalba, “but we have contingencies in place if crimes do happen.”
Traffic is the main concern, he said.  
Because rush-hour traffic can be bad in Miami, fans are encouraged to arrive 
early.
Uniformed and undercover officers 
will be at the stadium.
“This game is something that we pre-
pare and train for to try and make it the most enjoyable that we can,” Villalba 
said.GPD to grease local light poles
RTS planned the reroutes after a joint 
meeting between UF, the Gainesville 
Police Department, the Florida Department of Transportation and 
the City of Gainesville Public Works 
Department, which includes RTS, said 
Theresa Harrison, an RTS spokeswom-an. Officials discussed plans to prepare 
for the championship game’s crowds. 
Harrison said the goal of the reroutes 
is to provide reliable transportation to RTS customers and keep revelers out the way of traffic. 
“This is a wonderful thing because 
you know we’re going to win,” she said. 
“We need to support it, but support it in 
the safest way possible.” 
Other preparations for Thursday 
night include blocking areas on University Avenue and First Avenue with dump trucks and greasing traffic polls with PAM cooking spray to deter climbing, said Gainesville Public Works spokeswoman Gina Hawkins. 
“We definitely know that this is a 
good idea,” she said.  
Jason D’Souza, a UF industrial engi-
neering senior, said the RTS reroutes are a good idea and won’t affect his plans. 
“If buses are crowded or rerouted, 
people can still find alternative trans-portation,” he said.
UF sophomore Liz Guinessey said 
students probably won’t even notice that buses are rerouted.  
“Even though it’s an inconvenience, 
it will keep us safer,” she said.Detours help prevent fan injury POLICE , from page 1
RTS , from page 1
“No one looks at the guy on the 
greased pole as the cool guy, 
and no one thinks it’s funny 
when they are gross when they 
get down.”
Summer Hallett
GPD Spokeswoman“If buses are crowded or 
rerouted, people can still find 
alternative transportation.”
Jason D’Souza
UF industrial engineering seniorthe AVENUEThursday
January is hardly in full swing, meaning you still have time to reevalu -
ate all of the mistakes you made in 2008 (which includes anything that 
happened on New Year’s Eve). Just avoid these clichéd resolutions if you 
want to keep your promises until February.
Resolution No. 1:  Get in shape
You fantasize about your future toned body and even bought new workout clothes. Too bad you can hardly handle the weight of the two textbooks in your backpack and consider Pop-Tarts a balanced breakfast.      Resolution No. 2:  Discover a new hobby
The slow-motion pace of winter break has led you to believe you have time on your hands. But it’s all a mirage to conceal your anxiety about the 18-credit course load your adviser talked you into. The closest thing you’ll get to a hobby is working, or maybe even studying.      Resolution No. 3:  Be a better person
The soup kitchen beckons, and you’re ready to get your Mother Teresa on. But are you really going to wake up at 8 a.m. on a Saturday to build a house for Habitat for Humanity?Resolution No. 4:  Lay off the caffeine 
You swear you’re going to save the $3.99 you usually spend on your daily grande, non-fat, half-caf latte. This will work for about a week until all of 
the reading you’re putting off requires an all-nighter.
[resolutions ]
the A - LIST
Stephanie Granada writes about spring fashion and color 
therapy in this week’s fashion column. Added bonuses: an interview and photo with a stylish UF student. 
Sex columnist Ashley Ross gives advice on how to tell if your fall flame has burned out. Also, Robbie Hilson reviews the new All-American Rejects album.
If you want to see more streetwear fashion or learn more about  the long-awaited Guns N’ Roses album, go to www.alligator.org/
the_avenue. online13:10:I have always had the same New Year resolu-
tions: to stop smoking, to start wearing a bra 
and to stop shopping.
Cameron Diaz 
Indie-rock band Starmaker 
is playing a benefit show Saturday at the Kickstand. Photo courtesy of John Waller. 11:January 8, 2009
www.alligator.org/the_avenue10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
     The malls were packed, elabo-
rate sale signs hung decoratively in 
store windows and anxious souls 
swarmed the racks searching for the 
perfect gifts to go under the tree, but nobody bought much. Despite the garland and 20-inch snowflakes, 
shoppers were in unprecedentedly 
low spirits this holiday season. 
Perhaps it’s the economy or the 
warm weather that kept wallets shut this December.
Whatever the reason may be, 
designers aren’t having it. In the upcoming season, prepare to see fashion magazines and stores burst-
ing with colorful, bubble-gum-pop 
clothes, the kind of garments that make you giddy just looking at them.  
I suppose the theory is that if 
we can make people happy with clothes, then they will shop. For years, scientists have studied the physical, cognitive and emotional 
effects of colors. So far, they found 
that cool colors evoke a peaceful en-vironment, and bright colors excite and warm the body. Color therapy works much like aromatherapy, and 
it is becoming equally as popular.
During the spring fashion shows, designers took advantage of the ef-
fects of colors by presenting bright and vibrant clothing lines.
Zac Posen showed a series of 
willowy yellow dresses and blous-es, and John Galliano’s designs ranged in color from cherry-red to 
lime-sorbet-greens. 
Children’s prints are in full 
swing too, with Michael Kors’ pic-
nic table plaid and Lanvin’s super-tailored, Minnie Mouse-style polka 
dot dress. 
High-end de-
signers aren’t 
alone in the color 
craze. Shopping 
mall stores have also started pull-ing out the color wheel hues. For ex-
ample, the window 
display at Express in the Oaks Mall has mannequins 
dressed in jazzy 
dresses and shiny tanks. 
Go head-to-
toe with the play-
ground cheer or 
tone down a bright blouse with dark or neutral bottoms. 
If you walk out of 
your house this sea-son looking unusually bright, fun and young, rest assured that you 
are doing your part in restoring the 
economy and overall well-being of the community. Now skip on to the mall for a happier us.
Spring brings color therapy, cheer
STEPHANIE GRANADA   AVENUE WRITER
In Bloom:
Flavia Cervantes,  
19, a UF  market -
ing student,  in 
Turlington Plaza. 
Photo by Lane 
Nieset.
On the Street: Flavia Cervantes
Must-Haves: “For spring I am looking for 
the perfect pair of bright platforms. I also really like oversized clutches.”
Her Way: “I like to wear a mixture of 
old and new things, like vintage and contemporary pieces. I also mix a lot of opposites, such as girly florals with edgy 
boots.  
Style Icons: “Since I have short hair, I 
look to people like Audrey Hepburn or 
Liza Minnelli. I am crazy about florals, especially vintage, and I look to fashion bloggers for inspiration.”
What She’s Wearing: “Betsey Johnson ac-
cessories, a Forever 21 skirt, Urban Outfit-ters flats, and an H & M cardigan. “fashionTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
In a small village in El Salvador, 
one man has not left in 10 or 12 
years. So much time has passed 
that he can’t remember the last 
time he left. The nearest stream, which is barely a trickle, is a 10 minute hike over hills and poor 
health conditions prevent many 
people in the town of El Limon from leaving.
On Saturday at the Kickstand, 
there will be an Indie Dance Party 
with DJ Cameron to raise money 
for a public health project ben-efiting El Limon. The show starts at 9:30 and will 
feature the bands 
Starmaker and Waylon Thorton and the Heavy Hands. Pre-sale 
tickets are a $5 
donation or $6 the day of the event. 
The show will be the first 
event in a series of fundraisers for the UF-affiliated group Student Outreach: El Limon (S.O.L) and its trip in May.  This is the third year the group is making a trip 
to deliver medical supplies and 
other donated items to the com-munity, as well as assist the local clinics.
“It is sad to see a place that has 
such extreme poverty is so close,” 
said Mirna Patricia Amaya, the 
co-president of S.O.L. “It is unbe-lievable to see that in 2009 these people have never had electricity 
and they are afflicted with simple 
and preventable diseases.”
Some of the projects the group 
assists with in El Limon are puri-fying the water, educating fami-
lies about diseases, and assessing 
environmental problems in the community. With the help of two 
medical doc-
tors, the group 
assessed eighty percent of the homes on its own last year. 
With the clinics, 
the group sur -
veys the needs 
of the citizens and goes out into 
the community to each home to 
assist with primary care. 
“It’s a new way of reaching 
people and we learn why these conditions are occurring.” Amaya 
said. “It is strenuous work and 
you could see why some peo-ple hadn’t left the village in so long.”
John Waller of Starmaker said 
he chose to play at the show to spread the word and bring aware-ness. “There are so many causes, 
especially in Gainesville, that it 
helps to add the entertainment factor,” he said. “Maybe this will help people remember this cause 
personally.”This year, the group is look-
ing for donations of shoes, chil-
dren’s clothing, dental supplies, and computers and microscopes for the clinic. The group’s goals 
for the future include creating a 
small community farm, bringing more water to the area, making the community more prosperous, 
and improving the diet of the people, Amaya said.
Susan Fesperman, the other co-
president, hopes the benefit show 
will help people learn more about the group and become interested 
in the cause. “These people have 
so little, but they are so generous and opened their homes to us,” she said. “It is hard to see anyone 
living with so little.”
Students from S.O.L.  hand out donated items to people in the village of El Limon. Band stages benefit
There are so many 
causes, especially in 
Gainesville, that it helps to add 
the entertainment factor 
-–John Waller 
Starmaker““LANE NIESET   AVENUE EDITOR12, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009 THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13
Rekindling fall flame
sexon the avenueCD REVIEWS  
FALL OUT BOY 
“FOLIE A DEUX”
Because teens still shop at Hot Topic, skinny 
jeans are recession-proof and Pete Wentz is still 
the object of many tabloids, Fall Out Boy contin-ues to release products under the this-ship-hasn’t-
sailed “emo” label. Is this an accurate description of the band’s sound? Please. “Folie A Deux” reeks drama, from its meaty, disco-nicking first single “I Don’t Care,” to the ohh-ohh crammed “She’s My Winona,” right down to the pretentious song titles — file the 
song “Disloyal Order of Water Buffaloes” under 10 Phrases More 
Preposterous Than “Folie A Deux.” Thankfully, as evidenced by lyr -
ics like “Nobody wants to hear you sing about tragedy,” the boys are 
in on their own joke and pretty much insulated from backlash. Let those of us without tight pants cast the first stone.
     Ah, winter break. Plenty of time to 
catch up with old friends, chill with 
the family , cozy up in front of the fireplace with hot cocoa and mess around with the new iPhone or 
Blackberry Storm. But while you’d 
think all of these things would keep you busy, your mind is still stuck on what’s-her-name or ‘the boy ,’ also known as your fall fling. 
For the last couple of months, 
you’ve been texting each other every night around nine to see if there’s a chance 
you’ll both be at 
midtown later and readily avail-able for some tip-sy sexy time once the bars close. You’re not techni-cally dating (far from Facebook 
official), but neither of you are cur -
rently listed as single. 
Then came exam week, and 
maybe you hooked up a few times 
to blow off study steam, but each of you then headed home on different days without even formally saying goodbye. With no classification, it’s hard to decide how to handle the 
next few weeks of separation.
If this is your situation, then 
your communication over break 
could’ve gone one of two ways. Either you didn’t talk to the fling at all or there were a few random texts and calls. So, the question re-mains: Where do we go from here? Who makes the first move? What if 
he isn’t even interested in me any-
more? 
No matter how much or little 
you talked to your fall fling over break, one rule must be followed upon your return to Gainesville: Do not, by any means, play games. Break can be like a long weekend where you just don’t talk, and things can pick up just how you left them. Or maybe you get back and 
realize there’s no point in trying to 
rekindle the fallen flame. 
But stick with your gut and the 
clichéd advice to follow your heart. If you want to call then call. If you want to text then text. But never double text because you will look like a desperate loner who didn’t 
get kissed at mid-
night on New 
Year’s Eve. 
If you run into 
them before you actually talk, play it cool and be nice. You must remem-ber that without having answered 
the infamous “What are we?” ques-tion, neither one of you were re-sponsible for contacting the other over break, so you can’t be mad if there was no connection. If you act upset or even show the slight-est twinge of frustration for having not heard from them, you may be categorized as obsessive or too at-
tached.
If things pick back up right away , 
congratulations. But be aware that 
it may not be smooth sailing. Both of you were on break, which tech-nically means break from school but can also mean break from each other. What happened under the mistletoe stays under the mistletoe. 
So, whether your fall fling has 
flung or has progressed into a spring fling, remember to take it easy and accept it for what it was, is or might be. Either way, you defi-nitely got some out of it.ALL-AMERICAN REJECTS
“WHEN THE WORLD COMES DOWN”
Here’s a dirty little secret: The All-American 
Rejects have no backbone.  But then neither do 
lobsters, and they’re doing just fine.  In “When the World Comes Down,” the too-pretty Oklahoma na-
tives pack all the punch of an aging Oscar de la Hoya, but when your clientele is teenage girls – text: omg! Gr8est band ever!!! – substance takes a back seat to confessions like, “There’s a part of you that’s still inside of me.”  If you can stomach the gratuitous fluff, the big 
melodies – “Another Heart Calls,” “Believe” – go a long way toward 
quenching your sugar fix.  It’s when the guys use their sappy sound 
to vent (“Gives You Hell”) that they run into trouble.  Using strings, synths and pretty harmonies to convey pent-up anger?  About as believable as Ben Stein the motivational speaker.
ROBERT HILSON   AVENUE WRITER
ASHLEY ROSS   AVENUE WRITER
Both of you were on 
break, which technically 
means break from school 
but can also mean break from 
each other. What happened 
under the mistletoe stays 
under the mistletoe. ““2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, super quiet construction. $1600/mo.
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453
4-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceiling, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of character. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  352-214-
9270   4-22-08-72-2
WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2
THE PALMS
Walk to UF
Spacious 2/2 condo
Guaranteed parking. Pool.
Starting @$1250.
230 SW 2nd Ave. 494-6027
www.gainesvillepalms.com
4-22-08-72-2
MOVE IN TODAY!!
Great Specials on all our units!
Minutes to UF, Shands, & SFCC!
1/1, 2/2, & 3/3 units available!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-22-72-2
 THE GROVE VILLAS 
Rental Community
1 1/2 mo. FREE RENT
1BR Loft Style Starting at $600
Gated Community 6400 SW 20th Ave.
888-373-0849
4-22-08-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   1-12-08-35-2
STUDIO & 1BR - Walk to UF
Available Dec & Jan 1st. $410-$495/mo.Gore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown *
2 Car Decal WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer* 
Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 352 317 4408   1-20-08-41-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
Spacious 1 & 2 & 3 bedrooms.starting at 
$525. $625 & $795. Different floor plans some with enclosed patios or balconies. Italian Tile, bedrooms carpeted, D/W, W/D hookups, verticals Central Heat & air. Lots of storage space. Near bus route .332-7700   1-30-38-2
SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office1BR $515, 2BR $580Call for daily specials352-335-0420      1-30-08-48-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office.
2BR $535Call for daily specials352-335-0420   1-30-08-48-2Available TODAY!
No move-in fees & 1 mo free
2/2 : 975 sq ft - $705
3/2 : 1096 sq ft - $866
pinetreegardens.com * 376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-20-08-21-2
Room in 3br house includes all
utilities,internet and washer/dryer. Ten min-
utes from campus. One at 400 and one at 
350. 3331 nw 29th ave Call 850-803-5342   
1-9-08-15-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
Live within 3 blocks of Criser Hall * Studios 
to 6BR Houses * Virtual tours & photos * 
www.ForRentNearUF.com * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
Summit House 1 BR Condo for $605 per 
mo. Quiet, near VA and Shands, $250 se-
curity. Lease negotiable. Call 352-672-1482   
1-13-08-15-2
3BR 2BA House for rent. Privacy fence, new 
wood floors, fireplace and attached garage. 
Quiet neighborhood, Off Tower Rd. ONLY 
$950/mth 352-494-6485   1-16-08-14-2
MONTICELLO CONDO 2BR/2BA
1 car garage. Pool & tennis court privileges. 
Across from GHFC. No pets. $1000/mo. Call 331-6872   1-20-08-15-2
3/2, 3 Blocks to UF
W/D, Pets, Dec Free
$1200/mo.  352-375-8256
4-22-76-2BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE
2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BA
Luxury Suites near Shands,Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row1240 SW 9th RoadPlease visit us at the model1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pmUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR Properties
List Avail Jan 20th!!
Please call or email us to
Receive a list before they
Are all gone!!!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
info@rentgainesville.com
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BA
Luxury Dual Suites
1185 SW 9th RD $1000/moClose to UF, Norman Hall
& Sorority Row.
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!
1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.
Many have been drastically reduced
For immediate occupancy!
Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown Apts
Parking/laundry hkups
Walk to UF $850/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
MOVE IN TODAY
Casa East end unit2BR/2.5BA $800/moPets OK w FeeUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to run
behind Hilton on SW 34th ST
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
Available NOW
1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
$995/MO 3BR/2BA
NEAR UF!! w/d incl.
2041 NW 7th PlaceLarge family room w/fireplaceHardwood floors & nice yardUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
For rent 4 bd 2 bath with family room. Close 
to university, schools, shopping and dining. 
Great for roommate sharing. Call Bobbie at 
352-514-6712    1-8-08-5-2
CAMPUS EDGE CONDO
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-6149, 239-992-2449   1-30-08-19-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE
Block from law school, biking distance from UF.  W/D incl. Pets ok. Huge yard. $1600/mo. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2 2BR/2.5BA - $725/mo.
 2BR/1.5BA - $625/mo.
Off SW 34th St. Close to UF, Shands, shop-ping & dining. Fenced yard, util room. private 
parking, pets ok. Call Solomon 262-3472   
2-3-08-20-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/mo
Lease through July 2009
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
WALK TO SANTA FE
2bd/2ba $750/mo
1 car garage. dw, mw. wd incl
Fenced yard. Avail Now!Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com       4-22-72-2
Mallorca Unit near Royal Park
2BD/2.5BA Avail Now!!
Beautiful, luxury townhouse
w/ garage. $950/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
Visit www.gatorpads.com
for available units or call
352-284-0316 / 352-281-0733
Houses, Duplexes, Condo, Townhouses. 
Walk/Bike/Bus to UF. Neat, clean, quality1-30-08-18-2
HERE IT IS! RENT REDUCED...UPSCALE 
Charleston Place Condo, 2/2, W/D in unit, just 
repainted,all tile floors,DW,screened porch, 
2nd floor, call 352-335-3787   1-12-09-5-2
1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnishedTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 152 story 2 bdrm 2 bth w/firplace in Shell Rock 
Villas. Nice area close to UF, Oaks Mall and bus 
stop. $625 mo plus security dep $600. Call Ms. 
Mitchell (678) 642-1223    1-12-09-5-2
2BR/2BA Townhouse, small pets ok! private 
courtyard, icemaker, dishwasher, washer/dryer 
hookup. walk to restraunts/ grocery. $799. mo. 
quiet neighbors. 318-0089   2-4-09-21-2
Room for rent with private bathroom in 2/2.5 
townhouse. 2.5 miles from UF. W/D upstairs; 
alarm; common areas furnished. $450/month 
& half of utilities. Negotiable. Call Jenn (352) 
672-0238
1-20-09-10-2
DUCK POND! Historic 3/1 house for rent in 
walking distance to downtown, bike to UF. 
Hardwood floors, large backyard. 723 NE 8th 
Avenue. Cats OK. $1100/month. Call Kris 352-
514-4544   1-9-09-4-2
2bd/2.5ba townhouse. Pet friendly. Close to I-75 
and bus route to main campus. New paint and 
2 parking spaces. Rent is $750 a month plus $10 
per pet. January free!! Call Rhonda at (727)-243-
4688.    2-3-09-20-2
Roomy 1BdRm/1Bath Now Avail; Brandywine, 
Old Archer Rd. $650 per mo incl. water. Ready 
to move in. First floor, carpeted, private. Full 
kitchen. Very nice. Call 813-924-7192 while lasts.    
1-20-09-10-2
3BR/2B House near Westside Park. Beautiful 
hardwood flrs. Lg LR, DR, Family Rm. Dishwasher, 
Cent AC&Htr. Free laundry fac. Fenced, land-
scaped yd. Monthly prepay discount. 1019 NW 36th Dr. $1395/mo+Util. 773-206-1774    1-20-09-10-2
House 4br 3 bath, 3000+sf, 1 mile to UF, w/d, 
pets ok, $1900. 352-213-3943    1-12-5-2LOTS OF GREEN SPACE
2BR home. $700/mo. 352-378-9220 or 213-3901   
1-20-09-10-2
FREE SCOOTER
when you sign a one year lease. Near UF, 
3BR/2BA + Office, fenced, pets OK, lawn care 
many extras. $1650/mo. 1003 NW 22nd St. 352-
256-3945   1-16-9-2
Rocky Point Apartments
3/2 W/D hkps Pets welcome!
$899.00 call now 352-376-1619  2-3-09-20-2
The Greens at West End - 2bd/2ba condo, vault-
ed ceilings, computer nook, screened porch, 
attached 1 car garage. Rent is $1100/mo. Call 
Anna at 352-318-2183.    1-13-09-5-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in small 
proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, 
mature applicants only. $540.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   1-21-09-10-2
Spacious 1BR/1BA Condo
*Only 1.8 mi to UF
*Completely remodeled
*Pool,clubhouse,fitness center
*$675/mo. Call 954-650-8919    1-13-09-5-2
4 BED 3 BATH HOUSE FOR RENT STARTING AUG 
1, 2009. On University Ave near the corner of NW 30th St. $2,000 per month, pets OK. Large backyard and deck. Call 630-390-6612.   2-27-09-37-2
BEAUTIFUL CONDO FOR RENT! FIRST MONTH 
FREE! 3 bed/2 bath, laminate wood floors, 
fenced back deck, 1.5 miles to UF! All appliances 
included. Available NOW! Please call (352)384-
3604 or email enkanderson@gmail.com   1-13-
09-5-2HHDuckpond Duplex HH
2BR/1BA in quiet neighborhood. Close to down-
town & on bus line. Spacious, carpeted, W/D on 
premises, D/W, Cent H/AC. No dogs. $650/mo 
Available now 352-376-0080   1-21-09-10-2
POOL HOUSE AVAIL NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-
6183, 352-327-2931  1-13-09-5-2
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse condo near UF. Wired 
for inet + sec system, W/D hk-up, appliances, 
comm pool, 2 Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal for 2 
to share. 1st & sec dep req. $1100/mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  1-21-09-10-2
Duckpond
2 bd 1.5 ba 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of 
historic neighborhood.w/d Blocks to down-
town shops & restaurants. 508 NE 4th A ave 
avail immediately  $795/mo 379-4952
1-21-09-10-2
2/1.5 Newly Renovated Townhouse. Avail Jan 1st. 
Close to Shands, Park N Ride 2, and Shopping. Incl W/D, cent A/C, Private Patio, & Pool. $745/mth & $500 Dep. No Pets Pls. 772-538-5792 or ltsao12@hotmail.com  1-14-09-5-2
1 br/ba apartment in Hidden Village off Archer 
road close to UF. Take over lease til July 31, 
2009. Only 629.00 a month. Huge backyard area 
for your dogs to run and quiet neighborhood. 
Many residents either bus, bike, or ride scooter 
to class. Call 352-246-4630 for this quiet oasis.   
1-14-09-5-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy efficient, 
some utils. Very spacious, carpet, decal park 
Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bell-
south.net 352-376-0080, 284-3873   1-30-09-
16-2
POOL HOUSE 7 Blocks to campus
4 bedroom 3 bath avail now till August $2350 and $2550 for next year 
1 room also avail now $400 352-222-0211   1-14-
09-5-2
1 & 2 BD Cottages starting at $500/mo
Historical Downtown, W/D hookups, porches, Bike to UF 10-15 mins. Great Size! Cute! Must See! $99 Deposit specialrentalworkshop.com 505-9264, 870-0904   1-16-08-7-2$425-1 or 2 females needed for Univ. Terrace 
condo on 34th; utilities included; un/furnished, 
bus routes 12 and 35; call 352.514.3398 or 
email anu87@ufl.edu   1-12-08-8-3
Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 12/
18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to take 
over existing lease. Security deposit free. Contact sean6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
1Br/1BA FURNISHED in a 4B/4B @ 
Gainesville Place apts. All INCLUSIVE (utilities,cable,internet) $425/monthFLEXIBLE LEASE TERMSmxracer@cfl.rr.com OR 321-302-1175   1-20-08-14-3
Sublease brand new apartment at the 
Woodlands of Gainesville. 1 bedroom 
in a 2Br/2Ba, vaulted ceilings, fully fur-
nished $660 a month. If interested please 
call(954)801-7557   1-9-08-5-3
The Laurels 1/1 townhome. Private gated 
community avail now thru Aug. W/D incl. w/free tanning, HBO & showtime. Semi-furn w/various amenities. $869/mo (negotiable) 
Call Ashley 941-915-6439   1-9-08-3-3
Nice 2/2 apt close to campus and downtown! 
W/D, dishwasher, ceiling fans, pets allowed! 
avail now thru July 31. $800/month. 110 NW 9th 
Terr. Call Lindsey @ 561-398-6720   1-13-08-6-3
Sublease 1 BD/1BA unfurn. apt. @ Pine Rush 
Villas from January to July. $529/mo + utilities. 
Contact Paul at 352-222-0279 for details.   1-9-
4-3
4/4 Fully furnished apartment with first month 
free. Utilities included. $500 per month. Located 
in Lexington Crossing. For more info call (813) 
390-7761.   1-13-09-6-3
$425 Sprig sublease in 2/2 fully furnished apart-
ment at The District on 62nd Blvd. All utilities 
included (cable, internet, water, electricity). Located on bus routes 20 and Lator Gator C. Females preferred. Call 704-989-3168 ASAP!   1-9-4-3
1 bed 1 bath, part of a 3 bed 3 bath apartment 
with two other roomates. Very spacious, great location, vaulted ceilings. $385 a month. In the polos, 2330 SW Williston Rd.apt. 2825. Call 386-490-5947    1-20-10-3
1BR/1BA apt for sublease at Summer Place 
Villas. $560/month, includes water. Available NOW! Call 941-457-3444 or swatts@ufl.edu   
1-27-09-15-3Furnished or unfurnished 1/1 in 3/3 in 
Stoneridge (3800 SW 34 St.) available im-mediately. $365/month + utilities. January rent is FREE. Great roommates. 817-504-6884, KathrynL@ufl.edu.   1-13-09-5-3
Sublet Madison Point. Furnished bedroom with 
private bath and large closet in 3BR unit. $450. + Utili. Neg. Available Immediately. 239-370-0418, 239-370-8201, 239-596-1901   1-13-09-5-3
2 BLOCKS TO STADIUM
Sublease 1BR in 4BR house. Share w/ 3 male 
UF students. Available now. $495/mo. Call 335-
4790   1-13-09-5-3
Magnolia Manor Apartment 2/2 $640/mo 
spring/summer. Washer/dryer, dishwasher, up-dated appliances. Close to campus on routes 34, 9, 36. No roam towing. Available now. Call 352-336-0000 or ashlei87@ufl.edu.   1-13-09-5-3
1
13121110987654324Roommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Cobblestone 377-2801
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-22-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Female roommate needed in condo
1 mile from UF, $455/MO includes
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more. Pvt 
bath,beautifully renovated, furnished, on bus route, 262-2871   1-12-08-14-4
HANDYMAN NEEDED Disc 4 wk Share 2/2 MH 
Furn rm avail now $200 N/R dep. $400/mo; $100/wk incl util. 2 wk adv. laun/cook svc avail N/A, N/S, N/D. Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr bus/shops Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   1-12-11-4
Non-smoking, quiet roommate, m/f, needed 
to share a 2 br/ 2bath townhouse asap. in the Rockwood Villas on 62nd Blvd. $395/month. MikeReed@cfl.rr.com   1-9-08-7-4
2 br 1ba condo with 1 br for rent. Central air 
and heat. 2 pools in complex. Walking distance to Shands and UF. Rent 395/mo1BR avail w/private bath in large NW house $425/mo. Call Mike 352-316-3930.    1-13-09-8-4
Master BD w/ Private Bath
in 4BD/3BA house off NW 16th Ave. DW, W/D, 
Cox cable w/ networked i-net, new carpet, ceil-ing fans. No cats/dogs $450 incl utils 328-4995   1-8-08-5-4
Room for rent in a 2 bed 2 bath house. Very 
close to campus, large bathroom, New appli-ances/furniture, w/d, dishwasher, flexable lease. Call Terry at: 352-473-6930.   1-9-08-5-4
Looking for male college student (preferred) 
to share 4BR/4BA condo with same. Own bath-room. W/D, high speed internet. Includes utili-ties $475/mo (available immediately) 863-634-1893   1-12-08-5-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ UT cable and internet included.(for sale or rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Share 3 BR furn. TH Casablanca West with 2 UF 
students. $300/mo., + 1/3 utilities. Smoking patio only. Male or Female. Avail. now. Near bus stop. 786.514.5319 (Max) or 786.299.8626   1-13-09-6-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    1-27-15-4
1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654322For Rent
unfurnished1
13121110987654323Subleases1
13121110987654323Subleases16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009PEACE, PETS, TREES & GREA T ROOMMA TES! 1BR 
available in house near all!. See craigslisting: https://post.craigslist.org/manage/975799217/gsyua for more/contact info.   1-13-09-5-4
2 ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $475/mo/room. All includ -
ed. 754-204-1624   1-30-09-17-4
female wanted to share brand new
3br/3ba home near campus. washer
& dryer included. $500 plus 1/3
utilities. non-smoking, serious
students only. 813-610-1698   1-16-7-4
WALK TO UF - 1 bdrm in 4/2 house
Female Roommate Needed Immediately$499/month + util. Full bed & Wireless internet included; Plenty of Parking
If interested, call Sarah 561-843-7452   1-16-09-
7-4
Looking for quiet roommate to share 3BR/3BA 
house. $380/mo includes utils. Has pool, tennis and clubhouse. Call 352-328-8299 orrobertoleider@gmail.com            1-14-09-5-4
Roommate needed 2BR/2.5Ba furn townhome 
in Brighton Park on bus route to UF every 15 mins. $400/mo + utils. No lease required. Call Bobby 352-665-0751   1-14-08-5-4
1
13121110987654325 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of pos-
sible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted 
over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK 
OUT PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT 
www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 Bedrooms 
for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, steel & concrete construction, alarm system. Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-35514-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
3/2 split plan in NW Gainesville $196,000
Talbot district, Large Master Bed & Bath, view of Pond & Woods, Bonus Room.b.wunderlich@juno.com or 706.691.9784   1-8-08-7-5
Condos for sale near UF/Shands!!
Many affordable units available.Call Carolyn/Maureen at:(352)284-4428 or (386)365-8590@ Matchmaker Realty.    1-30-09-21-5
107 BAY CT CRESCENT CITY 4.05 ACRE 
- NOIMPACT FEE 30K ALSO 4.48 ACRES IN FLORAHOMEFOR 31K 208 S WAHOO MUST SELL 8138925060   1-9-5-5
1 Bdrm 1 Ba. Condo$85,000 OBO.
904-687-0634   1-12-5-5BED - QUEEN - $110 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $90 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost $1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516___________________________________
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-7516
4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, 
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. 
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-
22-72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $140   332-9899
___________________________________.
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $120  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 
1
13121110987654327Computers
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7 
 
4-22-70-7Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/un-plugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/ID. 
Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.
GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7
1
13121110987654329 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9
1
131211109876543210 For Sale
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-0370
4-22-08-72-10
PARKING 60 SECONDS TO UF.
Next to McDonalds NW 13th St. Call for semes-
ter rates: 352-538-2454.    1-12-09-5-10
1
131211109876543211 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail $19.99 oil changes!! 336-1271  4-22-08-72-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
 All on one site! Check the website or call 336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08-72-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-22-08-72-11SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11
1
131211109876543212 Autos
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not! 
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
Over 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 
4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
4-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and 
up. Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-72-12
ATTENTION 
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      4-22-08-72-12
2003 Honda Civic LX sedan 98k automatic, 
AC, CD, silver with gray cloth, power every-thing, very clean, $8,400 OBO 352.514.1800 - pics: lunadog@cox.net   1-8-9-12
$$ CASH TODAY! $$
For your unwanted cars
Junk!! Trucks, RVS & Wrecks!!!
TOP DOLLAR PAID!
386-234-0072 & 386-234-0075
1-12-08-10-12
2002 NISSAN Sentra GXE.90250mi,runs smooth -
ly and has never broken down. Black with gray 
cloth interior. Power locks,windows and mir-rors work perfectly.Cold AC. Maintenance up to date. Good deal/Negotiable.Interested call 3528707022   1-13-5-12
1
131211109876543213 Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings 
 ETC  Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-08-72-13BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and 
for walks and shopping as needed. We’ll 
have lots of fun! And you will make a new 
friend!  Contact 219-6948.  12-10-08-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings
FULL-TIME ACCOUNTING CLERK
Full-time position in accounts receiveable. 
Must be able to work from 8am-5pm, M-F. 
This position combines billing with sales 
related reports, cash receipts posting, mark-ing up the paper, etc. Communication skills 
with customers and students important. 
QuickBooks and Excel spreadsheets experi-ence preferred.
Please send resume, along with a cover
letter, to: Business Office, The Independent
Florida Alligator, PO Box 14257, Gainesville, 
FL 32604-2257. Email:
rmalloy@alligator.org AND 
tcarey@alligator.org or
Fax 352-376-4556. No phone calls please.
EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be over 22, stable work history, clean driving record, drug-free, perssonal references. www.carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  4-22-08-72-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1
13121110987654324Roommates1
13121110987654326Furnishings1
13121110987654327Computers1
131211109876543211 Motorcycles, Mopeds1
131211109876543213 WantedTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 17BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get 
program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For 
online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.com 
Get started right away!   4-22-72-14
Tired of Working Retail?
Local real estate co. hiring part-time Sales & 
Leasing Associates.  Need previous sales 
or retail exp & outgoing personality.  No real 
estate exp req (training provided). Bonuses 
& benefits. Send resume, cover letter & avail 
schedule to hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-22-72-14
*IT/Programming Internship.  Local invest-
ment firm seeks individual to work PT/FT 
with SQL, HTML, ASP, databases, servers, 
and networks.  2+ yrs exp pref.  $15-20 per hour + bonuses, long term capability.  Fax re-
sume to 352-378-4156.*   1-30-08-21-14
SERVER
Experienced & friendly. Hiring for January. 
Train now & be off for the holidays. Apply in 
person b/t 3-5. Napolatanos 606 NW 75th St.   
1-12-08-9-14
KITCHEN HELP
Experienced & reliable for nights & week-
ends. Apply in person b/t 3-5. Napolatanos 606 NW 75th St.   1-12-08-9-14
Petsitter Wanted
Professional or graduate student needed
to watch two older dogs full-time. Live rent
free in lovely three bedroom home, cable,
internet, utilities and housekeeper once per
week included plus an allowance in return
for providing loving care to two beautiful,
older dogs. Must be non-smoker, clean, and
professional. Please call Ann at
352-870-6275.
1-12-08-7-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
Spring 2009
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-16-08-10-14
Long Hair Models
Sought for the holidays for study on long hair in motion. Earn $70-200 per session. no cutitng no exp. ness. 
352 792 1824, longhair.org,
lhques@yahoo.com    1-9-08-5-14
Attn GREEKS:
Get paid to work with Greek HousesAccount Executive/Customer               Service PositionsPTFT Sales Opportunities
NOW Hiring
Assistant Graphic DesignerAdministrative Assistant/ReceptionistAccount Executives (Exp Req)    Managing Accounts with:       ●Student Organizations &
              Corporate businessesCustomer Service RepsInternships Positions     Marketing & FinanceSend resumes to jobs@premierparties.com1-9-08-5-14
Stride Rite shoe store is looking for experi-
enced & energetic retail sales person who LOVES kids! Store hrs. 10-6 Must be avail-
able to work wknds. Apply in person Oaks 
Mall Plaza next to Toys R Us. 6753 W. 
Newberry Road Min. 1 year work commit-ment.   1-9-08-5-14BARTENDERS  NEEDED! Earn up to $300/
day! PT/FT. No experience necessary. 888-
631-5552 X-92    2-17-09-30-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem school students. 1-4 afternoons/wk
$10/hr 15-20 min S of UF. Fed wk study
req for emp. Volunteers welcome Contact Sally 
352-384-1155; st23@cox.net
1-21-09-10-14
PT BABYSITTER/NANNY $12/hr for 3 boys ages 
2, 4 & 6. Various times needed. Esp TU, TH, F 7:45am-1:45pm, also wkends. Ref & exp re-quired. No smokers. Email resume tobetharosenson@yahoo.com   1-14-09-5-14
WEB DEVELOPERS & COMPUTER 
CONSTULTANTS: UF Center for Instructional 
Technology and Training. Web developers must 
be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS, XHTML and 
Photoshop. Portfolio links must be included 
with application. Consultant position requires 
expert skills with Windows and Microsoft Office 
applications. Excellent communication skills 
required. Pay starts at $7.50 per hour. jksmith@
ufl.edu, online application at http://www.citt.
ufl.edu/employment.php.
1-30-17-14
Afternoon nanny for elem age
M-F 1:30 --; W 12:30; must commit thru
Aug min; Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail
res/pix/sched/ gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-
10-14
Afternoon nanny needed
12-6pm w/ 3.5yr old; must committo 1yr+; non-student pref;Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, sched gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-14
MWF 7:30 to 5 NANNY for
newborn twins; 20-30hrs/wk;exp req.; Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, sched. gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-14
The Honey Baked Ham Co & Cafe is now 
hiring for sales associate. Approx 20-25 hrs $7.50/hr starting pay. Apply in person 618 NW 60th St (Behind McDonalds on Newberry Rd.) Call 331-1253   1-13-08-5-14
UF Survey Research Center
Telephone Interviewers
NO SALES
$8.00 - $8.50/hr
Students and Non-Students
352-392-2908 Ext: 105
408 W. University Ave. Suite 106
4-22-70-14
1
131211109876543215 Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR.BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
★★GATOR MOVING & STORAGE ★★
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 4-22-08-72-15  
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. 
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. Low 
Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15
★★★★★ MOVING? ★★★★★
●●●●●● FREEWAY MOVING ●●●●●●
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM707
4-22-72-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner  hous-
ing. Dressage, stadium jumping, X-country. 
Lessons/schooling opportunities. Feeding/
mucking mitigate monthly charges. Visitors al-ways welcome. Contact Dibbie 352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.   1-26-08-20-15
Absolute Value Automotive
Major/minor auto repairs ASE cert. Free pickup & delivery of your car. UF grad owned. Lowest price guaranteed. All makes/models. 9420 NW 13th St 379-31301-30-08-23-15
Free $10.00 gift card
coolgiftsbuy.com
Gifts for all occasions   1-13-09-5-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15
1
131211109876543216 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16
Attention cigarette smokers! Are you in-
terested in quitting smoking? What better time than now, the beginning of a new year! Researchers at University of Florida are re-cruiting healthy cigarette smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 to test a new behav-ioral treatment to help you quit smoking. You will be compensated for your participa-tion. If you’re interested, please contact the University of Florida Smoking Laboratory and Clinic at 352-273-2188 or send an email to ufsmokelab@gmail.com.   1-21-10-16
1
131211109876543217 Typing Services
SAME DAY SERVICE (When Possible): 
●Transcription, typing. ● Desktop pub: bro-
chures, newsletters, flyers, ads, logos, graph-ics, books. ● Resume service. 20 years exp. 
● Connie 271-2677 cgraphix@bellsouth.net  
1-21-10-17
1
131211109876543218 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18
1
131211109876543219 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
1
131211109876543220 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL 
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
1
131211109876543221Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ★ Better Prices
Better Fields ★ Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
●●● BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK ●●●
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
BAHAMA SPRING BREAK SALE!
$200 Sale! Includes Roundtrip 
Cruise, 4 Nights Beachfront
Hotel, Meals & #1 Parties!
Text Message: SPRINGBREAK 
to 313131 to redeem sale!
Limited Space, Book Now!
1-877-997-8747
www.XtremeTrips.com
FL Seller of Travel Reg No ST35430
1-22-28-21
1
131211109876543223 Rides
Cheapest fixed price in town to So. FL.
Buy tickets on line, over the phone, in per-
son. $35 One Way - $45 Rount Trip.
Regular and Reverse Trips - One Price
www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23
SWAMP TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
G’ville to Tallahassee Dec 18, & 19, 2008
Tickets: $25 O/W $35 R/Trip. Hurry to reserve 
your tickets. Call 352-214-9648   1-16-10-23
1
131211109876543224 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your 
roommate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra 
cash? We are now hiring notetakers for 
Spring. Go to www.HowIgotanA.com
1-12-08-6-14
Seeking Front of House staff. Liquid Ginger now 
hiring hosts, servers & bartenders. Please apply 
in person at 101 SE 2nd Place, Suite 118, Sun 
Center downtown between 11:30 - 2:30 M-F   
1-9-4-14
CLERICAL POSITION - FT/PT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec
4011 NW 43rd St Suite A    1-12-5-14
TECHNICIAN POSITION FT/PT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec
4011 NW 43rd St Suite A          1-12-5-14
BABYSITTER/NANNY needed to watch 3 
children (4 mo, 2y, and 4y) M and F after-
noons (8-10hrs/wk) with additional hours 
available. E-mail resume and class sched-
ule to adamvorhis@yahoo.com   1-12-09-
5-14
Babysitter Needed ASAP
Infant exp. required, non-smoker. CPR a plus. 
Flexible weekday hours. $8/hr. 
Email resume and references to Jbsager@aol.
com or call 284-4754
1-12-09-5-14
Childcare/Housework help needed. All day on 
Mon/Wed. Afternoons Tues/Thurs/Friday. More 
hours avaiable in summer. Available for gator football games also. email phykcr@gmail.com.   1-07-09-2-14
Bookkeeper - Office Manager (PT) needed for 
local law office. Must be proficient in Quick Books. Email resume to:robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com   1-21-09-11-14
Fast Pitch umpires wanted to work high school 
games 1- 2 afternoons or nights a week. We will train you as you earn. Go to www.besoa.org, or call Robert at (386)334-4723   1-9-4-14
Software Engineers/Programmers
C/C++ programmers for Embedded digital TV software (Cable, Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville offices. Competitive salaries, ben-efits, relocation. Send resume or questions to resumes.atlanta@lw.net   1-14-09-7-14
Part-time Student Assistant needed to assist 
with survey development, data analysis and 
research. To review posting & apply see https://
jobs.ufl.edu, requisition #0801253. Screening will begin on Friday, January 16 and will con-tinue until the position is filled. The University 
of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Institution & 
women & minorities are encouraged to apply. If 
an accommodation due to a disability is needed to apply, call (352) 392-4621 or TDD 1-800-955-8771.   1-16-09-9-14
Part-time Public Relations Student Assistant 
needed to promote the Healthy Gators 2010 coalition. To review posting & apply see https://jobs.ufl.edu, requisition #0801214. Screening will begin on Friday, January 16 and will con-tinue until the position is filled. The University of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Institution & women & minorities are encouraged to apply. If an accommodation due to a disability is needed to apply, call (352) 392-4621 or TDD 1-800-955-8771.   1-20-09-10-14
Outgoing students needed to distribute flyers 
on 1/12 & 1/13. Flexible hours. $10 to $12.00 per hour. Please call 1-800-927-9194   1-12-09-5-14
WAREHOUSE STAFF!!
FT/PT inventory control, flex hrs. Great job for students! Will work around class schedule. Apply at Concessions Office, South End Zone Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, next To the Gator Sport Shop 352-375-4683 x6500   1-12-09-5-14
EVENT SUPERVISORS!!
PT Supervisors needed. days, nights week-ends. Flexible hours. Great 2nd Job! Apply at Concessions Office, South End  Zone Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, next to the Gator Sport Shop (352) 375-4683 x6500    1-12-09-5-141
131211109876543214 Help Wanted1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted1
131211109876543214 Help Wanted1
131211109876543215 Services1
131211109876543218 Personals18, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 19
Football
by EV aN DREXlER
Alligator Staff Writer
edrexler@alligator.org
MIAMI — While the time be-
tween the Gators’ last two games 
may have been tough on players mentally, it’s a good thing they had those 33 days to recover from 
injuries.
UF coach Urban Meyer thinks 
the extra time off will be crucial 
to the Gators’ success tonight.
“If we played this game any 
earlier than Jan. 8, I don’t think we’d have a chance to win just because of our injury situation,” Meyer said.
Wide receiver Percy Harvin, 
who sprained his right ankle against FSU on Nov. 29 and missed the Southeastern Conference Championship, should be fine to play against No. 2 Oklahoma to-night at 8 p.m.
“The good thing is, Jan. 8 we 
should be fairly healthy,” Meyer 
said. “If we had to play a Jan. 1 
bowl game, we would not have won that game. Really no chance 
of winning that game.”
Offensive lineman Carl 
Johnson, wide receiver Louis 
Murphy and running back Kestahn Moore (all knee injuries) will be available for UF as well.COMPETITIVE SNAPS: Meyer knows part of the problem with planning for the Sooners’ defense is that 
there is very little video of them 
playing their hardest.
Since the Sooners are usually 
ahead by a good margin at half-time, there was little reason for them to go all-out in the second half.
While looking at game film 
for most teams, Meyer sees 800 to 
900 “competitive snaps.” But for 
Oklahoma?
“You take that and prob-
ably cut it right in half, because they’re just beating the mess out of teams,” Meyer said.
This is part of the reason 
Oklahoma’s defense is under -
rated, Meyer said — it’s barely 
playing in situations where it has had to try.
“So I see a fine defense, I see 
an excellent defense that we’re 
getting ready to face, especially when you look at the competitive snaps,” Meyer said.QUIT WHILE YOU’RE AHEAD:  Don’t 
expect to see a cane-wielding Meyer roaming the sidelines in 30 
years.
The UF coach 
said Wednesday morning that he’ll be out of coaching long before he turns 70.
“There will 
be no chance I’ll 
be doing this into my 70s or 80s,” Meyer said. “Zero. None.”
The era of long-tenured coach-
es like Penn State’s Joe Paterno and FSU’s Bobby Bowden is a thing of the past, Meyer said.
“I don’t know if you’ll ever 
see that again,” Meyer said. “You certainly won’t see it at the 
same institution. People get tired and they want to run you out of town.”
Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops 
also sees an end to his coaching 
career coming earlier than his eighth decade.
“No way,” Stoops said while 
laughing. “I don’t need it. I love what I do. I mean, I absolutely love it. It’s exciting, it’s every-
thing you want. You know you’re 
alive every day.”WHO’S NO. 1?:  Utah upended 
Alabama in the Sugar Bowl on Friday and finished its season as the only undefeated team in the FBS. 
Meyer, who coached at Utah 
previous to UF, understands com-
pletely why the Utes feel they are 
deserving of a national cham-pionship and why coach Kyle Whittingham would vote for his team in the final Coaches Poll as the No. 1 team. 
USC coach Pete Carroll and 
Texas coach Mack Brown have said in the media that they are 
also going to vote their teams as No. 1.
“Well, that’s absolutely what 
they should do,” Meyer said. 
“I’ve got news: I’m representing the University of Florida, and I’m an employee of the University of Florida, and I represent my play-ers. I’m going to fight like a dog to take care of them.”
Meyer was widely accused of 
“lobbying” for UF to make the 2006 BCS National Championship Game, which received negative publicity.
“I love that term. I was lobby-
ing,” Meyer said. “I simply said that we belonged in the game. … If a coach would win a game (and go 13-1) and not fight for their 
players, that’s not a good coach.”
Stoops, however, did not want 
to comment about other teams’ 
claims for a national title and said those things are up for the media to decide.
“I mean, that’s not for me to 
do,” Stoops said. “They’re all good football teams; everyone re-
alizes that.”
Monthlong rest allows Gators’ injuries time to heal
Meyer
By PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator.org
MIAMI — It all started with a 
playful jab. It’s become a war of 
the words.
CBS analyst Verne Lundquist 
said during the Southeastern 
Conference Championship Game 
broadcast that UF quarterback Tim Tebow, while discussing his Heisman vote, had joked he would like to go up against a Big 12 defense.  The comment referred to some critics who have deemed the offensive statistics put up by Oklahoma’s Sam Bradford, 
Texas Tech’s Graham Harrell, and 
Texas’s Colt McCoy inflated.
The Sooners’ defense is tired 
of answering questions about Tebow and the UF offense, and defensive back Dominique Franks finally couldn’t hold back any longer.
“If you look at the three best 
quarterbacks in the country, (they) came from the Big 12,” Franks said. “The three best re-ceivers in the country came from the Big 12. The three best tight ends came from the Big 12. So we’ve faced some great offenses, and a lot of people don’t un-derstand that other conferences 
don’t have what we face.”
While Franks’ teammates and 
coaches said they didn’t feel 
Franks meant any disrespect, the sophomore declined all interview requests the following day.
Tebow made light of Franks’ 
comments and said that his re-mark to CBS had been misunder -stood.
“I didn’t say it like that,” 
Tebow said. “I dream of play-ing teams like Texas, Oklahoma, but also the Penn States, USC. So when I was talking about it, I was talking about it in a way like that, not like we’re superior to them. That wasn’t what I meant.”
And the debate between SEC 
and Big 12 defenses has carried on. The stats show SEC back-ers may have a point — 11 of 12 league teams rank in the top 40 in total defense.
How many Big 12 teams rank that high? Zero.
UF linebacker Brandon Spikes 
made his opinion of Big 12 de-fenses known. He thinks they’re a joke.
“When I watch SportsCenter, 
I look at the scores, and it’s 56-49, just basketball scores,” Spikes said. “I feel like it’s a joke. Like I said, Ole Miss ran up and down the field on a Big 12 defense.
“If they can stop our offense, 
hey, my hat goes off to them. But I don’t really think they can. As long as we play well on defense, 
give the ball back to Tim and the 
rest of those guys, we should roll.”
Oklahoma’s defense will have 
plenty of motivation but will have to improve on its regular-season statistics. Nationally, the Sooners ranked 63rd in total defense and 98th in pass defense.
Defensive back Nic Harris 
was short when asked about pre-paring for UF playmaker Percy Harvin.
“No other difference than pre-
paring for (Texas Tech receiver) Michael Crabtree or (Missouri receiver) Jeremy Maclin,” Harris said. “Next question.”
Sooners coach Bob Stoops said 
his defense has had clutch ten-dencies. Oklahoma leads the na-tion in turnover margin and ranks third in sacks per game (3.23).
“We have stepped up in dif-
ferent times when we’ve had to,” Stoops said. “But we’ve been in-consistent. I think that’s fair to 
say.”
Harris added that all the sta-
tistics will go down the drain af-
ter 60 minutes of football.
“At the end of the day, the 
only thing that’s going to mat-ter is who plays better defense (Thursday night),” Harris said. “The old cliché is offense wins 
games, defense wins champion-
ships. This is a championship.”20, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
AP Photo
Oklahoma defensive back Nic Harris (5) breaks up a pass during the second half of Oklahoma’s 27-21 
win against Oklahoma State on Saturday, Nov. 25, 2006.
OKLAHOmA FOOTBALLSooners out to prove Big 12 can play defense, too
 UF IS RIDING A 14-GAME 
WINNING STREAK.
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
Forget about their record. Forget 
about what they’ve done over the 
past two months.
At this point in the season, none 
of it matters.
Because, when the UF women’s 
basketball team takes the court at 
5 p.m. against Mississippi State in 
the O’Connell Center, Southeastern Conference play begins, and the No. 18 Gators’ record in-conference is 0-0.
Some of UF’s players are look-
ing at this as the second part of the season and are throwing their 14-1 record out the window.
“This is where it all goes down,” 
senior forward Marshae Dotson said. “It’s a new season. We’ve got to start off right.”
UF coach Amanda Butler has sent 
a subtle reminder in practice this week that SEC play has arrived.
“Coach, she turned it up a notch, 
and we had to turn it up too,” 
Dotson said. “If not, we were going 
to get left behind or get kicked out of practice, one of the two.”
Senior guard Sha Brooks agreed.“She’s kind of amped up prac-
tice more,” Brooks said. “Practice 
is 10 times more intense than it was 
in the preseason. Right now we re-ally need that because we’re really going after the SEC Championship, and we can win it this year.”
For Brooks and Dotson, seniors 
who were on a 9-22 team just two years ago, having expectations of 
challenging to win 
one of the nation’s 
toughest leagues never seemed pos-sible until now.
Dotson knows 
based on past expe-
riences the SEC grind will be a lot more intense and physical than the Gators’ out-of-conference match-
ups.
UF did prepare well, though, for 
the physicality of the conference 
by playing and beating teams like 
Florida State, Arizona State, North 
Carolina State and Pittsburgh.
Junior transfer Steffi Sorensen 
only knows how tough the SEC slate will be based off what she has 
seen and heard from her teammates 
and coaches.
“I’m a newcomer. I don’t really know much about this SEC thing,” Sorensen said. “Based on coaches, I kind of got that vibe that it’s time to step it up. Non-conference is 
over and this is a whole new play-
ing field. I feel like it’s going to be a battle, basically, and I’m ready to go to war.”
Sorensen has seen her team go 
from being the hunters to the hunt-ed in a conference that currently has four ranked teams. That will likely factor in to the way teams like 
Mississippi State (12-2) approach 
playing against a ranked UF squad, giving them added motivation.
“I just feel like the more games 
we started winning, the bigger the 
X gets on your back,” Sorensen said. 
“Now people are like, ‘OK, Florida might be the team to beat.’”
Brooks couldn’t be more ready 
to take on the challenge of the SEC, and when asked how excited she was, all she could do was smile.
“These past few days, when we 
get ready to play, Mississippi State is going to show us how ready we are to actually accept the challenge of the SEC,” Brooks said. “The en-ergy. Just knowing that at any given 
time, if you don’t bring your ‘A’ 
game, that you could get knocked off. It’s ridiculous.”Gators enter SEC play, new season
Women's
Bask etball
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF guard Sha Brooks is fouled by Vanderbilt’s Jessica Mooney 
during the Gators’ 66-56 loss at home Jan. 31, 2008.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 21
22, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
In a year when much of the talk has focused on conference su-
premacy — SEC or Big 12? — the Gators will keep the SEC on top of the list with a tight win tonight.
Expect a close contest with a low score in the first half as both 
teams struggle to exploit weaknesses they’ve been watching on 
film for five weeks. 
Final Score: UF 28, Oklahoma 24
After all the buildup and hoopla, the big game is finally here, and it will live up to its billing. The Gators’ defense will do an admi-rable job in holding Oklahoma’s offense to “just” 32 points. But Tim Tebow will add to his legend by leading his offense down the field for the game-winning drive. 
Final Score: UF 33, Oklahoma 32
Is this the game where UF meets its match? Will Oklahoma’s high-powered offense finally shred the Gators’ defense? These questions have racked my brain for weeks.Oklahoma’s D will not be able to stop UF . The Gators will be able to slow but not stop the Sooners. 
Final Score: UF 49, Oklahoma 28
Both teams have excellent offenses, but Oklahoma’s has a much tougher task against the Gators’ defense and its newfound swag-ger. UF might not shut down Sam Bradford and the Sooners, but the secondary will make a few big plays, and that can turn an evenly matched game into a yawner.  
Final Score: UF 38, Oklahoma 20
Sam Bradford steps back, and there’s a missed block on the Oklahoma offensive line. The Heisman winner is forced to rush his throw, and it’s picked off. Whether it be Bradford, Tim Tebow, Percy Harvin or anybody else, there will be key turnovers in this game, and that’s what will decide it.And with the way the Gators intercept passes, that’s a good thing for them. 
Final Score: UF 34, Oklahoma 27EV AN DREXLER
Karl Hyppolite
phil kegler
mike m ccall
brian steeleBCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
with alligatorSportsPREDICTIONS
Speaking. Ministering. Inspiring. 
Leading. 
If he returns next year, he has the chance 
to win three national championships and two 
Heisman trophies in his tenure.
Tebow had to prove it on the field to get 
these opportunities, but he does that almost 
every time his cleats touch grass. 
He has had unprecedented statistics, be-
coming the first player ever to score 20 pass-
ing and 20 rushing touchdowns in a single season. 
He was the first sophomore to ever win 
the Heisman Trophy. These are only the sub-points of why he deserves to be known as the greatest. 
When people look back on college football 
in 2008, if the Gators win tonight, the image of Tebow proclaiming nobody will work harder than him after a 31-30 loss to Mississippi will 
be what’s remembered. 
He is not just the greatest player. He’s the 
greatest person. He chest-bumps offensive 
coordinator Dan Mullen before games and then thanks Jesus Christ afterward. He runs 
over opponents after they say they will find 
a way to stop him, and then goes into the de-fense and special teams huddles, telling them to play harder than ever.
This is what greatness is about, and this is 
Tim Tebow. This may be the greatest college football player ever.
Will it happen? Let’s go find out.OKLAHOMA F OOtbALL
by bRIAN S tEELE
Alligator Staff Writer
bsteele@alligator.org
MIAMI — Oklahoma senior 
center Jon Cooper chuckles and 
agrees it’s usually a good sign when the offensive linemen aren’t in the spotlight. Cooper’s 
content not to deal with “100 
cameras” and is happy to take the occasional slap on the back or get a free dinner.
So when Texas held 
Oklahoma to 48 rushing yards on 26 attempts in the Sooners’ 45-35 loss on Oct. 11 and the linemen took much of the heat 
for not opening up holes, it got 
ugly . The Oklahoma offensive line entered the season as one of the highest-rated in the country , but for the first time in quite a while, they were dealing with criticisms.
“It wasn’t very fun,” Cooper 
said of what offensive coordina-
tor Kevin Wilson was like that 
following week in practice. 
“He said a lot of words I 
can’t repeat.”
Instead, it was the fans and 
media who used words that were repeated.
“Those guys (on the offen-
sive line) were fed up,” junior running back Chris Brown said. “(Critics) were saying we can’t 
run the ball. We wanted to make 
a statement.”
That statement now has 
several exclamation points at the end. Ever since their loss to Texas, the Sooners’ only misstep of the season, Oklahoma has had at least 187 rushing yards every game and has eclipsed 
the 200-yard mark regularly.
“You just have to make your 
mind up. We’re going to run 
the football,” senior right guard Brandon Walker said. “You have to have that attitude that we’re going to run the football no matter how many people you have in the box.”
Walker and Cooper said the 
line lacked physicality in the Texas game and, after having the run game shut down early , they couldn’t get it going again, as the Sooners relied only on their passing game.Sometimes, even the top stu-
dents in their class need to fail a 
test to realize they need to work 
harder.
“It did kind of put our head 
on straight and gave us the real-ity that we’re not unstoppable,” Cooper said. “As an offensive line, we came together and said, if we’re going to be here in Miami in January , we have to be 
able to run the football.” 
They have succeeded in that 
goal, as their top two running 
backs (Brown and DeMarco Murray , who will miss the game with a left hamstring inju-ry) have surpassed 1,000 yards each.
“We like to get physical,” 
Walker said. “Pass blocking, sometimes you sit back there and get kind of soft. When we start running the ball, we get to go downhill. That’s when the game starts getting fun.”
Walker added that the 
Sooners better keep this going for one more game.
“This game will be won by 
their defensive front or our of-fensive front and their offensive front and our defensive front,” Walker said. “That’s what this game is going to come down to.”
OU’s linemen step up game
bRIAN , from page 24“It did kind of put our 
head on straight and 
gave us the reality that 
we’re not unstoppable.”
Jon Cooper
Oklahoma senior centerTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 23
It’s that time of year again!
Advertise in
Affairs of 
          the HeartAffairs of 
          the Heart
Reach Our Readers Planning for Valentine’s Day!
Publishes February 2, 2009
Deadline January 27, 2009 
Ask About our 15% Pick-Up Discount
for Heartlines
Publishing February 13, 2009
(352) 376-4482
UF RUN vs. OKLAHOMA RUN DEFENSE UF rushes for 229.8 yards per game, OKLAHOMA allows 106.0 yards per game.
KEY PLAYERS: UF: Fr. RB Jeff Demps (69 att -- 582 yards, 8.4 avg, 7 TDs), RFr. RB Chris Rainey (83 att – 655 yds, 7.9 avg, 4 TDs); OU: RFr. LB Travis Lewis (135 
tackles, 12.0 TFL, 3.5 sacks, 4 INTs, 108 yds), Jr. LB Keenan Clayton (76 tackles, 10.0 TFL, 4.5 sacks, 1 INT)ANALYSIS:  Speed. Yep. That’s the buzzword here in Miami. Can the Oklahoma defense keep up with the speed of the UF offense? Is the speed of the Sooners defen-
sive backs going to catch the Gators by surprise? We’re going with no to both of those questions. Oklahoma hasn’t seen players as dynamic as Demps, Rainey and Harvin, and they will get a large dose of them tonight.
UF PASS vs. OKLAHOMA PASS DEFENSE UF passes for 212.6 yards per game, OKLAHOMA allows 253.1 yards per game.
KEY PLAYERS: UF: Jr. QB Tim Tebow (2,515 yds, 28 TDs, 2 INTs, 64.9 pct, 176.74 rating), Jr. WR Percy Harvin (35 rec, 595 yds, 17.0 avg, 7 TDs), Sr. WR Louis Murphy 
(36 rec, 611 yds, 17.0 avg, 6 TDs); OU: Sr. DB Lendy Holmes (79 tackles, 1.5 TFL, 5 INTs, 73 yds), Jr. DB Brian Jackson (67 tackles, 4.0 TFL, 2 INTs, 21 yds)ANALYSIS:  For the ﬁ  rst time all year, Murphy has more receiving yards than Harvin. Expect Harvin to reclaim his spot atop the UF receiving list tonight. After missing 
the Southeastern Conference Championship Game, Harvin is unbelievably antsy to make some big plays. Murphy, a senior leader, might be the one to make the long touchdown catch at the end of the night.
OKLAHOMA RUN vs. UF RUN DEFENSE OKLAHOMA rushes for 356.5 yards per game, UF allows 105.3 yards per game.
KEY PLAYERS: OU: Jr. RB Chris Brown (195 att – 1,110 yds, 5.7 avg, 20 TDs), So. RB Mossis Madu (111 att – 463, 4.2 avg, 6 TDs); UF: Jr. MLB Brandon Spikes (87 
tackles, 8.0 TFL, 2.0 sacks, 4 INTs, 93 yds), Jr. DE Jermaine Cunningham (51 tackles, 10.0 TFL, 6.0 sacks)ANALYSIS:  The Oklahoma running game is impressive, sure, but it will be missing DeMarco Murray, the Sooners’ leading rusher. Murray’s absence will put more 
pressure on Brown and Madu, who may get tired as their workload increases. Spikes and company are completely healthy for what seems like the ﬁ  rst time all sea-son, and they’ll be thankful to face only two-thirds of the Sooners’ best runners. This is a close category, but Murray’s absence swings it toward the Gators.
OKLAHOMA PASS vs. UF PASS DEFENSE  OKLAHOMA passes for 205.5 yards per game, UF allows 174.0 yards per game.
KEY PLAYERS: OU: So. QB Sam Bradford (4,464 yds, 48 TDs, 6 INTs, 68.3 pct, 186.28 rating), Sr. WR Juaquin Iglesias (69 rec, 1,092 yds, 15.8 avg, 10 TDs), Jr. TE Jermaine 
Gresham (58 rec, 888 yds, 15.3 avg, 12 TDs); UF: So. CB Joe Haden (77 tackles, 0.5 TFL, 3 INTs, 136 yds), So. S Major Wright (57 tackles, 3 INTs, 35 yds), So. S Ahmad 
Black (54 tackles, 6 INTs, 191 yds)ANALYSIS:  The UF passing defense has been a phenomenally improved unit all year. In 2007, it was a joke. But in 2008, the Gators secondary has shut down opponents. 
Despite all their hard work, there’s no way to completely shut down Bradford, the reigning Heisman winner. He’ll have a less-impressive night than usual, but don’t be sur-prised to see Iglesias or Gresham burn the Gators defensive backs on a play or two.
SPECIAL TEAMS
KEY PLAYERS: UF: Sr. Kicker Jonathan Phillips (11-12 FGs, long 40), So. Punter Chas Henry (41 punts, 42.8 avg, long 
67), Jr. KR Brandon James (65 rets, 1,196 yds, 2 TDs); OU: RFr. Kicker Jimmy Stevens (8-11 FGs, long 42), Sr. Punter Mike Knall (51 punts, 36.4 avg, long 60), Sr. WR Juaquin Iglesias (17 rets, 356 yds, 0 TDs)
ANALYSIS: Murray’s absence also hurts the Sooners’ kick return game, as he was the their leading kick returner before he 
got hurt. Combine that with a freshman ﬁ  eld goal kicker — usually not something you can trust in a pressure situation — and 
you’ve got a matchup that favors the Gators. James is well-overdue for a touchdown on a punt return, and the Sooners’ kick 
coverage has been lackluster this year.
INTANGIBLES
The coaching matchup between Urban Meyer and Bob Stoops is too close to call. The teams’ recent histories indicate 
greatness on both sides. Oklahoma and UF have equally dedicated and rabid fan bases. Both teams share some form of an underdog aspect (UF is No. 2 in the BCS rankings, while Oklahoma is actually not favored to win). Yeah. This game is pretty even on paper. Just two little things decide this category in UF’s favor: A slight home-ﬁ  eld advantage in proximity to the schools and the fact that UF has a couple players who won a title in 2006.UpMa ch
UF vs. OKLAHOMA
BCS NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPHow TheyADVANTAGE: UF
ADVANTAGE: UF
ADVANTAGE: UF
ADVANTAGE: OU
ADVANTAGE: UF
ADVANTAGE: UF
Evan Drexler / Alligator StaffSports ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION ONLINE SCOREBOARDBy MIKE McCALL
Alligator Staff Writer
mmccall@alligator.org
MIAMI — Joe Haden is a start-
ing cornerback for UF — one of the 
nation’s most well-known and re-spected teams — and he’s about to play for the Gators in their second 
BCS Championship appearance in 
three seasons.
It would seem as though Haden 
is sitting atop the college football world, but he doesn’t see it that way just yet. He knows UF still has work to do before it can lay claim to be-ing America’s preeminent program, and he marvels at the school that 
currently holds that honor.
“I look at college football and see 
a lot of good teams, but when I look 
at USC, even though I’m playing col-lege football, I’m still just like, ‘Man, that’s a great team,’” Haden said. “They have one guy, (safety) Taylor Mays, when I look at him, he looks like a superhero or something. “
For most of the 2000s, Southern 
Cal has ruled the NCAA. The Trojans have finished in the top five of the fi-nal Associated Press rankings every year since 2002, and they’re poised to extend that streak after defeating Penn State in the Rose Bowl.
USC has been the benchmark for 
success in college football lately, but if Haden and No. 1 UF can get past No. 2 Oklahoma tonight in the BCS title game, they’ll accomplish some-thing even the Trojans haven’t.
Since the BCS started in 1998, 
just one team has won two outright 
championships, but both the Gators 
(2006) and Sooners (2000) have a title in hand, meaning tonight’s winner will join 2007 champion LSU as the only teams with two BCS titles.“It’ll put us way up there,” 
Haden said. “To have two champi-onships in three years, and then we pretty much have the whole team coming back next year, so it will do a lot for momentum heading into next season on such a high.”
But the Sooners — who have the 
most BCS title appearances (four) — are thinking the same thing, and each team will lean on its dynamic offense to make the difference.
Both squads have great balance, 
averaging more than 200 yards passing and rushing each game, but Oklahoma has blown UF away statis-
tically while playing in the suddenly 
high-scoring Big 12 Conference.
The Sooners average 54 points 
and 562.1 yards per game, compared to UF’s 45.2 and 442.4, but they’ll be without electrifying running back DeMarco Murray (hamstring), while the Gators could get a big boost from the return of receiver Percy Harvin.
Harvin says he feels 95-percent 
healthy and can sprint and make cuts, but his status will be a mystery until he touches the ball in Dolphin Stadium at 8 p.m.
Oklahoma cornerback 
Dominique Franks said he is actu-ally hoping Harvin will be fully healthy , because “when we win, 
we don’t want any excuses.” Still, 
the talented wideout’s effect on the Gators’ offense might be too much for the Sooners’ beleaguered defense to handle, as, in addition to his own playmaking ability, he opens up the field for teammates by drawing at-tention from defenders.
“What I told the team and what 
coach (Urban) Meyer told me was, if I get to play in this game, it’s going to be one of the best shows that has ever been put on,” Harvin said.THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
Matt Stafford’s pass sails over Georgia wide receiver Mohamed Massaquoi and UF cornerback Joe Ha-
den during the Gators’ 49-10 win against Georgia in Jacksonville Municipal Stadium on Nov. 1, 2008.
MIAMI — 
He doesn’t know. Even if he has an in-
kling, he won’t tell you. 
Perhaps you’ll get one of his school-boy 
chuckles and “yes sirs” or “yes ma’ams.” 
It could be just a grin and an “I don’t know.” 
Tim Tebow will not concede any 
thought, any notion, any potential, any possibility, any hope that, with a win to-night, he could be known as the greatest college football player of all time. 
Greatest. That’s a hard one to define. Let’s forget about talent. All the play-ers in this conversa-tion were extremely 
talented — that’s 
not what separates them. There are ri-diculous statistics by the bunch, too, and 
awards that were 
given because of those statistics. That can be called a wash.
Now, look at the impact they’ve made 
on the game. The mark they’ve left on a program. Even the effect they’ve had on teammates and coaches.
Georgia running back Herschel Walker 
took a previously 6-5 team in 1979 to an undefeated season in 1980 — and he had more of an impact than just on the field. He changed the makeup of that program.
Illinois running back Red Grange 
had 402 total yards in one game against Michigan on Oct. 18, 1924. He was, at the time, the most unique football player who had ever played. 
Illinois linebacker Dick Butkus was ev-
erything the game is about. If there was a tougher and more passionate player in col-lege football, he’s hard to find.
Tebow is on this list, and he will be 
heading it with a win tonight.
He was blessed with a body capable 
of packing on the muscle without losing speed and with an arm that could throw a football 50 yards downfield with ridicu-
lous precision.  
That brought him to college football 
with an opportunity, as it has many others 
before him. Nobody has taken advantage 
of the opportunities before him as much as 
Tebow has. 
Tebow’s accomplishments place him in elite group of college playersFOOTBALLGators, Sooners look to secure programs’ greatness
Brian Steele
Steele-ing Bases
bsteele@alligator.org
SEE BRIAN, PAGE 22
NBA
Magic 106
Hawks 102
Nuggets 108
Heat 97 The UF gymnastics team kicks off its 
season Friday night with a meet against 
Oklahoma. For a season preview, as well as 
coverage of the Gators swim teams’ sweep 
of Virginia, check out alligatorSports.org.Today’s question: What will be the result of tonight’s game?
Previous question:  Who was the most memo -
rable trash-talker from this football season? Percent (Votes)
Francois 59% (30)
Franks 24% (12)
Murphy 18% (9)
51 TOTAL VOTES3, BCS PREVIEW, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 2009
