0 the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 56 We Inform. You Decide.-0
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
UF ADMINISTRATION
UF announces plan to cut additional $6M
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewa rt@a IIigator org
Under recently formulated plans to cut the
last $6 million from UF's budget this year, the
university could leave as many as 60 faculty
positions unfilled.
That number would be added to the 200
or so positions that are already in the process
of being eliminated or laid off.The plan calls for the provost and deans
of UF's colleges and academic units to decide
which faculty positions will be left unfilled
when professors leave or retire over the next
two years.
Annual turnover and reallocation at UF
produces an average of $10 million to $15
million in salaries and benefits each year, and
officials would have to identify about $6 mil-
lion to cut from that pool by the end of June.
A lower-ranking professor at UF typicallymakes about $100,000 in salary and benefits
each year, which means about 60 positions
could be affected.
However, the number could be lower be-
cause the deans will be able to decide if they
want to continue funding the positions by
instead cutting back on other things, said UF
Provost Joe Glover.
Each college and unit will likely get a pro-
portional share of the cut, Glover said, though
he has discretion to decide if some collegeswill have to cut more than others.
Put into perspective, the cut amounts to
about 1 percent of the state-funded portion of
each of the colleges' budgets.
But unlike in January, when they were
told to prepare budget proposals that were
eventually posted online, Glover said the col-
leges won't have to do that this time.
"That was a very stressful exercise," he
said.
SEE BUDGET, PAGE 11
ROTC wins national award
The program beat 50 others
By CAROLYN TILLO
Alligator Writer
UF's Air Force ROTC is flying
high after its national award.
It received the Right of Line
Award, which ranks it as the
top program of its size in the
nation.
Maj. Craig Heitzler, an assis-
tant professor in aerospace stud-
ies, said UF's Air Force ROTC
Detachment 150 competed with
about 50 other programs for the
award.
The award was based on
training, education and recruit-ment efforts, he said.
Heitzler said students, or ca-
dets, participate in field training
where they assume roles similar
to real Air Force jobs and learn
how to cope in
National high-pressure
News situations.
UF's Air
Force ROTC also
makes its Career Day event open
to the public, unlike programs
at other universities. It brings
in active-duty Air Force officers
who talk about their jobs to any
students interested in joining
the Air Force, including thosenot involved in ROTC.
"Maybe other universities do
what we do, but then we take it
to the higher level," he said.
Heitzler has been at UF for a
short time but hopes to help UF
secure the award in the future.
"I definitely want to continue
the winning tradition that we
have here and do the best I can
in helping the cadets achieve
their goals," he said.
He said UF's Air Force ROTC
also won the award in 2007 but
was ineligible for the Right of
Line in 2008 because programs
cannot win two years in a row.
Lori Bowen, UF's Air Force
SEE ROTC, PAGE 10
Ida drops to tropical storm
0 GAINESVILLE WILL SEE HEAVIEST
IMPACT TONIGHT.
By DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chad Seufert won't let a few gusts of wind and a
couple inches of rain ruin his Veterans Day.
Seufert, a second-year UF graduate student, is
driving to Orlando for a Minus the Bear concert
Wednesday, and he's determined not to let Tropical
Storm Ida make him miss the show.
Tropical Storm Ida was forecast to strike Florida's
Gulf Coast Tuesday morning. After being recently
downgraded from a Category 2 hurricane to a tropi-
cal storm, Ida is no longer expected to cause any ma-
jor problems but could still wash out some Veterans
Day events.Dave Donnelly, emergency management chief for
Alachua County, doesn't expect the storm to make a
major impact on the county.
"Fortunately, the storm really weakened over-
night," he said, adding that he only expects an inch
or two of rain to hit the county.
"Fortunately, the storm really weakened
overnight."
Dave Donnelly
Alachua County emergency management chief
But people still need to be careful because of the
possibility of tornadoes, he said.
"People should avoid boating on lakes and rivers
and be extra careful driving," he said.
Donnelly said the height of the storm's impact
SEE IDA, PAGE 10
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersTo-day
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS
CROSSWORD
SPORTS12
15
17-/
01 a 4
Eastern Eats
Jn Wang, 19, serves roasted red pork, a Chinese dish, at the
Asian Food Festival -One Flavor. The event was held at the In-
dian Center of Culture and Education for Kaleidoscope Month,
a celebration of Asian and Asian American culture.
0 Guard Ray
Shipman (right)
scored 16 points
off the bench as UF
blew out Webber
International
104-53 on Manday
night in the
Gators'final
exhibition game.
See Story, Page 17.Rain
79/64
visit www.alligator.orgele
2, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
News Today
LOCAL
Grad student arrested for
stealing shoes
A UF graduate student was ar-
rested Sunday evening after he ran
from police while wearing a pair of
sneakers he'd just stolen.
Matthew Cimoch, 24, entered
the Kohl's department store on
Archer Road at about 6 p.m., put
on a pair of black New Balance
sneakers and left the store without
paying, according to a Gainesville
Police Department report.
A store security guard confront-
ed Cimoch, who then pushed the
guard's shoulders and ran across
the Kohl's parking lot toward Ar-
cher Road.
Cimoch then went across the
street to Wal-Mart, where he
walked around as police searched
for him, according to the report.
Police stopped him as he was
leaving the store. The Kohl's secu-
rity guard identified Cimoch as the
man who stole the sneakers, which
were still on his feet.
The sneakers cost about $75, ac-
cording to the report.
After officers read him hisFORECAST
TODAY
RAIN
79/64WEDNESDAY
RAIN
73/55
rights, he told the police he was
sorry.
Cimoch, a graduate student in
materials science and engineer-
ing, was arrested and charged
with petit theft, resisting mer-
chant detainment and resisting
arrest without violence, all mis-
demeanors.
He was released from the
Alachua County Jail Monday af-
ternoon.
Cimoch declined to comment
about the incident.
-KATIE KLOSS
CORRECTION
In Monday's edition of the Al-
ligator, an article incorrectly stat-
ed that Alpha Psi Phi Fraternity
Inc. won Saturday's step show.
This is not an existing member of
the National Pan-Hellenic Coun-THURSDAY
SUN NY
71/47FRIDAY
SUN NY
73/51SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/57
cil. The actual winner was Alpha
Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. Also, the
article said there were eight judges
when there are nine judges. The
article also said the winners would
advance to a regional competition.
However, this competitionwas not
a qualifier for that competition.
An article in Monday's edition
of the Alligator incorrectly report-
ed the Web site for the Hula hoop
fitness class. The correct Web site
is hoopandhealth.com.
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Five or more
sunburns
double your risk
of developing
skin cancer.
At
Protect your skin.
www.aad.org * 888.462.DERMa the independent florida
Not off iciall
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 56 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligator.org
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions Inc
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 0 ALLIGATOR, 3
Group encourages
student art appreciation
At an institu-
tion known for its
distinction in both
sports and scholar-
ship, University
of Florida arts orga-
nizations are strug-
gling to develop
younger audiences.
For many college
students, adoration Mallory
for the perform- Zuckerman
ing arts gets lost somewhere between
midterms and Midtown. Yet, without
the continued support and arts educa-
tion of young patrons, the performing
arts would cease to exist.
So how does the arts community
find and foster the next generation's
patrons?
The University of Florida Perform-
ing Arts Student Encore Circle was cre-
ated to engage students interested in the
arts, support other arts organizations
through volunteer efforts and coordi-
nate social events infused with meaning-
ful artistic learning. Members support
the arts while also receiving exclusive
benefits, like backstage tours.
My fellow Gators, consider the
worth of your time and money. The
habits we form here can encourage the
beginnings of a life-long appreciation
for the performing arts.
For more information on the Stu-
dent Encore Circle, visit http://www.
performingarts.ufl.edu.
Mallory Zuckerman
President, Studentsfor the Performing Arts
AFROTC is ranked No. 1
The University of Florida Air Force
ROTC Detachment 150 recently was
awarded the "Right of Line Trophy" for
having the best program out of 144 de-
tachments in the nation.
Detachment 150 also earned the award in
2007, for the first time in its 63-year history
Col. Hubert D. "Griff" Griffin has led
the detachment since July 2006. Griffin
attributes the strong relationship between
ROTC and the UF/Gainesville communi-
ty as a major reason for the unit's success.
"We organized a Joint Service Color
Guard for every home football and
basketball games, and contrib-
uted to the cadet unfurling of a
huge American flag during the
National Anthem in front of
90,000-plus fans," Griffin said.
The detachment also won AFROT
first-place in the individual two air
category and second-place in 20(
the team category at this year's Na-
tional Drill Competition.
"Our drill ream is just one example,"
Griffin said. "In every area, we strive to be
out front."UF IVRSITY ofU FFLORIDA
The Foundation for The Gator Nationmilot acountries.
Best Buddies member Brian Carter (center) visits the Delta Delta Delta sorority
house during UF's Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks event.
Sororities provide fun evening
for Gainesville community
Recently, princesses, super heroes and a dozen mini-Tim Tebows descended upon the University
of Florida's Panhellenic Drive from 5 to 8 p.m. for the annual event, Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks.
Organized by the Junior Panhellenic division, the community event is known as a safe place where
children and adults enjoy trick-or-treating together. It has been a Gainesville tradition for more than
10 years.
One group that attended this year was Best Buddies. The group matches university students with
individuals from the Gainesville community who have intellectual and developmental disabilities,
such as Down syndrome.
Part of an international organization, the IF chapter's typical activities include students calling
their buddies for weekly phone chats, and taking their buddies to the movies, Lake Wauburg and
various community events throughout the year. The buddies' ages range from 14 to 70.
Amanda Chin, president of UF's Best Buddies and a junior hospitality management major, loves
taking the buddies to Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks.
"Our buddies know they are getting spoiled," said Chin. "They all seem to love it, and being with
everyone and the community."
A couple of the buddies especially love the attention from the sorority girls and they can be quite
the flirts, Chin said.
All 16 sororities provided fun-filled activities for the trick-or-treaters.
The perfectly manicured lawns of the sorority houses were transformed for the evening into
themes such as Toy Story, Monsters Inc. and the Flintstones. For safety reasons, Panhellenic Drive
was barricaded from automobile traffic.
Children of all ages could be seen pulling their parents or guardians to the next house, so they
could put one "last" piece of candy into their bags. Colorful streamers and paper monkeys hung in
trees and danced in the wind during a truly magical October evening.
Carlene Chase of Micanopy brought her daughter to the event for the second year.
"I bring my daughter here because it is a nice and safe neighborhood to trick-or-treat," Chase said.
-4 Read more of this story at www.insideuf.ufl.edu
UF Calendar
Nov. 11
Veteran's Day holiday (no classes).
Nov.13
College of Public Health and Health Professions pres-
ents CarFit, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Parking lot at Carrabba's
Italian Grill, 3021 S.W. 34th St., Gainesville. Free and
open to the public.
Nov.15
School of Music presents Carillon Recital, 3 p.m.,
Century Tower, free and open to the public.
C coordinated Nov.20
craft flybys at Florida Museum of Natural History presents Trash-
19 football formations, 5 to 9 p.m., Powell Hall.
Nov.23games. Fall withdraw from UF deadline, drop/add a course by
college petition deadline.
Recurring Event
Patina: Leah Floyd, 10 a.m. -5 p.m., weekdays through Nov. 18,
College of Fine Arts University Focus Gallery, free and open to the
public.
This is a sampling of events from the electronic UF calendar
"Fr more event details, otto submit an event to the calendar
click" UF Calendar" at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.Byjenna McVeyYour
campus
news
source
Produced by the
University Relations Office
for faculty, staff and students
Editor -Susan Stewart
November 10, 2009
Hi Tim' is popular
The video officially named "A Day in the Life of a Student at the
University of Florida," and also known as "Hi Tim," is currently avail-
able on YouTube, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zlovGPEuAV8,
and ESPN's Southeastern Conference (SEC) Academic Network site,
http://www.secacademicnetwork.com/.
Created by University Relations, the informal video was de-
signed to highlight some of the attributes of the university, while
also being humorous and entertaining for use on social-media Web
sites.
Proposals sought
The University Honors Program is seeking proposals for new
courses for the 20 10-1 1 academic year. Interdisciplinary and ream-
taught proposals are especially encouraged. Tenure-track faculty
from all disciplines are encouraged to submit proposals.
The deadline is Nov. 30. For more information, e-mail
kknudson@honors.ufl.edu.
View these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu. Follow us on Twitter.
4, ALLIGATOR U MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
WUFT-FM sees decline in donations at pledge drive
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligatororg
UF raised almost $50,000 less than
last year in its fall pledge drive for
WUFT-FM, the university-owned
radio station that recently dropped
its classical music programming in
favor of more news and talk shows.
While UF pointed to the slump-
ing economy and shorter pledge
sessions, the leader of a local group
opposed to the station's program-
ming changes said the decrease in
donations can be attributed to a lackof support for the new format.
Over a total of 11 days from late
October to Friday, UF pulled in
about $83,000, said Paul Gordon, the
interim executive director of the Di-
vision of Multimedia Properties in
the College of Journalism and Com-
munications.
Last fall, the take was about
$132,000 in 12 days of pledging.
Gordon said the decrease had
a lot to do with the economy and
shorter pledge segments, as well as
one fewer day of pledging.
UF officials have also said they
expected a decline in listenershipand donations initially, which is in
line with what other stations across
the country that
have switched
from music to
news program-
ming have expe-
rienced.
Gordon said
he expects dona-
Gordon tions to pick upagain next fall
and said UF does not regret making
the changes.
"We're absolutely convinced that
what we're doing is the right thing,"he said.
John Wright, dean of the journal-
ism college, also pointed out in an
e-mail that almost 30 percent of the
contributions came from new do-
nors.
According to Gordon, this fall's
numbers are actually better than
UF expected and, he said, combined
with other factors, the station should
not take a big financial hit.
For example, he said, fewer peo-
ple accepted the gifts that typically
come with donations, more contri-
butions were made online -where
they cost less to process -and 11positions were recently eliminated
from the station, which reduced the
station's expenses.
Sue Yelton, the leader of a group
that has protested the station's
changes, said she doesn't buy UF's
claims that the economy and shorter
pledge segments had a huge effect
on this year's donations. The econ-
omy was bad last year too, she said,
but that didn't stop people from do-
nating in near-record numbers.
"I think that our community has
made it clear that we support the
mix of music and talk that we had
originally," she said.
Investigation reveals different man as shooting suspect
By KATHERINE BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
kbein@alligator org
The Alachua County Sheriff's Office
dropped charges against a man arrested for
attempted murder Friday after further inves-ligation led them to believe he was falsely ac-
cused.
Stephen McNeill, 20, was accused of shoot-
ing Glenn Altman in the face when the victim
picked him out of a photo line-up.
However, investigation led to McNeill's
release and the arrest of Corey Conner, 18, inHernando County, Alachua Sheriff's Office Lt.
Steve Maynard said.
"We don't stop investigating
News just because a victim satid, 'he
did it,"' Maynard said.
Conner was given away by his accomplice,
Cameron Byard, 20, who helped Conner robthe victim under the pretense of visiting to
purchase marijuana on Oct. 20, Maynard said.
Upon being read his rights, Conner con-
fessed to the robbery and shooting the victim,
Maynard said.
Altman was released from the hospital
without permanent injury, Maynard said.
IYEARCrUARANTEE
Butler Plaza Newberry Square
335-1232 332-3937
MlILmw h
Godfather'sPIZZA
- LIFEs4nthBlodmriveyFll 2009o
ForS m r nformatocnatC Gibbnsa.
352-334-1000 rjgb nslesuhrg
Sponsored by:
allig forWant the inside scoop on
getting into medical school?
Find out for FREE at the Medical School Insider event.
Medical School admissions officers and test prep experts will discuss:
The most important medical school admissions factors
Strategies for creating a successful medical school application
Tips, strategies and answers to your questions for success on the MCAT*
Thursday, November 19th
7:00-9:00 p.m.
UF HPNP Building
Room G101
Space is limited!
Call or visit us online to register or see more events in your area.
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/medinsider!(A PLAN
TEST PREP AND
ADMISSIONS
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Senators get silly
with assassin game
By ANDREW NORRIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Emily Hunt has killed two stu-
dent senators and has her eyes set
on another.
Her can of glow-in-the-dark Sil-
ly String always at the ready, she's
foiled attempts at assassination
while she prepares her next kill.
Hunt, a Progress Party senator,
isn't the only one with a hit list.
Armed only with Silly String,
about 50 student senators are par-
ticipating in a game called Assas-
sin.
Starting midnight last Wednes-
day, senators were assigned a "hit"
and were told to assassinate or be
assassinated.
Senate President Pro-Tempore
Naadira Renfroe said she thought
the game could serve as a team-
building exercise.
Renfroe's game assigned each
participating senator with another
senator they had to "kill," which
entails spraying the assigned tar-
get with Silly String until they sur-
render their can. When a senator is
eliminated, his or her hit is assigned
to the assassin who made the kill.
The rules of the game establish
certain off-limit areas, such as class-rooms, bathrooms and the third and
second floors of the Reitz Union.
Renfroe fell victim to her own
game when she was eliminated the
first day.
"I guess my excuse is that three
senators corroborated together to
make sure I died," she said. "It just
shows the teamwork that goes into
being successful in this game."
This is something embraced by
all three parties in the Senate, Ren-
froe said, with
senators from
each party par-
ticipating in the
game.
-- I"I think the
game has been
Renfroe very fun first of
all, it's been a
blast," Hunt said. "More than any-
thing, it's a great way to connect
with people I don't normally con-
nect with."
This is the first time the Senate
has played Assassin. Although the
game is still on, Renfroe deems it
a success and hopes to make Silly
String an essential tool in Senate se-
mesters to come.
"I hope that this is something
that can be a tradition for each new
session of Senate," Renfroe said.Health decision left to Senate
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
In a major victory for Dem-
ocrats, the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives passed a bill late
Saturday night that calls for
a $1.1 trillion overhaul of the
health care industry over the
next 10 years.
The passage of the bill,
which is more than 2,000 pag-
es, has been met with both zeal
and disgust.
Many Democrats view the
bill as a necessity that will al-
low millions of Americans
to acquire health insurance
with help from the govern-
ment. Most Republicans, on
the other hand, are wary of the
program's hefty price tag and
call for increased government
presence.
Ben Cavataro, the president
of the Florida College Demo-
crats and vice president of UF's
chapter, saw Saturday's pas-
sage as a victory in America's
quest to obtain quality health
care while reducing the fed-
eral deficit in the long term.
"It's great to see the House
pass reform and move past thescare tactics used by the other
side," he wrote in an e-mail.
"A public insurance option
would control costs and keep
insurers honest."
According to Cavataro, the
health reform will replace a
current system that he believes
isn't working for America.
"When insurance compa-
nies can take people off cover-
age once they get
Local sick, things need
News to change," he
said.
But Bryan Griffin, chairman
of the UF College Republicans,
sees the bill as a fiscally irre-
sponsible, desperate attempt
by Democrats to bolster re-
election campaigns.
"[Speaker of the House
Nancy] Pelosi doesn't care
about listening to what the
people have to say; all she
cares about is getting this
through without anyone get-
ting a chance to read what the
bill actually says," he said.
"It's a complete farce."
The conservative response,
Griffin argued, is governmen-
tal support for nonprofit orga-
nizations through tax incen-ties, not a federally regulated
overhaul.
"Now is do-or-die time for
America," he said. "We need
to vote out the people who
are trying to run this garbage
through."
Despite the victory in the
House, the health care over-
haul faces a Senate vote that,
according to UF political sci-
ence professor Richard Con-
ley, could be a challenge.
Thirty-nine Democrats voted
against the bill in the House,
and the Senate, according to
Conley, is a whole new politi-
cal ballgame.
"If I was in Vegas I would
bet about 40-60 on this thing
getting through," he said.
"The big question is whether
Harry Reid can convince the
Blue Dog Democrats and the
independents to go along with
this."
According to Conley,
Americans should expect
more turmoil in the upcoming
months.
"There's an old saying
that those who are squea-
mish should stay away from
sausage factories and legisla-
tures," Conley said. "It's going
to be a battle."
F 'et i.,d, promote% he.oIth rting or' popui.jr T, %ho%*
Copyrighted Materia
Synd i~gated ontent
Availablefrom Commercial News ProvidersTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
Locals react to House vote
6, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
Editorial
Cruel Courts
Fla. judicial system should
rethink how it tries teens
hree South Florida teenagers who stand accused of setting
another teen on fire will be charged as adults, according
to the Associated Press. Denver Jarvis and Matthew Bent,
both 15, and Jesus Mendez, 16, were charged with one count
each of attempted second-degree murder on Monday.
The Broward County State Attorney's office accuses Jarvis of
pouring rubbing alcohol on 15-year-old Michael Brewer, while
Mendez lit the boy on fire and Bent directed the attack.
The altercation stemmed from an argument over a video
game and escalated when the victim accused the defendants of
trying to steal his father's bicycle.
We fully appreciate the seriousness of these allegations. The
victim sustained burns over 65 percent of his body and is still in
critical condition. He will likely suffer for the rest of his life as a
result of this horrendous attack.
But the choice to try these children as adults is a mistake,
and yet another example of a widespread problem in Florida's
judicial system.
In transferring this case to adult criminal courts, the judicia-
ry is taking the position that these children are beyond juvenile
rehabilitation. It is unreasonable to assume that at the age of 15,
or even at 16 in the case of one of the defendants, these children
are unredeemable.
To put them into the adult prison system, which is no doubt
where they will end up after extended trials and lengthy ap-
peals processes, is entirely counterproductive.
Florida prisons are not the place that troubled child crimi-
nals will receive the therapy necessary to give them a chance at
a normal life outside of prison. On the contrary, they will likely
emerge as hardened adult criminals.
Further, in choosing to try the teens as adults, the court ex-
poses them to the harsher sentences available in adult court; an
attempted second-degree murder charge carries a maximum
sentence of 30 years.
If these teens are found guilty, we believe they deserve seri-
ous punishment (not to mention serious psychological rehabili-
tation). But the sentences that many Florida juvenile offenders
receive are clearly excessive.
This decision comes on the same day that the Supreme
Court began hearing arguments about whether juveniles can be
locked away forever for their crimes.
The two cases before the Supreme Court involve Florida
men serving life terms with no chance of parole for crimes com-
mitted while they were teenagers. Their lawyers argue that
life sentences for non-homicide crimes, when given to people
so young, are cruel and unusual -a violation of the Constitu-
tion. They argue that young people have a greater capacity to
change, that they are redeemable.
As a state that does not quite share those views, Florida is
home to more than 70 percent of the nation's juvenile defen-
dants who are serving life sentences for crimes other than ho-
micide. With just more than a 6 percent share of the total U.S.
population, the disproportionate number of juvenile life sen-
tences that Florida hands down is shocking.
We don't want to paint these juveniles as innocent victims.
Joe Sullivan, one of the men included in the Supreme Court
case, is serving life in prison for raping an elderly woman after
a home invasion. An act like this is almost beyond comprehen-
sion. But Sullivan was 13 years old. It is unreasonable to expect
a boy this young to fully understand these actions and outra-
geous to give him a life sentence.
The other defendant, Terrance Graham, was implicated in
armed robberies when he was 16 and 17. The fact that even less-
er crimes like this are receiving life sentences demonstrates that
changes need to be made to Florida's judicial procedures.
Is Florida's problem cruel teens or cruel courts?
l the independent florida
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names will be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions
0
F 00 f<er\ALLIGATOR
www.aIIigator. org/opinions
7/ kPOODLE
C,00
Z'~
Column
'Support the troops' not just a phrase
omorrow is Veterans Day. Support the troops.To be honest, I feel a little uncomfortable saying
that. "Support the troops" has become such a meaning-
less phrase -a vague slogan that's easy to print on magnetic
yellow ribbons but seemingly difficult to translate into any-
thing substantive -that it almost sounds insincere speaking
it aloud, the same way a reflexive, thoughtless "I love you"
can mean just the opposite.
The phrase is too often used as a rhetorical weapon, as
shorthand for questioning someone's patriotism and taking
an unearned moral high ground. When used this way, telling
someone to support the troops carries the implication that the
person to whom you're speaking isn't supporting the troops
and that you -by virtue of being able to accusingly repeat
three words -are in a position to evaluate their appreciation
for their country and those who serve it.
Maybe worst of all, saying "support the troops" makes it
sound like "the troops" is a single, monolithic entity -that
the troops act and think uniformly, have identical beliefs and
values, and have the same experiences and backgrounds.
Not only is this clearly false, but it helps foster the notion
that supporting the troops is a black-and-white proposition
-that there's only one political position, course of action or
worldview that constitutes being pro-troops, and everything
else is anti-troops. And thinking of the troops in this way de-
humanizes them. It's easier to send a vague, abstract notion
of "troops" to war and read in a breaking-news graphic that
"troops" have been killed if you forget or ignore that they're
individual people with individual lives.
I've found that the way to make saying "I love you,"
which has been appropriated and monetized by countless
Hallmark cards and jewelry commercials, less cheap and
more meaningful is to explain what I mean when I say it.
And while I'm not sure the same holds true for "support the
troops," it's worth a try.
By no means is this a definitive or exhaustive list, and I
won't even pretend it's an inarguable list. You are more thanJoe Dellosa
letters@alligator orgwelcome to disagree, you are more
than encouraged to create your own
list, and you have my thanks for in-
dulging me:
I think supporting the troops
means not trivializing the plight of
those serving overseas and the heart-
ache of their families by using those
feelings to promote a discount retailer
or an defense contractor in a TV com-
mercial. War and those involved in it do not constitute an
Integrated Marketing Communications strategy.
I think supporting the troops means saying something
when you think military action is imprudent or unnecessary,
and when you think the lives of servicemen and service-
women will needlessly be put in danger. It's patriotic, even
if you disagree. I think supporting the troops means getting
outraged when women in the military are disproportionate-
ly more likely to be raped or sexually assaulted when serving
than the general population. It's inexcusable when a service
member has to feel as wary of someone serving alongside
them as someone against them.
But perhaps most importantly, I think supporting the
troops means remembering that each member of the military
is a person with his or her own story. Each joined the military
for his or her own reasons. Each has family and friends who
are hoping for a safe return. Each has his or her own views
on the war. And each has hopes and dreams that extend be-
yond the battlefield. Supporting the troops doesn't mean the
deification of the troops. In fact, I'd argue that any deification
does more harm than good. Whatever our beliefs about war
or the military, supporting the troops means acknowledging
that they're real people doing a really difficult job that we all
wish didn't have to exist.
Support the troops.
Joe Dellosa is an advertising senior. His column appears on
Tuesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Do you support Monday's question: Do you play
the troops? FarmVille (be honest)?
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org87% YES
13% NO
150 TOTAL VOTES
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
woe
At Chevron, you can be part of an innovative team working together to find new
ways to keep the world moving. Whether you're utilizing the latest technologies or
discovering them yourself, you'll have the tools and resources to make a difference
every day. Find out how far your skills and talents can take you. For local and global
opportunities, visit us online today.
Chevron
Human Energy
CHEVRON.thekCHEVRON HALLMARK and HUMAN ENERGY are register trademrksof Chevron Intellectual Property LLC 02009 Chevron Corporation All rghts reserved416 av
, s""o
N.
AI
8, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
Letters to the Editor
Republicans aren't too
conservative
Matthew Christ needs to learn a
thing or two about the political ide-
ology of Americans before he writes
another column. In his latest one,
"Republicans should move away
from fringe," he seems to be under
the impression that this country
leans moderate to left, and therefore
the Republicans lost the presidential
election. With every column of his I
read, I find myself questioning his
understanding of what a conserva-
tive is. He seems to think that we are
all "Bible-thumping," overzealous
patriots, and I for one resent his at-
tempts to pigeonhole us.
According to an October Gal-
lup poll, 40 percent of Americans
identify themselves as conservative,
36 percent as moderate and only
20 percent as liberal. Republicans
didn't lose the last election because
they became too conservative; they
lost it because they moved away
from conservative principles.
Too many Republican politicians
want to straddle political ideology,
thinking they are playing it safe.
This is what has hurt the party the
most, and if they don't come back to
their conservative principles, they
will lose more elections. Conserva-
tives come from all walks of life. Not
all of us are rich, "Bible-thumping"
white guys. I'm a conservative Lib-
ertarian, a humanist and a person
of principle who will not straddle
ideology to appease liberals, as so
many moderate Republicans do.
Jenna Kilic
UFstudent
U U U
WUFT-FM should rethink change
in format
In a report compiled in June, con-
sultants advising John Wright, the
dean of UF's College of Journalism
and Communications, suggested a
format change to WUFT-FM would
only lose $52,000 in membership dol-
lars the first year ($26,000 per semes-
ter). Sadly, this semester's drive fell
short. It represented a loss of more
than $49,000 compared to fall 2008.
That is a nearly a 40 percent reduc-
tion in pledge dollars; the number
of pledges fell by 40 percent as well.
The fall pledge drive brought in 29
percent less than the much weaker
spring 2009 pledge drive.
Big donations from the dean
and his circle of insiders, along
with pledges from the university,
couldn't stop the bleeding. While
the state of the economy is certainly
responsible for some of the losses,
the hemorrhaging of membership
dollars highlights a bigger problem:
A large portion of the community
has lost faith in WUFT-FM. It is time
to re-evaluate the format change and
consider the community's needs.
While some of the additions
have proven worthwhile, others just
don't add up. It is time to consider
adding classical and jazz music back
into the schedule, even if only for a
block per day. The dean's argument
of increasing student involvement
has not panned out; more students
were cut than added. Why not add
some student talk shows in place of
expensive NPR or BBC program-
ming? Dean John Wright, please go
back to the drawing board.
Frank Bracco
Former WUFT-FM on-air hostFeed your future
Tune in and learn why we're one of
the best places to start your career.
Begin at www.pwc.tv
.<-.
...
2009 PncowaterhouseCoopers LLP, All nghts reserved. "PncewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware lrited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. Wve are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 9
College Republicans tear down Berlin Wall replica
* THE WALL FELL 20 YEARS AGO
ON MONDAY.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Berlin Wall came tumbling down
again Monday afternoon.
Members of the College Republicans
constructed and tore down a Berlin Wall
replica on the Plaza of the Americas to
commemorate the 20th anniversary of its
fall.
The wall consisted of 36 cardboard
boxes spray-painted with graffiti words
like "Communism" and "Marxism."
"These are the things that we're out
here trying to crush, trying to bring
down," said Johnathan Lott, vice chair-
man for the College Republicans.
As members of the organization put
together the wall, others manned a table
filled with literature about the club and
the Young America's Foundation, a con-
servative youth organization.
Bryan Griffin, the club's president, re-
cited former President Ronald Reagan's
"Tear Down this Wall" speech to a crowd
of about 30 who gathered between fifthand sixth periods.
After he finished, Griffin explained
the symbolic purpose of the replica and
encouraged the crowd to join him in tear-
ing it down.
"I made a request of people to be vigi-
lant in watching for the construction of
another Berlin Wall or walls of sort that
impede democracy in the world and
even our own country," Griffin said.
Members of the crowd rushed for-
ward and pushed the boxes to the
ground while everyone else cheered and
clapped.
"It's not so much about the wall it-
self," Lott said. "It's more
On about the symbolism be-CamPus hind what we're doing."
Lott said that the replica
of the wall represented the oppression
and restoration of liberties for the people
of East Germany and the importance
in continuing to fight for liberty every-
where.
Griffin said he was pleased with the
crowd who supported the College Re-
publicans and participated in the com-
memoration.
"If it stuck and made a difference in
one person, then I think it served our
purpose," he said.Courtesy of UF College Republicans
The UF College Republicans set up a mock Berlin Wall on the Plaza of the Americas Monday
to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the wall coming down.
UF RESEARCH
UF professor's hybrid fruit aims to hit supermarket shelves
By JENNIFER MARIETTA
Alligator Contributing Writer
A successful crossbreed of two citrus fruits
has left a sweet taste of accomplishment in
the mouths of its inventors.
The Sugar Belle is the first crossbred citrus
variety that UF is releasing to the public. Bred
in late October, the fruit is part Clementine -
a small mandarin -and part Minneola -a
cross between a grapefruit and tangerine.
Fred Gmitter, the fruit's breeder and UF
professor of Citrus Genetics and Breeding,
said the fruit is a vibrant red-orange color.It thrives in the Florida climate and is ripe
from November to January.
The fruit has been in the works for sev-
eral years on the premises of the UF Citrus
Research and Education Center in Lake Al-
fred, the biggest off-campus research center
in UF's Institute of Food and Agricultural
Sciences.
With the fruit successfully crossbred and
grown, focus has turned to getting the prod-
uct recognized in the retail market.
The fruit has 40 to 60 percent more vita-
min C than its rival, the tangerine.
It also possesses carotenoid, the com-pound that makes carrots orange, and ac-
cording to medical research, improves heart
health and cancer protection.
OmitterThe Sugar Belle is also
resistant to the alternaria
fungus, which usually at-
tacks the Minneola fruit,
creating black spots on
the leaves and fruit from a
lack of photosynthesis and
taints the fruit.
There are five growers
across the state of Florida in the process of
receiving their license to grow the fruit, saidPeter Chaires, executive director of New Va-
rieties Development and Management Corp.
The whole process of getting Sugar Belles
to a full-fledged seasonal fruit will take about
three to four years, Chaires said, which is the
time needed to license and grow trees.
Gmitter said 70 percent of the Sugar
Belle's profits will go back into the research
program, 20 percent will go to the inventors
as compensation for creating the fruit and
10 percent will go to the Florida Foundation
Seed Producers Inc., a non-profit organiza-
tion that helps with the crossbreeding pro-
cess.
tipoff EDITION
Reach your Target Market
before the game!
5% DISCOUNT 4
FOR CASH BY DEADLINE
color photos!
team rosters!
opponent features!
gator features!
and much more!
NOVEMBER 13: MEN'S BASKETBALL TIPOFF
DEADLINE: TODAY
ttigatto r to place your ad, call 352-376-4482C>A .
Gerard dona=ed m is gtp ie d shylter fo mo the' th /ye -yfa ie1M
Support the Red Cross and change a life, American
starting with your own. T Red Cross
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.2nd ANNUAL
TALENT SHOW
Doors Open at 6:30pm
Rion Ballroom
November 14, 2009
10, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
Residents can call 311 hotline for storm information
IDA, from page 1
on Gainesville should hit tonight and
Wednesday morning, which could force
the county to cancel a Veterans Day cer-emony at Kanapaha Park scheduled for
10:30 a.m. on Wednesday.
A decision will be announced today.
The Alachua County Department of
Public Safety has also opened up its 311hotline to help residents stay informed
about the storm.
People can call the number to hear the
latest news and learn about any emergency
procedures, said Carol Davis, the depart-
ON CAMPUS
Diabetes center offers free blood testing for students
By JENNIFER BATE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will have the opportu-
nity to be tested for diabetes today
from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Reitz
Union Colonnade.
"All it takes is five seconds of
your time and a finger prick," said
Kathryn Parker, the patient and
professional education coordinator
at the UF Diabetes Center of Excel-
lence.The UF Diabetes Center and
student wellness organizations
are sponsoring free blood sugar
screenings and awareness events
to celebrate November as Diabetes
Awareness Month.
Diabetes is a disease in which
the body does not properly use or
produce insulin. It affects about 285
million people internationally.
Last year, more than 300 people
were screened at the Reitz Union
Colonnade alone. The UF Diabetes"Being aware of diabetes
risks and complications
and knowing who is at risk
could help you or someone
you know tremendously."
Dr. Desmond Schatz
Director, UF Diabetes Center
Center discovers about six at-risk
people during each hour of testing,
Parker said.The best ways for people to com-
bat diabetes is to be aware of their
blood sugar numbers and family
history.
Dr. Desmond Schatz, medical
director at the UF Diabetes Center
and associate chairman of pediat-
rics, said knowledge is empower-
ment.
"If you don't know, you are
more likely not to pay attention to
it," he said. "Being aware of dia-
betes risks and complications andknowing who is at risk could help
you or someone you know tremen-
dously."
Blood sugar screenings will also
be held Thursday at the Shands at
UF atrium from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
and Friday in Children's Medical
Services Building A 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
The Century Tower lighting
event begins at 5:30 p.m. on Friday.
Attendees will be given bubbles
and hear a few brief speeches prior
to lighting Century Tower blue.
EYEEXAMS
(by Independent Optometrist)
N W th A,, i Corner oftIF:~NF 13h StI
& 39th Ave
Near IuLblix
EYECARE
I EXPRESS I
SATY BRTS.
-SMART FROM TNE STTish
Be a PORT OF HISTORUI
wo eneSDOU, NOVOMBR 11
UNIVERSITY HOUSE
(E1 13TH STROOT 811 7TH AVM)
12:30 PM -2:30 PMJoin us for the KISS 105.3 BOOM BOHmH AFTORPFRT K05. Fnom PZs
immediately following' FOOD, FUN & PRIZOSIAward is based
on education,
recruitment
ROTC, from page 1
ROTC cadet wing commander, said UF's
program hosts leadership activities, and
a Veterans Day ceremony helps set it
apart from others.
Bowen said the award was the result
of a team effort between students, pro-
fessors and officers.
Maj. James Bodnar, commandant of
cadets for the UF's Air Force ROTC, said
the award will set the cadets apart as they
compete for careers in the Air Force.
He said the UF's Air Force ROTC
program gives cadets hands-on military
training, including urban warfare and
team-building exercises at Camp Bland-
ing, to help prepare them for their roles
as Air Force officers.
Bodnar said the win helps to motivate
UF's Air Force ROTC professors and stu-
dents.
"On all levels, it helps us maintain
focus because it's a lot of work both for
the professors here and for the students
here," Bodnar said.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 11
Ballots for annexation
referendum due tonight
0 THE AREA INCLUDES ABOUT 1,200
ACRES IN EAST GAINESVILLE.
By DAVID TINTNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Residents of an area in east Gainesville have
been living outside the city limits for years. That
may change, however, depending on how citi-
zens vote on an annexation referendum.
Ballots for the referendum must be turned in
at the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections
by 7 tonight.
The referendum proposes annexing about
1,200 acres of unincorporated Alachua County
into the city of Gainesville. It would also add
about 3,000 additional residents to the city.
Ballots were mailed out on Oct. 21 to the res-
idents of the proposed annexation area, which
lies just to the east of Southeast 27th Street and
south of East University Avenue, except a small
section that extends into northeast Gainesville.
The residents of the unincorporated area cur-
rently receive some city services like Regional
Transit System buses but do not have a voice in
city elections, said Gainesville spokesman BobWoods.
"Right now, those decisions are being made
without the input of citizens of that area because
they simply do not have legal standing to vote
for city elected officials," Woods said.
If the annexation passes, City Commissioner
Scherwin Henry of 1st District would represent
the area, Woods said.
As of Monday night, 663 ballots have been
received of the 2,069 mailed
Around out, said Pam Carpenter,
Gainesville supervisor of elections for
Alachua County.
Although it was estimat-
ed to cost roughly the same price as a traditional
one-day election, the Supervisor of Elections de-
cided to have residents vote via mail-in ballots.
"Historically when we've run mail ballot
elections in the past, we've seen an increase
in voter turnout compared to the turnouts we
see when we open a polling place," Carpenter
said. "When you send the ballot directly to their
home, it's right there in front of them and gives
them the opportunity to think about it and more
of an opportunity to vote."
Carpenter said that the results of the election
will be announced by about 7:30 or 8 tonight.Cuts are on top of 58 layoffs
BUDGET, from page 1
The newly announced cuts are the
last piece of UF's budget cut puzzle.
Originally, when UF announced
in May that it had to cut $42 million,
there were about $16.6 million in cuts
that were still undecided.
Officials said they hoped the rest
could be cut through university-wide
administrative initiatives, like cutting
summer pay for faculty and offer-
ing an early retirement plan, both of
which are being implemented.
Changes to UF's sick leave plan
were also considered but ultimately
dropped after faculty protest.
The only other option, Glover said,
was to cut more from the colleges.
"At some point we ran out of ideas
or ways to do cuts centrally, and so
we had to go back to the colleges," he
said.
The additional cuts are on top of
about 58 layoffs and 150 vacant posi-tion eliminations UF announced in
May. The number of layoffs has since
shrunk to 41 -9 faculty and 32 staff.
It's unclear how many positions have
been eliminated so far.
John Biro, head of the UF faculty
union, said he thinks the latest plan
to cut the budget
-o- LveArhasn't been prop-
erly explained to
the public.
"There has been
no discussion, no
comment about it,"
Biro said.
He also said UF
has the money to
keep the positions filled, but instead
it has chosen to spend its money hir-
ing new faculty, pointing to UF's plan
to use $10 million in stimulus funds
to hire up to 100 faculty.
"If I'm short of the money to pay
my mortgage, I don't go out and buy
a Hummer," he said.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
allge t or
and@1 ]Ii -atr.org
announces the openings for the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1:00 and 4:00pm from now
until November 20. Please do not call. Further written information
is available at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up
to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need for the
application process. The application must be returned to the same desk
by 4:00 pm, November 23. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The
Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public beginning at 4:00 pm,
Sunday, December 13. Applicants must be present at that meeting to
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience at The
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerS, Snacks and Beer
ban San ches Plates Pastrie a morel
Downtown A m 8 sec,371-2000 n UrtyNelly'sA00 F0D
Finally!
Aprescription with side effectsyou want.BUY ONE. GET ONE FREE I
Regular cup or cone with this ad. I
TH1E GIFT I G UIDE
WINTER 2009
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to
more than 52,000 readers!
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
students, faculty and staff looking for
graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Deadline:
Friday, November 13
Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
352.376.4482
alligator
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.al ligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
*3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2s from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn*42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-i
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-17-09-25-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 11-13-09-10-1
3 blks from campus!! For rent 4/2. Each
room $400/mo. Includes utilities & Internet.
Beautiful pool & courtyard. A great place to
live in a great location. 813-690-8989. 11-
13-09-10-1
Cresisui
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Oxford Terrace I -Furnished 1BR/1BA in fur-
nished 4/4 Condo. Near Sorority Row- Avail
Jan-June(or longer) $530/mo inc $30 toward
util. parking spot, washer/dryer, internet
NYFL@aol.com 11-16-09-6-1Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
$385-3 bed/3 baths open in 4/4 Countryside
condo. Rent alone or with friends! On routes
9 and 35, all utilities included, for Spring or
longer. Call Nalini @ 352.514.3398. 11-23-
10-1
For Rent
unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 *www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR $459 * 2BR $539
No Move In Fees! * Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 lv message 12-9-09-74-2Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
12-9-09-75-2
Best Location & Great Price
Large 2/1's available
One Month Free & $0 Move- In Fees
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3s! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2
*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 * Waive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
How To Place A Classified Ad: Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am -4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
In Person: By Mail: When Will Your Ad Run? Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa Use forms appearing weekly in The Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica- corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
The Alligator Office Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC, tion days later. Ads may run for any length FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one
1105 W. University Ave. Visa or checks only. of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Changes called in after
M-F, 8am -4pm By Phone: (352) 373-FIND but there can be no refunds or credits for
Online: w/ Visa or Mastercard Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. cancelled ads. Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next
www.alligator.org/classified M-F, 8am -4pm day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.
By Email: classifieds@alligator.org By Fax: (352) 376-4556
1 For Rent: Furnished 6 Furnishings 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
2 For Rent: Unfurnished 7 Computers 12 Autos 17 Typing Services 22 Tickets
3 Sublease 8 Electronics 13 Wanted 18 Personals 23 Rides
4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise "any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national ongin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination " We will
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis. -All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status. -This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that
is know as "personal" or "connections" whether or not they actually appear under those classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out persona information. -Although this
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitabity, we cannot vendfy that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished lunfurnished unfurnished l unfurnished
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
*379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2
-&s'n.FREE Scooter! Free 42" TV!
Inclusive 2's & 3's Two Miles to UF
Next Ten 2/2's Discounted to $899
Pet Friendly Roommate Match.
1015 NW 21st Ave
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*Al Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key S Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
a a 5 0
Copyrighted Material
Syndicated Content
Available from Commercial News Providers* Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
* Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
11-16-09-76-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise
1bdr. from $469
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place
1 bdr. from $459
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
1 MONTH FREE RENT
*1BR/1BA walk to UF $460-$475 0 2BR
$525 0 3BR/2BA, fenced yard $1100.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2HOUSE avail now. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-24-
09-30-2FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Ashton Square
2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
COTTAGE 1BR/1BA w/carport
$500/mo Near university in historic district.
Call 352-332-8481 11-18-09-10-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 11-12-
09-5-2
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONSwww.AndreeRealty.com 1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at
We specialize in rentals, sales & property www.merrillmanagement.net
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30- or call Merrill Management Inc
09-30-2 352-372-1494 x1O 11-25-09-13-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND 3BR 1.5 BA with family Room
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood Tile Floors, Laundry Room,
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to Central H & Air, Carport
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo. 319 NW 16th Avenue
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-23-09-24-2 $800/Mo. Call Merrill Management
Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
Holiday Special/Big Time Savings
NO MOVE-IN COSTS 2BR 1 BA Apt 1 BLK TO UF!
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010) Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units Central H & Air, Dishwasher
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens Merrill Management Inc
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th St 352-372-1494 x1O 11-25-09-13-2
352-376-1619 352-373-4500
1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
Regency Oaks South West Villas 1Blk to UF! Central H & Air,
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
352-378-5766 352-336-9000 Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
We Speak Spanish 4th Avenue. Call Merrill
11-20-09-20-2 Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
13-2
3BR 2BA 1019 NW 36th Dr. Quiet neighbor-
hood. Beautiful, sanded hardwood floors, 1BR 1BA Apt, Central H & Air
fenced yard, LR, DR, study, $900/mo. $30/ 2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
mo ontime discount. 773-407-1774. 11-19- 1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
09-20-2 Call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
First Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF.
VERY LOW UTILITIES! Pool, W/D. Quiet; no
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09-
15-2
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @
Summit House across the street. $700/mo +
$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11-
25-21-2
$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f.
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com
11-18--09-15-2
Baxter Cottage
2 blks to UF campus, 1013 SW 4 Ave
2BR/1BA, Bright, clean, completely remod-
eled, Cent AC/Ht,wood firs, DW, W/D, NS,
NPets. $695+util. ATucker458@aol.com
11-17-14-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM
1 BR from $575
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $745
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome!
Call us for a tour! 377-7401
12-9-09-40-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sundowne
Studio from $439 1bdr. from $479
Walk to Butler Plaza
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-22 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/Mo
5 Blks to UF, Central H &Air
Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
829 Sw 5th Avenue.
Call Merrill Management Inc.
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
X10 11-25-09-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
1BR 1BA Apt Near Sams
Club. Carpet, Window A/C,
Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
3BR House for rent
Wood floors, front/back porch. 2035 NW 35th
Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. $750/mo.
Available now. Flex lease. 352-318-8822
11-13-09-5-2
3bd/2ba home for rent. Fireplace, huge kitch-
en, walk-in closets, backporch w/ garden,
large yard w/ creek, great view, 2 car garage.
Any pets welcome. 1475 w/o utilities. 561-
818-0103. 11-13-09-4-2
Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
per month. Move in ready. On busline.
Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
$475-Female only for 1/1 in 3/3 Campus
View Condos. Furnished living/dining,
W/D,3rd Floor Unit, Newly built. Bedroom
furn available. Lease ends July 2010. Walk
to campus, shands, VA. 727-776-7098 11-
24-10-2
14, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
5 Subleases Roommates Real Estate Furnishings Furnishings
1/1 in a small, quiet complex off 34th st. Avail.
Jan 2010-end of Jul 2010. W/D and D/W in-
cluded, pets allowed, gated private patio, ce-
ramic tile floors. $739/mo. Negotiable terms.
Jenna 863-860-4834 jennadg@ufl.edu 11-
10-5-3
avail. Dec 1st 2/2 in Treehouse Village with
w/d, gym, pool, on bus line.
Mary Seales: 352-372-3096 or
seales@vanrooy.com ref: L202 11-12-5-3
New 1BR/1BA in 3/2 for spring/summer -2
blocks from UF for $650 negotiable. Female.
Easy to move-in w/parking & furn avail. Util,
W/D, internet included. Call 954-593-6753
11-16-09-6-3
Rent huge master bedroom at Sabal Palms!
2 blocks from UF!
Private bath, granite countertops,
washer and dryer. $710.
Available Spring and Summer 407-496-4610
11-16-5-3
DEC FREE: lbr/lba in 2br/2ba. Female to
share in Looking Glass Apts. Walk to cam-
pus. Washer/Dryer, Lease to August. $495/
month + 1/2 utilities. 352-871-0162 11-20-
09-8-3
I'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking room-
mate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to UF and
Santa Fe. $400 + 1/2 of the utilities (cable
and internet included), W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Gene at 561-827-4970. 11-13-09-
5-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
$385-Female roommate needed for 1/1 in
4/4 Univ. Terrace condo with all utilities in-
cluded, fully furnished, on routes 12 and 35,
very clean, for Spring or longer. Call Anu @
352-262-0628. 11-23-10-4
Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
tRoommates SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-23-09-30-4
1 month free-Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-16-
20-4
1BR/1BAor2BR/2BAavail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-13-
09-16-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or e-mail hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $399/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route,
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871
11-12-09-10-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
1'WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-5
4bed/3Bath home in Savanna Pointe, just off
the Prairie. $479,500. Rural setting yet
urban proximity. MLS#308127. Dawn Realty
Visit VernonClouser.com for all the Details.
Off Williston Rd, just West of Country Club
11-17-8-5
F Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
Copyrighted MaterialFUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
SMALL APT SIZE REFRIGERATOR
Ideal for dorm. Good condition. $40/OBO.
Call 352-336-4493 11-13-5-6
UF-cm pters
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
JUi,
a 6
Available from Commercial News Providers
II to a , 0 a
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Bicycles Motorcycles, Mopeds MotorcyclesMopeds Autos Wanted
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
EF For Sale
*@@PARKING@@@
Private, Secure Guaranteed 60 sec to UF
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost &
found section. Be kind to someone who's lost
what you've found. Call 373-FIND.
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***Www.BuLyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
B 6. * 0* D
II
-'Iempas
IIII
--GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11
@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
WL EAutoZD
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDSI
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-16-09-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-1297 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
07 CHEVY LS
5-speed, CD, airbag, new cond. 43k miles.
Leaving for Europe -must sell. $6950/OBO.
Call 352-486-2812 11-10-09-5-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 11-19-10-12
WIWantedP
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-20-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
20-09-74-13
Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
the independent floridaalligator
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,F 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
0 the independent foridaalligator
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled stu-
dent, preferably in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work with
accounts receivables and accounts payables.
Other duties consist of manipulating Excel
spredsheets, answering phones, and gen-
eral office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please send resume, along
with a cover letter to: Business Office, The
Independent Florida Alligator PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257. Email: mbell@
alligator.org AND tcarey@alligator.org, or
Fax: 352-376-4556. No phone calls please.
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
MOW. ., . 4.
Copyrighted Material
Sjndicdated Content
Available from Commercial News ProvidersNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
t for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
* BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14M
16, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
UF HelpWanted HelpWanted f Help Wanted Services Entertainment
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos .com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr.
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
We need people to post ads
online. Social networking
knowledge a plus. Get paid
every Friday. For details see
paycheckonfriday.com 11-12-45-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
STUDENT WORK
GREAT PAY
Customer Sales/Service
Flex Sched, PT/FT Avail,
Work around classes,
conditions apply,
352-371-9675
11-12-09-20-14
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
Transcription/Office Asst
Must be pleasant, enjoy people & have expe-
rience; also admin. & grading psych tests.
Email res. info@villagecounselingcenter.net
11-12-09-10-14
YARD WORK Mowing. Car detailing. Pool
maintenance. Back up shipping. Errands.
Miscellaneous duties. Must have a valid driv-
ers license and good driving record. Own ve-
hicle. Truck preferred. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 11-13-09-10-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
11-19-09-12-14Barn help needed 1 day per week
Exchange for boarding or lessons
EXPERIENCE NECESSARY!
Call 359-4149 11-17-09-10-14
Opus Cafe -Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at
a fast paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website, www.opus-cafe.
com, click on the employment tab, and
follow the directions.
11-16-09-8-14
Mommy's helper for energetic 2yr old
Fun, smart, creative female student
to help in AM; 4hrs/day; 2-5 days/wk
mail bio, availability, references
and more to UFmommy~gmail.com 11-10-
09-5-14
Medical Office Manager for mid-sized
Dermatology practice. Duties include perform-
ing or supervising ICD-9/CPT coding, billing
and collections; A/R; payroll management;
employee supervision and maintenance of
employee records and benefits; insurance
evaluation and contracting; interfacing with
clinical staff and physicians; preparing finan-
cial reports and interfacing with accountant.
Seeking a mature, energetic individual with
experience but will train motivated candi-
date. Salary, benefits and possible incentive
commensurate with experience. Bachelors
degree desired. Email resume ofmgrbeers@
AOL.com or fax to 352-332-2966.
11-12-09-5-14
Spring Design Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking young artists
with experience in
Fireworks or Photoshop to learn from our
Web design
team. Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-09-10-14
Spring Programming Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking talented stu-
dents with experience in Web programming
and development.
Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-10-14
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email your
course listing and a brief description about
yourself to ufl@sharenotes.com
START EARNING TODAY! 11-20-09-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
09-20-1412-9-
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must work independently & meet deadlines.
Strong attention to detail & organization.
Research skills required. Sales experience
a plus. Salary starts at $24k/year + commis-
sion. Send resume to jobs@nationaltech-
mark.com or fax 1-866-728-4579 w/Financial
Sales in subject. 11-23-09-10-14
Programmer needed w/experience in ASP
&/or ASP.net, Javascript programming, re-
lational databases, Perl &/or PHP, Ajax,
JSON, & semantic web development w/
CSS. $32,000/yr commensurate w/exp. Fax
1-866-728-4579 or jobs@nationaltechmark.
com w/"Programmer" in Subject. 11-23-
09-10-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual
with strong problem-solving skills to work in
analytical testing. Knowledge of ELISA meth-
odology and basic immunology is desirable.
Basic laboratory skills, attention to detail, and
ability to manage multiple projects required.
B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory ex-
perience may be substituted. Email resume
to info@elisa-tek.com. 11-16-09-5-14
Sitter/math tutor needed for 2nd & 6th grade
girl & boy. Transport from school to home.
week days: M T W F 3p to 6:30p, sometimes
to midnight. Some Sundays: 1 la to midnight.
Contact 352-332-6465 11-16-09-4-14PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250'x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
HORSE BOARDING
Hourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* *GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS*
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
Writing a paper? Send it to:
GETABETTERGRADE@gmail.com.
We'll check grammar-syntax.
Quick turnaround. Inexpensive. 11-10-09-
10-15
FLOOR COVERING
James R. Langford Inc.
Carpet Vinyl Repairs
Restretches Installs
Call Jim 352-222-8827
12-1-14-15
FHealth ServicesWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 mn from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-v85-21
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING W Jills
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center 12-8-
38-16
F Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ZUMBA Party and Food Drive to benefit
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. Friday, Nov.
13, 5:30-7pm. Doors open 5pm. Donation $7
+ 3 canned goods or $10 cash. 601 S. Main
St. 904-742-0188 www.ZumbaGypsy.com
11-13-4-20GMG TRANSPORT
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
12-9-74-23
11 Lost & Found
LOST: FIRE OPAL RING
On 10/30 around Publix on 34th St/Williston
Rd. LARGE REWARD. Call Donna 376-3439
11-16-09-4-25
MOST WANTED
I. - I
Percy Williams
Black Male
(DOB 04/02/70); 6'01",
150 lbs, Black Hair,
Brown Eyes
Wanted for:
Robbery By Sudden Snatching,
Felony Battery/Domestic Battery
By Strangulation and Aggravated
BatteryALACNUA C COUNTYCRIME
STOPPERS
Call (352) 372-STOP
Sports
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
Bench leads UF in rout of Webber Int.
* THE RESERVES SCORED 49 POINTS.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
Amid all the hype surrounding the new-
look starting lineup, the Gators' bench players
showed Monday night the strides they made
this offseason.
Ray Shipman scored 16 points and Chan-
dler Parsons added 12 and a team-high nine re-
bounds as Florida cruised past NAIA opponent
Webber International 104-53 in its final exhibi-
tion game in the O'Connell Center.
Freshman guard Kenny Boynton led the
team with 25 points in only his second college
game, but UF's reserves brought the team some
much-needed energy after a slow start.
"I think we've got a great bench," said Par-
sons, who entered the game with his team down
15-11 before going on 15-0 run. "I think we're
deep. I think we've got size. I think we got ath-
leticism, we got energy, guys that can play de-
fense, guys that can shoot the ball."
Shipman, who averaged 3.8 points per game
last year, provided a spark off the bench, slash-
ing into the lane on offense and slamming down
dunks in transition. All of Shipman's seven field
goals against the outmatched Warriors came on
dunks or layups.
The 6-foot-5 guard, who scored 10 in UF's
exhibition opener, whipped himself into shape
during the offseason, dropping from 225 pounds
to 205 and coming to terms with his role on the
team, something he struggled with during his
first year in Gainesville.
The sophomore put his improved condition-
ing on display Monday night with an array of
impressive moves to the basket.
"When we get Ray playing like he did to-
night, I think we become a lot more athletic, a
lot quicker and a much, much better defensive
team on the perimeter than we were a year ago,"
UF coach Billy Donovan said.
With 6:08 left in the first half, point guard Er-
ving Walker's corner 3-pointer bounced off the
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 20UF guard Ray Shipman dunks during Florida's 104-53 win over Webber Inter-
national in the O'Connell Center on Monday. He finished with 16 points.
Gators get No. 3 seed in NCAA Tourney
By TYLER JETT a No. 3 seed. Despite being the highest
Alligator Writer ranked team in its opening weekend re-
tjett@aligator org gional, Florida will travel
to Ohio State, another
If the Florida soccer team reaches the team in the regional.
second round of the NCAA Tournament The Buckeyes are un-
this weekend, it might be the favorite on seeded, as the NCAA
paper alone. only ranks the top four
If UF defeats Illinois State and Ohio State teams in each bracket.
wins against Oregon State in the first round But the Gators insist
Friday, the Gators will play the Buckeyes on .rmecircumstances beyond
OSU's home field Nov. 15. Frame their control, like the lo-
When the tournament seeding was an- cation of their matches this weekend, will
nounced Monday night, the Gators received not affect them.
E The NFL is evaluating whether or not Oakland coach Tom Cable needs man-
datory counseling. Somehow counseling comes before a firing on the chain of
events for the Raiders. .Isiah Thomas tried his hardest to get out of playing
UNC in FIU's season opener. His team responded by keeping it close in a 88-72
loss. I guess his team didn't need protection from the defending champs."If we got to play in Buckeye stadium
and show the Buckeyes what it's all about,
then that's fine with us," goalkeeper Katie
Fraine said. "Our school has done it before,
and we can do it again."
The team that hosts the regional is based
on proximity to the other teams in that re-
gional as opposed to seeding.
Coach Becky Burleigh said she obvious-
ly would have preferred if the Gators could
play in Gainesville this weekend. Beyond
that, she has no vested interest in how the
SEE SOCCER, PAGE 18
* Florida punter Chas Henry was
named SEC Special Teams Player
of the Week on Monday. The junior
punted four times for an average of
52.8 yards apiece.Tebow's path
to win second
bronze statue
hortly before last year's Academy
Awards, I remember listening to
an NPR broadcast that featured
a panel of respected film critics dis-
cussing who would take home the top
honors.
When it came to the Award for Best
Actress, they all agreed: Kate Winslet
should win for her role in "The Read-
er.,
I haven't seen it, and I only watched
one of the other nominees' perfor-
mances, but I disagreed completely
based on their reasoning.
Winslet deserved it, they said, be-
cause, "It's just
her turn. She has
earned it."
This is the
manner in whichPeople make
these kinds ofM ike MCCall decisions, and I
McCall-in' It expect the same
Like I See It kind of thought
rnccall@alligator org process when it
comes to Heis-
man Trophy voting.
Just as there are no meaningful sta-
tistics to compare the artistic integrity
of movies, we don't really have any
for the Heisman either.
Sure, we can look at numbers. But
they don't all face the same competi-
tion. And should their teams' records
count? Do they sacrifice gaudy stats
for wins? Does that matter?
I don't agree with the process, but
that's how college football works.
With that in mind, here's what UF's
Tim Tebow needs to do to make sure
he leaves New York City with another
hunk of metal next month.
KEEP WINNING: Thanks to Notre
Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen's
rough outing last week, what will mat-
ter most come voting time is whether
Texas' Colt McCoy, Alabama's Mark
Ingram, Boise State's Kellen Moore
and Tebow are still undefeated.
Tebow can knock off Ingram if the
Gators beat the Crimson Tide for the
conference title, and from there, he
just needs to provide enough stats for
voters to feel justified in voting for
him.
SEE MCCALL, PAGE 20
* Bobby Callovi and Kyle Maistri join host
Adam Berry to preview every angle imagin-
able of the Florida men's basketball season
as well as recapping UF's 27-3 football win
over Vanderbilt. Check it out on iTunes.
18, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
1A Mark Ingram (16) 1,148 rushing yards, 6.6 yards per carry,
8 TD, 24 receptions, 216 receiving yards, 3 TDUF will face
Illinois St.
SOCCER, from page 17
bracket gets drawn up.
"To me, it doesn't really matter
who we play, where we play, when
we play -I'm just ready to play,"
Burleigh said.
With only four days to prepare for
Illinois State, Burleigh said the team
will try to get film so it can study the
Redbirds, who received an automatic
bid into the tournament when they
won the Missouri Valley Conference
Championship on Sunday.
The road trip to Columbus, Ohio,
could be troubling for the Gators, as
the team struggled earlier this season
away from Gainesville. Afterwinning
the season-opener at
Miami on Aug. 21,
UF did not win a road
game until Oct. 18 at
Soccer Georgia. After the vic-
tory in Athens, Florida
won its next two away
games, and the Gators claim their
traveling woes are behind them.
"We got all our kinks out on the
road and we figured it out, so we
should be set," freshman Holly King
said.
King is one of 10 UF freshmen,
and the team's upperclassmen are
trying to prepare the young players
for their first NCAA Tournament.
Eraine said the key to success is hav-
ing tunnel vision, not worrying about
your opponent's style of play.
The young players also need to
be ready for any elements that may
come with a mid-November game in
Ohio.
"We're going to play in rain, sleet
or snow just like the postman," Fraine
said.'E~I4I L" I
2 V Kellen Moore (15) 169.35 passer rating, 2,259 yards, 67.5
completion percentage, 27 TD, 3 INT, -9 rushing yards, -0.5
ypc, TD
Moore's two-week reign at the top
came to a close, likely due to no fault
of his own. The nation's most efficient
passer threw for 354 yards and three
touchdowns with one pick in Boise
State's 45-35 win over Louisiana Tech.
The lefty sophomore appears to have
the best case for a non-BCS conference player, however
-he has one fewer TD than Keenum despite 190 fewer
attempts.Ingram continues to dominc
matter how his quarterback is r
He is sixth in the country with 127.
per game, but his average of 6.
per rush is good for second best'
backs with 165 carries or mo
5-foot-10 sophomore had no p
with LSU's defense, racking up 144 yards on 22
The most impressive thing is Ingram's ability to shin
games -he is averaging 141.8 yards per game in
games, despite playing in arguably the best de
conference.
A Case Keenum (8) 158.92 passer rating, 3,815
passing yards, 28 TD, 5 INT, 95 rushing yards, 2.3
ypc, 3 TD
No one can argue with
Keenum's raw numbers -he
leads the nation in passing
yards and touchdowns. He
L currently sits at No. 6 in passing
efficiency and also has been
stingy with interceptions,
averaging one every 91.6 attempts, making him
slightly better than Moore (89.3 attempts per INT)
and in a whole different class than Tebow (43.3).
The junior continued to put up video game-
esque numbers this past weekend, throwing for
522 yards, three TDs and no interceptions while
leading Houston to nine points in the final 21
seconds to top Tulsa 46-45.
5 & LaMichael James (4) 1,043 rushing yards, 7 ypc, 8 TD, I I receptions, 128 yards
One of the season's biggest surprises makes our Heisman Watch for the very first
time. Many people might not know James, who stepped up at running back
for Oregon when LeGarrette Blount was suspended after the season opener.
They ought to learn his name fast. The 5-foot-9 freshman didn't take too long
to get acclimated -he has eclipsed 100 yards rushing in six of his last seven
games. Two weeks ago, he ran for 183 yards in Oregon's upset over USC, and
this past weekend he finished with 214 yards from scrimmage on 22 touches (18
rush, 4 rec) in the Ducks' loss at Stanford.
Attention
Advertisers
The Alligator will not be publishing
Wednesday, November 11
due to the Veteran's Day Holiday.
The DEADLINE for Friday, No
13
These
Display: 376-44
Classifieds: 373-
\I,>er
andOUR 11A-NKINGS
B Bobby Callovi
1 Kellen Moore, Boise St.
2 Case Keenum, Houston
3 Toby Gerhart, Stanford
4 Mark Ingram, Alabama
5 Tim Tebow, Florida
l Mike McCall
1 Mark Ingram, Alabama
2 Tim Tebow, Florida
3 Colt McCoy, Teas
4 Case Keenum, Houston
5 Kellen Moore, Boise St.
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5Phil Kegler
Mark Ingram, Alabama
Kellen Moore, Boise St.
LaMichael James Oregon
Case Keenum, Houston
Golden Tate, Notre Dome
Kyle Maistri
Kellen Moore, Boise St.
Mark Ingram, Alabama
C.J. Spiller, Clemson
Golden Tate, Notre Dome
LaMichael James, Oregon
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
I 3JM G Lf
The Alligator has sales intern positions
available for the Spring semesters.You will
receive classroom training, firsthand sales
experience, and an opportunity to improve
your communication skills.This resume
builder offers a flexible
schedule with a
minimum of 10
hours per week.
Call Sara or Rose
at 352-376-4482
or email resume to:
advertising@alligator. org
alligatorTim Tebow (5) 156.59 passer rating, 1,531
passing yards, 65.9 completion percentage,
I I TD, 4 INT, 578 rushing yards, 3.7 ypc, 9 TD
Playing on an undefeated
and top-ranked team has its
perks. Tebow stayed at the
same place in our Heisman
Watch despite an average
game from the only senior
on our list. He threw for
208 yards and a touchdown and ran for
another score against Vanderbilt, although
he had just 27 rushing yards on 16 carries.
He is currently No. 8 in passing efficiency
among qualified players, his best ranking in a
statistical category, but when your team has
won 19 games in a row, it doesn't take much
to impress.
/1
V
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 19
Sturgis named semifinalist for Lou G
0 THE SOPHOMORE IS FOUR OF our coaches do too." game against the Commodores after reinjur-
FOUR FROM BEYOND 40 YARDS. Meyer added that he ranks punt coverage, ing his knee, and Meyer thinks this latest
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kmaistri@alligator org
Florida's special teams continue to gain
recognition, from inside the program and
out.
Sophomore kicker Caleb Sturgis was
named a semifinalist for the Lou Groza Col-
legiate Place-Kicker Award on Monday, this
coming less than two weeks after junior punt-
er Chas Henry was named to the Ray Guy
Award watch list.
Sturgis is four for four on field goals lon-
ger than 40 yards this season, and Henry al-
lowed his first punt return yards of the sea-
son against Vanderbilt.
UF coach Urban Meyer drew attention to
his team's overall special teams play at his
weekly Monday press conference, praising
the well-rounded job done by his coverage
and return units.
Plenty of young players like Jon Bostic,
Mike Gillislee, and Dee Finley have made a
name for themselves on special teams, but
the Gators trot out veteran defensive start-
ers like Joe Haden, Ahmad Black and Major
Wright as well.
"You have to be an accountable guy. If you
have issues, you won't be on (special teams),"
Meyer said. "If I don't trust you, there's no
chance you're getting near that team. You're
not getting in this (special teams) room if I
don't trust you. Our guys understand that,kickoff coverage, punt return and kickoff re-
turn in that order of importance.
MUNROE REINJURES KNEE: Redshirt senior
safety Dorian Munroe missed Saturday'sACL injury will end Munroe's career.
The safety missed 2008 with a tear in his
right knee and missed all but the Georgia
game this season after reinjuring the knee in
preseason workouts.
narmson uiamona / mnigazor biai
UF sophomore Caleb Sturgis is 17 of 20 on field goals, including four of four from lon-
ger than 40 yards. His 56-yarder against Georgia is the SEC's longest this year.roza Award
"Dorian Munroe falls into the same cate-
gory as Ryan Stamper and Justin Trattou that
are players on our team that are all Gator,
man," Meyer said.
FUTURE COACHES: Meyer also commented
on the future of Trattou, a junior, and Stamp-
er, a senior, on Monday.
Even if an NFL career doesn't work out for
them, their coach thinks they have a bright
future in football.
"(Trattou) already has a job at Florida,
or somewhere as a coach. That's how much
respect we have for him," Meyer said. "He
understands the game. He's going to go play
for a while because he's just a competitor, but
his knowledge of special teams and his work
ethic -this profession, I know I'm pushing
this, this profession needs Justin Trattou and
Ryan Stamper to go coach some day."
Stamper, who can play all three linebacker
positions, has previously said that coaching is
something he could see himself doing down
the road when his playing career is over.
TEBOW HEALTHIER THAN EVER: Quarterback
Tim Tebow is done with the pain-killing
shots he has had to take in the past.
Tebow said he feels healthier than he ever
has at this point in the season and no longer
takes any pain-killing injections.
"When I came off that shoulder surgery,
just training with coach (Mickey Marotti), he
did a really good job of training me to go out
there and take hits," Tebow said. "The type of
workouts that we've done and exercise, I feel
like coming into this season I was in the best
shape of my life."
UF FOOTBALL RECRUITING
Gators commit will play in U.S. Army All-American Bowl
By MICHAEL PIPITONE
Alligator Writer
As usual, the Gators have made
major noise on the recruiting front.
Cornerback Jaylen Watkins of
Cape Coral High is the first UF
commitment selected to play in the
U.S. Army All-American Bowl.
The all-star game will feature 90
of the nation's top high school foot-
ball players showcasing their skills
at the Alamodome in San Antonio
on January 9.
"Florida is getting a better per-
son than a player," Cape Coral
coach Mike Goebbel said.The 6-foot-1, 172-pound four-
star recruit is listed as a corner-
back on Rivals.com but plays on
both sides of the ball for his high
school.
Versatility is a definite strength
for any recruit, according to ESPN
recruiting analyst Tom Luginbill.
A player has a better chance to
crack a college roster when he has
multiple tools.
"Far less chance to miss on a
guy," Luginbill said.
Watkins said he has the most
fun playing corner, although he
also lines up at receiver and re-
turns kicks.As a junior, Watkins rushed for
329 yards and five touchdowns
while throwing for 419 yards and
Watkinsfive touchdowns.
He did all this
while thriving at
cornerback, tal-
lying 71 tackles
and three inter-
ceptions.
Watkins has
also been called
a leader that other players look up
to.
"Great leader by example on
and off the field," Goebbel said.
Watkins knows that when theball is in his hands late in the game,
he has the trust of his teammates to
lead them to victory.
"I feel like I have to be the lead-
er," Watkins said. "I haven't been
leading them wrong. They can
count on me."
Despite all the accolades for
his great play, Watkins still has to
work on some things.
"He's a little lean right now,"
Luginbill said. "He has to become
more physical of a football play-
er.",
Luginbill believes Watkins is
capable of doing this. Every year
underweight recruits come to col-lege weight rooms, follow a pro-
gram and see results that change
their game for the better.
The amount of top recruits UF
brings in each year creates heated
competition between teammates
for playing time.
Watkins likes the competition.
"Only way to get the best ability
out of you," Watkins said.
The big stage of the U.S. Army
All-American Bowl, televised on
NBC, has also hosted former UF
greats Chris Leak, Percy Harvin
and Tim Tebow when they were
seniors in high school. Leak won
MVP at the 2003 game.
TUESDAY
$4 Top Shelf Martini Night; Live Music 4-close
WEDNESDAY
990 Drafts, $5 Top Shelf Doubles; 8-close
142 unvrit v I 32 723
S101.;110i s! ..www.swamprestaurant.com
20, ALLIGATOR U TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2009
UF MEN'S BASKETBALL
Webber shows fight early
By KYLE MAISTRI
Alligator Staff Writer
kma istri@a Iigator org
Florida dominated Webber International
for 35 minutes Monday.
The first five minutes, however, were cause
for concern.
WIU's Tyrell Harper threw down a two-
handed dunk off a steal in transition to put
the Warriors up 9-3. After a missed jump shot
by UF power forward Alex Tyus, Harper
slammed home another dunk, this time out
of a broken press. And four possessions later,
WIll forward Marvin Williams added another
two-handed jam in a half-court set.
"That was good to happen to our team be-
cause here's a team that clearly -at the level
they're at -came in and hit us in the mouth
early in the game," UF coach Billy Donovan
said. "And it wasn't 'a high-major, Division I
conference game or nonconference game.' It
was a game against a team that came out with
a lot more aggressiveness than we did."It's hard to learn anything from early season
games against significantly worse competition,
but the Gators were able to feel what it's like to
come out with less energy than an opponent.
Athleticism, size and talent overwhelmed
WIll over the course of the entire game, but
it may not be so easy to rebound later in the
year.
"Ugly. Just poor execu-
tion, poor focus," sopho-
more point guard Erving
Walker said. "That's totally
our fault, and we can't have
that for the regular season."
Donovan voiced concern
Donovan after UF's first game about
his team's ability to transi-
tion out of its full-court press into a half-court
defense. The Gators gave up 17 offensive re-
bounds to Saint Leo, and Monday, they com-
pletely missed assignments transitioning to
man-to-man defense, showing that playing
against small schools can still provide valuable
lessons.Starting frontcourt struggles
HOOPS, from page 17
iron, but Shipman soared above the
rim to throw down a powerful putback
dunk.
Shipman said after the game he
missed a dunk exactly like that in prac-
tice earlier in the week, but Donovan
told him not to be afraid to take those
opportunities in a game, as he wouldn't
have had the energy or conditioning to
even attempt those plays last year.
Donovan said Shipman entered col-
lege with "entirely the wrong mental-
ity" and was more concerned about
his own statistics and doing what he
wanted to do, rather than focusing on
the role the team needed him to play.
"(UF assistant coach Richard) Pitino
told me, it's like 95 percent of freshmen
who come into college basketball aredumbasses just like that. I was one of
those dumbasses," Shipman said. "But
now, I feel like I'm mature, and it's
helped me out a lot."
While Shipman was slashing
through the lane, Parsons and the rest
of UF's frontcourt
reserves made up
for a starting front-
court that combined
Men's for half as many
Basketball turnovers (nine) as
points (18).
Sophomore cen-
ter Kenny Kadji added 11 points and
eight rebounds, and freshman forward
Erik Murphy contributed eight points,
four boards and a game-high six steals.
Parsons and Kadji were the team's
leading rebounders, helping the Gators
to a 49-31 advantage on the boards.
MCCALL, from page 17
SCORE: And for Tebow, stats
mean touchdowns. He's way be-
hind his 2007 passing numbers,
and he's on pace to fall 700 yards
shy of last year's total. His com-
pletion percentage and intercep-
tions look good, but he needs to
start getting in the end zone.
Eleven passing and nine rush-
ing TDs? That's really weak con-
sidering he accounted for seven
touchdowns in the 2007 SouthCarolina game alone!
Luckily, this is an easy fix. All
it takes is a 10-minute talk with
the team. Jeff Demps, try to bust a
few long runs, but take a hint from
Chris Rainey and get run down at
the 3-yard line. Tebow can punch
it in from there.
Ditto for Brandon James on
kick returns and for defenders
after interceptions. With a tight
Heisman race, it's just uncalled
for and selfish for them to pursue
glory for themselves. Time to takeone for Tim, guys.
EMBARRASS SOMEONE: Short
of the kind of huge game he post-
ed against the Gamecocks two
years ago, Tebow needs an iconic
play or two.
That hasn't happened this year.
No jump-passes, and although he
has led some crucial drives, there
hasn't been anything crazy.
Right now, the most lasting
image of Tebow is his concus-
sion against Kentucky. He needsanother enduring moment to ri-
val that, and then the injury will
be remembered as an obstacle he
heroically overcame rather than a
low point.
Luckily, his best three chances
are ahead of him.
South Carolina: Tebow stiff-
arms his way to a 40-yard, zig-
zagging touchdown, grabs Steve
Spurrier's visor and spikes it to
the ground in celebration.
Florida State: He waits for an
FSU defender to talk some trashthe week of the game, then runs
him over and knocks his helmet
off. Some Seminole war paint on
the face would help too.
Alabama: Here, with everyone
watching and Heisman talk in
overdrive, Tebow needs to out-
rush Ingram and make a clutch
play late.
If he can follow this plan, the
award is all his.
If not, congratulations Colt Mc-
Coy! He may not have the num-
bers, but it's just his turn.
ACCENT
The University of Florida
U ringPn mnt Sp eak"Sr l, ,ty ofFord." #
DIR-ECAOR OF: AU'S UNIVER ITY AUDITOF JUM
RUSH HG U UI &t TT r - W
PRISON BREAK P_'I DT GA
X-MEN: JHE LAST STAN'
AFTER THIFSUNSI I ' >T , I> EFA 1 ILYTOA
14
4,J
A. ENGLERT
P R ODU C TIO N SFor persons with disabilities requiring special ac-
comodations, please contact 392-2567(TDD),
e-mail accomodate@sg.ufl.edu or contact the
Florida relay system at 1-800-955-8771 at least 72
hours prior to the event.
* %itJ#1t14tkA4k4k<CANDIES,V
4-
