Today
visit www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 102 ISSUE 84 TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaRecycle
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 16
SPORTS 20Sunny
53/26n INAUGURATION TO BEGIN 
AT NOON TODAY.
By MORGAN COLLINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rev. Milford Griner, 51, remem-
bers where he was April 4, 1968.
Griner, then a 10-year-old boy, 
was watching television with his 
family when a news blurb an-
nounced the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.
As the details of King’s death 
drifted from the TV set, tears rolled down his parents’ faces. A somber 
mood overtook them.
“It was a quiet, eerie time,” he 
recalled.
Griner, now the pastor of Hall 
Chapel United Methodist Church 
in Gainesville, is one of many black 
Americans remembering King’s 
life as the country begins a new era with President Barack Obama’s in-
auguration.
Obama’s election shows how 
far black Americans and the coun-try have come since the civil rights 
movement, he said.
This is history in the making for 
America, Griner said.
“I’m filled with pride not just 
as a black American but also as an 
American,” he said.
This enthusiasm for a new 
America is contagious, as Obama continues to spread his message 
of change throughout Alachua County, the country and the 
world. 
Christy Durr, 56, said it’s been a 
long time coming.For Durr, Obama’s Inauguration 
is the fruit of hard work. She volun-
teered with the Obama campaign during the election.
“I couldn’t just sit back here and do nothing and expect change,” 
she said.
Durr never doubted Obama’s 
ability to win because his message transcended racial boundaries. He talked about a common ground to bring all Americans together.
“He reminded us that this 
country isn’t a red America, or a blue America, or a white America or black America, but the United States of America,” Durr said.
Still, Obama’s inauguration 
does not signal an end to the coun-Obama realizes hope for MLK generation
AP Photo
People gather Sunday on the National Mall for the “We Are One: Opening Inaugural Celebration at the Lincoln Memorial” in Washington.
LOCAL
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
A UF anthropology professor was arrested 
Saturday night after he admitted to trying to 
trade cocaine for sexual favors from another man.
Michael Heckenberger, UF’s 2005 Teacher 
of the Year for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, threw down a small plastic bag near the 900 block of Northwest Fourth Place after he saw a Gainesville Police Department car. 
The bag, picked up by GPD officer Steve 
Jones, field tested positive for cocaine, accord-ing to the GPD arrest report.
After he was arrested, Heckenberger, 
46, said the cocaine he carried was not his. According to the report, Heckenberger told Jones he planned on trading the cocaine for 
sexual favors from a man.
Because he was discovered about 450 feet 
away from the Progressive Church of Our 
Lord Jesus Christ, Heckenberger, was charged with the sale of  a controlled substance within 
1,000 feet of a church.
Heckenberger was 
placed on administrative leave and a substitute will temporarily take over his classes, said UF spokesman Steve Orlando.
The university has not 
received the arrest report and still needs more infor -
mation, Orlando said.Heckenberger won the College of Liberal 
Arts and Science’s Teacher of the Year Award in 2005 and has taught at UF since 1999.
According to the resume on his Web site, 
Heckenberger’s work was recognized in pub-lications such as the New Yorker, Scientific American, MSNBC and CNN.
He also worked with the History Channel 
and the Discovery Channel, according to his Web site.
Heckenberger was released from jail 
Monday on a $25,000 bond. UF professor arrested, charged with selling cocaine
n Nick Calathes 
(left) and the UF 
men’s basketball team pulled away from Arkansas in the second half Saturday. See Story,Page 20.One dead after retirement center fight
FORT MYERS, Fla. (AP) -- Authorities say a 72-year-
old Fort Myers man is dead after an apparent fight at a retirement center.
According to a police report, police responded to a 
possible assault  after a fight broke out at the Hidden Oaks Retirement Center on Sunday night, witnesses said
Chrisanto Beltran had already died by the time po-
lice arrived at the center. Another man, Kenneth Knauf, 87, of Fort Myers was taken to a hospital. Authorities are still investigating the cause of death.n The UF Century 
Tower carillon kicked 
off the celebration for 
its 30th anniversary 
Sunday with a faculty 
recital. The perfor -
mances will continue 
throughout 2009.
See story, Page 10.
Heckenberger
SEE INAUGURATION, PAGE 112, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 102 ISSUE 84 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Nicole Safker,
  nsafker@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristin Bjornsen,
  kbjornsen@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / New Media Rachel Roy,
  rroy@alligator.org
 University Editor Lauren Baker
 Metro Editor Brittany Davis
 Freelance Editors Emily Blake, Christina McGinley
 Sports Editor Evan Drexler, edrexler@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Dan Seco
 Editorial Board Nicole Safker, Kristin Bjornsen, 
  Dan Seco
 Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, Sarah Hsu
 the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset
 Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Brian Kelley, 
  Katherine Mojena, Stephanie Slade
 Copy Editors Morgan Collins, 
  Cassandra Fellerman, Joe Holzer,
  Rachael Pino, Jennifer Smith,
  Sara Watson
 Staff Phil Kegler, Mike McCall, 
  Brian Steele
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org 
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Daniel Webber
 Intern Coordinator Sarah Buckwald
 Display Advertising Clerks Sarah Buckwald, Kaela Hill
 Sales Representatives Amanda Freilich, Sara Ingebretsen, 
  Shaun O’Connor, Madeline Ross, 
  Lexie Stout, Kaia Tershowski, 
  Ryan Winkler
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario     
MARKETING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4558 (Fax)
 Marketing Director Brad Smith, bsmith@alligator.org
CIRCULATION
 Operations Manager Scott McKearnan,
  smckearnan@alligator.org
 Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Ramona Pelham, 
  businessoffice@alligator.org
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Jennifer Cavasino, Amanda Clifton
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 General Manager C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
PRODUCTION/SYSTEMS
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Editorial Production Supervisors Erica Bales, James Hibbs
 Advertising Production Staff Erica Bales, Aki Chang, 
  Shannon Close, Doug Eastman, 
  Brianna O’Sullivan
 Editorial Production Staff Vidhika Agrawal, Erica Ervin, 
  Kevin Hart, Max WeisslerFORECAST
TODAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
75/47PARTLY 
CLOUDY
68/44SUNNY
61/33SUNNY
53/26SUNNY
48/23
porary injunction filed last 
week by even going to see the victim early Sunday morning. She was also on probation from a 2006 criminal mischief case. 
Catolico was arrested and is be-
ing held on $10,650 bail.
NATIONAL
Kellogg says FDA confirms 
salmonella in crackers
MILWAUKEE (AP) — 
Kellogg Co. said Monday fed-
eral authorities have confirmed that salmonella was found in a single package of its peanut but-
ter crackers, as a Midwestern 
grocer and General Mills Corp. recalled some of its products because of the scare.
Kellogg had recalled 16 
products last week because of the possibility of salmonella contamination.
On Monday, the company 
based in Battle Creek, Mich., said that contamination was confirmed by the Food and Drug Administration in a sin-gle package of Austin Quality Foods Toasty Crackers with Peanut Butter.
Food companies and retail-
ers have been recalling prod-
ucts with peanut butter in them 
because of suspicion of con-tamination amid a salmonella outbreak that has killed at least six people and sickened more than 470 others in 43 states. At least 90 people have been hos-pitalized.
Also Monday, Midwestern 
grocer and retailer Meijer Inc. said it was recalling two types of crackers and two varieties of ice cream because of the pos-sibility of salmonella contami-nation: Meijer brand Cheese and Peanut Butter and Toasty Peanut Butter sandwich crack-ers, and Peanut Butter and 
Jelly and Peanut Butter Cup ice 
cream.
Golden Valley, Minn.-based 
General Mills said in a news release Monday afternoon that it was recalling two fla-vors of snack bars: Larabar 
Peanut Butter Cookie snack 
bars and JamFrakas Peanut Butter Blisscrisp snack bars. The company said the recall affected 15,000 cases and no illnesses have been reported. General Mills said the recall did not affect any other products it makes.
It was not immediately clear 
how many packages of Kellogg 
crackers had been tested, if 
more tests were being made on other products or if some had already been found not to have salmonella, Kellogg spokes-woman Kris Charles said. A spokesman for the FDA said the agency was not providing any new information Monday.
The government on Saturday 
had advised consumers to avoid eating cookies, cakes, ice cream and other foods contain-ing peanut butter until health of-ficials learn more about the con-
tamination.
Officials said that most pea-
nut butter sold in jars at super -
markets appears to be safe.
Officials have been focus-
ing on peanut paste and peanut 
butter made at Peanut Corp. of America’s plant in Blakely, Ga.
On Sunday, Peanut Corp. ex-
panded its own recall to all pea-nut butter and peanut paste pro-duced at the Blakely plant since July 1.
The company’s peanut butter 
is not sold directly to consumers but it is distributed to institutions and food companies. The peanut paste, made from roasted pea-
nuts, is an ingredient in cookies, 
cakes and other products sold to consumers.
Meijer, based in Grand 
Rapids, said in a news release Monday it was issuing its recall because makers of its products had announced possible contam-ination. The products are sold in 
Meijer stores and gas stations in 
Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Kentucky.
The recall last week by 
Kellogg, the world’s largest cereal maker, affected products includ-ing Keebler Soft Batch Homestyle Peanut Butter Cookies, Famous Amos Peanut Butter Cookies and 
Keebler Cheese & Peanut Butter 
Sandwich Crackers. Charles said the recall affected more than 7 million cases of its products.
Kellogg Chief Executive David 
Mackay said the company would evaluate its processes “to ensure we take necessary actions to reas-sure consumers and rebuild con-
fidence in these products.”
Salmonella, a bacteria, is the 
most common cause of food poi-
soning in the U.S., causing diar -
rhea, cramping and fever.
Over the weekend, Little 
Debbie maker McKee Foods Corp. of Collegedale, Tenn., is-sued a voluntary recall of its 
peanut butter crackers because of 
possible contamination.
Other companies issuing re-
calls recently include Midwest supermarket chain Hy-Vee Inc. of West Des Moines, Iowa, Perry’s Ice Cream Co. of Akron, N.Y., and the South Bend Chocolate Co. in Indiana. Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products, a division of St. Louis-based Ralcorp, recalled several brands of peanut butter cookies 
it sells through Wal-Mart stores.
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at (352) 376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENINGRUB Entertainment Presents: An 
Inauguration CelebrationToday, 11 a.m., Orange and Brew  
Come watch the Inauguration of President Barack Obama. Free food will be provided.
Health Law Forum
Today, 7 p.m., Pugh HallHosted by Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity and the American Medical Student Association. Professionals from the medi-cal and legal fields will be discussing career experiences and answering questions. Free food will be provided.
 
“The Discursive Economy of 
Sex Trafficking in Europe”
Wednesday, Jan. 21, 11:45 a.m.,  Turlington 3312Join us for a discussion with 
Jonathan Wadley, Dept. of 
Political Science. The Center 
for European Studies Brown Bag Series. Snacks and sodas will be provided.
Peace CorpsApplication Workshop
Jan. 21, 5:10 p.m.–6 p.m.
The Hub International Center
For anyone planning to sub-mit a Peace Corps application between now and August.
Florida Alternative Breaks 
(FAB) International Water Conservation benefit showFriday, Jan. 23, 8:30 p.m.Civic Media CenterJoin us for an all-acoustic act from performers Brian Flatley and Kelly Tran, Kiiks, Angela Austin and Jasper Peng, For He Who Hung the Moon and White Elephant Gift Exchange. Doors open at 8:30pm, with a donation of $5 to $8, and bands begin at 9:00 pm. All proceeds will go toward a project in Belize to help with water conservation issues.
Jewish Student Union Spring 
Welcome Week — Jan. 19-23Events include hookah at Farah’s, a movie, arts and crafts, karaoke and Skate Station Funworks. For more information, visit the Facebook event page, JSU Spring Welcome Week 2009.
Got something going on?
Want to post it in this space? Send an e-mail to kbjornsen@alligator.org with “What’s Happening” in the subject.
STATE
Bagel-brandishing bully booked on battery charges
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — 
Authorities say a St. Petersburg 
woman was charged with battery after hitting a man in the head with a bagel.
Police say 28-year-old Cassady 
C. Catolico was violating a tem-
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 3
4, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
 THE EVENT WILL BEGIN AT 11 A.M. 
IN THE SFC GYM
BY KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Congressman Cliff Stearns selected 
Santa Fe College to host the Inaugural 
Celebration for President Barack Obama to-day at the college’s Northwest Campus.
SFC Student Body President Cesar 
Fernandez is coordinating the celebration with the administration and Stearns’ office.
Students and community members are 
invited to the gym to watch network cover -
age of the inauguration. The event begins at 11 a.m.
“The inauguration is a once-in-a-life-
time opportunity watershed moment in American history,” said SFC President 
Jackson Sasser.
“The college wants our students and employees to experience that moment in a 
setting that is appropriate to the occasion,” he said.
Although Sasser said the beginningof 
the semester is a very busy time, he said he encourages teachers to bring their students to the event.
More than 800 students and faculty have 
signed up to attend, said SFC spokeswom-an Julie Garrett.
English professor retires following plagiarism scandal
BY CHELSEA KEENAN
Alligator Writer
Following the plagiarism con-
troversy that surrounded him last 
spring, English professor James Twitchell retired last month, end-ing a 35-year career at UF. 
Twitchell admitted to plagia-
rizing in April, which resulted in a five-year suspension without 
pay. 
Twitchell refused to comment 
for the story. Freelance writer and former 
Los Angeles Times employee Roy 
Rivenburg was one of the authors from whom Twitchell stole. 
“I was unhappy when I dis-
covered Twitchell was getting credit and book royalties for ma-terial written by me and several 
other writers,” Rivenburg wrote 
in an e-mail. 
Rivenburg said he e-mailed 
both Twitchell and Simon & Schuster, Twitchell’s book pub-lisher, when he realized what happened. 
Although Twitchell called to 
apologize, Rivenburg was skepti-
cal of his expla-nation.
“As an 
English profes-sor, Twitchell 
knew the rules 
and had no ex-cuse for pla-giarizing,” he wrote.
Rivenburg wrote that he thought the severity of Twitchell’s actions warranted a public apol-ogy or exposure. 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said that he does not expect the controversy surrounding Twitchell to tarnish UF’s reputa-tion.
“The fact that there was a 
consequence is important,” he said. “We expect integrity from our students therefore we expect the same from our faculty mem-bers.”Paul D’Anieri, dean of the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, agreed with Orlando. 
He said UF handled the situ-
ation well by taking definite ac-tions rather than trying to hide the situation. 
D’Anieri said he was sad to see 
what came of Twitchell’s career. 
“He’s a good guy that made 
some big mistakes,” he said. “He had a good career while he was here, and it’s a shame it had to come to this.”Stearns selects SFC to host inaugural celebration
Twitchell
UF FACULTY“The inauguration is a once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity watershed 
moment in American history.”
Jackson Sasser
SFC PresidentTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 5
 THE MAN WAS ARMED 
WITH A GUN. 
 By KATIE EMMETS 
 Alligator Writer 
 Kemmets@alligator.org 
 A man was arrested Sunday af-
ter an armed confrontation with his 
ex-girlfriend and two boys wield-ing baseball bats, according to a Gainesville Police Department ar-rest report.
 Charles Bradley , 30, attempted 
several times to reunite with his ex-girlfriend, and he threatened violence each time she refused, the report stated. 
Just before 7 p.m. Bradley arrived 
at his ex-girlfriend’s house, where their 8-year-old son was with his 8-year-old friend.
According to the report, Bradley 
hit his ex-girlfriend on the back of 
the head with a gun in front of the two boys. He then forced the gun into her face.
“He tried to get her 
to open her mouth so he could put the gun inside and told her he was going to kill her,” said GPD spokes-woman Summer Hallett.
The two 8-year-olds got alumi-
num baseball bats and attacked 
Bradley , which made him stop, 
Hallett said.
After the attack, the woman and 
the two boys went to the GPD to tell police what happened.
“After all of their stories matched 
up, the 8-year-olds took the officers where they thought Bradley might be,” Hallet said.
When they got to 1900 S.E. Third 
Terrace, police saw Bradley walking 
in the parking lot, she said.
Bradley was arrested and 
charged with four felonies including 
aggravated assault and possession of a firearm/concealed weapon by a convicted felon. According to the Gainesville police report, Bradley has eight felony convictions. 
Two 8-year-olds stop man from beating ex-girlfriend
UF ADMINISTRATION
 By THOMAS STEWART 
 Alligator Staff Writer 
 tstewart@alligator.org 
 Now that UF has decided on a budget cut 
target for the 2009-2010 fiscal year, the ques-
tion becomes: What can be cut?
This year, with more time and a little expe-
rience working in the university’s favor, the answers may come from some new places.
UF’s Faculty Senate, for instance, has de-
cided to establish a budget cut blog on its 
Web site.Frank Bova, Senate chair, said the blog 
will be a place for faculty to come together 
and honestly discuss the cuts.
Bova said he hopes the blog will be up and 
running by the end of the month.
Also in the works is a Web site to display 
information and updates about UF’s bud-
get situation, said UF spokeswoman Janine 
Sikes.
Once colleges and administrative units 
have prepared their budget proposals, they 
will be posted on the site for the public to see, Sikes said.
UF plans to launch the 
site today, Sikes said. A link 
will be posted at www.ufl.
edu. 
Meanwhile, Student 
Senate President Jordan 
Johnson said the Senate 
will be hosting town hall-like forums at each of UF’s 
colleges to gather student input on the cuts.
An ad hoc budget cut committee will also be created to oversee all of the efforts relating 
to cuts, he said.
Frank Bracco, a UF political science se-
nior and former student senator, said while senators help colleges decide which cuts to 
make, he hopes Student Government will 
take a look at its own budget. Spending al-most $17,000 for 16 recycling bins at the Reitz 
Union is a good example of wasteful spend-ing, he said.
“You or I could’ve built (them) for $200,” 
he said. Faculty Senate to launch budget cut blog on Web siteNewsLocal
Sikes
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Nicole Safker
EDITORKristin BjornsenRachel RoyMANAGING EDITORSDan Seco
OPINIONS EDITORHuman after all
America should keep 
expectations in check
Today’s question: Did you watch the inauguration?Friday’s question: Could Obama have become president without the work of Dr. King?
279 TOTAL VOTES34% YES66% NOMan behind image needs to lead U.S.With President Barack Obama set to make history this 
afternoon, the Editorial Board can’t help but offer a word of caution as excitement over his presidency 
reaches epic proportions.
Gasp — has the Alligator Editorial Board taken a sharp 
turn to the right?
There is no denying the fact that we are extremely proud 
of America for putting race aside in electing Obama to the highest office in the land. Nor do we have anything but the kindest of words to bestow upon the man who ran a nearly flawless presidential campaign. 
But when we get past the glitz and glamour of the inau-
guration, the Editorial Board wants clear-cut results from Obama before we start drawing comparisons to the likes of 
Teddy and Franklin Roosevelt, JFK and other presidents of 
such ilk.
Quite simply, America and Obama himself are being set 
up for failure if the country is ready to deem his four years in office as a can’t-miss success.
Do the words “Michael Jordan” and “baseball” ring any 
bells?
Yes, there is something undeniably special about Obama 
being the first black man to assume the presidency. Not to 
mention the long odds he faced and the stalwart opponents 
he defeated over the course of a truly tenuous process lead-ing up to today’s inauguration. But, let’s give the man credit only when credit is due.
Sure, Obama represents change — but only in the sense 
that under his watch the country has rid itself of a failed agenda and now has the opportunity to rise from the ashes. 
We cannot simply assume when Obama takes office the 
litany of problems currently plaguing our nation will sud-
denly dissipate overnight. Sadly, there are many who are 
caught up in the hype, throwing policy and careful planning out the window and expecting nothing short of a thriving economy by the weekend.
Dare we ask, has the bar been set so high that anything 
less than excellence may be deemed a failure on the part of Obama?
The Editorial Board is not a bunch of closeted McCain 
sympathizers nor do we aspire to be hockey moms one day. 
Our concern over “Obamarama” lies in hoping the nation 
gives the man a chance to earn his reputation and remains optimistic when he does not convert water into wine during his first day in the Oval Office.
We strongly believe in Obama, and we hope for noth-
ing but the best from the president challenged with one of the most arduous tasks in American history. But, Americans across the country need to realize Obama is a man — flawed and human just like the rest of us. 
While we encourage you to throw your heartfelt support 
behind Obama, we hope you will keep in mind that placing unrealistic expectations on him will ultimately spell disap-pointment — and unfairly so.
That being said, the Editorial Board could not think of a 
sounder individual to lead the nation through the perils of economic failure and restore our standing in the world. 
Barack Obama is on top of the world right now. Millions 
have descended upon Washington, D.C., to celebrate the ut-
terly historic moment brought to fruition through the tireless 
work of black luminaries from Parks to King. 
Come noon, we expect greatness — an inauguration 
speech that will inspire a nation and one day be studied by our children as the model for excellence in political rhetoric. 
Starting Wednesday, Obama will have the chance to de-
liver on his word.
Column
Starting Wednesday, President Barack Obama must 
live up to his celebrated image.
On top of saving the world and renewing hope in 
humanity, Obama must regain control over his sublimely powerful and visible position on the cusp of a worldwide wave of optimism.  
Inauguration celebrations that cost $170 million do 
not applaud those who lack power, and our bailed-out circumstances have charged the new president with spending a sum of money that even mathmagicians 
find difficult to fathom. Teetering on a super majority in 
Congress, Obama spearheads a Democratic machine set to rule absolutely. 
America may be crippled with debt and paralyzed 
by wars against nations and nouns, but we remain the 
shining light on the hill. America, translated into any lan-
guage, still means that a more perfect union is possible. America is an ideal — but it is a reality as well. Heck, this is “where wings take dream,” as outgoing President 
George W. Bush so eloquently put it. 
Obama is a one-man economic revival kit who now 
stands as the most successful campaign fundraiser in the 
history of politics. The man oozes charisma and has a de-cent jump shot, but bootlegged T-shirts and commemora-
tive plates only go so far. Obama may find it imperative 
to beat back the desperate and hungry minions of the media in order to separate the man from the myth and actually govern this country.
Everybody wants a slice of Obama’s shine, but none 
more so than the corporate media industry. Television and print media have completely hitched their fading fortunes to an iconic image of Obama that no man can reasonably sustain. Television executives are calling this inauguration a “second Super Bowl” because of the exorbitant rates charged for advertising.  
Such an over-dependence on 
advertising, however, is the addic-tion that has placed our media in its current sorry state. Nobody in 
corporate media has figured out 
a way to make any money off the 
Internet as of yet, and newspapers are less economically 
solvent than your average crack dealer. Fawning over 
Obama means advertising revenue right now, and per -
haps favorable terms in the inevitable newspaper bailout conundrum looming in our immediate future.
Even without the cloying media orgy, Obama’s im-
age is of critical commercial interest across the world. Shepard Fairey created the now-famous red, white and blue “Hope” image associated with Obama’s campaign after becoming legendary for making pseudo-propa-
ganda under the equally powerful slogan “Obey.” Pepsi 
spent millions of dollars re-engineering their logo to be more similar to the iconic Obama campaign “O,” and synced it with the launch of a huge ad campaign tout-ing “Optimism” alongside their corn-syrup concoctions. 
Ideally, one need not obey in order to have hope and op-
timism.
Perhaps these views are more cynical than such a 
celebratory moment deserves, and for that, I apologize. 
Today’s inauguration may very well be the greatest day 
in the history of our American union, but as we move forward, a man   — not a symbol — shall lead the nation.
Tommy Maple is an international communications graduate 
student. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Tommy Maple
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 7
Ordinance will not save city money
I may only be one of the simple folk, but I fail to see 
how the underage prohibition ordinance being consid-
ered by the Gainesville City Commission presents sub-stantial savings, if any at all. 
Costs associated with bar patrol have risen over the 
past couple of years because police officers are being paid more for overtime. Members of the commission and the Alligator have argued this ordinance somehow decreases costs of bar patrol, but how? 
Bar patrol officers are out to help protect our com-
munity by making sure all patrons — both of age and underage — are not engaging in dangerous behavior, including underage drinking. 
By stopping some restaurants, clubs and bars from 
admitting patrons under 21, are we magically stopping all patrons from engaging in unsafe behavior? 
What about underage patrons impacted by this or -
dinance? Underage individuals will simply go to other clubs, bars and house parties and will still engage in, well, what young people engage in.
There are hundreds of establishments that serve al-
cohol in Gainesville where unsafe behavior can occur any night, but bar patrol barely scratches the surface of 
patrolling these areas. 
If we are looking to solve the problems of underage 
drinking and driving under the influence, we should in-
crease the number of officers on the street, not decrease the number of officers.
Shame on you Alligator. We all know what young 
people do, and we all know this ordinance is not the so-lution to our problems. 
Frank Bracco
4LSLetters to the Editor
Less than a week after Martin Luther King Jr.’s birth-
day, Barack Obama will take an oath for the high-est office in the land. He will do so surrounded 
by family and friends, members of our government and anywhere from 3 million to 5 million onlookers — all by-standers to one of history’s momentous junctures.
With a financial crisis rivaling the Great Depression 
and constant bloodshed looming overhead, President-elect Obama will face enormous challenges in the next four years, all with global ramifications.
Obama, who will take his oath of office on the same 
bible Abraham Lincoln used to affirm our nation’s 16th 
presidency, should remember one of Lincoln’s better-
known axioms: “I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me.”
Certainly, President George W. Bush knows this all too 
well, having spent the last week in a media circus seeking to shore up his image as the Commander in Chief who comforted the nation atop smoldering rubble in down-town Manhattan on Sept. 14, 2001. It’s by far a better im-age than that of the arrogant and aloof  “decider” who 
cavalierly admitted that maybe invading Iraq wasn’t 
such a “great decision.” 
Undoubtedly, the decisions and non-decisions of 
the Bush administration will severely restrain the new 
president and his circle of advisors and, unfortunately, 
will also restrain our nation for years to come. In a sen-sationalized 24-hour news cycle, there’s little chance that Obama will be given a longer honeymoon to sort through the Bush administration’s mess, as is typical for most new 
presidents.  
Already, CNN demands to know the breed of the next 
First Puppy.While it may seem that 
Washington cannot afford to give 
Obama and team a free pass from 
political squabbling, I can only 
hope that we give Obama — the ultimate zeitgeist — a welcoming respite from the demagoguery of 
partisanship in the form of spir -
ited cooperation. 
No matter if his first decisions are of the supposed lib-
eral fashion, such as issuing an executive order to close 
Guantanamo Bay, or the perceived conservative notion of 
supporting the death penalty in cases of child rape. 
Obama is now faced with the task of seeking peace 
in a time of international contention, perpetuating hope 
and a promise of positive change in this unusually frigid 
winter of alarm and anxiety. Yet for the first time in seven 
years, Americans should realize that our destiny is not predetermined or at the will of fanatical terrorists and un-apologetic Wall Street magicians. 
Americans have been yearning for change, a craving 
the savvy new president realized early on in his cam-paign for this extraordinary but solemn office.
Yet Obama’s promise to change the ways of Washington 
and usher in a new era of governing is not a new promise 
from a political standpoint. It is merely a deposit for any 
political campaign. The true test is whether Washington, D.C., will fall back into the rut of partisanship and cyni-cism during this crucial time in American history instead of trusting the man whom so many have entrusted their 
future to. 
So help us God.  
Matthew Christ is a political science freshman.D.C. partisanship could hinder changeGuest column
Matthew Christ
letters@alligator.orgBy HUNTER SIZEMORE
Alligator Contributing Writer
For many, Monday marked a celebration of a past and a 
future built on the words “I have a dream.”
“Forty-five years later the King’s dream lives on,” said 
Jaham Smith, 24, who spent her Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
at a celebration in East Gainesville.
About 2,300 people gathered at the Martin Luther King 
Multi-Purpose Center on Monday afternoon to dance to live 
gospel and celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The event 
was part of a weeklong celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. and the civil rights movement.
Before the show, about 1,800 people walked to the Center 
from downtown in the annual Martin Luther King Jr. com-memorative march, said Diyonne McGraw, an event orga-
nizer.
Barack Obama’s Inauguration reminds the Rev. Karl 
Anderson of King’s “I Have a Dream” speech 45 years ago. 
“We’re making great headway,” said Anderson, master 
of ceremonies for the gospel show.  “I think this will be a springboard to more.”
But the inauguration does not embody the fulfillment of 
King’s dream, said Janice Nix-Crews, treasurer for Martin 
Luther King Jr. Commission of Florida, which organized the 
event.                              
“This is the beginning of a dream,” she said. “There is still 
racism. There are still poor people that need jobs and access to health care.”
A Coretta Scott King observance will be held in honor 
of King’s wife on Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Passage Family Church.
“She sacrificed so much for the cause that we like to hon-
or her separately,” Nix-Crews said.8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
Matt Tripp / Alligator
Apostle J.L. Cash and another band member of Apostle J.L. Cash and Praise perform at the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Multi-Purpose Center in Gainesville on Monday. The group performed in honor of Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday along with several other performers.
Gainesville remembers MLK as inauguration nears
NATIONAL
By KATIE EMMETS
Alligator Writer
Kemmets@alligator.org
Whether discussing the environment or economics, 
Gainesville residents have no shortage of advice for in-
coming President Barack Obama.
UF English and education senior Danni Bay said she 
thinks Obama should work to balance finances among public schools.
“In the course of my studies I have visited many 
schools,” Bay said. “The lower socio-economic status schools have some of the worst resources, books and teachers.”
People fault the children when their FCAT scores are 
poor, but the reason for the low scores is probably lack 
of funding for good teachers, she said.
“I think Obama is the right person to make the ini-
tial decisions for bettering education,” she said as she 
looked at her laptop with an Obama campaign sticker 
on the front. “But we have to step up our expectations 
of those who can make the difference like teachers, PTA and students.”
Bryan Griffin said he thinks Obama should abide by 
the West African proverb famously quoted by Theodore 
Roosevelt and “speak softly and carry a big stick” when 
dealing with American foreign policy.
Griffin, the chairman of UF’s College Republicans, 
said he thinks there have been no major terrorist attacks 
since Sept. 11 because President Bush kept to his foreign 
policy commitment. 
Luz Martin del Campo, a doctoral student at UF, said 
she is worried about the lack of women’s jobs in areas the government is trying to grow.
“They’re all male-dominated sectors of the econo-
my,” she said. “In construction, women only make up 8 percent of the industry, and in engineering, women only make up 13 percent.”
Her 9-year-old daughter Zoë, who attends J.J. Finley 
Elementary School in Gainesville, thinks Obama should raise money to plant trees.
“In the rain forest, more animals die every day be-
cause trees are getting cut down,” she said.
Zoë, who wants to be a veterinarian when she grows 
up, said she understands that people need to cut down trees to make paper, but while trees are being cut down, animals die.
She said she thinks Obama should not only plant 
trees in the rain forest but also in U.S.  neighborhoods. 
“In my old neighborhood in Brooklyn, there was 
only one tree. One big tree and a few little weak ones,” 
she said, her blue eyes widening.
Jennifer Kacerosky, co-president of UF’s chapter of 
Pro-Life Alliance, said if she could give Obama advice it 
would be about abortion.
“I would ask him to begin recognizing pre-born 
American children as whole human persons,” she said. “African-Americans were once not recognized as whole human persons, and look where that brought us. Imagine if that is how it was still seen.”
UF graduate student Matthew Wardell said his ad-
vice to the president would be to keep up the good work.
“I’d ask the president to continue doing the thing 
he’s been so good at: making American citizens feel like 
contributors. Not just observers of their government,” 
Wardell said.
“That, and I’d ask for a little help with my student 
loans,” he added with a smile.Local residents give Obama advice
By THOMAS STEWART
Alligator Staff Writer
tstewart@alligator.org
A white 1994 Ford Explorer was consumed by fire in 
front of Turlington Hall just after 7 a.m. on Friday.
While driving to work, Richard Vlasak, 45, the owner 
of the car, said he noticed smoke escaping from under the 
hood of the vehicle and smelled burning leaves, said UPD 
spokesman Lt. Robert Wagner.
Vlasak, a physician at Shands at UF, pulled over on 
Newell Drive in front of Turlington, and the car soon 
caught fire, Wagner said.
A 911 call was placed around 7:15 a.m. UPD and 
Gainesville Fire Rescue responded.
About 5 minutes and 500 to 600 gal-
lons of water later, the fire was extin-guished, said driver and operator Jeff 
Schuhmacher of GFR.
Schuhmacher estimated the flames 
were about 15 feet high.
No one was injured, but the car was destroyed, he 
said.
Vlasak was the only one in the vehicle when it caught 
fire, he said.
He said Vlasak told authorities he rarely used his car 
because he typically rode his bike to work.
In the past, with the car out of use for months at a time, 
animals have been known to build nests in the engine 
compartment, Vlasak told authorities.
Schuhmacher said a nest could have caused the fire, 
but the car was too badly burned to know for sure.
The charred remains of the car were towed and UF’s 
Physical Plant Division was called to clean the area at 7:50 a.m., Wagner said.
There was no apparent damage to UF property, he 
said.Fire engulfs car 
on UF campus
NewsNational“This is the beginning of a dream. There is still 
racism. There are still poor people that need 
jobs and access to health care.”
Janice Nix-Crews
Martin Luther King Jr. Commission of Florida treasurer
“I think Obama is the right person to make 
the initial decisions for bettering education. 
But we have to step up our expectations 
of those who can make the difference like 
teachers, PTA and students.”
Danni Bay
UF English and education seniorTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 9
By BRIDGET HIGGINBOTHAM
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When President Barack Obama 
is sworn into office at noon to-
day for the 56th Presidential Inauguration, some UF students will be among the millions there.
Members of UF’s Black Student 
Union will face huge crowds and freezing weather to attend — without tickets — the inaugura-
tion of the nation’s first African-
American president.
“I just feel like, as a black man, 
it is very important that I be pres-
ent because this is a landmark 
moment for the nation,” said UF sophomore Andre Haughton, add-
ing that the event also carries per -
sonal significance. “It’s like this is the last glass ceiling being broken for me, so I think it’s important to 
be there.” 
The day after Obama was elect-
ed, BSU began planning its trip.
UF sophomore Sarah Janvier, 
who planned the trip as co-director of BSU’s social cabinet, reflected 
on the historic nature of the event. 
“When Obama won, I cried,” 
Janvier said. “So I can’t imagine 
what I’m going to do during those moments. I know I am excited 
beyond belief to know that I’m just getting the opportunity to be 
there.” 
While BSU travelers will not 
be among the 240,000 ticket hold-
ers in the reserved area at today’s 
inauguration, they will get as close to the festivities as they can, Janvier said.
“I’m going to see a historic 
event. I’m going to see the first 
black president,” said Shakelia 
LeBlanc, a UF business junior. “No matter how far away we’re sitting 
or standing, I want to be there.” 
The journey to Washington, 
D.C., started at about 4 a.m. on 
Monday when the last of the 57 passengers climbed onto the bus, 
past a sign on the door welcoming 
the student “History Makers.”
After about 12 hours on the 
bus and two shopping stops, BSU  members arrived at their hotel in 
Fredericksburg, Va. 
The students will spend all of 
today in the Capitol. Before return-
ing to Gainesville on Wednesday, 
they will tour the African American 
Cultural Center in Raleigh, N.C.
The travelers each paid $100 for 
the trip, and the Student Senate’s 
allocation committee subsidized 
about $4,800 to cover the bus ride and two-night hotel stay.
According to Janvier, the trip 
was open to all students, though the first day of ticket sales was limited to people who had attend-ed four or more BSU events. 
Only a few non-BSU members 
are on the trip, she said.
Students on the trip said they 
are hopeful for the impact of Obama’s inauguration. 
UF sophomore Le’Asia Lundy 
hopes more jobs will become 
available and the economy will 
improve.
But BSU president and finance 
senior Courtney Stephenson looked at the bigger picture. 
“America isn’t 100 percent 
where it needs to be, but this is a stepping stone on the path where we need to be,” Stephenson said. 
“Now I can look at my grandchil-dren and say that if you want to be 
the president of the United States, it’s definitely possible.”‘History makers’ embark on ticketless trek to D.C.STUDENT LIFE
 BRICKS WILL BE AVAILABLE TO 
PAINT AT TWO LOCATIONS.
By AUBREY SIEGEL 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Perhaps the Writing on the Wall Project 
did bring about change this past year.
Last year, Alex Hayes, a UF anthropology junior, painted a brick that read, “A black man will never be president.”
But today, a black man will become the 
56th president.
The seventh annual Writing on the Wall 
Project, which starts today, aims to break down walls of hatred by knocking down a brick wall adorned with offensive words.
Bricks will be available for anyone to paint on the Plaza of the Americas until Wednesday. The project will then move to 
the Reitz Union Colonnade un-
til Friday. 
Despite the significance of 
the project to some, others criti-
cize it and its supposed lack of impact, said 
Rikki Seguin, the project’s co-director.
“We don’t expect immediate widespread change,” Seguin said. “But the project is there to promote dialogue about often-taboo subjects.”
The 40-foot-by-9-foot wall will be con-
structed on the Plaza of the Americas from 
Jan. 26 to Jan. 30, and it will be knocked 
down by sledgehammer-wielding students during its  closing ceremony on Jan. 30 at 
1:15 p.m.Writing on the Wall Project promotes taboo discussion“America isn’t 100 percent 
where it needs to be, but 
this a stepping stone on 
the path where we need to 
be.”
Courtney Stephenson
BSU president
OnCampu sBy TATIANA GONZALEZ 
Alligator Contributing Writer
It keeps the time, sings during 
midday luncheons and plays the 
background music to on-campus life. It’s the Century Tower Carillon, a part of the UF community for near -
ly 30 years.
A recital was held Sunday in hon-
or of the Century Tower Carillon’s 30th anniversary performed by UF music professor and professional carillonneur Laura Ellis, who plays UF’s carillon at least three times a week. The recital kicked off the Spring 2009 Sunday Afternoon Concert Series. 
“I like the solitary nature of the 
carillon,” Ellis said. “You never 
quite know what people are think-
ing downstairs.” 
The carillon is a mammoth 61-
bell instrument with a five-octave range, according to the event’s pro-gram. The largest bell, a low B-flat, stands 5-feet tall and weighs about 7,000 lbs. 
The carillon cost $200,000 and was 
first installed in 1979 after Student Senate unanimously endorsed the purchase in 1976. The bells, cast by the Royal Dutch Bell Foundry of the 
Netherlands in 1978, have carefully 
shaved metal interiors that never has to be re-tuned.
Those who play the carillon climb 
11 flights of stairs daily to reach the instrument at the top of the tower. 
“It’s my daily workout,” Ellis 
said. 
The carillonneurs play the clavier, 
which resembles a giant keyboard and is connected to the bells above.
But while a piano’s keys take a 
light touch, the clavier’s wooden ba-
tons require a heavy fist and a strong 
stomp to play the foot pedals. Each baton and pedal move a clapper that strikes the appropriate bell.
Behind the clavier is a metal lad-
der that leads to a hatch in the ceil-ing. The hatch opens to the top floor where each bell hangs from stainless steel bolts within an enormous steel 
frame. 
The foundry that cast the bells 
does a yearly “oil change” for the 
carillon to ensure the instrument is working properly . 
“It’s between you and chicken 
wire,” Ellis said of the danger of vis-iting the top floor. 
According to Ellis, students who 
are training to play the carillon are many times non-music majors who want to learn something new after a background in piano or organ play-ing.
Would-be carillonneurs train two 
to three months on practice claviers at the bottom of Century Tower be-fore playing the real thing. 
Newbies need about a year to 
become proficient and comfortable, said Ellis, who began playing be-tween the late 80s and early 90s at the University of Kansas under Bert Gurken, the best carillon instructor in the U.S. at the time.
Ellis, who was the first of 12 caril-
lonneurs who will play throughout 
2009, said she selected musical com-
positions by UF alumni and songs that reflected the carillon’s history . 
When Ellis plays the carillon, she shifts along the wooden bench ad-justing her stance at some points in order to reach the right notes. Her body moves up and down with the force she must put into the keys.
With the help of the colossal set 
of chimes, she defeats the noise of the rushing wind and replaces it 
with the rich sound of the bells that 
cascades down to those listening be-low. 
“It’s a nice instrument,” Ellis 
said.10, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff 
UF professor Laura Ellis plays the 61-bell carillon on the 11th floor of Century Tower during a recital Sun -
day afternoon. The recital was held in celebration of the 30th anniversary of the carillon’s installation.
UF carillon celebrates 30 years with Sunday recital
Ringing in 30 Years 
 
•The carillion in UF’s Century 
Tower was installed in 1979  
 
•UF’s Student Senate allocated 
$200,000 in 1976 toward pur -
chasing the instrument, money 
collected and saved from student 
fees during previous years.
 
•The first carillon performance 
was held on May 14, 1979.  
 
•The bells, cast and imported 
from The Netherlands, require 
little to no maintenance.  
 
•In 2002, the bells received 
a makeover. Twelve bells were 
added to the original
collection of 49.  
 
•The heaviest bell weighs 7,000 
pounds and stands five feet tall  
 
•UF’s carillon is currently the 
largest of the four found in the 
state of Florida  
 
Information from the event program 
celebrating the 30th Anniversary of 
UF’s Carillon: College of Fine Arts 
School of Music Presents a Faculty 
Recital Laura Ellis TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 11
 FORMER PRESIDENT LET 
THE AGENTS OUT EARLY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON  — In his final 
acts of clemency, President George 
W. Bush on Monday granted early prison releases to two former U.S. Border Patrol agents whose convic-tions for shooting a Mexican drug dealer fueled the national debate over illegal immigration.
Bush, responding to heavy 
pressure from Republican and Democratic lawmakers alike, com-muted the prison sentences of Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. 
The two guards from El Paso, 
Texas, each were sentenced to more than 10 years for the shoot-ing, which they tried to cover up. They will be released within two 
months.
Opposition to 
their convictions, sentencing and fir -
ings has simmered 
ever since the shooting occurred in 
2005.
“After four years of fighting 
this, it’s taken a toll on me and my daughter, and really the whole 
family,” said Joe Loya, Ramos’ father-in-law, who has received tens of thousands of supportive e-
mails and spent much of the past 
two years traveling the country to speak about the case. “We wouldn’t give up. ... I knew sooner or later 
God would come through — that 
finally it would happen.”
Bush “has given us a chance to be a family again, and I want to thank him for that,” Ramos’ wife, Monica, told Fox News Channel.
Mexico’s Deputy Secretary 
for Foreign Relations Carlos Rico condemned the decision and said Mexican officials had lobbied hard against it.
“This is a message of impuni-
ty,” Rico said at a news conference. “It’s difficult to understand.”
Bush commutes sentences of former border agents
try’s problems. The work to unite this coun-
try and heal its wounds has just begun, Durr 
said.
His to-do list includes working with 
Congress to implement an economic stimu-lus plan. He must also build trust between 
the U.S. and other countries and lead those who doubt his ability. 
“He can’t cash in on our differences,” 
Durr said.
Some believe racism will not end when 
Obama puts his right hand on Abraham Lincoln’s bible and takes the oath of office. 
Martha Danzy, 54, thinks the election of 
Obama doesn’t signify the end of racism.
“Not by a long shot,” said Danzy, hugging 
her 9-year-old granddaughter, Shamariya, to her chest. “It’s definitely not over.” 
Danzy stood with her granddaughter 
as they listened to the words of “Lift Ev’ry Voice and Sing,” the black national anthem, 
at downtown Gainesville’s Martin Luther 
King Jr. Day festivities.
She said not everyone is going to accept a 
black man as president, but Obama’s presi-dency breaks racial barriers. 
Racism is still alive for Takiana Carter, 17, a Santa Fe High School junior. During the campaign, the school held mock presi-dential elections. The result, in favor of Sen. 
John McCain, divided the school by race.On Nov. 4, black and white students 
avoided each other. The day after Obama 
won, a white student brought a gun and a 
Confederate flag to school.
“I was nervous. Scared,” Carter said. “I 
didn’t know what was going to happen. I thought someone was going to shoot us.”
Race is still an issue, but Obama gives peo-
ple hope, just as King did, Durr said. Obama exemplifies King’s belief that Americans 
who work together for a more perfect union can transform society. 
“Obama brings this promise to reality 
by uniting people and reminding them that change is within us,” she said.After breaking racial barriers, Obama still left with much on plate
INAUGURATION , from page 1 “He reminded us that this coun -
try isn’t a red America, or a blue 
America, or a white America or 
black America, but the United 
States of America.”
Christy Durr
Alachua County residentNewsNationalTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 13 12, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
1,2,&3 BR SPACIOUS Homes Available NOW!!
No Move-in Fees!
1/1 Loft (very unique)-$649 1/1 Flat (800 sq ft)-
$699, 2/2 for only $769, 3/2 for only $899-$969 
352-377-7401
4-22-08-72-2
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED!
At the price you want
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY!
1, 1 w/den & 2 BRs - Reduced Rates!FREE UF parking * FREE GymPets Welcome * 352-332-7401
4-22-72-2
PARKING
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-2
YOUR MOM...
...wants you to live here!
AMAZING DEALS!
1, 2, & 3 bdrms, W/D
Gated, Pet friendly, 
Immediate Move-in Specials
(352)372-0400
4-22-72-2
JANUARY SPECIALS!
Why wait to move in the Fall?
Luxury 1/1 @ $699
No Deposit - Move in TODAY!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-22-72-2
Affordable, Quiet, Comfortable
1’s from $539 * 2’s from $375/person
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
4-22-08-72-2TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009   ALLIGATOR , 15
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc.
FREE UF Parking*FREE Gym
Call for specials 332-7401      4-22-72-2
Sweet Deals Now!
1,2,3 Beds from $699!
Pet friendly*W/D in Unit
Free Cable w/HBO & Water
Low move-in fees: 372-8100!
4-22-08-72-2
Downtown Luxury & Cash Back 4 Fall!
Too Good To Be True!
Perfect Location-Great Price
W/D*Wood Floors*Bring Your Pets!
Great parking-walk to bars-bike to UF
Reserve now! 338-0002
4-22-72-2
MUSEUM WALK
Gainesville’s Best Kept Secret
Leasing for Fall & NOW!
Luxury 2/2’s & 3/3’s
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Alarms
Walk to UF *379-WALK
4-22-72-2
THREE BLOCKS TO UF!
2br/1ba from $700
No Move-in Fees! Water included
Wood floors avail! Pets loved!
FREE Parking! 372-7111
4-22-08-72-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $695
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer;
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
4-22-08-72-2 SPYGLASS 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages,
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 11-2, Sun 12-4
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
4-22-08-72-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved.
Studios - $549, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
372-7111 Collegemanor.org
4-22-08-72-2
* Where in the world is Hidden Lake?
You may want to find these luxury apts!
3/3’s start at $425 person for Immediate
2/2’s are $490 person, Includes Cable & Internet
Call Now 352-374-3866
4-22-08-72-2
AVAILABLE TODAY!
1BRs * As low as $514
$0 move in fees
Pets ok, W/D Avail, Wood Floors Avail, Pool
371-0769 CollegeParkUF.com
4-22-08-72-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $599 - 150 ft from UF!
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today!
FREE parking! Pets Welcome!
372-7111 CollegeManor.org
4-22-08-72-2
Vaulted ceilings, resort style pool...
And more!! Your luxurious 4/4 is waiting!
COME IN TODAY
and receive a personal check for...
$300!!!!!!
352-271-3131
4-22-72-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
4-22-08-72-2
Moving in the FALL?
Close to UF - Tanning, 3 Pools
24 hr gym, Billiards Room
B-ball, V-ball & Tennis courts
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-22-72-2
Gator Championship Special
Sign a lease and get up to $1,800 cash
Visit our models and sign for Fall 09
Huge, luxury 1br-4brs with TVs in kitchen
Beach-entry pool*free tanning*pet friendly
*352.376.0696 * www.EnclaveUF.com*
4-22-08-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 bed luxury condos for rent.
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
super quiet construction. $1600/mo.
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-94534-22-72-2
4BR/2BA HISTORIC HOUSE
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown. High ceil-ing, wood floor, cent A/C, W/D, tons of char-acter. Avail Now  237 SW 4th Ave. $980/mo  
352-214-9270   4-22-08-72-2
WOODLAND VILLAS 
2BR units starting at 
$695. Gated community.
Private courtyards. 
M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-2
5950 SW 20th Ave.
888-803-7678
www.woodlandvillas.com
4-22-08-72-2
MOVE IN TODAY!!
Great Specials on all our units!
Minutes to UF, Shands, & SFCC!
1/1, 2/2, & 3/3 units available!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-22-72-2
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard, 2 miles to UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824   1-27-08-45-2
WALK TO UF - AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
1BR/$495 to $999/mo2BR/2.5BA $1499/moGore Rabell Real Estate378-1387  Gore-Rabell.com4-22-08-72-2
HWALK 2 BLOCKS TO UFH
2b,1b * 1 block MidTown * 2 Car Decals, 
WiFi-Internet * Washer & Dryer. Sm pet ok. Jan-July 204 NW 18 St Manny 317 4408   
1-30-08-18-2
RIGHT PLACE, RIGHT PRICE, RIGHT NOW 
Steps from VA, Shands, Vet School & UF.
1 & 2 Bedrooms from $625. Grad student &
VA/Shands discounts Renovated units avail 
Union Properties@Summit House 376-9668
4-22-08-72-2
Spacious 1 & 2 & 3 bedrooms.starting at 
$525. $625 & $795. Different floor plans some with enclosed patios or balconies. Italian Tile, bedrooms carpeted, D/W, W/D hookups, verticals Central Heat & air. Lots of storage space. Near bus route .332-7700   1-30-38-2SUN ISLAND
1BRs from $580  2BRs from $650
Sun Bay  Sun Key  Sun Harbor
352-376-6720
4-22-08-72-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office
1BR $515, 2BR $580
Call for daily specials
352-335-0420      1-30-08-48-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office.
2BR $535
Call for daily specials
352-335-0420   1-30-08-48-2
Available TODAY!
No move-in fees & 1 mo free
2/2 : 975 sq ft - $705
3/2 : 1096 sq ft - $866
pinetreegardens.com * 376-4002
4-22-08-72-2
PET’S PARADISE
$375 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-10-
08-37-2
100+ Apts: Walk to UF
On 1 website: www.LiveNearCampus.com
Photos & Virtual Tours for 100 apts near UF
Studios $625+ * 1BR $679+ * 2BR $839+
3BR $650/br+ * 4BR $479/br * 352-376-6223
4-22-72-2
MONTICELLO CONDO 2BR/2BA
1 car garage. Pool & tennis court privileges. 
Across from GHFC. No pets. $1000/mo. Call 
331-6872   1-20-08-15-2
2/1, 3 Blocks to UF
HW Floors, Centr. AC
Pet Friendly $850/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-76-2
BRAND NEW FOR AUG 09
CAMPUS VIEW PLACE2BR/2BA OR 3BR/3BALuxury Suites near Shands,
Norman Hall, UF Sorority Row
1240 SW 9th Road
Please visit us at the model
1185 SW 9th Road 1-5pm
Union Properties 352-373-7578www.campusviewplace.com   4-22-75-2
LEASING FOR AUG 09
Quality Student HousingNear UF, Norman & Shands1,2,3,4 & 5 BR PropertiesList Avail Jan 20th!!Please call or email us toReceive a list before theyAre all gone!!!Union Properties 352-373-7578info@rentgainesville.comwww.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS VIEW SOUTH
Now Leasing 2BR/2BALuxury Dual Suites1185 SW 9th RD $1000/moClose to UF, Norman Hall& Sorority Row.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
WWW.RENTGAINESVILLE.COM
Check out all of our available listings!1, 2, 3 & 4BR Properties.Many have been drastically reducedFor immediate occupancy!Union Properties 352-373-7578   4-22-75-2
NOW LEASING
2BR/1.5BA MidTown AptsParking/laundry hkupsWalk to UF $850/moUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
PET FRIENDLY!
3BR/3BA w room to runbehind Hilton on SW 34th STUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
Available NOW1BR/1BA w/laundry hkupsPets OK w/fee close to UFWater, sewer & trash incl.Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED$995/MO 3BR/2BA
NEAR UF!! w/d incl.
2041 NW 7th PlaceLarge family room w/fireplaceHardwood floors & nice yardUnion Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-75-2
CAMPUS EDGE CONDO
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands & VA. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit, avail fall. Reasonable rate. 239-250-6149, 239-992-2449   1-30-08-19-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE
Block from law school, biking distance from 
UF.  W/D incl. Pets ok. Huge yard. $1600/mo. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
 2BR/2.5BA - $725/mo.
 2BR/1.5BA - $625/mo.
Off SW 34th St. Close to UF, Shands, shop-
ping & dining. Fenced yard, util room. private parking, pets ok. Call Solomon 262-3472   2-3-08-20-2
University Terrace West
1 Female needed $325/mo
Lease through July 2009
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
WALK TO SANTA FE
2bd/2ba $750/mo
1 car garage. dw, mw. wd incl
Fenced yard. Avail Now!Union Properties 352-373-7578www.rentgainesville.com       4-22-72-2
Mallorca Unit near Royal Park
2BD/2.5BA Avail Now!!Beautiful, luxury townhousew/ garage. $950/mo
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com   4-22-72-2
Visit www.gatorpads.com
for available units or call
352-284-0316 / 352-281-0733Houses, Duplexes, Condo, Townhouses. Walk/Bike/Bus to UF. Neat, clean, quality1-30-08-18-2
2BR/2BA Townhouse, small pets ok! private 
courtyard, icemaker, dishwasher, washer/dryer hookup. walk to restraunts/ grocery. $799. mo. quiet neighbors. 318-0089   2-4-09-21-2
Room for rent with private bathroom in 2/2.5 
townhouse. 2.5 miles from UF. W/D upstairs; 
alarm; common areas furnished. $450/month 
& half of utilities. Negotiable. Call Jenn (352) 
672-0238
1-20-09-10-2
2bd/2.5ba townhouse. Pet friendly. Close 
to I-75 and bus route to main campus. New paint and 2 parking spaces. Rent is $750 a month plus $10 per pet. January free!! Call Rhonda at (727)-243-4688.    2-3-09-20-2
Roomy 1BdRm/1Bath Now Avail; Brandywine, 
Old Archer Rd. $650 per mo incl. water. Ready to move in. First floor, carpeted, pri-vate. Full kitchen. Very nice. Call 813-924-7192 while lasts.    1-20-09-10-2
3BR/2B House near Westside Park. Beautiful 
hdwd flrs. Lg LR, DR, Family Rm. DW, Cent AC&Htr. Free laundry fac. Fenced, land-scaped yd. Monthly prepay discount. 1019 NW 36th Dr. $1395/mo+Util. 773-206-1774    1-20-09-10-2
LOTS OF GREEN SPACE
2BR home. $700/mo. 352-378-9220 or 213-
3901   1-20-09-10-2
Rocky Point Apartments
3/2 W/D hkps Pets welcome!
$899.00 call now 352-376-1619  2-3-09-20-2
1BR apt. w/pvt gated courtyard located in small proffesional complex @ 3320 SW 23d St. Single, mature applicants only. New car-pet. $575.00/mo small pets ok @ $25.00/mo 352 377-2150 Please leave a msg.   1-21-09-10-24 BED 3 BATH HOUSE FOR RENT 
STARTING AUG 1, 2009. On University Ave near the corner of NW 30th St. $2,000 per month, pets OK. Large backyard and deck. Call 630-390-6612.   2-27-09-37-2
Duckpond Duplex 
2BR/1BA in quiet neighborhood. Close to 
downtown & on bus line. Spacious, carpeted, W/D on premises, D/W, Cent H/AC. No dogs. 
$650/mo Available now 352-376-0080   1-21-
09-10-2
POOL HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW!
Bike to UF 4BR/3BA, over 2000 sf, nice area 
1 mi to UF. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo now 
or $1700/mo in fall. Can divide into 3/2 for $1200/mo. Pool service extra376-6183, 352-
327-2931  1-28-09-15-2
2BR/2.5BA Twnhouse condo near UF. Wired 
for inet + sec sys, W/D hk-up, appliances, 
comm pool, 2 Master BRs w/ own BA, Ideal 
for 2 to share. 1st & sec dep req. $1100/mo 954-805-7827  dennismiller@tycoint.com  1-21-09-10-2
Duckpond
2 bd 1.5 ba 1200 sq ft townhouse in heart of 
historic neighborhood.w/d Blocks to down-
town shops & restaurants. 508 NE 4th A ave 
avail immediately  $795/mo 379-4952
1-21-09-10-2
1BR/1BA w/lg STUDY - Great Location
1blk to UF/Shands Avail Now! Energy effi-
cient, some utils. Very spacious, carpet, de-
cal park Prefer grad student/mature. $650. postj@bellsouth.net 376-0080, 284-3873   1-30-09-16-2
Immaculate and newly renovated historic 
home. New hardwood flrs, appliances, paint. 
Walk to campus. 3/1. $800/mo for two occu-
pants through July 31st. 911 NW 10th Ave. 
215-7199   2-6-09-20-2
2BR/1BA Spacious. 7209 SW 45th Lane, 
Gainesville. Cent H/AC, W/D hk-up. $600/mo. $500 sec dep. No pets. Call 386-462-
0994   1-23-09-10-2
- :: 2 Blocks To UF :: - 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable TV, 
pool. Very Nice $375. 283-8777www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com  4-22-09-68-1
1 BEDROOM - NEAR UF
UTILITIES INCLUDED IN RENT.724 NW 3rd AVE $590/mth ************Call 371-3260   1-26-09-10-2
2 BEDROOM - DOWNTOWN
Quaint 2 br apt in the heart of downtown. Wood floors, Screen porch. 216 SW 3rd Ave $680/mth Call 371-3260   1-26-09-10-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA nice, large house. Hot tub, fenced yard, washer/dryer provided, 3413 NW 8th Ave. $1625/mo. Screened back porch, other houses available. 339-2342 for more info.  1-23-09-9-2
1 Room in beautiful 2BR/1BA dwntwn condo. 
Vaulted ceilings, skylights, Italian style floors, close to library, UF, Shands & shopping. $450/mo mnth-to-mnth. Pets ok. Walk to popular spots & dwntwn festivals. 262-1351   1-23-09-10-2
2/1 Funky Upstairs Apt
3 Blocks to UF
Pet Friendly $750/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 House w/ Big Yard
4 Blocks to UF, HW Floors
Pet Friendly, Outdoor Kennel
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 4 Blocks to UF 
Central AC, No Tow Parking,
Pet Friendly, $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2
2/1 Apt, 1000 SF
Island Kitchen, WD hookups
Centr. AC, Pet Friendly $700/mo
352-375-8256
4-22-68-2WOODSIDE VILLAS off Tower Rd. 7200 SW 
8th Ave. 2BR/1BA + bonus rm & dining area. 
1072 sq ft. Vaulted ceiling, W/D, DW, fans, 
pool, newer carpet/tile, bus rte, smoke-free, 
no pets. $800/mo. Quiet area 352-339-6502  
1-22-09-7-2
4BR/2BA MUST SEE!
Available 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, lawn care, 
1.8 mi to UF, No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave Fenced $1400/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645   1-20-09-5-2
ANTIQUE 1BR APT
Lg 1BR, hdwd flrs, clawfoot tub, 1908 house. Dntwn near Waldo Rd. Pets arranged. $395/mo. ALSO pvt rm in trailer, Archer Rd by Publix $275/mo. Greg 214-3291  1-27-10-2
WALK TO UF
No parking problems, large room avail now. 
Ceiling fan, W/D, built-in cabinets. Last room 
left. $400/mo incl utils. No pets. 226-4111    
1-20-10-2
MICANOPY HOUSE
3BR/1BA, huge bathrm, large yd, in Micanopy 
city. Pets arranged. Cool old house. $600/mo, 
1st, last, dep. Greg 214-3291   1-27-10-2
Cute & Funky upstairs loft behind Leonardo’s 
706, six blocks to UF/downtown. Available now! 
Short lease possible. $450/mo
(352)338-7670 or shepley@cozygator.com
Others places listed at www.cozygator.com   
1-21-09-5-2
Cute & Clean Vintage 4bd/2.5ba house be-
hind Applebee’s. Bike to UF. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge rooms! Available now! 907 NW 11th Ave. $1150/mo. cozygator@bellsouth.net 352-338-7670   1-21-09-5-2
2 bed / 1 bath apartment avail in quadplex. 1037 NW 41st Ave. WD hookups, dishwash -
er, central heat and air. New carpet, paint. Nice unit! Sorry, no pets. Call 352-375-5250 or e-mail glenn.primack@gmail.com   1-21-5-2Spacious 1Br/1Ba in Gatornest Apartments. 
$585/mo. Pets welcome! Walking distance 
to all midtown bars and only 2 blocks from 
the stadium!! Call now-386-316-5777   1-22-09-6-2
Bike/bus to UF. New Condo at Chase Hollow.
1150 sq ft. Lv rm, dng rm, 2 bedrms, 3 baths
& porch. Tile 1st fl, carpet 2nd fl. Rent $1150.
Pls call 407-497-9024
1-23-09-7-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/3BA large house with large bedrooms. House only 4 yrs old. Fireplace, washer/dry -
er provided, vaulted ceilings. 2108 NW 8th 
Court. $1575/mo. 339-2342 for directions.   
1-23-09-7-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
4BR/2BA, nice modern house on large pri-
vate lot. Fireplace, washer/dry provided. 
$1425/mo. 2606 NW 34th St. Pets ok. Deck, lots of trees. Call 339-2342   1-23-09-7-2
2 story 2 bdrm 2 bth townhome w/firplace 
in Shell Rock Villas. Nice area close to UF, Oaks Mall and bus stop. $625 mo plus se-curity dep. Call Ms. Mitchell (678) 642-1223   1-21-09-5-2
$313/month! Jan rent free-$125 @ sign-
ing. Bus rt 13, <1 mile to UF, quiet complex, 
great roommates.pets welcome. No move in 
fees. Nice apt, close to UF, Butler Plaza, 75, Shands, and VA. Emily 704-223-0423   1-20-09-3-2
3BR/1BA, carport, W/D hook-up, fenced in 
yard. Sec. 8 Available. Call for info 352-224-
5693   1-21-5-2Priced like apt, feels like a house. Spacious 
2BR/1BA duplex, close to dwntwn. Eat-in 
kitchen, scrn porch, fenced yd, W/D hk-ups, 
big trees, huge carport. Immaculate inside & out. Available now $645/mo 352-378-4684   1-21-5-2
Available Soon!! 2/BR 1/BA house w/ 
fenced yard. Bike to UF/AGH/Shands. Can 
negotiate pets. $695/mo 115 SE 9th ST. 
Drive by then call 352-538-1310 or 352-538-
1329.   1-23-09-6-2
Available Now!! A cozy 2/BR 1/BA stone 
cottage w/ office. Bike to UF/AGH/Shands. 
Some pets ok. $795/mo 303 SE 8th ST. 
Drive by, then call 352-538-1310 or 352-538-
1329   1-23-09-6-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
Large house 4BR/2BA, large bedrooms and 
large living room, privacy fence, pets ok. 
Washer/dryer provided. $1400/mo 2100 NW 
8th Ct. Call 339-2342  1-23-09-6-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
Nice house 3BR/1BA, hardwood floors, 
porch, washer/dryer provided, Very private 
backyard, detached garage. $1125/mo 924 
NW 9th Ave. Call 339-2342   1-23-09-6-2
Luxury! No Fees!
On Bivens Arm Nature Preserve
Inclusive 2’s, 3’s, and 4’s
MASSIVE 2/2.5 Townhomes!
W/D and Microwaves in Every Unit
Free Cable, Tanning, Alarms, Pool
336-3838 TheLandingsUF.com
Great Bus Route! 2 Miles to UF
4-22-63-216, ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED$375 month..1rm in 4bdrm/4bth apt..female
student ideal..near uf/shands..call Drew561-716-1240 or rongo66@msn.com   1-22-09-5-2
LARGE AFFORDABLE CONVENIENT
Serious students upgrade into private condo 
2BR/2BA vaulted ceilings, breakfast bar, tile, 
carpet, smoke-free, laundryroom, fenced 
backyard. $675. SW. 374-4216 appt.  2-12-
09-20-2
l1BR/1BA Vintage apt 3 blocks to UF $495/mo 
112 NW 9th St. 
l2BR/1BA Charming vintage house,fenced, 
shed. $650/mo Pets okay. 3406 NW 21st St. 
514-6281   1-22-09-5-2
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1
3BR/2BA, one block from campus. Nice 2-s-
tory house, washer/dryer provided, fireplace, 
wood floors, dishwasher. $1350/mo 110 SW 12th St Call 339-2342   1-23-09-5-2
5br 3ba MH on 5ac.
15 min to UF. $1600 mt h.
352-213-3943   1-23-5-2
507 NW 39th Rd #229. Clean 2 bed
2 bath, washer, dryer, pool, 
tennis, clubhouse. $850 month 
plus $850 security, no pets.Smart Choice Realty 376-2779   1-23-09-5-2
HUGE 2BR 1BA
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
$650 mo. Move in today!
866-747-8314 CMC LLLP
Lic. Real Estate Broker
Equal Housing Oppty.
4-22-09-61-2
2/1 Great remodeled house. Hardwood 
floors, central h/ac, dishwasher, new kitchen. Close to campus. Great neighborhood. 1004 NW 15th Ave. Avail. now. 850mo. 352-256-5343, atwa0002@hotmail.com.   1-23-09-4-2
2-Story Townhouse for Fall
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate Matching. ONLY 10 Steps to UF. $479-$504*All-Inclusive Rent * Fully-furnishedwww.TheCourtyards.net * 352-372-3557   4-22-60-2Arlington Square (2b/2ba) -$1025/mo-
UF Campus/Downtown Gainesville. Avail 
12/18/08. Utils not incl. Must be willing to 
take over existing lease. Security dep free. Contact sean6cly@ufl.edu or 239-410-1603   2-9-08-30-3
1Br/1BA FURNISHED in a 4B/4B @ 
Gainesville Place apts. All INCLUSIVE (utilities,cable,internet) $425/monthFLEXIBLE LEASE TERMSmxracer@cfl.rr.com OR 321-302-1175   1-20-08-14-3
1 bed 1 bath, part of a 3 bed 3 bath apartment 
with two other roomates. Very spacious, great 
location, vaulted ceilings. $385 a month. In 
the polos, 2330 SW Williston Rd.apt. 2825. 
Call 386-490-5947    1-20-10-3
1BR/1BA apt for sublease at Summer Place 
Villas. $560/month, includes water. Available 
NOW! Call 941-457-3444 or swatts@ufl.edu   
1-27-09-15-3
$420 + 1/2 utilities-Sublease 1Br in a 2/1 
house with female UF student; screened in 
porch, fenced-in backyard, carport, close to 
bus route, parking decal included, pets ok. 
Call Barbara for more info 954-673-9822   
1-29-14-3
1 Room in beautiful 2BR/1BA dwntwn condo. 
Vaulted ceilings, skylights, Italian style floors, 
close to library, UF, Shands & shopping. 
$450/mo month-to-month. Pets ok. Walk to popular spots & dwntwn festivals. 262-1351   1-23-09-10-3
Female needed to take over a lease on a 3/2 
furnished flat in Greenwich Green. Rent is 
$383/mo + utilities and includes wireless in-
ternet and cable. W/D in apt. January rent is 
free. E-mail kme1397@ufl.edu   1-21-5-3
Jan. FREE at Royal Village. Move in NOW 
and enjoy reduced rent of $400/mo. All utls 
incl. Room in female 4/2. Free tan, gym, 
park. Call Michelle @ 239-405-1491 or michro@ufl.edu.   1-23-09-6-3
$700: 2 bedroom-1.5 bath 900sqft. 
Townhouse in Colonial Oaks. New Washer/
Dryer. Pets Allowed. Short bike ride to Butler 
Plaza. Avai immediately! Caitlin (850)572-1518 or Kayla (850)261-7928   1-20-2-3
SUBLEASE 1 bedroom unfurn. apt. at Pine Rush Villas. Lease from Jan. to July. Jan. is paid. $529/mo. + util.call 352-222-1428 - Larry   1-23-5-3ONE BLOCK TO UF/LIBRARY WEST! 
Looking Glass Apts. 1BR/1BA IN 2/2. Free in-
ternet, W/D Tile kitchen/bath. MUST LEASE 
NOW! PRICE GREATLY REDUCED. WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER!! (850) 525-4532   1-30-9-3
Will pay $500 to take over my room in a 4bed/4bath apartment from January 2009-
August 2009 needs sublease and it comes 
fully furnished with everything included $499/
mo call Fredrick Williams (813)849-8125:   
2-2-10-3

2OOMMATES
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Cobblestone 377-2801
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-22-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
l2 br 1ba condo with 1 br for rent. Central air 
and heat. 2 pools in complex. Walking distance 
to Shands and UF. Rent 395/mo
l1BR avail w/private bath in large NW house $425/mo. Call Mike 352-316-3930.    1-21-09-13-4
Very close to campus 4/2 remodeled condo 
opens to lovely courtyard and pool. $425 w/ 
UT cable and internet included.(for sale or 
rent) call 352-870-0291   2-17-09-30-4
Male roommate needed. Share furn 3BR/2BA 
house w/yng prof $400/mo +1/2 util Directv, ph, wireless, Vonage, elec. W/D, ofc space pvt BA (morn) lg yd fenced, pets ok, trees, wooddeck, hottub, pond. UF-15 min drive, near bus, Lakeview Ests 352-682-6297    1-27-15-4
2 ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR FEMALES ONLY
in 4/2.5 townhouse. $475/mo/room. All in-
cluded. 754-204-1624   1-30-09-17-4
2 Female roommates NS/ND to share a new 
4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. W of I-75. w/ cable, internet & security alarm. $475/mo. util. incl. Call 352 331 8794   2-20-30-4
move in2 our FREAKIN AWESOME house. 1 
blk from campus, nxt to mellow mush. 4b/2br, w/d, furn, big rms, back porch, pingpong tbl, firepit, big yard, storage. $520/mo. 3 chill stu-dent roommates. Call Mike @ 843-816-5337.   1-23-09-10-4
1 Room in beautiful 2BR/1BA dwntwn condo. 
Vaulted ceilings, skylights, Italian style flrs, close to library, UF, Shands & shopping. $450/mo month-to-month. Pets ok. Walk to popular spots & dwntwn festivals. 262-1351   1-23-09-10-4
$400/mo. M/F Subleasee needed for a 1/1 in a 3/3 apt @ Lexington Crossing: furnished, cable/internet, electric, w/d. I will pay for your 1st mo rent & security deposit. incentives ne-gotiable. David 3052054859   1-26-09-10-4NEED ROOMMATE! 1 MONTH FREE! 1 year old 3 
bdrm townhouse located near UF and Sante Fe. Students preferred. wsh/dry,cable,gym, pool. $500/month + 1/3 util.Flexible lease.Call Alex 954-663-8255    2-2-14-4
1BD/1BA avail NOW in 2/2.5 condo near UF. 
Furnished, W/D, pool, open parking, on 4 
bus rts. $400/mo + 1/2 utils. Call Chris 561-
445-9034   2-6-09-17-4
HANDYMAN NEEDED Disc 4 wk Share 2/2 
MH Furn rm $200 N/R dep. $400/mo; $100/
wk incl util. 2wk adv. laun/cook svc avail N/A, 
N/S, N/D. Car a+ 30 day notice 2 vacate. Nr 
bus/shops Sm caged pet ok 331-0762   1-20-
4-4
Room in 3/2 house by 34th & Univ. $450/mo 
+ utils, house has pool table, screen porch, 
large yard, quiet neighbors, near everything 
(movies, moe’s, bento, UF, etc.) Call to see 
678-457-1635   1-27-7-4
Male roommate wanted 1BR/1BA for rent in 
a 4BR/4BA. Room is fully furnished. $425/
mo incl all utils & cable. $125 sec dep re-
quired.  Available from now until August 30th, 
2009. Call 352-871-2982   1-23-5-4
Looking for male college student (preferred) 
to share 4BR/4BA condo with same. Own 
bathroom. W/D, high speed internet. Includes 
utilities $430/mo (available immediately) 863-634-1893   1-26-08-5-4

2EAL %STATE
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD ONLINE AT www.al-
ligator.org.  or please call 373-Find
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551   4-22-72-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, Campus Realty at 352-219-2879.  4-22-72-5
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, steel & concrete construction, alarm system. Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453    4-22-72-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-35514-22-72-5
CONDOS AT UF
www.CONDOSatUF.com
Matt & Tiffany Thomas, Bosshardt Realty(352) 494-0194 or (352) 316-5556  2-17-
60-5
Condos for sale near UF/Shands!!Many affordable units available.Call Carolyn/Maureen at:(352)284-4428 or (386)365-8590@ Matchmaker Realty.    1-30-09-21-5Alachua County - Big block home. Nice 
country location. 4BR/2BA, 2-car garage, 
pool. Needs work. 35 yrs old. $90K/OBO. 
Appraised $190K. Financing possible. Call 
727-939-1864   1-28-09-10-5

&URNISHINGS
BED - QUEEN - $110 ORTHOPEDIC
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-22-08-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $90 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846       4-22-08-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490       4-22-08-72-6
BED - KING - $170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  4-22-08-72-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost $1500, sacrifice $450     352-333-7516___________________________________Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg     333-75164-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 (352) 372-7490     4-22-08-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846   4-22-08-72-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588   4-22-72-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $140   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-22-08-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $120  352-377-9846. 4-22-72-6 
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 4-22-72-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard, 2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.    4-22-08-72-6
FUTON - $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $140. All brand NEW still in box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516  4-22-72-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. 
New in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031___________________________________SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516   4-22-72-6 
QUEEN SIZE FUTON BED
60x80 solid wood maple,
coral,teal and cream print.
$150.00. 353-332-5890.
1-29-09-10-6

#OMPUTERS
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP’S
Buy - Sell - Trade Any Condition
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel      4-22-
08-72-7TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009   ALLIGATOR , 17

&OR 2ENT
UNFURNISHED
3UBLEASES
3UBLEASES
2OOMMATES
2EAL %STATECOMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-08-72-7
4-22-70-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041. www.GatorlandComputers.com  4-22-70-7

 "ICYCLES
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)   
4-22-72-9
NEW ROAD BIKES $250
Ok Gainesville, you asked for it! A new af-
fordable roadbike for under $300. Head to 
the Schwinn Shop 1225 W Univ.-2 drs from Leonardo’s & leave happy! 352-427-6666  1-22-5-9

 &OR 3ALE
PARKING :
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-22-08-72-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: http://www.surplus.ufl.edu/online/  392-03704-22-08-72-10
COMPLETE SET OF
IRONS & METAL WOODS.
Oversized heads. Bag included. Like new. $75. Ron 352-332-5757   1-22-09-4-10

-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
 SCOOTERS 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
4-22-08-72-11
New Scooters 4 Less 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-22-08-72-11
GatorMoto
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com  4-22-08-72-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail $19.99 oil changes!! 336-1271  4-22-08-72-11
***www.BuyMyScooter.com***
 Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter All on one site! Check the website or call 336-1271 for more info!  4-22-08  -72-11Sun City AutoNo Credit CheckAll Vehicles $0 DownBuy Here – Pay Here
352-338-1999    4-22-09-62-12
 
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
 Gold  Diamonds  Gems  Class Rings 
 ETC  Top Cash $$$ or Trade 
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243.  4-22-
72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090  4-22-
08-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
Volunteers Wanted - Horses
Helping People is seeking
volunteers for therapy and
horseback riding program. Visithorseshelpingpeople.org for info.   1-21-5-13
Wanted: Papers and Essays.
Will pay $15 for old papers. For research 
purposes only. Email susan@dailylovelies.
com for details.    1-26-6-13

 (ELP 7ANTED
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-cord, drug-free, perssonal references. www.carrsmith.com for details.    4-22-72-14
EARN $60 THIS WEEK!
Donate Plasma & Save a Life
$$$$$$$$$$$$
Best part-time job you’ll ever have.
NEW DONORS
Bring this Ad and Earn an
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation.
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St.
352-378-9204
4-22-08-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  4-22-08-72-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-22-08-72-14
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your own time & pace in your own home! To get program on DVD’s call 352-597-2559. For online program visit  www.lapcnatraining.com Get started right away!   4-22-72-14 Tired of Working Retail?
Local real estate co. hiring part-time Sales & 
Leasing Associates.  Need previous sales 
or retail exp & outgoing personality.  No real 
estate exp req (training provided). Bonuses 
& benefits. Send resume, cover letter & avail 
schedule to hr@trimarkproperties.com
4-22-72-14
*IT/Programming Internship.  Local invest-
ment firm seeks individual to work PT/FT with 
SQL, HTML, ASP, databases, servers, and 
networks.  2+ yrs exp pref.  $15-20 per hour 
+ bonuses, long term capability.  Fax resume 
to 352-378-4156.*   1-30-08-21-14
Bookkeeper - Office Manager (PT) needed for 
local law office. Must be proficient in Quick 
Books. Email resume to:
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com   1-21-09-11-14
Part-time Public Relations Student Assistant 
needed to promote the Healthy Gators 2010 
coalition. To review posting & apply see 
https://jobs.ufl.edu, requisition #0801214. Screening will begin on Friday, January 
16 and will continue until the position is 
filled. The University of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Institution & women & minorities 
are encouraged to apply. If an accommoda-
tion due to a disability is needed to apply, call (352) 392-4621 or TDD 1-800-955-8771.   
1-20-09-10-14
BARTEND!!!!
Earn up to $300/day!
No exp necessary. 888-631-5552 X-92    2-17-09-30-14TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk
elem school students. 1-4 afternoons/wk
$10/hr 15-20 min S of UF. Fed wk study
req for emp. Volunteers welcome Contact Sally 
352-384-1155; st23@cox.net
1-21-09-10-14
WEB DEVELOPERS & COMPUTER 
CONSTULTANTS: UF Center for Instructional 
Technology and Training. Web developers must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS, XHTML and 
Photoshop. Portfolio links must be included 
with application. Consultant position requires expert skills with Windows and Microsoft Office 
applications. Excellent communication skills 
required. Pay starts at $7.50 per hour. jksmith@
ufl.edu, online application at http://www.citt.
ufl.edu/employment.php.
1-30-17-14
Afternoon nanny for elem age
M-F 1:30 --; W 12:30; must commit thruAug min; Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mailres/pix/sched/ gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-14
Afternoon nanny needed
12-6pm w/ 3.5yr old; must commit
to 1yr+; non-student pref;
Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail resume,
pix, sched gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-
10-14
MWF 7:30 to 5 NANNY for
newborn twins; 20-30hrs/wk;exp req.; Noah’s Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, sched. gnv@nanoneone.com   1-21-09-10-1418, ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-22-08-72-11
SWAMP CYCLES
Closest to Campus. Largest selection,
Best Customer Service.
Motorcycles, Scooters, Accessories, and Service.
633 NW 13th Street    www.swampcycles.com4-22-72-11
SOLANO CYCLE
Scooters from $799. Largest selection from 
KYMCO, Daelim, Hyosung, Adly, Genuine, 
Estblished 10 yrs,     2 yr warranties
1024 S Main St 338-8450 solanocycle.com
4-22-08-72-11

 !UTOS
FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS
Running or not! 
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPSOver 15 yr svc to UF students
Call Don @ 215-7987    4-22-08-72-12
CARS - CARS BuySellTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-22-72-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 
4-22-72-12
CARS FROM $29/MO!
Hondas  Chevys  Jeeps and more!
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr.
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765
4-22-72-12
FAST CASH PAID
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619  4-22-72-12
ATTENTION
 SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WHY PAY MORE? YOU COULD PAY LESS!300+ vehicles @ wholesale prices 338-1999      4-22-08-72-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
All Vehicles Must Go!
Liquidation Sale Special60 Days Payoff on Cash Vehicles(Payoff time negotiable)Sun City Auto 352-338-1999  4-22-09-62-12
Over 250 Vehicles Will Be Sold At 
Wholesale Prices to the PublicIncluding Cars, Trucks, Vans & SUVsSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Bring Your W-2 and Ride Home Today
Why Wait for Your Refund?File Your Taxes Here andDrive Off in Your VehicleSun City Auto 352-338-1999   4-22-09-62-12
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.

#OMPUTERS
-OTORCYCLES -OPEDS
 7ANTED
 (ELP 7ANTED
 (ELP 7ANTEDStudents interested in working/living with 
persons with developmental disabilities 
are needed. Help with activites of daily liv-
ing as well as enjoying community events 
and resources. Fun job and very rewarding! 
Lynzmgmt@aol.com   1-22-09-5-14
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE 
from May 1st thru Aug 20th in Branson, 
Missouri for singers, dancers, musicians. 
352-332-0515 or 352-332-0514   1-29-09-
10-14
Nanny needed for 9 & 6 year old afterschool 
2-3 days/wk. Homework, errands, playtime. 
References reqired. Send resume to kthcr-
fts@gmail.com    1-20-2-14
Homework coach-10th-grade girl needing or-
ganization & motivation; some tutoring. Pick 
up at school & confer w/ teachers. Female, 
non-smoker, good driving record. Min. 3 
days/wk from 2:30. $9 + mileage. 335-7529   
1-20-09-2-14
FRONT AND BACK OF HOUSE 
SUPERVISOR/MANAGER needed as soon as possible. Apply in person w/ resume: 3501 SW 2nd Ave, Gville, FL 32605. CalicoJacks.net 352-371-1675 or 352-375-2337  1-26-09-5-14
Part Time IT position, FISC / USGS Gainesville 
office. ASP programming, IIS and SQL servers, 
ArcIMS experience desired.
Contact InformationLisa A. Vanderbloemen, PhD Project Manager, FISC
Jacobs Technology 
5401 W. Kennedy Blvd., Suite 900 
Tampa, FL 33609(813)282-3500 x 216 (Work)lisa.vanderbloemen@usog.jacobs.com   
1-26-09-5-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Are you tired of working more for less and less?Break the cycle & get what you really want: 1-800-679-7042 Ex.2660   2-16-20-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 
www.carrsmith.com   4-22-72-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners. Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250’ x 160’ riding ring, round pen  & jump paddock. 
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com   4-22-74-15
Want to be a CNA? Don’t want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi-
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 4-22-08-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-22-72-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. 
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr.   4-22-72-15
GATOR MOVING & STORAGE 
Local and long distance moving
One item or a houseful!
10% off with this ad!       FL Reg IM 19  
Call Now! 352-374-4791, 800-797-6766
4-22-08-72-15
HORSE BOARDING
12 x 12 stall - cement block barn. Good grass 
turnout with room to run! Limited # of stalls 
available. 352-472-2627 for info & directions. 
4-22-08-72-15
HYPNOTIST - Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Elminate bad habits. 
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis. 
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, NGH certified 379-1079     4-22-72-15
 MOVING? 
 FREEWAY MOVING 
You’ll love our low rates & references. Student 
Discount. Call 352-256-0999. Lic #IM7074-22-72-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. Owner  
housing. Dressage, stadium jumping, X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities. Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges. Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie 352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.   1-26-08-20-15
Absolute Value Automotive
Major/minor auto repairs ASE cert. Free pickup & delivery of your car. UF grad owned. Lowest price guaranteed. All makes/models. 9420 NW 13th St 379-31301-30-08-23-15
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
4-22-72-15MATH & PHYSICS TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   
1-30-15-15 
Eschatology Journal is a study of last 
things,  including the end of the world and 
the end of our personal lives. For free sub-scription send email request to 8v@8v.com   
1-20-1-15

(EALTH 3ERVICES
 All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-22-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-22-72-16
Therapeutic Herbal Salves.Got pain? Need 
sleep? Problem skin? Why not try our laven -
der herbal salves?Natural,inexpensive and effective remedies for arthritis,sprains,acne,insomnia,rashes, headaches,etc at chappell -
hilllavender.com   1-21-2-16
Attention cigarette smokers! Are you in-
terested in quitting smoking? What better 
time than now, the beginning of a new year! Researchers at University of Florida are re-
cruiting healthy cigarette smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 to test a new behav -
ioral treatment to help you quit smoking. You will be compensated for your participa -
tion. If you’re interested, please contact the 
University of Florida Smoking Laboratory 
and Clinic at 352-273-2188 or send an email 
to ufsmokelab@gmail.com.   1-21-10-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)

4YPING 3ERVICES
SAME DAY SERVICE (When Possible): 
Transcription, typing.  Desktop pub: bro-
chures, newsletters, flyers, ads, logos, graph-ics, books.  Resume service. 20 years exp. 
 Connie 271-2677 cgraphix@bellsouth.net  
1-21-10-17

 0ERSONALS
Family Chiropractic 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-22-72-18 
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
 
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
4-22-08-72-18
 UF Survey Research Center
Telephone Interviewers
NO SALES
$8.00 - $8.50/hr
Students and Non-Students
352-392-2908 Ext: 105
408 W. University Ave. Suite 106
4-22-70-14
Paradigm Properties
Leasing Specialist, PT
Sales & Customer service exp.
EOE, DFWP
Apply on-line at: www.teamparadigm.com 
352-375-2152 ex 301    4-22-67-14
D~LYON ENTERPRISES, a new music pro-
duction company, now hiring for PT research, 
development & bookkeeping position. Must 
be energetic, out-going & people-friendly. 
Call Craig for more info 352-213-7440   1-28-
09-10-14
Earn extra money. Students needed ASAP. 
Earn up to $150/day being a mystery shop-
per. No experience required. Call 1-800-722-
4791   4-22-09-65-14
Busy doctor needs professional executive 
assistant 20-30 hrs/week. Experience is an 
absolute must. Ideal applicant able to an-
ticipate need. Compensation based on exp, 
email CV to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-16-09-
22-14
Part Time Work for
Full Time Pay
Phone Sales Reps M-F 6:30-10pm, 
no wknds,pd wkly, Call 352-378-2262
for intrvw, exp. preferred   1-29-09-10-14
Busy doctors office seeks helper for clerical 
work. 10-20 hrs/wk $7-9 based on experi -
ence. Will consider all applicants References 
required Email resume to gm@ehsfamily.com   2-2-12-14
Housekeeper needed for busy family, 10-20 hrs/week can be less $8-9, must like big dogs and little cats prefer someone willing to 
stay for more than 1 year but will consider 
all References required dsarkis@gmail.com   
1-26-7-14TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009   ALLIGATOR , 19
STEPHANI
Meeting you and your best friend from Korea 
was a heartwarming way to start the New Year. I very much regret not exchange phone num-bers. Please call me. Best regards. Karl 332-5030
1-28-09-10-19
Happy 21st Birthday Nicole!
You are an amazing young woman!
Thanks for making me a gator mom!
Love you,
Mom
1-21-09-2-18

%VENT .OTICES
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!

%NTERTAINMENT
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-22-08-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1pm-6pm
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-19-09-97-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-22-08-72-21
 BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK 
$189 5-Days or $239 7-Days. All prices 
include: Round trip luxury cruise with
food. Accommodations on the island at
your choice of thirteen resorts. 
Appalachia Travel 1-800-867-5018.
www.BahamaSun.com #ST35585
3-4-08-86-21
BAHAMA SPRING BREAK SALE!
$200 Sale! Includes Roundtrip 
Cruise, 4 Nights Beachfront
Hotel, Meals & #1 Parties!
Text Message: SPRINGBREAK 
to 313131 to redeem sale!
Limited Space, Book Now!
1-877-997-8747
www.XtremeTrips.com
FL Seller of Travel Reg No ST35430
1-22-28-21
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
 
GRADUATION HOTEL HOTLINEGraduating this May? Wehave rooms! 352-278-1595FL. Seller of  Travel Reg No #12618   2-5-15-21

 2IDES
Cheapest fixed price in town to So. FL.
Buy tickets on line, over the phone, in per -
son. $35 One Way - $45 Rount Trip.
Regular and Reverse Trips - One Price
www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
4-22-72-23

 ,OST  &OUND
FOUND:
KRYPTONITE LOCK  KEY
in front of the Alligator building (1105 W. 
University Ave) Thursday am. Come to front desk with the lock to claim key.   1-22-4-25
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.

 (ELP 7ANTED
 (ELP 7ANTED
 3ERVICES
 3ERVICES
 #ONNECTIONSSports
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION ONLINE ON TELEVISIONBy MIKE DiFERDINANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
mdiferdinando@alligator.org
Nick Calathes caught the ball 
at the top of the key , took one step 
behind the 3-point line and bur -
ied the Razorbacks.
Calathes scored 28 points and grabbed 10 rebounds as he carried No. 24 UF (16-2, 3-0 Southeastern Conference) to an 80-65 victory against Arkansas (12-4, 0-3 SEC) on Saturday in the O’Connell 
Center.
The sophomore drained his 
third consecutive three with 9:15 
left and put to rest any thoughts of another second-half slump.
The Gators have struggled to 
close out games all season, but this time around, Calathes and the Gators finished the deal.
UF opened the second half 
with a 9-0 run and prevented Arkansas from scoring for almost four minutes.It was the third double-double 
of the season for Calathes and the second-highest point total of his career.
“I was open and my team-
mates found me,” Calathes said. “I guess it was just my night shooting.”
Calathes knocked down a ca-
reer-high six 3-pointers and shot 60 percent from long distance. 
It was the 10th straight win 
for UF, which is perfect through three games of conference play.
Coming into the game, there 
were serious questions about whether or not UF would be able to contain Arkansas cen-
ter Michael Washington — the only player in the SEC aver -
aging a double-
double.
Washington 
finished with 
21 points, but the Gators out-
rebounded the Razorbacks 39-33, and both center Alex Tyus (11 points) and freshman backup Kenny Kadji (10) scored in dou-ble figures for the second straight 
game.
“With someone like Nick out 
there passing the ball, when you 
get open, you’re going to get easy baskets,” Kadji said.
The freshman center has 
emerged as an inside presence for the Gators in the last two games.
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF guard Nick Calathes calls a play during the Gators’ 80-65 home win against Arkansas on 
Saturday.
Calathes, Gators conquer Razorbacks
Tim Tebow’s reign is over.
For the past two sea-
sons, UF’s quarterback and 
his dynamic offense have ruled 
Gainesville, but with linebacker 
Brandon Spikes’ announcement 
that he’ll return to the Gators for his senior season and receiver Percy Harvin’s decision to enter the NFL Draft, the 2009 UF football team will be a defense-first outfit.
The defense will bring back its 
entire two-deep roster — every starter and backup — and even the 
backups to the backups will stick 
around.
I t ’ s 
a scary 
thought, but the unit that allowed f e w e r 
than 13 
points per 
game and 
held the 
highest-
scoring team in college football history to just two touchdowns is about to get even better.
Meanwhile, the offense will 
keep Tebow, tight end Aaron Hernandez, a few unproven re-ceivers and running backs Chris 
Rainey, Jeff Demps and Emmanuel 
Moody while losing top receivers Harvin and Louis Murphy , and Harvin’s absence alone will make the group a bit less dangerous.
Make no mistake about it: 
Harvin was every bit as important to UF’s offense as Tebow. Not only was he a threat to break a big run or make a huge catch at any time, but Harvin made everyone else on the field better. His fellow receivers had an easier time getting open, the backs had more running room and the pressure wasn’t always on Tebow to make the big play.
Now, coach Urban Meyer will 
have to rework the offense with-
out Harvin, and he’ll have to do 
it without his right-hand man, as offensive coordinator Dan Mullen skipped town to take the UF defense 
ready to shine in ’09
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By CHRISTOPHER YAZBEC
Alligator Writer
cyazbec@alligator.org
UF had a lot to prove Sunday against 
Georgia, and the team sure played like it.
Having lost nine straight games to the 
Bulldogs, the Gators were not ready for an-other disappointment.
Problem solved.No. 15 UF (17-2, 3-1 Southeastern 
Conference) handled its rival 61-45 in front of a loud home crowd, making a statement on how far the team has come from a year ago.
Even Georgia coach Andy Landers, who 
recently captured his 800th career win, no-ticed a difference in this Gators squad from the one last season.“They play well together,” he said. 
“They do a much better job of executing and doing the things that they want to do together.”
UF coach Amanda Butler knows just 
how big the win was for her team, espe-cially the seniors, who had yet to defeat 
Georgia (11-7, 1-2 SEC).
“They have set the tone in this rivalry, 
and that’s just another thing that makes it a great win for us,” Butler said. “More impor -
tantly than that is that it’s an SEC win.”
Gators fans wearing pink for breast can-
cer awareness stood for the first four min-
utes of the game and watched Butler’s em-phasis on starting strong come to life.
While UF set the pace early on and 
seemed to control the game for much of the first half, it only led by 2 at the break, after not making a field goal in the last 5:23 of the half.
Georgia grabbed the momentum early 
in the second half, taking a 30-29 lead, but it didn’t last long.
Sha Brooks took a charge at midcourt 
with 16:02 remaining that seemed to fire up her teammates and the crowd.Gators show growth in win over ’DawgsMen's
Bask etball
Mike McCall
McCall-in’ It Like I 
See It
mmccall@alligator.org
Today’s question: Which unit will be most 
important for the UF football team’s success in 2009?
Previous question:  Which UF football national championship team is better? (see right for results) Percent (Votes)
2008 74% (207)
1996 26% (73)
280 TOTAL VOTES NCAA Men’s Basketball: Ohio State vs. 
Illinois
ESPN, 7 p.m. 
 NCAA Men’s Basketball: Tennessee vs. 
Vanderbilt
ESPN, 9 p.m. UF tennis freshman Carlos Gonzalez de Cueto 
made it to the finals in the SEC Coaches’ Indoor Championships on Monday before falling to the tournament’s No. 6 seed. For more on the men’s tennis team, check out alligatorSports.org.SEE ARKANSAS, PAGE 22
SEE GEORGIA, PAGE 22SEE MIKE, PAGE 22“They have set the tone in this 
rivalry, and that’s just another 
thing that makes it a great win for 
us.”
Amanda Butler
UF coachTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 21
 THE STEELERS AND CAR -
DINALS WILL MEET FEB. 1.-
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Arizona and Pittsburgh will play 
a historic Super Bowl in Tampa in 
two weeks: a team with a history as 
bad as any in the NFL against one that will try to win a record sixth 
title.
Pittsburgh opens as a 6 1/2-point 
favorite.
That’s fine with the Cardinals, 
who have been laughingstocks for -
ever and won all three playoff games as underdogs, including Sunday’s 
32-25 thumping of the Philadelphia Eagles for the NFC title.
Arizona hasn’t won a title since 
the NFL championship in 1947 and has had only 10 postseason games 
since meandering from Chicago to 
St. Louis and finally to the desert 21 seasons ago.
Still, it is impossible to write them 
off, mainly because of their 37-year-old quarterback, Kurt Warner, who owns two MVP awards and was the 
Super Bowl MVP with the Rams in 
2000.
“I want to say Arizona Cardinals 
and Super Bowl in the same sen-tence,” a jubilant Warner said. “The Arizona Cardinals in the Super 
Bowl. How about it?”
Then there is Larry Fitzgerald, 
who used to practice in the same fa-cility as the Steelers when he played 
at Pitt. In just three games, he has emerged as the best receiver ever in 
the postseason — with 419 yards, he 
broke the great Jerry Rice’s record with the final game still to come.
“He’s been here before,” 
Fitzgerald said, referring to Warner. “He’s been where we’re all trying 
to go. He’s held that trophy up and 
we’ve leaned on him this whole postseason.”
Many of Pittsburgh’s stars have 
been through this before, including Hines Ward, the MVP of the 2006 
Super Bowl win against Seattle.
The Steelers’ defense carried 
them past Baltimore 23-14 in the AFC title game. That’s what it’s been doing all season. The latest version 
of the storied Steel Curtain was the best statistically in the NFL and the 
most consistent.
Led by James Harrison, the de-
fensive player of the year, and an-other all-Pro, safety Troy Polamalu, 
it puts constant 
pressure on the 
quarterback. And that is where Warner is some-
times vulnerable. 
Injuries and turn-overs cost him his 
job in St. Louis in 
2002 and 2003 be-
fore he was shuffled off to the New 
York Giants and then to Arizona.
The Steelers won four titles in six 
years during the 1970s and their fifth three years ago. No team has ever 
won six.
In an odd little twist, Arizona 
coach Ken Whisenhunt has his roots with the Steelers, serving as offen-sive coordinator from 2004-2006, including the Super Bowl-winning 
team.
He was expected to get the 
Pittsburgh job when Bill Cowher stepped down two seasons ago. So 
was another Steelers coach, Russ Grimm, now Whisenhunt’s right-
hand man in Arizona.
Instead, the job went to Mike 
Tomlin, who returns to Tampa, the city where he began his coaching 
career.
COMPLETE RECOVERY EXPECTED 
FOR MCGAHEE: OWINGS MILLS, 
Md. — Willis McGahee joined his teammates Monday at Baltimore’s training complex after doctors told 
him he would make a full recovery 
from a fierce helmet-to-helmet hit in 
the AFC Championship Game that 
had him carted off the field.
“I’m all right. Everything is OK,” 
the running back told reporters as 
the Ravens cleared out their lock-
ers. “The MRI and the CAT scan checked out good. I was scared, but 
I didn’t know how serious it was. It 
was pretty intense.”The play occurred in the fourth 
quarter of Pittsburgh’s 23-14 victory . McGahee had just caught a pass and taken two steps before he was met 
by safety Ryan Clark, who drove his 
helmet into McGahee’s facemask. McGahee’s head snapped back, and 
he lost the ball as he dropped to the 
ground.
“I didn’t even see him coming,” 
McGahee said.
Clark also collapsed, though it 
was immediately apparent his inju-
ry wasn’t serious. Players from both 
teams gathered around McGahee, who lay motionless before being 
taken away.
“I blacked out. I woke up when 
they were taking my facemask off,” McGahee said. “I opened my eyes 
and I was talking. The next thing I knew I woke up in some room and 
they were taking me to the ambu-
lance.”
McGahee said he has a concus-
sion and that his neck is extremely sore. But he said he would be ready to go next season.
Super Bowl XLIII pairs teams with opposite histories
Warner
22, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
“Kenny is stepping up. Our inside game is 
getting a lot better,” Calathes said. “I think we’re 
going to start going inside-out a lot more.”
Erving Walker, who has been battling flu-like 
symptoms for more than a week, celebrated his 
19th birthday with 13 points and two steals.
“We’re a lot more mature,” Calathes said. 
“Our freshmen stepped up huge for us tonight. 
I don’t think they could have played those min-utes (earlier this season).”
UF coach Billy Donovan put the lid on his 
team’s shooting during practice leading up to their game against Arkansas, and it appears he has taken the top off of whatever was holding 
back their rebounding as well.
Donovan placed a plastic seal on the baskets 
that prevented the ball from going in the net.
“If you wanted to get off of defense, you had 
to get the rebound,” forward Chandler Parsons 
said. “We know we’re not the biggest or stron-gest team, but that showed us that it’s all about playing with passion on the defensive end.”The Gators were embarrassed on the boards 
by Mississippi a week ago but have outrebound-ed their opponents in the last two games. 
For the first time in his career, Arkansas coach 
John Pelphrey sat on the visitor’s bench in the 
O’Connell Center. 
Pelphrey worked as an 
assistant to UF coach Billy Donovan from 1997-2002 be-fore leaving to become the 
head coach at South Alabama. 
Pelphrey moved to Arkansas in April 2007.
“This is a special place to 
be,” he said. “Being a part of 
that coaching staff was a special time. There was just something about that group of guys.”
UF moved back into the national rankings 
Monday for the first time since losing to No. 8 
Syracuse on Nov. 24 in Kansas City, Mo.
Despite his team’s fast start in the SEC, 
Donovan played down any thoughts of a return 
to the national stage.
“I don’t think we warrant being ranked,” 
Donovan said.UF ranked for first time since Nov. 24
Mississippi State head coaching job.
Surely , with all the talent in place and the 
hotshot recruits who will wind up at UF, the Gators will still be a solid offensive team, but defense will be their new calling card. Here 
comes the payoff for the defense’s imitation of 
swiss cheese during the 2007 campaign.
The defensive line, probably the team’s 
weakest unit in 2008, will have two top-flight pass rushers in Carlos Dunlap and Jermaine Cunningham, and if defensive tackle Torrey Davis can fulfill the potential he showed on critical goal line stops against Oklahoma, he could become a real beast in the interior. 
Most importantly, Dan McCarney, the first-
year defensive line coach who restored the group to relevancy, resisted jobs elsewhere and should have them playing even better.
The linebackers will be the defense’s en-gine, especially with Spikes still in the middle, but the secondary will be the sparkplugs. 
Just a year removed from being the na-
tion’s No. 98 pass defense, UF tied Boston College for the most interceptions with 26 this year, and it will add more playmakers to the group that accomplished that.
Safety Dorian Munroe, a projected starter 
for 2008, will return from the knee injury that kept him sidelined, freshman cornerback Jeremy Brown will be unleashed after a red-shirt year, and heralded safety Dee Finley will arrive from prep school. But if corners Joe Haden and Janoris Jenkins, safeties Ahmad Black and Major Wright and nickelback Will Hill keep playing the way they did this season, 
those other players won’t leave the bench.
That’s the kind of competition that built 
the offense in recent years. With the high 
number of underclassmen clogging the depth chart, expect the UF defense to stay on top for a couple more seasons.
“As fun as it is to score points and 
that sort of thing, this team really gets 
their energy from defense,” Butler said.
From that point on, UF took con-
trol. 
Steffi Sorensen proved to be reli-
able once again. The junior guard hit three 3-pointers in the second half, the last putting the Gators up by 12.
UF scrapped for 15 offensive re-
bounds and was able to score key baskets resulting in 13 second-chance points.
The Gators locked down defensive-
ly, allowing just 20 points in the sec-ond half and capitalizing on 30 points off turnovers.
After Brooks hit a three to put UF up by 17 with about eight minutes remaining, she showed off her dance moves on the way back up the floor.
“I was thinking that I just stepped 
on their throat,” Brooks said. “You can’t 
let up on Georgia, and I think that got the whole team hyped.”
Butler said she 
likes the situation her team is currently in with a week to pre-
pare for Mississippi, but the last thing she wants her players to do is let their foot off the gas.
“Three and one is great. 17-2 is 
great,” Butler said. “But we’ve got a lot of basketball to play, and we’re not ready to plateau. 
“We’re not ready to be satisfied 
with what we’ve done to this point. We want more.”Team not satisfied with 17-2 mark It’s probably safe to assume that as 
Calathes goes, so will the Gators this season. The sophomore scored 28 points, the second-highest point total of 
his career, in Saturday’s win against Arkansas and 17 in UF’s first Southeastern Conference road victory against Auburn. The Gators are off to a 3-0 start in conference 
play, and No. 33 is the reason.
ST ANDINGS
5 - Calathes
3 - Kadji
1 - W alker1. Nick CalathesHOT SHOTS
Beginning with the start of Southeastern Conference play, the alligatorSports staff will vote on the top three 
UF basketball performances of the week each Monday. The No. 1 player will receive 5 points, the No. 2 player 3 
points and the No. 3 player 1 point. At the end of the season, the player with the most combined points will earn the title of alligatorSports Player of the Year.
 If there is a player who has improved 
more since the start of the season, we haven’t seen him. Kadji scored in double figures (11 points against Auburn and 10 
against Arkansas) in back-to-back games for the first time all year and is beginning to show signs that he may be the 
inside presence the Gators have been looking for.2. Kenny Kadji
Despite being hampered by flu-like symp-
toms, Walker saved UF from near disaster with two threes in the final four minutes on the road against Auburn on Wednesday and found Walter Hodge for the game-
winner. The freshman followed up his heroics against the Tigers with 13 points against Arkansas on his birthday. Walker has been one of the few reliable scoring options off 
the bench this season for Billy Donovan.3. Erving W alker
Mike DiFerdinando / Alligator StaffARKANSAS , from page 20
GEORGIA , from page 20 MIKE , from page 20
Women's
Bask etballTyus
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Writer
The UF gymnasts didn’t know 
they were losing after a less-than-
stellar performance on balance 
beam.
They didn’t need to.
No. 1 UF (2-0, 1-0 Southeastern 
Conference) rode a resilient ef-
fort on floor exercise to trump No. 
4 Auburn (1-2, 0-2 SEC) 196.5 to 
196.25.
“I feel like the No. 1 most im-portant thing we can take from 
this competition is, we came back 
after not doing our best on beam,” said junior Maranda Smith. “We can learn from this competition if 
there’s ever another time where 
we’re a little shaky on an event, that 
we can always come back and per -
form well.”
It was the second straight year 
UF trailed after the third event 
against Auburn and emerged vic-
torious.
The Gators staggered to score a 48.325 on beam, their lowest score  of the evening on any event by nearly a full point and lowest on beam since 2006.
Courtney Gladys then led off a 
dominant floor lineup, scoring a 9.775, to make the Gators — and crowd — forget their follies on beam. 
The team notched the highest 
score of the night, Corey Hartung’s 9.95 on floor. She matched her col-lege best for the sixth time of her career.“Floor was on our minds and 
not how we did on beam,” Hartung said. “We just moved on.”
The team managed to turn floor 
into the second-highest scoring 
event of the night with contribu-
tions from the entire lineup, includ-
ing Smith’s second 9.9 of the night.
Smith’s first 9.9 came on vault, 
marking the first time she had com-petitively vaulted since her fresh-man days at UCLA in 2006.
“It’s been three years since I 
have done an actual competition 
vault, so there were really no nerves 
in me,” Smith said. “It was more ex-citement and trying to prove myself that I could be a competitive vaulter 
again.”
Hartung won the all-around ti-
tle with a 39.475, even significantly contributing on beam with a 9.775.
Floor brought the Gators back 
into the meet, but it was uneven 
bars that made it possible.
With the core four — Melanie 
Sinclair, Amanda Castillo, Hartung and Smith — stacked at the end 
of the lineup and fueled by Alicia 
Goodwin’s college-best 9.925, UF 
made bars its strongest event.
An event-high 49.5 on bars was 
able to neutralize the ensuing beam 
troubles.
Sinclair, winner of the all-around title in the Jan. 9 meet against Oklahoma, turned in a solid 9.925 
along with consistently valuable scores in her other events. She fin-ished second in the all-around cat-
egory behind Hartung at 39.450.
“Bars was phenomenal,” UF 
coach Rhonda Faehn said. “This is 
what I said from the beginning, that I felt like bars is our best event, and 
we have the greatest chance of get-
ting our highest scores there.”
Injuries to the team triggered 
changes to the lineup.
Castillo still turned in a 9.875 on 
bars, but even the decorated junior wasn’t immune to the beam bug, 
scoring an uncharacteristically low 9.475.
She was rested from vault and 
floor because she has been nursing 
bursitis in her ankle.
Rebekah Zaiser was also out af-
ter sustaining a season-ending bro-
ken foot.
“That was really tough on our 
team emotionally,” Faehn said. “She was in that leadoff position. That’s when the team really looks to depend on that athlete.”
Changes to the lineup meant 
freshmen getting more exposure.
Freshman Elizabeth Mahlich 
competed in three events, includ-ing her first competitive bars rou-
tine. Mahlich also anchored floor, 
ending the Gators on a high note of 
9.875.
Freshmen Nicole Ellis, Amy 
Ferguson and Mahlich all appeared 
in the lineup for the second consec-utive meet. 
“The athletes that are stepping 
up and stepping in right now when we’re a little bit beat up — they’re doing a great job,” Faehn said.TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009  ALLIGATOR, 23
Harrison Diamond / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Corey Hartung performs a floor routine during the Gators’ 196.5-196.25 win against Auburn on Friday in its Southeastern Conference opener.
By TONI-ANN MILLER
Alligator Writer
As a team, UF didn’t blow the competi-
tion away, but Mariam Kevkhishvili single-
handedly did while securing her place in the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
In only the first indoor meet of the sea-
son, Kevkhishvili threw the shot put 55 feet, 10.5 inches to clinch first place and her spot 
in the year-end championships. 
Coach Mike Holloway was not sur -
prised. 
“We expect that from Mariam,” Holloway 
said. “She’s the defending NCAA champion 
and comes into the season the No. 1-ranked 
girl in the country, so we expect her to do 
things like that.”
Keely Medieros also performed well in 
shot put. Medieros threw the shot 51 feet, 2.25 inches to claim third place.
Another outstanding performer on the 
women’s side was freshman Alishea Usery, who placed fourth in the 400-meter dash, clocking 54.77 seconds. 
“Alishea is a very talented young lady, 
and we expect big things out of her,” Holloway said.
Usery shed almost a full second off her 
high school time in her first college perfor -
mance, Holloway said.In other women’s events, Jenna Utecht 
placed fourth in the high jump, Madara Apine and Michelle Jenije placed fifth and seventh respectively in the triple jump and 
Madison McNary claimed seventh place in 
the 200-meter dash. 
McNary also placed eighth in the 60-me-
ter dash.
On the men’s side, junior Calvin Smith 
anchored UF’s sprint corps and captured 
first place in both the 400- and the 4x400-
meter relay. 
“He’s one of the top four or five guys in 
the country, and we expect him to be one of our team leaders this year so we thought he did a great job this weekend,” Holloway 
said. 
Smith’s senior teammate, Carlos Phillips, 
claimed eighth place, and R.J. Anderson grabbed the tenth spot in the 400.
Other first-place honors went to long-
jumper Christian Taylor, who jumped 25 feet, 4 inches, and shot-putter Kemal Mesic. 
Mesic threw the shot 62 feet, 0.50 inches. 
William Wynne ran 7.88 seconds and 
claimed fifth in the men’s 60-meter hurdles while Dennis Martin (7.89 seconds) took the sixth spot.
In the 800-meter run, Ethan Philpot was 
fourth with a time of 1:52.90, Terrell Wilks was ninth in the 200-meter dash and Gray Horn tied for seventh in the men’s high 
jump.
UF didn’t turn heads but put out a solid 
performance. 
“It’s an early season meet, and we use 
(Southeastern Conference) games to see 
where we are in terms of competitive spirit,” 
Holloway said. 
“Everybody trained really hard last week, 
so it wasn’t like we went with very fresh legs. A big 
part of being a champion in track and field is having a 
lot of heart and a lot of de-
sire, so we challenged our 
kids to go in this weekend — knowing they 
were a little tired — and compete hard.”
GATORS STILL PERFECT VS. OWLS: The UF swimming and diving teams make a habit 
out of defeating Florida Atlantic.
Saturday brought more of the same.
After the Gators’ home meet against the 
Owls, UF’s record against Florida Atlantic was still unblemished.
The Orange and Blue took all but two of 
the 32 events at the meet in the O’Connell Center to improve their all-time marks against Florida Atlantic to 12-0 for the men 
and 13-0 for the women.
They swept multiple events, including 
the men’s 200-yard freestyle, the men’s and women’s 200-yard butterfly, the women’s 
3-meter dive, the men’s 100-yard free and 
the men’s 200-yard backstroke.
The men (6-1) and women (6-2) swept 
Florida Atlantic by more than 30 points 
each.
Junior Roland Rudolf, who won three 
events Saturday, still thinks there is room for him to grow and hopes he is able to “loosen 
up his shoulders with more training to get 
in shape.”
At the same time, the more advanced men 
and women swimmers were at the Dallas Morning News Classic and the College Conference Carnival in Piscataway, N.J., re-
spectively.
The UF women won the College 
Conference Carnival, and the men took sec-ond in Dallas. 
“These three meets were perfect for those 
competing in them,” said Anthony Nesty, associate men’s head coach. “The meets 
were important because they knew we were picking the last couple of kids to go to the 
Southeastern Conference Championship, 
and it gave them a chance to shine.”
Senior Bradley Ally won an NCAA auto-
matic qualifying mark in the 400-yard indi-vidual medley in Dallas, and junior Gemma Spofforth had her own reason to celebrate in 
Piscataway. 
Spofforth set a Sonny Werblin Recreation 
Center record in the 200 back.
-MERCEDES MACHADOKevkhishvili earns spot in NCAA Indoor ChampionshipsNo. 1 Gators come back to beat Auburn by 0.25
Swimming, diving teams dominate Florida Atlantic
Swimming“It’s been three years since 
I have done an actual 
competition vault, so there 
were really no nerves in 
me.”
Maranda Smith
UF junior24, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2009
