the independent florida 
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida 
VOLUME 102 ISSUE 147 We Inform. You Decide. THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
ON CAMPUS 
UF launches anti-harassment Web page 
By ROBERTA 0. ROBERTS 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF took its stance against sexual 
harassment to the Internet with the 
launch of a new Web site Tuesday. 
The page provides students 
with information on sexual harass­
ment myths and facts, what to do if a student is harassed and a free on­
line training program for students, 
said Jaquie Resnick, senior adviser 
to the vice president of Student Af­
fairs. 
"We wanted students to have a 
centralized place where they could 
get information," she said. "We 
want students to know that they shouldn't have to tolerate anything 
that is disrespectful or intimidating 
or offensive." 
Jessica Warshaver, a UF journal­
ism student, believes that the page 
was created in response to recent 
sexual harassment cases on cam­
pus. formality type of thing," said War­
shaver, referencing an incident last 
semester with a graduate student 
who allegedly groped more than 
30 women by telling them that they 
had a bug on their bodies. the Web page was not made in re­
sponse to the groping incident but 
has been in the works since last 
summer. 
The Web page can be accessed 
through the vice president of Stu­
dent Affairs Web site at www.ufsa. 
ufl.edu/ students/ sh/ sexualhar­
rassment.shtml. "I feel the university was cover­
ing its ass," she said. 
"The Web page seems like a Resnick, however, said that 
GRU to host local fair, 
focus on being green 
By NATALIE ARRIETA 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gainesville Regional Utility is remind­
ing residents that being green can be cost­
efficient too. 
GRU is holding an energy fair Satur­
day from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., at the Martin 
Luther King Jr. Multipurpose Center. 
The fair will feature energy exhibits, 
live demonstrations and workshops on 
how to lower utility bills. 
"We're doing everything we can to 
empower customers to make decisions 
on how to manage their utility bill," said 
Nona Jones, a community relations direc­
tor at GRU. 
The energy fair hopes to capture the 
attention of college students, in addition 
to Gainesville's low-income residents, Jones said. 
"We are going to have workshops 
throughout the day that I believe students 
will really benefit from," Jones said. 
"We're doing everything we 
can to empower customers 
to make decisions on how to 
manage their utility bill." 
Nona Jones 
GRU Community Relations Director 
The energy fair will feature workshops 
such as how to set and clean an air-condi­
tioning unit, how to lower utility bills and 
how to conduct energy audits. 
Free lunch will be provided for the 
first 150 people in attendance. 
Harvard Law accepts 7 
■ 9 PERCENT OF THE STUDENTS 
COME FROM THE SOUTHEAST. 
By ASHLEY ROSS 
Alligator Writer Only about 9 percent of the admitted 
students at HLS come from the south­
east. 
The admitted Gators include Krysten 
Rosen, Danielle D'Oyley, Jason Gross, 
Elizabeth Akerman, Freddy Williams, 
Hilary D' Angelo and a 2008 UF graduate, 
Keely O'Malley. 
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff 
Honors Horticulture Rutherford B. Hayes, Barack Obama 
and Bob Graham once walked the halls of 
Harvard Law School, and in September, 
seven University of Florida graduates 
will walk them too. "I'm not surprised by the numbers," 
Stock said in an e-mail. "UF is a great 
school with some very talented kids." 
Stock served as assistant dean of ad­
missions for HLS for the past three years 
and personally welcomed the newly ac­
cepted class of 2012 -the last class he 
admitted -by phone call. Jeremy Joiner, of the UF Physical Plant Division, pours rocks around new plants 
while working on landscaping improvements by the Honors Residential College at 
Hume Hall on Wednesday afternoon. Toby Stock, former assistant dean of 
admissions for HLS, interviews thou­
sands of applicants each year, but he 
only calls about 10 percent of them to of­
fer them a spot at the most esteemed law 
school in the nation. 
■ Coach Tim 
Walton and the top­
ranked UF softball 
team open regional 
play against Florida 
A&M at 6 p.m on 
Friday. The Gators 
are looking for a 
national title after 
falling short in '08. 
See Story, Page 20. Man arrested after police find methadone, marijuana, crack in his car 
A Gainesville man was arrested after police five methadone pills in the car. The bottle had the 
found marijuana, crack cocaine and methadone name Jerry Brunson on it, the report stated. Law­
pills in his car during a traffic stop. rence said he bought the marijuana but was hold-
At 12:45 a.m. Tuesday, Irvin Lawrence, 62, ing the crack cocaine for his friend. 
was stopped by a Gainesville Police Department He told the officer the methadone pills also 
officer for an expired tag. The officer noticed Law-belonged to his friend, but could not identify his 
rence seemed to be hiding something. The officer friend's name until he read the bottle. Lawrence 
searched Lawrence and his car and found a small was charged with two felonies of possession of a 
bag of marijuana in his pocket and a bag of crack controlled substance and one misdemeanor pos-
cocaine in his wallet, according to a GPD report. session of less than 20 grams of marijuana. 
The officer also found a prescription bottle with -KATIE EM METS Some accepted students got the call 
SEE HARVARD, PAGE 10 
Today 
FORECAST 2 
OPINIONS 6 
the AVENUE 11 
CLASSIFIEDS 14 
CROSSWORD 16 storms 
SPORTS 20 85/66 
visit www.alligator.org 2, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
News Today 
STATE 
Panel OKs Fla. Hurricane 
Catastrophe Fund rule 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -A 
state board has approved an emer­
gency rule designed to protect the 
state from up to $20 billion in losses 
if the state gets hit by a devastating 
hurricane. 
The rule implements legislation 
passed by lawmakers and is await­
ing Gov. Charlie Crist's signature. 
Crist chairs the State Board of Ad­
ministration that voted Wednes­
day. 
Quick action was needed be­
cause hurricane season begins on 
June 1. The bill protects the state by 
my making changes to the state's 
Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, 
which serves as a backup for insur­
ance companies. 
Appeals court says Miami 
defender can't shed cases 
MlAMl (AP) -A state appeals 
court expressed sympathy with 
the crushing workload faced by 
Miami's public defender but ruled 
Wednesday that refusing to accept 
felony cases is not the way to fix 
the problem. 
The Third District Court of Ap­
peal's decision overturned a judge's 
ruling in September that would 
have permitted the office that rep­
resents Miami's poor defendants to 
stop accepting thousands of lesser 
third-degree felony cases, such as 
auto theft, forgery and battery. The 
appeals judges said there are alter­
natives to dealing with the public 
defender's budget dilemma. 
"There is simply insufficient 
evidence to support such a drastic 
remedy," the court's opinion said. 
"We understand the difficulties." 
Instead of turning to the courts, 
the appeals judges recommended 
that Public Defender Carlos Mar­
tinez seek out the Florida Legisla­
ture for budget help and also make 
administrative changes that could 
ease the workload on the office's 
180-plus attorneys. Martinez has 
already enlisted the help of the 
Florida Association of Criminal 
Defense Lawyers to provide attor­
neys willing to handle some cases 
for free. 
Martinez said he would appeal 
the decision to the Florida Supreme 
Court, arguing that it is unethical 
for public defenders to fail in their 
duty to represent people because 
they are overworked. 
"Unfortunately, this ruling is a 
setback," he said. "In essence, what 
we are doing is rationing justice for 
poor people. That can't be right." 
Public defenders around the 
country are grappling with bud­
get cuts and higher caseloads, but 
Miami's office went farther than 
most in seeking to refuse cases. 
Miami-Dade State Attorney Kath­
erine Fernandez Rundle, whose of­
fice appealed the earlier decision, 
said now that the litigation is over, 
prosecutors, defense lawyers and 
judges should discuss solutions. 
"My concern was that it could 
have created absolute chaos in 
the system," Rundle said in an in­
terview. "We can now go about 
the business of being creative and 
supportive and collaborative as 
opposed to being distracted by liti­
gation." 
Martinez and his predecessor, FORECAST 
TODAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
,'~,, '~, ~'t\, '~, !'~\, '~, \,,\,, ,, ,,,,\ ,, ,,,,, ,, 
THUNDER THUNDER THUNDER 
STORMS STORMS STORMS 
85/66 88/67 
Bennett Brummer, have argued 
that heavy caseloads mean poor 
defendants don't get adequate 
representation, jeopardizing 
their constitutional rights. They 
said their office has gone through 
12.6 percent budget cuts the past 
two years, while the caseload has 
risen by about 29 percent. 
Miami-Dade Circuit Judge 
Stanford Blake agreed, ruling in 
September that thousands of fel­
ony cases would be handled by a 
new regional office set up to rep­
resent people when the public 
defender has a conflict. But the 
appeals court found otherwise, 
with Judge Frank Shepherd not­
ing that the public defender's 
claims were better suited for the 
political realm. 
"This action is nothing more 
than a political question mas­
querading as a lawsuit, and 
should be dispatched on that ba­
sis," Shepherd said in a concur­
ring opinion. 89/66 SUNDAY 
THUNDER 
STORMS 
89/65 MONDAY 
THUNDER 
STORMS 
84/61 
"Copyrighted Material 
Syndicated Content 
Available from Commercial News Providers" 
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. If you 
find an error, please call our 
newsroom at (352) 376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@ 
alligator.org. alli ···atOr 
"°'"""°""""'' g """"·"" Not officially associated with the University of Florida 
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida 
NEWSROOM 
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax) 
Editor Kristin Bjornsen, 
kbjornsen@alligator.org 
Managing Editor/ Print Brittany Davis, bdavis@alligator.org 
Managing Editor/ New Media 
University Editor 
Metro Editor 
Freelance Editors 
Sports Editor 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Opinions Editor 
Editorial Board Jennifer Jenkins, 
jjenki ns@a I Ii gator. org 
Emily Fuggetta, 
efuggetta@alligator.org 
J. Hunter Sizemore, 
jhsizemore@alligator.org 
Katie Emmets, 
kemmets@alligator.org 
Phil Kegler, pkeg/er@alligator.org 
Adam Berry, aberry@alligator.org 
Dan Seco, dseco@alligator.org 
Kristin Bjornsen, Brittany Davis, 
Jennifer Jenkins, Dan Seco 
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond, 
hdiamond@alligator.org 
the Avenue Editor Stephanie Granada, 
sgranada@alligator.org 
Copy Desk Chiefs Natalie Arrieta, Jack Benge, 
Alex Chachkevitch, Rachael Pino 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING 
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax) 
Advertising Director 
Advertising Office Manager Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org 
Victoria Livingston, 
vlivingston@alligator.org 
Melissa Bell Advertising Assistant 
Intern Coordinator 
Display Advertising Clerks 
Sales Representatives Victoria Livingston 
Sara Ingebretsen 
Frannia Castro, Brittany Fayne, 
Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor, 
Brett Owens, Madeline Ross 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax) 
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, el/ight@alligator.org 
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario 
CIRCULATION 
Operations Manager Scott McKearnan, 
smckearnan@alligator.org 
Operations Assistant David Carlson 
BUSINESS 
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax) 
Comptroller Ramona Malloy 
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org 
Accounting Clerks Andrea Almeida 
ADMINISTRATION 
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax) 
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org 
Administrative Manager Judy Moore 
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, 
lmcgowan@alligator.org 
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org 
SYSTEMS 
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart 
PRODUCTION 
Production Manager 
Editorial Production Supervisor 
Advertising Production Staff 
Editorial Production Staff Stephanie Gocklin, 
sgocklin@alligator.org 
Erica Bales 
Shannon Close, Max Weissler 
Doug Eastman, Erica Ervin 
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub­
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn­
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa­
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers. 
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) 
Summer Semester 
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) 
Full Year (All Semesters) $18 
$10 
$35 
$40 
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator 
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica­
tions Inc. THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009■ALLIGATOR, 3 
LOCAL 
Flower laborers to share stories, hardships at event 
By MICHAEL HERBERT 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Some bouquets, like those given on Moth­
er's Day, may lose their luster when buyers 
find out how the flowers were picked. 
The Civic Media Center, 433 S. Main St., 
will host a panel tonight at 7:30 about the op­
pressed flower laborers of Columbia. 
Speakers will include Amanda Camacho, 
President of Asopapagayo Flower Union in 
Bogota, Colombia and Carolina Delgado, 
South Florida Organizer for Fairness in Flow­
ers Campaign. 
"We're going to hear directly from the peo­
ple on the ground, working in these planta­
tions," said James Schmidt, a coordinator atthe 
Center. "[The event] represents a movement to 
unite organizations for justice for flower work­
ers in Latin America and the U.S." 
In 2004, U.S. consumers bought $385 mil­
lion of Colombian-grown flowers. Colombia is the second largest flower producer in the 
world. Most of the country's flower workers 
are women, many of whom are single moth­
ers, who face sexual harassment, unsanitary 
working conditions, pesticide exposure, over­
work, lack of maternity leave and unsafe work 
conditions. 
The panel will focus on these and other is­
sues, according to Delgado. 
With most cut flowers bought in the U.S. 
being given to women, it is especially impor­
tant for them to know where their flowers are 
coming from, Delgado said. 
Camacho is one of thousands of flower la­
borers who works about 48 hours a week at 
$8aday. 
Near Valentine's Day and Mother's Day, 
this workload increases to a work week up­
ward of 80 hours, without pay increase, Del­
gado said. 
Camacho has toured the U.S. for two weeks 
to raise awareness about the working condi-tions, Delgado said. 
She feels that developing the Fair Trade 
Certification, which ensures that workers 
worldwide receive proper pay, treatment and 
social aid, would help flower workers. 
"We're going to hear directly from 
the people on the ground, working 
in these plantations." 
James Schmidt 
Civic Media Center coordinator 
"There is no Fair Trade presence in 
Colombia currently," Delgado said. "De­
veloping a Fair Trade label is difficult." 
Veriflora, a program that is in development, 
would fill that need, but it is in its infancy. 
The main obstacle to Fair Trade in Colom­
bia is the legitimacy of protective organiza­
tions and the social requirements of Fair Trade 
Certification, she said. Delgado made the distinction between la­
bels such as Fair Trade Certified, which are 
recognized as ensuring safe working environ­
ments and worker compensation, and labels 
that she and many organizations consider to 
be purely for marketing, such as the current 
Florverde label in use in Colombia by many 
flower companies. 
In addition to attending the event and sup­
porting the organizations pushing for fair 
treatment of farm workers, Schmidt also rec­
ommends people be conscious of the flowers 
they purchase. 
"You can actually buy Fair Trade flowers 
online or from your florist," he said. 
The National Farmworker Ministry, Cen­
tral Florida Jobs with Justice and the Farm­
worker Association of Florida will host the 
event. All three organizations are working 
to support efforts for and spread knowledge 
about the fair treatment of farm workers, both 
locally and internationally. 
Cabinet appointments divide senators, postpone vote 
■ STUDENT SENATORS 
WALKED OUT DURING THE 
MEETING. 
By SARA WATSON 
Alligator Writer 
Despite hopes for a united front, 
UF student senators proved a rift 
still exists between the majority and 
minority parties at the first sum­
mer session meeting Tuesday night, where several senators walked out 
to force early adjournment. 
The meeting, which was held to 
vote on 48 appointees to Student 
Government agencies and SG Cabi­
net, began amicably. 
"It doesn't matter what color 
shirt you wore back in the campaign; 
we're trying to get work done," said 
Sen. Jonathan Ossip, the new Or­
ange and Blue party leader. 
But the debate quickly turned to 
the issue of potential cabinet appoin-tees chosen by the executive branch 
and the differing sentiments on how 
the selection process was handled. 
"The executive appointments, at 
least from the 
GStudent senate side of it, overnment unfortunately 
was done in 
what at best could be called under 
the table and at worst could be called 
just blatantly wrong," Ossip said. 
The senator and several support­
ers argued that resumes and infor-mation about potential candidates 
were e-mailed 15 minutes before 
Tuesday's meeting and that they 
needed more time to make informed 
choices. 
Ossip, seconded by Sen. Alden 
Gillespy, moved to postpone the 
voting until May 19. 
The senate majority, however, 
said the executive branch's Replace­
ment and Agenda Committee spent 
four days finding and reviewing 
qualified candidates. "To put all the work of the ex­
ecutive committee to shame is ludi­
crous," Sen. Audrey Schnell said. 
Ossip's motion to postpone the 
vote failed, and about seven sena­
tors, including Gillespy and Sen. 
Neil Gundavda, walked out of the 
room. There weren't enough remain­
ing senators to allow for a vote. 
According to an Orange and Blue 
Party press release, the nominations 
will be heard at Tuesday's meeting 
after a one-week hold. 
uxury v n 
is an understatement. 
"' GJ 
:½::! 
C: 
GJ 
E 
rd Chic, zero-entry, lagoon-style pool 
Poolside hammocks, bar and grilling areas 
Indoor basketball court 
Virtual golf course 
Gym-quality fitness center and cardio equipment 
Huge clubhouse with gaming area 
Tanning rooms with stand-up beds 
Study rooms and cyber center 
Wi-Fi throughout the community including amenities and apartments 
Lush landscaping with mature oaks and nature preserve 
Bus stop in front of community 
Reliable Cox Cable with high speed internet 4, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff 
Daily Grind 
UF mechanical engineering student Owen Allen smooths out the edges of a bracket that supports 
the gas tank in a hybrid robot at Mechanical Aerospace and Engineering Building B. The three­
wheeled robot, called the "OmniGator," is designed to move in any direction on a two-dimensional 
plane and uses an internal generator to charge its batteries. Seats empty in top 
journalism class 
By RACHAEL PINO 
Alligator Writer 
Each semester, anxious stu­
dents stalk ISIS for an open seat 
in Reporting, a make-or-break 
class in UF's College of Journal­
ism and Communications. 
But this summer there are 
plenty of empty seats. 
While some attribute this to 
challenges in the journalism in­
dustry, others say the struggling 
economy is to blame. 
The class is run by Master Lec­
turer Mike Foley, who said about 
80 students registered for the 100 
seats in the class. 
Although the college is offer­
ing the traditional five Reporting 
sections, Helga Williams, an of­
fice assistant in the college, said 
enrollment is down this summer. 
"I'm thinking students just 
don't have the money to be here," 
she said. 
According to UF's Web site, 
the three-credit course costs 
$377.73 and an additional $18.67 
for lab supplies. 
April Shapiro, who advises 
freshmen and sophomores in the 
college, said she is surprised that 
the number of declared journal­
ism majors is strong despite the struggling newspaper industry. 
"I would think they would 
be shying away from going into 
journalism, but we're still getting 
people coming out of high school 
who are interested," she said. 
Shapiro added that many 
Foley people are 
learning how 
to manage on­
line news con­
tent instead of 
print. 
"[News] is 
never going to 
go away," she 
said. "It's just 
changing and evolving." 
Sandra Storr, a program as­
sistant in the Office of Student 
Services, said that Applied Fact 
Finding and Newspaper Editing, 
courses for third-year journalism 
majors, were not being offered 
this summer. She said the fact 
that the college is offering Prob­
lems and Ethics in Journalism in 
Society may explain the change. 
Like Shapiro, Storr said she 
hadn't seen a decrease in interest 
for a journalism degree, adding 
that students may have to apply 
the skills learned for print jour­
nalism elsewhere. 
"Based on what I've seen, I 
don't see any panic," Storr said. 
"Copyrigtitecl Material 
Syndicated Content 
Available from Commercial News Providers'' 
,,,~CANCER 
~PROJECT 
Finally! , 
A prescription with 
side effects you want. 
Blueberries and red 
beans are powerful 
remedies against 
cancer. Research 
shows that fruits, 
vegetables, and other 
low-fat vegetarian 
foods may help prevent 
cancer and improve 
survival rates. A plant­
based diet can also 
help lower cholesterol. 
For a free nutrition booklet with 
cancer fighting recipes, call toll­
free 1-866-906-WELL or visit 
www.CancerProject.org "Copyrighted Material 
SY,ndicated Content 
Available from Commercial News Providers'' 
TEST PREP AND 
ADMISSIONS 
GMAT I GRE I LSAT 
MCAT I DAT I OAT I PCAT' 
Prep Anywhere 
and Save S200' 
Get flexibility and savings this summer! 
► PREP WITH A TUTOR ► PREP IN A CLASS ► PREP ONLINE ► NEW! PREP LIVE ONLINE• 
Enroll in one of our Upcoming Gainesville 
Class Starts! 
MCAT-May 19th at the Reitz Union Center 
LSAT-June 16th at the Downtown Center 
GMAT-May 18th at the Reitz Union Center 
GRE-June 9th at the Reitz Union Center 
DAT/OAT- June 30th at the Downtown Center 
PCAT-June 10th at the Downtown Center 
Offer extended until May 18th! 
Visit kaptest.com or call 1-800-KAP-TEST today! 
PREP SMARTER, SCORE HIGHER-GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK:· 
•Test names are registered trademarks oflheir respective owners. tVisit kaptest.comfanywtiere for offer details. Must enroll between May 1-18, 2009. Cannot be combined with any other offer, discount, or 
promotion. :j::live Online Courses are only available for GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, DAT and OAT. --conditions and restrictions apply. For complete guarantee eligibility requirements . visit kaptesl.cam/hsg. PGR04007 Where does your future career in 
biotechnology start? 
It starts at Santa Fe College. 
• two-and four-year degree program 
• career fast-track certificate program 
• great job opportunities 
The Clinical Laboratory Science Program at Santa Fe College is located in the 
Department of Laboratory Technology at the Charles R. and Nancy V. Perry 
Emerging Technologies Center in Alachua, Florida. 
SANTA FE 
COLLEGE www .sfco I lege .ed u/ careers 
352.395.5000 
Ask for "Career education. It pays!" 
New name. New programs. Smart choice. 6, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
Editorial 
'Supreme' Seat 
Women dominate field 
for high court spot 
Beyond resuscitating the economy, one of the most critical 
decisions on tap for President Barack Obama lies in finding 
a replacement for outgoing Supreme Court Justice David 
Souter. Obama's upcoming selection will mark his first nomina­
tion to the nation's highest court-a choice that will undoubtedly 
carry weight beyond the four to eight years of his presidency. 
According to an article on CNN.com, the list of potential nomi­
nees has been narrowed down to approximately six serious con­
tenders. Interestingly enough, out of the individuals with a viable 
shot of succeeding Souter, all but one are female. Ruth Bader Gins­
burg, appointed by former President Bill Clinton in 1993, is cur­
rently the only woman serving on the Supreme Court. 
Out of the group of women currently being considered by 
Obama, the confirmed names include federal appeals court judges 
Sonia Sotomayor and Diane Wood, and Solicitor General Elena 
Kagan. 
Sotomayor, 54, who would become the first Hispanic justice if 
appointed, has bipartisan appeal but recently faced criticism on 
"The Late Show with David Letterman," where her intelligence 
and demeanor were called into question. Such accusations seem 
particularly baseless considering Sotomayor's strong academic 
background, which include degrees from Princeton and Yale. 
While her candidacy has garnered some negative attention from 
late night talk show types, most telling about her chances for a 
nomination stems from her support from both of New York's sen­
ators, who penned a letter of support to Obama on her behalf. 
The other federal appeals court judge, Wood, 59, currently 
works as an instructor at the University of Chicago -the school 
where she first forged a friendship with Obama. What may be go­
ing against Wood, aside from her age, is the fact she did not attend 
an Ivy League school for either her undergraduate or law school 
studies. Even though a quick look at the academic backgrounds of 
the current Supreme Court justices reveals a heavy trend toward 
Ivy-based educations, Wood's decision to attend the University of 
Texas for the entirety of her collegiate career should not preclude 
her from serious consideration by Obama. 
Beyond her current position, Kagan made a name for herself 
as a professor and then later while presiding as dean of Harvard 
Law School. Fortunately for Kagan, the 49-year-old attorney who 
serves as the administration's top attorney before the Supreme 
Court, a lack of judicial experience may not deter her chances of 
assuming Souter's seat. In addition to her strong academic back­
ground, Kagan exhibited political acumen while working under 
the Clinton administration as associate White House counsel. 
For Obama, the criteria of youth has been made known as a 
highly desired attribute. Given the fact that a younger appoint­
ment could serve as many as 30 or more years on the Supreme 
Court, Obama has paid careful attention to the ages of all of the 
candidates as he prepares to make his decision. Such an emphasis 
on longevity of service could potentially bode well for Kagan, who 
has yet to celebrate her 50th birthday. 
A quick glance at former President George W. Bush's admin­
istration would reveal the prior two appointments skewing more 
toward the young side. Both Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice 
Samuel Ali to, appointed to the high court in 2005 by Bush, remain 
years away from receiving Social Security benefits. For Wood, 59, 
an appointment to the Supreme Court may have unfortunately 
passed her by. 
Regardless of age, the quality of candidates appears quite im­
pressive which will ultimately pay huge dividends for Obama's 
impact as a president -both now and beyond his time in office. 
The diversity of potential appointments, in terms of gender, eth­
nicity and career path, speaks volumes of the Obama Administra­
tion's willingness to be open-minded. What remains important, 
though, is delivering a nominee respected by both Republicans 
and Democrats alike, so that the confirmation process runs its 
course in a relatively timely manner. 
alliiaiiOr 
Kristin Bjornsen 
EDITOR 
Brittany Davis 
Jennifer Jenkins 
MANAGING EDITORS Dan Seco 
OPINIONS EDITOR 
The Alligator encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author's name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to 
letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458. ■ Opin ions ALLIGATOR 
www.alligator.org/opinions 
~---,"Copyrighted Material 
Syndicated Content ----§;.;"-, 
Available from Commercial News Providers" 
Column 
Oprah's latest act not finger-lickin' good 
Oprah Winfrey rose to power by capturing the 
hearts and minds of millions of devoted follow­
ers. According to industry estimates, her weekly 
television audience and magazine subscribers combine to 
form a bloc of over 50 million committed supporters. 
In real terms, there are more people living in Oprahl­
and than in Spain. 
Her power over her devotees has brought her enor­
mous wealth and worldwide fame, and for most of her 
career Oprah wielded this omnipotence in a benevolent 
manner. Last week, though, the KFC coupon fiasco laid 
bare an Oprah wholly unlike the one we thought we knew 
so well. 
Oprah told the world last Friday that she bought every­
one in America a grilled chicken meal at KFC. This seemed 
at first like a fun little stunt -Oprah always gives stuff 
away on her show, and everyone could use a free meal 
these days. 
In a completely unsurprising chain of events, Oprah's 
free chicken meal was a huge success. So much so that 
KFC franchises across the country had to turn away the 
coupons after only a day of the weeklong promotion. Peo­
ple got angry because Oprah said she already paid for all 
this chicken. 
KFC managed to win this media game -of course they 
planned for this to happen. Every news outlet in the coun­
try mentioned not only KFC but also the new grilled chick­
en. The stories all make it seem like this grilled chicken is 
better than heroin. Their CEO came out with a smarmy 
YouTube "apology" that played like another commercial 
for his greasy new chicken meals. 
Oprah, though, is in a tough place now. She just got 
the PETA "Person of the Year" award for her recent ex­
posure of sustainable food and agriculture, and now she Tommy Maple 
lette rs@a 11 igato rorg whores herself out for a company 
that PETA calls "Kentucky Fried 
Cruelty." Naturally, PETA is 
pussyfooting around this fracas; 
their official line is that Oprah was 
"deliberately misled" about KFC. 
Oprah never paid for any chick­
en -she got paid millions to pull 
this stunt. 
The first sign of trouble came with the massive support 
on all of Oprah's media platforms for "The Secret." Oprah 
devoted months of exposure to the promotion of a pyra­
mid scheme built of puerile thoughts and fake spiritual­
ity. 
Here is how "The Secret" works. Step one, you need to 
desire material things. Step two, wish for them. Step three 
is being rich and getting on Oprah to promote your stupid 
book/ movie about magic wishing power. Somewhere, the 
Underpants Gnomes are furious they didn't think of this 
first. 
"The Secret" actually says that bad things only happen 
to people who think bad thoughts. Oprah has donated 
time and money to Rwandan genocide recovery, but it 
turns out that what she should have been doing all along 
is just getting the damned Hutus and Tutsis to read "The 
Secret." 
Something is rotten in the state of Oprahland these last 
few years. Queen Oprah has enjoyed a long and prosper­
ous reign atop the American media structure for more 
than 20 years. If absolute power corrupts absolutely, what 
exactly are we to make of the damning scope of Oprah 
power? 
Tommy Maple is an international communications gradu­
ate student. His column appears weekly. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator. 
Reader response 
Today's question: Should Obama 
select a woman to replace Justice 
David Souter? Tuesday's question: Are you 
happy to be in Gainesville for the 
summer? 
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org 65% YES 
35% NO 
172 TOTAL VOTES THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009■ALLIGATOR, 7 
□D 
~ ~ 
• LARGE 1, 2 & 3 • GAZEBO 
8 EDROOM PLANS • SAUNA A p A R T M E N T s 
• SWIMMING PoOL 
• LAUNDRY 700 SW 62ND BLVD. • 877-781-8314 
• WORKOUT ROOM • Prrs WELCOME www.LAKEWoooV1LLAs.coM 
• TENNIS COURTS 
LUXURY APARTMENT HOMES 
701 SW 62ND BLVD. 888-267-5078 www.spyglassapts.com 
• Individual Leases 
• Furnished Units 
• Modern Weight Room 
• Computer/Study Room 
• Monitored Alarm Systems 
• Every Unit is an End Unit 
• Utility & Entertainment 
Packages Available 
• Swimming Pool 
• Sauna 
• Whirlpool 
• Tennis Courts 
• Sand Volleyball 
• Basketba ll Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff 
Headed to the Station 
A UF police officer assists into a patrol car in front of the University Auditorium 
Wednesday. was arrested when an officer discovered a warrant for his arrest after 
stopping him for driving through a barricaded area without a proper decal. The warrant was for 
a parole violation in Broward County, according to UF Police Officer Robert Wagner. 
-KATIE EMMETS 
"Copyrigtitecl Material 
Syndicated Content 
Available from Commercial News Providers'' 
1st 10 donors in FREE A.. ,ft, Gainesville's Ultimate Sports Bar 
T of Silliards, inc. 
BEAT THE HEAT 
Saturday/Sunday 
½ Price Pool from noon to 5 p.m. 
(All Summer -except event days) 
May 16 
Corvette/Hot rod Cruz-In May 17 
Arts 9 ball open 
Registration at Noon Trophies awarded . $15 entry fee 
10am-3pm 
Universi1yAve 
Williston Rd Q Art 
of Billiards 
2 Miles South of Campus All this plus great drink specials, check website for info 
HOURS: Mon-Thu 3pm-2am 
Fri & Sat Noon-2am -Sunday Noon-11 pm 
352.225.3535 -4251 SW 13th St 
vvvvvv.a.-tofbillia.-ds_com 
wanted? 
Alligator Classifieds. [352]373.FIND alligator THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 ■ ALLIGATOR, 9 
Save Hundreds 
Funded by the Florida Dept. of Health and the University of Florida -Area Health Education Centers Butler Plaza Newberry Square 
(Next to Archer Road Wal-Mart) (Next to Newberry Road"k-Mart) 
335-1232 332-3937 
IUFTeach 
Developing the Next Generation of Flor1das Math and Science Teaches 
INSPIRE FUTURE LEARNERS 
Are you interested in a 
career in education? 
Become a math or science 
teacher through a 
new minor at the 
University of Florida. 
Now registering 
for Fall 2009 classes. 
http://ufteach.org 
SAFETY BELTS 
►~ ■ 
SMART FROM 10, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
LOCAL 
GRU plans to provide Internet to rural, historic areas 
By CHELSEA KEENAN 
Alligator Writer 
Gainesville Regional Utility committee members and em­
ployees discussed Gainesville's accessibility to broadband In­
ternet Wednesday afternoon. 
Congress's Stimulus Bill allotted $7.2 billion in grants and 
loans, some of which will be used to bring broadband Internet 
to rural and underdeveloped areas. 
During an April meeting, members of the Committee said 
that research should be done to work toward adding Internet 
into older neighborhoods in downtown and East Gainesville. 
GRU's Internet service, GRUCom, provides access to many 
existing student apartment complexes near UF and Santa Fe 
College. 
"I would want us to look for ways to 
make this economically feasible for other 
customers as well." 
Craig Lowe 
GRU committee chair 
It's harder to add Internet into older, already established 
developments many times because of infrastructure or wiring, 
said committee member Lauren Poe. 
"I would want us to look for ways to make this economi­
cally feasible for other customers as well," said Craig Lowe, the 
committee's chair. "We're essentially providing development 
potential to other areas. I'm looking to perhaps increase our fo­
cus to areas and businesses we're not reaching." 
Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff 
Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan discusses the possibility of GRU expanding Internet access during a meeting 
on GRU services at the company's Fourth Avenue headquarters Wednesday afternoon. Mayor Pegeen Hanrahan, who also serves as a member of 
the committee, agreed with Lowe, adding she would like to of­
fer incentives that the city could provide for land developers to 
use GRUCom as their Internet provider. 
Student wins $25K 
on 'Millionare' show 
■ HE PLANS TO TRAVEL TO 
ITALY WITH HIS WINNINGS. 
By JESSICA CHAPMAN 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Diastema did him in. 
Biting his lip while he stared at his 
options on the screen, Eric Gunther 
nervously made a guess as he sat in 
the Hot Seat. The seconds quickly 
ticked down. 
Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Final 
answer. 
Gunther, a UF advertising senior, 
walked away from the game show 
"Who Wants To Be a Millionaire," 
which aired Monday night on ABC, 
with $25,000. 
"It's always been something I've 
wanted to do," said Gunther, who is 
graduating in fall 2009. "It's kind of 
cool. It'll be a great story to tell. It was 
so weird to see it on TV." 
Gunther is paying his own way 
through school, but he said he is not 
too concerned with loans and bills 
right now. 
"They have low interest," Gunther 
said. "They're not the biggest worry 
right now." 
Some of the $25,000 Gunther won 
will go toward a trip to Italy he is 
planning, he said. 
He said he looks forward to start­
ing his life with a little financial free­
dom, but he does not plan on putting 
a majority of the money toward pay­
ing off loans. 
The show was hosted by celeb­
rity guest host Samantha Harris, the 
co-host for ABC's "Dancing with the Stars." 
Harris said the show was a night of 
firsts, referring to her first time host­
ing a game show and Gunther's first 
time on a game show. 
Gunther won the $25,000 after in­
correctly guessing the answer to the 
$50,000 question: 
A diastema is a type of problem 
commonly corrected by which of 
these medical professionals? 
A: Dermatologist, B: Podiatrist, C: 
Orthodontist, D: Cardiologist. 
"I'm not disappointed." 
Eric Gunther 
UF advertising senior 
Gunther used the "Ask the Expert" 
lifeline, a new feature on the show that 
allows contestants to connect with a 
former contestant via Skype video, to 
answer the question. The "experts" 
are selected by "Millionaire" spon­
sors. 
Howard Johnson, a former "Mil­
lionaire" contestant who won $250, 
000 when he appeared on the show in 
2005, was the expert for this episode. 
Johnson told Gunther to "definite­
ly go with A (Dermatologist)," telling 
him he was 80 to 90 percent sure that 
he was correct. 
Despite the fact that Gunther 
thought the answer was cardiologist, 
he went with Johnson's suggestion. 
Both Gunther and Johnson were 
wrong. The answer was orthodontist. 
"I'm not disappointed," Gunther 
said. "That's part of the game show. 
You don't know if he will know the 
answer or not." Accepted UF grads maintained 3.9 GPA 
HARVARD,trom page 1 
as early as November, while most other law 
schools don't admit or reject students until 
spring, according to www.top-law-schools. 
com. But the early acceptance works as a way 
to hook students on the idea of Harvard and 
reel them in, according to Gross. 
"I found out so early that by the time I got 
accepted to other really great schools, like Co­
lumbia, I was already pretty set on Harvard," 
Gross said. 
But the accepted earned themselves spots 
at HLS by submitting focused personal state­
ments, maintaining at least a 3.9 grade point 
average, staying involved on campus, receiv­
ing valued teacher recommendations and 
scoring a 172-177--out of 180--on the Law 
School Admissions Test, which fall within the 
top one percentile in the country. 
D'Oyley, who served as a Student Govern­
ment senator for district D at UF, was especial­
ly excited when HLS became a possibility. 
"Harvard has always been my dream 
school, and I was rejected from there for un­
dergrad," she said. "I still have to dig up that 
rejection letter." 
Michael Heaney, UF assistant professor of 
political science, who has also taught at other 
well-respected schools like Yale, Northwestern 
and Georgetown, helped educate many of the 
accepted students on current controversies in 
public policy. Rosen, Gross and D'Oyley said 
his teachings inspired them for the future. 
"I always had a strong sense that these stu­
dents were going somewhere," Heaney said. 
But these days, somewhere doesn't come 
cheap, as HLS tuition can add up to $120,000 
over three years compared to in-state UF Levin 
College of Law of only about $30,000. 
Akerman said her plan was always to go to 
UF for undergraduate school and then go to a private law school. Gross had the same idea. 
In the current economic climate, the accept­
ed students must take out loans -a stark con­
trast to being more or less paid to go to UF. 
"It's such a long term investment that will 
allow me to do great things," Rosen said. 
Harvard claims that the nearly six-figure 
salary each HLS graduate will earn in their 
first year out of law school should allow stu­
dents to pay back loans in no time, according 
to the HLS Web site. Yet, even with the high 
tuition, freezing weather, the sleepless nights 
and the Socratic method lurking in the stu­
dents' minds, the idea that other Gators will be 
by their side has somewhat calmed the storm, 
Akerman said. 
National Their varying involvement 
News offers HLS a well-rounded 
part of the Gator Nation, too. 
Rosen spent her time as 
an undergraduate researching with the Gra­
ham Center for Public Service, D'Oyley found 
her safe haven in SG, Gross spent his days 
as a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, 
D' Angelo invested her time in community ser­
vice and Akerman was an involved member 
of Phi Mu Sorority. 
"SomepeoplejokethatI'm the Elle Woods," 
Akerman said. "But I'm not blond, which is a 
very good thing." 
UF pre-law adviser Sara Mock said be­
tween one and nine UF students are accepted 
to HLS each year. 
Sarah Woodberry, a 2009 UF graduate and 
first year HLS student, said she finds time for 
social activities, and aside from more reading 
assignments, she doesn't find the workload 
frightening or overwhelming. 
But the seven still have their doubts about 
law school's ease they said. 
"I think we can all do it," Rosen said. "But 
I might be singing a very different song in Au­
gust." 12: 
13: he said it 
"Florals are for middle-aged 
women with weight 
problems." 
Karl Lagerfeld via Twitter 
David Low mourns the loss 
of our dying language to 
acronyms and TMI sites 
Katie Emmets talks to the 
artist of a paper mache ren­
dition of Andrew Meyer's 
Tasering, which recently 
sold for $5,000. 
[health] 
In honor of National Fitness Month (and 
maybe because all the best shows are reach­
ing their season finales) here are some ways 
to make the rest of the month a little lighter. 
1) Walk. Face it. Gainesville isn't that big. 
The farthest most of us ever get is 2 miles, 
and the time it takes to wait for the bus 
could have you where you need to be by foot. 
2) Swim. While lying out, stop staring at the 
water, just jump in. Twenty minutes of water 
thrashing burns an average of 180 calories 
and is way better than trying to tune out the 
awful pool music. 
3) Run. Even if just for 20 feet, when a slight 
pang of energy hits just take off. Every sec­
ond of intense activity counts. 
4) Love. Sex burns calories, tones muscles 
and releases feel-good chemicals. You win 
every way. 
5) Play. Embrace your inner child. Crash the 
neighborhoods' kids' hopscotch round, toss 
a ball, chase the ice cream truck-you might 
not have the vigor kids do, but you're still 
young, if it works for them it could work for 
you. 
-STEPHANIE GRANADA 12, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
Eloquence 
lost in time 
DAVID LOW♦ AVENUE WRITER 
In an America where all you seem 
to hear about is our economy and 
our armed and civil conflicts, it is 
sometimes helpful to revisit griev­
ous times of the past -to read the 
thoughts of those who have en­
dured if only simply to endure. You 
do this to take in some perspective 
of human experience, some sense 
of nationality and it is good. But 
shouldn't we be able to find strength 
in our own time, in our own words? 
I'm not saying there are no great 
writers today, it just seems like the 
general populations of the past 
had the ability to write well, which 
is something to be desired today if 
you've ever read a blog. 
Take the Civil War. Thousands 
of men and women recorded their 
insights and emotions, with an elo­
quence and, if not flowery, stately 
candor in their correspondence. 
Of course, the Union and the 
Confederacy's strife were of a mag­
nitude far greater than ours by prox­
imity and scale, thus 
Off the involving more people 
Avenue in events out of the or-
dinary than our strug­
gles do today. This perhaps gives us 
a leisurely disposition toward our 
expression in words. 
The decline in writing must have 
come when everyone learned to 
type. Words now are common and 
often, holding no majesty. Words 
upon paper are blocks pressed on by 
a machine sitting next to a desk, not 
a flowing imprint of individuality. 
Writing is a tradition we've al­
lowed ourselves to relinquish. An 
unfortunate side effect is perpetu­
ally dumbing down our language. 
In an introductory journalism 
courses, I was told to "write as if 
you were writing for a third-grad­
er." I understand the importance of 
clarity in journalism, but couldn't 
we at least pander to a grade where 
the kids have studied the language 
more complex than "the quick fox 
jumped over the lazy dog"? 
Twitter and Facebook have not 
helped. These sites and others have 
given everyone the ability to share 
worthless bits of information that 
if kept to oneself, would never be 
considered worthy of repetition. 
It allows one to let everything out 
without a thought, which, perhaps, 
never comes. If it did, there would 
probably be less posts about what 
you had for lunch or how your nap 
was. In 140 characters or less. 
Abbreviations and acronyms 
have never been so popular. Sure 
there were a lot of them for all the 
work programs during the FDR 
presidency, but now we have acro­
nyms for commonly used phrases or 
actions. LOL. ROFL. BRB. OMG. 
Have we become too connected 
for expressive speech to be use­
ful? Too informed for sentiment? 
Too "on-the-go" to write complete 
sentences? Could it be that written 
and spoken word is slowly devolv­
ing until we reach the most effi­
cient means of communication with 
chemical signals amplified from 
brain to brain, our final utterances 
low grunts? 
Um, that would be pretty cool ac­
tually . Brain telepathy FTW. Top 100 Healthy Menus 
Restaurants in USA Award 
Winner! Join us and experience 
afternoon tea time! Special 
selection from British and 
Asian style teas. Variety of tea 
appetizers served with a pot of 
tea of your choice. Over 24 types 
of tea available. Seating available 
• for parties for up to SO people. 
Private rooms available. Tea 
• time between noon and 5pm. 
Free wireless internet access. 
e 3610 SW 13th St. 376-8998 
• www.merlionrestaurant.net 
• 
• THESWAMP 
• RESTAURANT 
The Swamp offers something for 
everyone; signature wings, fresh 
dishes, homemade soups made 
fresh daily and an atmosphere 
sure to please. Sit outside and 
enjoy cool misting systems on 
cozy outside decks or sit inside 
and see the best memorabilia in 
town. Swamp, daily offers lunch, 
dinner and drink specials and a 
happy hour from 4 to 8pm. Don't 
forget your curbside service 
and remember The Swamp 
always caters to you! www. 
swamprestaurant.com 
1642 W. Univ. Ave 
37-SWAMP 
akfast & 
Lunch 
Bagels Unlimited 
Serving Gainesville for over 
25 years. BU is a tradition of 
sorts. We offer many breakfast 
platters cooked fresh, featuring 
omelettes, eggs any style, large 
pancakes , French Toast, Knishes, 
17 varieties of bagels and a large 
assortment of spreads. Also 
available are tofu and tempeh. 
Over 100 bottles of hot sauces 
are available for sampling. 
1222 West University Ave. 
Open everyday from 6:30am-
3pm. 
Maude's Classic 
Coffee 
A gourmet coffee shoppe with 
a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. We also 
serve delicious sandwiches, 
salads, appetizers, beer, & wine. 
Much of our menu is vegan or DINING 
Coffee Shop 
vegetarian friendly. Bring your Watchers ®, and other dieters. SaBaBa own CLEAN 12 oz. cup and get Our every day daily specials Only a few short blocks from a daily brew for a buck. Indoor make shopping at D'Lites a UF, you can experience a fusion and outdoor seating available. special value! Come weigh your of fresh Israeli and Middle Free wireless and parking options at the Marketplace Plaza Eastern food & great homestyle behind the building. Downtown at NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd St. cooking! Our grocery features Gainesville 336-9646. (next to the Hollywood Video) unique products from Israel & • or at the Shoppes of Williston at more. With our kosher menu, S.W. 34th Street and Williston vegan/veggie options, & late Rd. (next to Publix) 375-4484 
Find us on Facebook! hours, you're sure to hit the spot • whether it's lunch, dinner, or Omi's Kitchen snack time. Don't forget to ask • Gainesville's Best in Cuban, aican about our specials & catering! 
Italian, and Mexican Cuisine. Free Wifi! Open for Passover • New menu items prepared daily! with a kosher for Passover 
Come try our famous Cuban Caribbean Queen menu. • sandwiches and slow roasted Offering jerk chicken, curry goat 352-376-7600 
pork. We cater 7 days a week! and oxtail. Opened Mon thru 409 SW 8th St 
Visit us in the Tower Square 2 Thurs l lam-7:30pm, Fri and Sat Check out our menu @ 
miles from Butler Plaza at 5729 llam-ll:4Spm. menu wall.com • SW 75th Street. Located at 507 NW 5th Ave. 
373-0301 352-374-8111 
Virtually Cuban • 
Restaurant & Mellow Mushroom • Internet Cafe Momoyaki WHEN IT RAINS, IT SPORES! 
BREAKFAST-LUNCH-DINNER- A rich selection of Japanese and Shroomin ' Summer Specials 
CATERING Korean dishes, all prepared with Slice & Coke $2. 78 
Located at 2409 SW 13th St a healthy, homemade touch. Pitchers $4.20 
just 1/4 mile from Shands Our cool, calm atmosphere and Happy Hour 3-7: 
Hospital. We specialize in great prices are designed with ALL APPS ½ PRICE 
authentic Cuban food. Breakfast your family in mind. Sushi, ALL MIXED DRINKS 2-4-1 
specials are cooked to order and bento, bubble tea, smoothies, ORDER ONLINE@ 
start at $3.99, Lunch special and more. Come check us out! mellowmushroom.com 
sandwiches start at $6.65 momoyaki.com Next to Crispers 
and entree specials at $7.40. at Archer and 34th. vegetarian Serving a variety of sandwiches 
pressed on fresh Cuban bread. Ke~ West Rapa Vieja, Chicken Fricase, • Style Book Lover's Cafe Picadillo, Roast Pork, Bistec 
de Palomilla, Pork Chops, Cabana Cove Vegetarian and Vegan cuisine. 
Shrimp Creole and Scampi are Natural, organic, fair trade, 
just a few of the entrees. Also Key West Grille meals, sandwiches, soups, 
available are empanadas, Cuban Open for Lunch & Dinner home-baked desserts. Brunch 
pastries, croquettes, flan, guava $6.99 Daily Lunch Specials Weekends. Specials: Cupcake 
cheesecake and other Cuban Happy Hour 4pm-7pm w/ Mon., Greek Wed 6pm, 
delicacies. Open Monday-Friday $12.50 Buckets of ANY beer Ethiopian Thurs 6pm. 
6:45am-9pm , Saturday llam- Check Out Our New & Exciting MO-TH 10am-9pm. 
9pm, Sunday closed. For the Menu & Expanded Fri -Sun 10am-8pm. 
latest menu and hours please Sunday Brunch Menu SOS NW 13th St. 384-0090 
visit our website virtuallycuban. w /Complimentary Mimosas 
com or call 
336-4125 $4 Martini Menu Wednesdays FOR MORE: 
$4 Mojito Menu Thursdays INFORMATION ON 
$5 off next $25 purchase THE: GUIDE: TO DINING OUT. 
With This Ad CONTACT 
D'Lites Emporium 352-377-3278 
Healthy never tasted so good! www .cabanacove .net BRITTANY FAYNE, 
D'Lites has the lowest calorie ice 2410 NW 43rd St. ALLIGATOR AD\JERTl)ING, cream in Gainesville-REALLY-Gainesville, Fl. 32606 
and is the only low-calorie Located Behind Garden 376.448Q soft serve with NO artificial Gate Nursery 
sweeteners. We rotate over 100 
d'licious creamy flavors (see 
this week's at www.gatordlites. 
com) that are diet-friendly allij3i0r without the diet taste. We also 
feature a whole array of cookies, 
chips, and various grocery treats 
that appeal to Atkins®, Weight 
• THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 ■ ALLIGATOR, 13 
Art 
Papier-mache replica of Meyer's Tasering sells for $SK 
Artist says public to blame 
KATIE EM METS ♦ AVENUE WRITER 
Action-figure-sized Andrew 
Meyer thrashed on top of a 2-by-
2 wooden box as police figurines 
held a Taser to him. 
Arizona artist Tom Haddock, 
48, created the model to show the 
public his concern about freedom 
of speech infringement. 
The model shows four officers 
struggling to hold Meyer down 
and then shooting him with a 
Taser gun, a something that you would expect 
to happen in America, at least not 
in this time." 
Haddock said he feels uneasy 
about living in a country that 
condones such behavior. 
He doesn't have a background 
in politics, but much of Had­
dock's art reflects political mat­
ters that concern him. 
Haddock said he has been 
We as Americans 
were definitely turning 
the crank with the creating these 
moving models 
called atoma­
tons for about reenactment 
of the Sept. 
17, 2007 inci­
dent at a John 
Kerry speech decisions that we made because a year and a 
atUF. 
The hand­
cranked mod­
el, made most­
ly of wood and we value security more than free­
dom of speech half. 
The model, 
taking four Tom Haddock 
Artist 
papier-mache, sold for $5,000 to a 
private collector after it appeared 
in the Art Basel Miami Beach 
show in December. 
Haddock said no matter what 
Meyer did, no one should be 
dragged away from a microphone 
and Tased for exercising freedom 
of speech. 
"It's pretty egregious to Tase 
someone for asking a question 
at a place where a politician 
is speaking," he said. "It's not months to 
make, was part 
of a collection 
that included other political and 
social statements. 
One of Haddock's models 
portrayed the rape and murder 
of a 14-year-old Iraqi girl by a 
U.S. soldier, and another showed 
the dead body of a prisoner who 
was killed after questioning in 
Abu Ghraib, a U.S. prison that 
closed in 2006 amidst torture al-
legations. 
In Haddock 's model of Meyer, 
a person must manually turn a 
The BIGGEST little secret on campus is out! 
C c_O\.lEGl//'J"f: 
I~~~,, l ~ The Student-Exclusive Superpower TM 
All Private. All Student. All Independent. 
New social community exclusively for college students 
first Annual 
Summer Championships 
• $500.00 Cash prize 
Top Winners 
Join ... Compete ... Win! 
GaloPs ... Give ii up fo,,: 
Best Band • Best Voice 
Top Dancer• Top Athlete• Hot Bod4 
and more! 
Join today: www.collegiatenation.com 
Upload videos & photos. Vote for your friends. Courtesy of Jon Haddock, Whitelead.com 
This automaton created by Jon Haddock is based on the Tasering of Andrew Meyer at a 2007 speech by 
Sen. John Kerry at UF's University Auditorium by University of Florida police officers. 
crank on the side of the box to 
make Meyer thrash. 
Haddock said the cranking 
suggests that the public is par­
tially responsible. 
"We as Americans were defi­
nitely turning the crank with the 
decisions that we made because 
[,►,~•""'." .. ""'." .. ""'." .. ~•""'."•~ .. ""'." .. ~•""'."•~•""'-:'•'"""." .. ""'."•'-:"•""'."•~ .. "":'•~ .. '""'.'"• 
'1~ 13""• ~ ~l GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS ~l 
~◄ 25% OFF anv one GNC Product •◄ 
~◄ Cannotberombined.OneCouponpercustomer ~◄ 
~◄ 3914 SW Archer Rd ~◄ 
\ only avallable at Butler Plaza loatlon ~◄ 
♦' Dail S ecials 377 -6020 Exp. 8/23/09 I ~--..,--•.1---•.-..•--- ... --• ....... ___ ........ ___ ... ___ • ___ ~ ~ ~ ~..,---. ___ ~ 
......... ........ == §$ 
~ ;::::::; 
CZ:: ......... >­
::iii!: == l 3'H STRHT we value security more than free­
dom of speech," he said. 
Although he never contacted 
Meyer, Haddock said he views 
Meyer as a victim and a sym­
bol for what is happening to the 
United States. 
Although "don't Tase me, 
352.338. 7 467 *Contact leasing office for details. 
universityhouse.com bro" was popularly displayed on 
T-shirts and bumper stickers, the 
issue is serious, Haddock said. 
"When it becomes this catch­
phrase that people say over and 
over again, people kind of forget 
about how terrible it really is," he 
said. 
ABiotest 
From Nature for Life 
Preserve Lives. 
Enhance the Quality of Lives. 
Blood Plasma 
Donors Needed. 
Your plasma can be used to 
manufacture life-saving therapies 
for the treatment of hemophilia. 
cancer, burn and trauma patients . 
Please help us help those coping 
with rare, chronic, genetic diseases. 
New donors can receive $20 today 
& $60 this week! 
Ask about our Specialty Programs! 
Must have valid ID along with proof 
of 55# and local residency. 
Must be 18 years or older. 
Mon-Thu: 8:00 am-7:00 pm 
Fri: 8:00 am-5:00 pm 
Sat: 8:00 am-4:00 pm 
Wireless Internet Now Available! 
BIOTEST PLASMA CENTER 
1112 N. Main St. 
Gainesville , FL 32601 
352-378-9431 $430 per bedroom-All inclusive! 
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail 
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym! 
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime 
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777 
these apts kick other apts in the teeth 
8-17-25-1 
HEY!! OVER HERE!!! 
3/3s from $395!!! 
4/4s from $358!!! 
2/2.5 Townhomes from $486!!! 
*Roommate Matching*FREE Tanning* 
*Utility Packages*NEW Gym Equipment* 
*Sparkling Pool*Washer /Dryer* 
FREE UF PARKING *Great Bus Route* 
TheLandingsUF .com*352-336 -3838 
8-17-25-1 
Greenwich Green 
Sizzling Low Rates! 
Free Tanning! Free Cable! 
Pool! Jacuzzi! W/0 in Unit! 
Waived Move-in Fees! 
1,2,3 beds! 372-8100 
8-17-25-1 
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts. 
www.ApartmentslnGainesville.com 
8-17-25-1 
Female roommates needed for 3/3, own bed/ 
bath, washer/dryer, at Windsor Park, near 
34th and Archer. Close to UF on bus stop, 
pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $450, 1/3 utilities. 
Prefer clean and studious. 407-361-1154. 
6-4-09-24-1 • Gainesvi [{e <Pface 
APAR TMENTS 
FREE $1100 SCOOTER*42" TV 
NEW FURN*$750 CASH BACK 
ALL INCLUSIVE RATES FROM $447 
Huge 2's & 4's 1 Mi from UF 
Groups of 3+ receive BIG INCENTIVES 
GainesvillePlace.com*271-3131 
8-17-25-2 
The Crossing at Santa Fe 
$484 -$509 Gets you all this! 
Furnished , Free Ethernet, Free Cable & 
Utilities, W/D, Events, 
Roommate Matching! 379-9300 
8-17-09-25-1 
LIMITED TIME ONLY 
REDUCED RATES! 
All Inclusive Student Living 
4/4's@$399 
3/3's@$429 
2/2's@ $519 
LexingtonCrossingUF .com 
Don't Miss Out! Ph: 373-9009 
8-17-25-1 BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND 
■ ■ ass1 1e 
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
We Have your roommates! 
We DON'T have fees .. 
NOW PET FRIENDLY! 
Limited time only: $0 Deposit/$0 Fees, and 
ask how to get your lease FREE! 
$ign now and pay $0 fees. Nicely fur­
nished 2/1 or 4/2 condos renting by the 
bedroom starting at only $439 all inclusive. 
Furniture ,cable,pest control.refuse & W/D all 
included.GYM.PC LAB, POOL/SPA , AND 
MORE!! Hurry will not last at these rates. 
$ave $500!!! 
352-377 -6700 www.Ucommonscondos.com 
8-17-25-1 
!BRAND NEW SCOOTER! 
(Retails at $1100) 
OR 
Upgraded Apartments Available 
*New Furniture *42" TV 
LexingtonCrossingUF.com 
Limited Availability! 373-9009 
8-17-25-1 
$487 Roommate Match! 
Free $1100 Scooter! 1 Month Free! 
*CASH BACK! No Signing Fees! 
*All Inclusive 2/2's-$588/rm ; 3/3's $487/rm 
Fenced In Back Yards for Pets! 
FREE Roommate Match, Cable, Int. 
HUGE walk-in closets, porches, alarm. 
FREE Tanning, Gym, Comp. lab. 
2 Miles from UF on bus route. 
HiddenLakeUF .com 374-3866 
8-17-09-25-1 
-:: 2 Blocks To UF :: -Female & co-ed 
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $349. 283-8777 
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com 8-17-
09-25-1 
-LAMANCHACON □os-
Walk to Campus 4Br/1.5Ba. Includes elect, 
cable tv, & high speed internet. $350/mo 
352-278-9347 , www.lamanchacondos.com 
5-14-56-1 
2-Story Townhouse for Fall 
Rent an entire 4BR or use Free Roommate 
Matching .ONLY 10 Steps to UF $479-$504/ 
month* All-Inclusive Rent * Fully-furnished 
www.TheCourtyards .net * 352-372-3557 
8-17-25-1 
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$349/MO 
Everything Incl + Fully Furn! 
Call Drew, 352-275-8555 8-17-09-25-1 
Arlington Square -2b/2ba- Luxury 
Townhouse Historical Downtown , Clean, 
Avail Immediate move-in, Call Sean 239-
410-1603 5-21-09-25-1 
CHAMPAGNE LIVING ON A BEER BUDGET 
All inclusive 2/2 for just $589 
FREE SCOOTER*NEW FURN 
SIGN W/ RM AND GET 42" TV 
271-3131-GainesvillePlace.com 
8-17-25-2 
$950/mo. Windsor Park. 2BR/2BA Furnished . 
New W/0. Property has clubhouse, pool, 
fitness and business ctr. Bus route to UF 
Campus. Cable/Internet only. 
305-788-5681 /Windsor515@gmail .com. 
7 -28-09-30-1 
The Crossings at Santa Fe Summer 
Sublease -1 bed/1 bath apartment for 
summer. Rent price is $484/month 
OBO. Includes utilities, cable, internet, 
also fully furnished.If interested , email 
Brandon5890@aol.com. 
5-21-10-1 Countryside Apartments 4/4 with W/D. 
Great location, spacious. $400/per room/ 
per month. $200 SD. Call (305) 799 7042 for 
more information. 7-28-09-26-1 
1 b/1 b Jefferson 2nd ave avail in May/June. 
$520mo with all util! WALK to UF. Fully fur­
nished, walkin closet, cable, internet, eleva­
tors, reserved parking! call (954) 695-2818 
5-21-5-1 
2 UF Grad Students Seeking 2 Roommates: 
-Walk to UF! Huge House close to campus. 
-Huge Rooms, Garage, Pool Table, Yard 
-Make New Friends. Individual Leases. 
Contact: Joe (954-547-6907) 
joepegg 1@hotmail.com 6-2-09-7 -1 
1 MONTH FREE RENT 4/2 CONDO FOR 
THE FALL University Commons ONLY 
$399.00.LESS THAN 2 Miles from UF on 
bus route 
386-336-5738.tinkierani@yahoo .com 7 -2-
09-14-1 
$400/mo incl everything. Own BR w/full bath 
& walkin closet in 4BR @ Countryside. Free 
util, DSL, upgrade cable, W/D. Pool etc. $200 
deposit. 2 avail May 15th, 1 avail Aug 1st. 
Year lease req after Aug 1. 352-281-4588 
7-7-09-15-1 
New townhouse on 39th road next to Royal 
Park Plaza. 1 mile from UF, partially fur­
nished, no pet fee. $1100+. Contact Scott at 
954-288-7762 or srollo@ufl.edu 5-28-6-1 
Beautiful FULLY FURNISHED 2BR/2BA 
Condo in Oakbrook Walk on SE 13 Ave. 
Includes washer/dryer , high speed internet, 
cable, water. Short walk/bike ride to classes. 
$395 per BR w/1 year lease. Call Paul at 
904-607-0777 or Morgan at 904-887-5459 
6-4-8-1 
Countryside at the University -4/4, $450.00/ 
month per room, uncludes utilities, 2 miles 
from campus and on bus route. Contact 
Luanne at (352) 483-1052 (must dial area 
code) 5-28-09-6-1 
$325 Univ Commons 4BR/2BA Privately 
Owned Rent is below property mgmt rate ! 
Full size washer and dryer, quiet 3rd floor 
with balcony. Free cable TV with HBO. Also 
on 5 bus routes. $50/month utilities. Brad @ 
813-854-5628 , bkseshep@tampabay .rr.com 
5-28-09-6-1 
SUPERB FURNISHED CONDO!! Females 
only. University Terrace. Share Fabulous 
4BR/4BA upgraded furnished condo w/ 
students. 4 min to UF Everything incl. Fall 
$465/mo, Summer $425/mo. 239-248-2667 
5-28-09-6-1 
350/mo Countryside @ the University 4/4 
with W/0 Newly remodeled . Furnished . Call 
352-274-3089 or email 
redfox8979@gmail.com 
8-28-30-1 
May-August Sublease at The District on 62nd. 
Negotiable Rate, $380 a month, includes 
utilities, cable, internet. Fully furnished , W/D, 
priv. bathroom. Contact (386) 747-4420 or 
dqueenteresa310@ufl.edu. 5-26-5-1 
$1600 4br/4ba, june/july $800, 4 private 
bathrooms, wood floors, 55" plasma TV, w/d, 
fridge, oven, stove, disposal, furn or unfurn 
bus 20, 21 1M to SW rec 2M to shands con­
tact Hank 3864514122 rrouth@ufl.edu 7-2-
09-14-1 
condo Immediately Available for Summer and 
Fall leases. Private Bathrooms! washer and 
dryer. utilities cable and internet included. 
Quiet Great for graduate/medical students. 
Make me a reasonable Offer! Dave 407-579-
3136 ufproperty@gmail.com 8-6-23-1 1/1 in 4/4 Aug-July Countryside Apt GREAT 
CONDITION, FURNISHED , INCLUDES utili­
ties, cable/internet, poolside, gym, tiles, w/d, 
patio.Bus9&35, Female $480 Call PATEL 
941-747-2122. Avail also June/July09 5-28-
09-5-1 
1 bedroom with private bathroom in a 2/2 
luxury Condo, 5 minute walk to Campus; 
Oakbrook walk, on the corner of 13th and 
Archer. Apartment has Laundry/Dryer inside, 
all kitchen appliances are included, first floor 
apartment, new carpet, $500.00 per month 
included in rent, cable, internet, water, 24 
hour security, property includes a pool. 
Available all summer, fall and spring, terms 
of contract is negotiable . Please call Paola 
Buitron 954.558.0775 or email me at 
buitron.paola@gmail.com 5-14-1-1 
*$350* -rooms available in 4/4 Countryside 
Condo starting summer or fall. No security 
deposit and free internet and cable! On bus 
routes 9 and 35, very close to UF campus on 
SW 23rd St. Call 352.514.3398. 6-18-11-1 
*$350* rooms available immediately or 
summer/fall. Beautiful 4BR/4BA University 
Terrace condo. No sec dep, free internet & 
cable! On bus rts 12 & 35. Minutes to UF 
& shopping on SW 34th St. 352.514.3398. 
6-18-11-1 
eQUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE. 
Rustic 1 BR apt. $375/mo. 
e1 BR cottage $435/mo. Call 378-9220 or 
mobile 213-3901. 8-17-09-25-2 
UPSCALE 2/2 ACROSS FROM UF! 
From $599 per person 
$0 MOVE IN FEES 
Pet Friendly! W/D and Free Parking 
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
*L VONS SPECIAL* 
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797 
8-17-09-25-2 
LOW PRICE! HUGE FLOORPLANS! 
1 BR $600 * 2 BR $664 * 3 BR $775 
HUGE floor plans! Pets Loved! 
Bus stop * Pools * Green courtyards 
Open 7 days/wk* 335-7275 
8-17 -09-25-2 
The ONLY Apartments Downtown 
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs 
Studios from $645 
One Bedrooms from $840 
Two Bedrooms from $470/bed 
Three Bedrooms from $495/bed 
Washers & Dryers*Alarms*We Love Pets 
Limited availability-call for specials 
338-0002 www.arlingtonsquare.org 
8-17 -09-25-2 
A PRICE YOU CAN AFFORD! 
MOVE IN TODAY OR AUGUST! 
1 BR $513 * 2 BR $536 
Quiet * Pools * Bus stop 
Walk/Bike to UF & Shands 
Pets Loved* 372-7555 
8-17-09-25-2 
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, ?BR apt/house , 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 
538-2181 Iv message 8-17-09-25-2 
May Specials are Blooming! 
1, 2, & 4brs are 10% off! 
Pool, b-ball, tennis courts' 
W/D in select homes; We love pets! 
pinetreegardens.com*376-4002 
8-17 -09-25-2 ALLIGATOR 
www.alligator.org/classifieds 
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec­
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 8-17-09-25-2 
No deposit, No move-in fees!!! 
Huge 1 /1 's 2/2's 3/3's 
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym 
FREE tanning/FREE cable 
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777 
These apts kick other apts in the teeth 
8-17-25-2 
** ELLIE'S HOUSES ** 
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990 12-11-171-2 
HOUSES ACROSS FROM UF 
3 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS 
2-5 BEDROOM AVAIL FALL 
AS LOW AS $450/person 
371-7777 CollegeParkUF.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
THE LAURELS 
Come see our 1 /1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!! 
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime 
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning 
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly 
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back* 
www.thelaurelsuf .com 352-335-4455 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Want a sweet deal? 
Receive One Month Free Rent on 1 's & 2's 
Great location & pet friendly 
No Move In Fees! Call today 
373-1111 www.spanishtrace.org 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Close to Everything, Far From Expensive 
1 /1 -From $669 * 2/2 -From $799 * 
3/2 -From $930* 4/3 -From $1196 
Free Tanning*Pet Friendly*Amazing Specials 
(352) 376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
Feel the Heat? 
ONE MONTH FREE 
Pool* Jacuzzi*W /D in Unit 
1,2,3 Bed!*FREE Tanning! 
Cool off your wallet! 372-8100 
8-17 -09-25-2 
boardw~partments 
Move in today & pay $0 Move in Fees 
1/1 from $649; 2/2 from $725; 3/2 from $852 
W/0 Available -(352) 377-7401 
www.biketouf.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED! 
At the price you want 
No Move-in Fees! Move in TODAY! 
1, 1 widen & 2 BRs -Reduced Rates! 
FREE UF parking* FREE Gym 
Pets Welcome* 352-332-7401 
8-17-09-25-2 
eeePARKINGeee 
Private, Secure, Guaranteed . 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-17-09-25-2 
AS BIG AS A HOUSE 
Includes garage! 
2/2 and 3/3 Available Fall 
As low as $371 per person! 
372-0400*MadisonPointe.org 
8-17-25-2 Three Pools! Three Bus Routes! 
Two Jacuzzis! Business Center! 
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free 
weights! Sand Volleyball! 
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts! 
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping! 
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!! 
GREAT SPECIALS!!! 
1/1-$699 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$426w/all util 
2330 SW Williston Rd. 
www.ThePolosUF .com 352-335-7656 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Affordable , Quiet, Comfortable 
1 's from $499 * 2's from $699 
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza 
Pet Friendly * 376-1248 
www.hiddenvillageapt.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
AS BIG AS A HOUSE! 
Huge 4BR TH W/D inc. 
FREE UF Parking*FREE Gym 
Call for specials 332-7401 8-17-09-25-2 
~~e,:z,, / /~e, 
Sick of Roommates? 
1 br with w/d $659! 
HUGE walk-in Closets! 
Pool*Gym* Jacuzzi 
FREE Tanning! 372-8100 
8-17-09-25-2 
EVERYONE LOVES A THREESOME 
Join in-Live Downtown This Fall! 
3/3 Townhouses from $495! 
Lots of Perks-w/d, lofts, cable & internet 
Get 'em while they're hot-only 9 left 
Call for specials! 338-0002 
8-17 -09-25-2 
MUSEUM WALK 
Gainesville's Best Kept Secret 
2/2's -$1075 * 3/3's -$1425 
FREE Cable, FREE Tanning, FREE Water 
ParknRide Bus Route -Always be on time! 
www.museumwalk.com * 379-WALK 
8-17 -09-25-2 
epi$OOpeV~nglieen 
Episcopal Chapel House 
Chapel of Incarnation 
www.ufchapelhouse.com 
2 weekly communion services, 
lovely garden, sweet fellowship, 
holy fun! 352-372-8506 
JflWi$h 
~tud{Zl1t 0znt!ZI"$ 
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center 
-Your home away from home. 
-Friday Night Live! 
-Services & Shabbat Dinner. 
-8:30pm Summer A & B 
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th 
Ave. 
-(5 blocks north of the stadium) 
-www.JewishGator.com THREE BLOCKS TO UF! 
2br/1 ba from $700 
No Move-in Fees! Water included 
Wood floors avail! Pets loved! 
FREE Parking! 372-7111 
8-17 -09-25-2 Walk to Class! 
1brs from $550-150 ft from UF! 
$0 move-in fees! Move-in Today or Fall! 
FREE parking! Pets Welcome! 
372-7111 CollegeManor .org 
8-17-09-25-2 
LAKEWOOD VILLAS • Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans; 
Starting at $695 
Furniture Packages Inc. Washer/Dryer ; 
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool; 
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3 Gainesvi[Ce Pface 
APARTMENTS 
$447 ALL INCLUSIVE! 
FREE $1100 SCOOTER*NEW FURN 
RMM, Soccer field, New Gym 
Groups of 3+ receive BIG INCENTIVES 
GainesvillePlace .com*271-3131 
8-17-25-2 700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314 
www.lakewoodvilllas.com 
text (lakewood)@65586 
8-17 -09-25-2 
eSPYGLASS e 
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages 
Incl Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet; 
Rates start at $399 Action Real Estate Services 
Houses to Condos 
1-4 BR, Starting at $450 
www.action-realtors.com 
352-331-1133 
8-17-09-25-2 Every Unit is an End Unit 
Mon-Fri 10-5:30, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4 
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078 
www.spyglassapts.com 
text (spyglass)@65586 
8-17-09-25-2 
ACROSS FROM UF! 
No Move-in Fees! Pets loved. 
Studios -$549, includes electric! 
Wood floors available. FREE parking. 
372-7111 Collegemanor .org 
8-17 -09-25-2 tk~ 
1\ AR.TM 'T 
*Fully Furnished*AII Inclusive* 
Roommate Matching 
Free Scooter for each roommate* 
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1 br-4br* 
*4 Bus Routes*W/D *24hr Fitness center* 
*Beach-Entry Pool*Free Tanning* 
Pet-Friendly* 
HUGE Luxury 2's & 3's 
Luxury 3's from $397 a Room! 
Ask how to get a FREE $11 00 Scooter. EnclaveUF .com*352.376 .0696 
8-17 -09-25-2 
FREE Cable, Internet, Tanning, W/D. 
Luxury 2/2's from $490/rm; 3/3's $397/rm 
All Inclusive 2/2's-$588/rm; 3/3's $487/rm 
Fenced In Back Yards for Pets! ..._ -----,=----=::,,---:,- __,,,_..~ 
wcondominiums ¼<-' 
Sparkling Pool with Water Fall 
Only 2 Miles from UF on bus route. 
HiddenLakeUF.com 374-3866 
8-17 -09-25-2 
2 BLOCKS TO UF! 
2/1 and 2/2 FROM $380-$599 per person 
$0 MOVE IN FEES 2 Blocks North of UF College of Business 
You can't get any closer to your classes. No 
need to bus or bike! Brand new 2 bed/2.5 
bath townhouses for rent at Jackson Square. 
1320 NW 3rd Ave. Built solid so you don't 
have to hear your neighbors . New Orleans 
style, top of the line finishes. Granite coun­
tertops, excellent appliance package, private 
balconies and much more. Special: $1500/ 371-7777 CollegeParkUF .com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Non-<r){Zl1ominetionel 
University City Church of 
Christ 
Gators for Christ campus min­
istry -college group meets at 
University City church on Sundays 
at 9:30am and Wednesdays at 
7pm -practical application from 
God's word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals, 
and much more ... ( directions and 
events calendar at www.gators­
forchrist.org) mo. Call 352-870-9453. 8-17-25-2 
Pr{Z:$byt{Zrien 
Faith Presbyterian Church 
1 OAm Worship 
9Am Sunday School 
5916 NW 39th Avenue 
Gainesville 
Phone: 352-377-5482 
www.fpc-gnv.org 
Presbyterian & Disciples 
of Christ Student Center 
Open, affirming and spiritually 
diverse. Taize worship Sun. at 
5pm all semester. Theology on 
tap Tues. Stubbies Pub Downtown 
8pm. 
1402 W. University Ave. 
376-7539 pdsc.org 
Check our summer schedule. THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009■ALLIGATOR, 15 
*2-3BR/2BA APT IN HISTORIC HOUSE* 
10 blocks to UF. Near downtown . High ceil­
ing, wood floor, W/D, tons of character . 404 
SW 2nd St. $700/mo 352-214-9270 8-17-
09-25-2 
WALK TO UF -AVAILABLE NOW & FALL 
1 BR/$495 to $550/mo 
2BR & 3BR $560 to $1050/mo 
Gore Rabell Real Estate 
378-1387 Gore-Rabell.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
SUN ISLAND 
1 BRs from $575 2BRs from $655 
Sun Bay• Sun Key • Sun Harbor 
352-376-6720 sunisland .info 
Lower deposit for grad students! 
8-17 -09-25-2 
100+ Apts: Walk to UF 
* Roommate Matching * 4BR $479/br 
3BR $599/br * 2BR $420/br * 1 BR $699 
Studio $615 * Photos & Virtual Tours 
352-376-6223 * www.ForRentNEarUF .com 
8-17-25-2 
T~E ~imGS 
OUR PRICES ARE FLIPPIN' SWEET! 
1 MONTH FREE AND NO FEES!! 
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s 
Furnished Apts w/ALL APPLIANCES INCL!! 
Water, Cable, FREE Tanning, 24 HR GYM, 
FREE UF PARKING!!! 
Less than 2 miles from Campus!! 
TheLandingsUF.com * 352-336-3838 
8-17-25-2 
ACROSS FROM UF! 
Studios and 1 BR as low as $599 
$0 MOVE IN FEES 
Open late and weekends 
371-7777 CollegeParkUF .com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
** Across From UF ** 
$990/mo 2BR/2BA! 
Incredible Limited Time Deal for Fall 
Luxury Apts 1 Block from the Library 
www.LookingGlassApartments.com 
111 NW 16th St.--Call 376-1111 
8-17-09-25-2 
One month FREE! 
Zero move-in cost! 
1 & 2 BR Villas from $485 
Close to Oaks Mall and Archer Road. 
Pine Rush Villas 375-1519 
www.gremco.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
One month FREE! 
Zero move-in cost! 
2 BR with bonus room from $604 
Two blocks south of Archer Rd. & 34th St 
Homestead Apts. 376-0828 
www.gremco.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
One month FREE! 
Zero move-in cost! 
HUGE 2 & 3 BRs from $695 
Close to Oaks Mall & Newberry Rd. 
Ashton Square Villas 333-1120 
www.gremco.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Hate Your Roommates? Why share? 
Check out our Studios & 1/1s 
Leasing for Fall from only $645! 
Washers & Dryers*Alarms *Park Free 
5 minutes from UF! 338-0002 
8-17-09-25-2 
Bigger 15 Better 
HUGE 4/3 Townhouses Available for FALL! 
Only 4 left! 
$385/person ALL-Inclusive 
(352) 376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
*CAMPUS EDGE CONDO* 
****PRACTICALLY ON CAMPUS!*** 
$950/mo 2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands &VA 
tile fir, W/D in unit Avail fall 239-250-6149 
5-28-09-58-2 *Luxury Condo on UF Lake* 
Huge 2/2, W/D Pool 
8-17-25-2 Newly Remodeled $1100 
352-375-8256 
2/1.5 Newly Renovated Townhouse. Avail 
Now or Fall 09. Close to Shands, Park N 
Ride 2, & Shopping. Incl W/D, A/C, Pvt Patio, 
& Pool. $745/mth & $300 Dep. No Pets 
Pis. 772-538-5792 or ltsao12@hotmail.com 
5-28-09-57-2 
Luxury Apts@ UF 
Brand New Apts w/in 2 Blks of UF Classes 
W/D, Granite countertops , Walk-In Closets, 
Free Roommate Finder Svc. From $599/br 
www.SororityRowApts .com * 352-376-6223 
8-17-25-2 
1 BR apts each w gated courtyard 
quiet Palo Verde Apts SW 23rd St & 
34th PL. $525 month Small pets OK 
New carpet U.F. cows across the st. 
352 377-2150 leave a message . 
6-11-09-59-2 
BLOCKS FROM UF 
Avail 8/1. Houses -single family & attached. 
Apts. Rent directly from owners. No middle 
agent. Flex terms. 352-377-3852 , 359-3341, 
359-5584 , www.dalyproperties.net 5-28-
09-51-2 
BRAND NEW CAMPUS VIEW PLACE!! 
Steps to UF, Norman Hall and Sorority Row. 
Many SPECIALS being offered right now 
Union Properties 352-373-7578 
They're going fast so stop by to see our 
Model and secure your unit for the Fall! 
Model located at Campus View South 
1185 SW 9th Road 
www.rentgainesville.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
NEWLY RENOVATED CHELSEA LANE 
Close to UF and shopping. 1 bed 1 bath 
Remodeled units incl: Dishwasher , W/D, 
Microwave , new cabinets & fixtures. 
Remodeled $629 Non remodeled $560 
Going fast so call now. 
Union Properties 352.373. 7578 
www.rentgainesville.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
UNIVERSITY TERRACE WEST 
4 bed 4 bath w/individual leases. $325/mo 
Some utils incl. Roommate matching avail. 
Close to UF & on Busline. 
Union Properties 352.373. 7578 
www.rentgainesville.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
STEPS TO UF! 
3 AND 4 BR from $510 per person 
$0 MOVE IN FEES 
Pet Friendly! W/D Available 
371-7777 CollegeParkUF .com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Quiet, Clean, Lots of Green Space 
2BR/1 BA house. $650/mo. Call 352-378-
9220 or mobile 213-3901 8-17-09-25-2 
**LUXURIOUS 1800 SQ FT HOME** 
SECLUDED , UPSCALE NEAR UF. 3/2, SUN 
ROOM, COVERED PATIO W/D. $1400/MO 
PERFECT FOR GRAD. AVAIL AUG. 1607 
NW 12 RD 352-466-4171 LV MSG 5-21-09-
32-2 
HISTORIC HOMES 
1-3BR apts + 2 houses 923 SE 4th St, 18 
NE 10th St. High ceilings, porch, wood floors. 
$500-$1100 /mo. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. Call 
378-3704, sallygville@aol.com 8-6-09-66-2 
Summer Rates + July Free 
on 15 mo lease. 
Sun Island 376-6720 sunisland.info 8-17-
09-25-2 
BIKE TO UF! HUGE luxury 2006 2bd/2ba 
condo for rent, 1.5 mi. from campus. Vaulted 
ceilings, slated balcony, W/D, walk-in closets 
& more. 1,410 sqft! Avail. May 2009. $950/ 
mo. 359-1112 or katewallis83@yahoo.com 
5-26-09-30-2 
1 & 2BR/1BA 
W/D. Tile throughout , front gated patio. Pet 
friendly. From $689/mo. Call 352-377-1633. 
www.lenoxcorner .com 5-28-31-2 16, ALLIGATOR ■ THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
PET'S PARADISE 
$500 -$600. No app or pet fee. 2BR, privacy 
fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 5-28-09-30-2 
LARGE 4BR HOUSE, 2 blocks to UF/Sorority 
Row area. Ample parking. Totally remod­
eled. Cent AC/Ht., wood floors, dishwasher, 
icemaker, W/D, 1 BA. Pets ok. $1598. Avail 
Aug 16th -1 year. 665-8166 5-26-09-30-2 
Available Now or Fall: Cute & Clean Vintage 
4bd/2.5ba behind Applebee 's. Bike to UF! 
Wd firs, CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds. Huge 
rooms! 907 NW 11th Ave $1680/mo Others 
avail! www.cozygator.com 352-338-7670 
5-19-09-25-2 
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean 2 & 3 
BR homes near UF. Some wood floors, all 
with CH/AC, W/D, fans, blinds, & lawn up­
keep. Rent@ $810-$1275 /mo. Others avail­
able! www.cozygator.com , 352-338-7670 
5-19-09-25-2 
Available Fall: Several Cute & Clean Studio 
& 1-BR vintage apts. near UF & downtown . 
All have wood firs, fans, & blinds. Pets pos­
sible. Rent from $595-$750 /mo. Others avail­
able! www.cozygator.com. 352-338-7670 
5-19-09-25-2 
HAILEY GARDENS 2335 SW 22nd, Newer 
2 Bedroom, 2.5 Bath, Bike to Vet school/ 
Shands/UF. 904-501-5100 $900 6-30-09-
33-2 
3 bed, 2 bath, 2 car garage $1170 month 
3 miles to UF, 100 feet to bus route 8, new 
appliances , fireplace, big backyard, pets ok 
NW 39 Ave & 13 St. Avail starting 
Sum/Fall 262-2933 Meli41082@aol.com 
5-19-09-25-2 
MOVE-IN SPECIAL-NO DEPOSIT!! 
SPACIOUS 3bd/2ba from $750/mo and 
2bd/1.5ba from $675/mo. 2 mi to campus. 
On bus route. W/D hookups avail. Tile 
flooring option. Community Pool and Lush 
Green Space. Call 352.373.4423 or email 
GranadaApts@CrescentMgmtCo.com . 
6-4-09-30-2 
Summit House 1 BR/1 BA Available Now 
574 Sq Ft Near Shands & VA $605 per mo. 
$250 security. Pis. call 352-672-1482 7-2-
09-35-2 
3 Bd/ 2 ba quiet upstairs condo in Creeks 
Edge. Recent remodel washer & dryer, cen­
tral ale, mins to campus on busline, incl cable 
& internet. Avail Sept. $1300 furn or $1200 
unfurn Also avail by room. 727-410-3617 
6-9-09-30-2 
Awesome 3 bed 2 bath house w/ large bed­
rooms, living and family room, built in bar, 
fenced yard, screened porch, hardwood 
floors and more. 527 NW 35th Terrace. 
$1600/mo. Avail Aug 1. Call 352-870-9453. 
5-26-25-2 
*AVAILABLE NOW & FALL* 
Clean, spacious, efficient homes & apts 
Bike to UF, Great locations, On bus route 
Huge fenced in yard, Pet friendly 
4/2 and 3/2 HOUSES 
2/1 and 1/1 APARTMENTS 
3/2.5 CONDO WITH GARAGE 
$590.00-$1300.00 
Call 352-494-8959 
8-17-09-25-2 
1 MONTH FREE!!!! 
1 BLOCK FROM YOUR 
CLASSES & LABS. $600 1 BR, $650 2BR 
PRIVATE PARKING, POOL, LAUNDRY 
FACILITIES, SOME UTILS INCLUDED, 
CATS ALLOWED. CALL FOR APT. 
(352) 376 0080 OR 352-284-3873 OR 
POST J@BELLSOUTH.NET 6-18-09-30-2 
3BR/2BA TOWNHOUSE 2 BLOCKS TO 
UF/sorority row. Central Heat/AC, plenty of 
parking, OW, W/D. Avail Aug 16th -1 year. 
$1350. 665-8166 5-26-09-22-2 
e1 BLOCK TO UF 1 BR/1 BA $625. 1112 SW 
4th Ave e 2BR/1BA, $575/mo. 501 NW 15th 
Ave #3. Call Michael 331-2100 5-28-09-
20-2 
1/1, Ridgeview, free water, next to park, on 
the bus line, cent H/A, courtyard , 2 miles to 
UF, convenient to shopping, no smoking, no 
pets. $470 SD, $470/mo 562-2824 5-28-09-
22-2 We have REAL 1 /1 s 
Available Now and Fall 
3 blocks to UF -GATORNEST 
300 NW 18 St-Large, 575 sq ft only $585! 
4 blocks to UF-GATORSIDE 
1600 NW 4 Ave, 400 sq ft only $450 
Bike to UF -CENTERPOINT 
1220 NW 12 St-530 sq ft big, only $475! 
No Application Fee, Most Pets OK. For info 
call E.F.N. Properties , (352) 371-3636 or 
email Rentals@EFNProperties.com 
6-30-09-27 -2 
Bike or walk to UF, Shands, or VA, 2/1 avail. 
8/1, Summit House Condos, renovated with 
many extras, nicely decorated , 12 mo. lease, 
no pets per complex, $800/mo, $200 dep. 
Call 352-843-0220 to see. 6-11-25-2 
HOUSE -DUCKPOND AREA 
4BR/2.5BA, W/D, storage bldg, fireplace, 
wood floors, glassed-in porch. Avail 8/1. 1st, 
last+ $200 Dep. $375/mo/room or $1500/mo 
for all + utils. Call George 466-0165 5-28-
09-19-2 
BLOCKS FROM UF -2 bdrm in 4/2 house 
Female roommate(s) needed for 2009-10 
$520/month + util. Full-bed, W/D included; 
Wireless included; Plenty of parking 
Want a home, call Sarah 561-843-7452 
5-28-09-19-2 
SUMMER & FALL APT!!! 
SPACIOUS SIZES e GREAT LOCATIONS 
4/4 and 2 -3 BDRM Units 
Don't miss out -Subleases limited 
Call 352-682-7424 ericmanin@yahoo .com 
5-26-09-18-2 
AVAILABLE 4BR HOUSES!!! 
DON'T MISS OUT -YOU MUST SEE 
Close to Campus 
Great housing opportunities 
Call 352-682-7424 ericmanin@yahoo.com 
5-26-09-18-2 
4/2 HOME PLUS STUDY 
Available 3/1/09. Corner lot, H/D 2385 sq ft 
for $1500 + $1500 deposit. 3608 NW 22nd 
Pl. Call 352-214-1956 5-28-09-19-2 
3BR & 4BR/2BA HOUSES 
Hardwood floors, fireplace, new baths, 
screened patio, big yard, carport, storage 
shed. Minutes to UF, on bus route, $1400-
$1500/mo First, last security. 954-899-7197 
7 -16-09-30-2 
Nearly new, SW 2br/2ba equipped kit. w/lots 
of cupboard space, cer/tile, carpet in bdrms., 
w/d, mins from UF on busline, $1000/mo-ask 
about our special! Edbaurmanagement.com-
1731 NW 6th St-375-7104 5-28-09-16-2 
* MEADOWCREST APARTMENTS• 
* AFFORDABLE LIVING • 
* 1ST MONTH RENT $99 • 
* APTS STARTING AT $399 • 
* PETS OK! CALL TODAY• 
•• 352-378-3988 •• 
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com 
5-26-09-15-2 
2BR/2.5BA townhouse condo, 1 mi from UF. 
On bus route. Incl W/D. Community club­
house, pool & fitness center. Wired for inter­
net & security system. $875/mo 332-8841 , 
lindalu@gatorhomes .com 5-26-09-15-2 
3BD/1 BA house, convenient to Shands & vet 
school. Central H/AC, washer/dryer, hard­
wood & ceramic tile floors, carport, large 
screen room. Private fenced bkyd w/ patio. 
$900/mo. Avail. August. 352-318-5453 6-4-
09-18-2 
UNION STREET STATION 
2BR/2BA, 3rd fir corner unit w/balcony over­
looking Hippodrome . Quality fixtures & appli­
ances incl W/D & alarm sys. Lg living & din­
ing rms. Avail 8/1. $1400/mo. 352-860-9453 
6-16-20-2 
Spacious 2BR/2.5BA avail 8/09. Excellent 
location. Peaceful. Close to UF/Shands. Bus 
route. 3552 SW 30th Way #143, Victoria 
Sin. Free W/D, cable, parking, pool $900's. 
kvabraham@aol.com 954-242-4633 6-30-
09-22-2 
Perfect 3BR for grad students or profession­
als. Close to SW Rec Center & Archer Rd 
conveniences . Hardwood fir, cent H/AC, nice 
yard. 2627 SW 31st Terrace. $890/mo 215-
7199 6-9-09-17-2 2BR/1.5BA Condo in Casablanca East SW 
35th place. Bus#9,34,35,36, club house with 
pool, free water, incl W/D, 2 miles from cam­
pus & Butler Plaza, 2 story 1000sq.ft., avail 
May. $750 call 352-262-4562 . 5-14-09-10-
2 
3BR/2BA, 1,400 sq ft, near Oaks Mall-Tower 
Rd, all tile floor, excellent condition, fenced 
yard, Spa in 12 X 40 screened porch, sec 
alarm. Lawn service, W/D incl. No dog, 1,250. 
1 st/last/dep 386-462-9667 5-19-09-10-2 
Looking for 2 female roommates to live with 
2 other fun & friendly girls in 4 bd 4 bth condo 
less than 2 miles away from UF. Tile in com­
mon area & bthrms. New carpet in bdrms. 
Only $375/mo+util. each (386)748-8718 
5-21-09-9-2 
Large and Convenient to UF & Archer 
2 BR 1.5 BA Townhomes w/ W/D hookups 
Open House M/W/F from Noon-6pm 
Call 352-275-4914 or Visit us at 
www.gopinnaclepoint.com 6-9-09-14-2 
large 4 bed 3 bath house for rent. near uni­
versity and 34th, pets ok, washer & dryer, first 
and security 1500/mo. Available June 1st. 
yearly. Call 727-430-3094 7-19-09-21-2 
Luxury Condo 2 blocks from UF 
621 SW 10th nr sorority row 
Beautiful 2bed 2.5bath large rooms incl 
internet washer dryer kitchen TV parking 
$1,100 call 332 8835 
6-11-09-14-2 
2BR/2BA Luxury Condo for Rent at 
Nantucket Walk!$1200 /mo.includes private 
balcony, parking,couch,barstools,washer/ 
dryer ,granite countertops ,etc.Call Cara at 
(256)698-1203 or carab@ufl.edu . 
5-26-09-9-2 
1 BR/1 BA Brand new large 750 SF, Must see, 
1.5 miles to UF, ceramic tile thruout, high 
ceilings, small pets ok, Block cons!. means 
quiet & energy savings, Available May 6th. 
2145 NW 10 St. $650/mo call Ron 331-6919 
5-14-6-2 
CASABLANCA WEST 
2 BR 2.5 BA townhouse ,w/d hookups, pool, 
ceramic tile, $815/rent 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
6-2 
COMPLETELY RENOVATED! Bike to 
Shands, UF & vet school! Ceramic tile, 
Fenced yard, pets considered! $650/rent 
2644-B SW 31st Place 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
6-2 
BIKE TO UF! 5 BR 3 BA, lawn service incl, 
Fireplace , carport, w/d hkups, $1800/rent 
3920 SW 20th Street 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
6-2 
WALK TO UF! 4 BR 2 BA, wood floors, 
Garage, lawn service, washer/dryer, $2300/ 
rent 3106 W. University Avenue 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
6-2 
POOL HOUSE -WALK TO UF! 4BR 2BA, 
Wood floors, lawn & pool svc incl, washer/ 
dryer, Carport, 
$2275/rent, 3005 W. University Ave 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
6-2 
WALK TO CAMPUS! 3 BR 2 BA, living & 
Family rooms, fireplace, garage, washer/ 
dryer, $1600/rent, 2624 NW 4th Avenue 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
6-2 
QUIET & CONVENIENT! 3 BR 2 BA 
House biking dist to UF, wood floors, carport, 
Large screen porch, w/d hkups, $1295/rent 
1740 SW 37th Place 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate .com 5-14-09-
6-2 NW 39 Av fancy 3br/2ba w/loft lg open bright 
Costly laminated wd-looking fir. $750-775 XL 
3/2 loft apt, new ceramic firs carpet $850. 
Nice 2br/2ba gated patio, trees $630 2/2 
fancy firs $670 373-8310 , 219-3937 5-14-
09-5-2 
2BR 1 BA Apts $650/Mo 
5 Blks to UF, Central H & Air 
Laundry Fae. Carpet, Pets Allowed. 
829 Sw 5th Avenue 
Call Merrill Management Inc. 
352-372-1494 5-28-09-10-2 
1 BR 1 BA Near Sams Club! $425/Mo 
Window A/C, Tile Floor, Laundry 
Facilities on site. 2901 NW 14th St. 
First and Last Months rent required. 
References a must. 
Call Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 5-28-09-10-2 
1 BR 1 BA Apt $550/Mo 
1BLK TO UF, Central H &Air 
Carpet, Laundry Facilities 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Avail for Fall. Call 
Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 5-28-09-10-2 
1 BR 1 BA Apt w/ xtra room 
$600/Mo Total Remodel, 
New Carpet, New Tile, 
New Appliances. Nice. 
3 BLKS to UF. 1029 SW 
3rd Avenue Call Merrill Management 
Inc 352-372-1494 x10 5-28-09-10-2 3BR 2BA Home near Law School 
Terazzo Floors, Central H & Air 
Nice and Big. Carport. $990/Mo 
640 NW 35th Terrace. Call 
Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 X 10 5-28-09-10-2 
2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C, 
Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $675/Mo 
1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call 
Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494 
X10 5-28-09-10-2 
new 3br/2ba townhouse avl jun1 
1418 nw120th way; low rent; W/D 
ctrl H/AC; fridge; 2car grg 
pvt owner 9492329408 /9492186580 
swapna_ks6@yahoo .com 6-16-09-13-2 
LUXURY 2B/2BA Apt for rent at 
Nantucket Walk.Close to campus.covered 
parking , balcony, was he rid rye r, wrap 
couch,barstools ,etc.Call(256)698-1203 or 
carab@ufl .edu!$1200/MONTH 5-21-09-5-2 
4/2 CLOSE TO CAMPUS,3962 W.Univ. 
Av. Liv,din,& family rms.AII appliances 
including washer/dryer.Fireplace & hot­
tub.$1475.333 -9874,317-7346. 7-2-09-15 -2 
1 BR/1 BA Golf Course Condo 
Close to Santa Fe and N. FL Regional 
Hospital. Vaulted ceilings, washer/dryer, 
pool, fitness center and more! $795 per 
month. (352)494-6688. 6-18-13-2 
"Copyrighted Material 
Syndicated Content 
Available from Commercial News Providers" One Month FREE! 
Zero move-in costs 
1 BDR from $539.00 
Private Patios 
Gator Village 352-372-3826 
www.gremco .com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
One Month FREE! 
Zero move-in costs 
Studios from $499.00 
Adjacent to Butler Plaza 
Sundowne 352-377-2596 
www.gremco.com 
8-9-09-25-2 
One Month FREE! 
Zero move-in costs 
1 BDR from $559.00 
One mile to UF, Schands, & Butler Plaza 
Sunrise 352-372-4835 
www.gremco.com 
8-17-09-25-2 
For rent 3 bedroom/2 bath Townhouse on 
busline. Community pool&clubhouse. Close 
to university /mall. Please call 352-514-6712 
5-26-09-5-2 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS! 3 BR 2 BA, 
Parquet floors, carport, screen porch, w/d hk­
ups, $985/rent , 600 NW 36th Drive 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
WALK TO CLASS! 3 BR house, 
Bonus room, carport, washer/dryer , wood 
floors, Porch, $1550/rent, 
304 NW 26th Street 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate .com 5-14-09-
2-2 
VICTORIA STATION! 2 BR 2.5 BA 
TH, washer/dryer, high ceilings, separate 
Dining, pool, $950/rent, 
3552 SW 30th Way #146 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING! 2 BR 2 BA 
House, lawn & pest ctrl incl, washer/dryer, 
Garage, fireplace, $1025/rent, 
2824 SW 40th Ave 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
ADORABLE HOUSE! Cute 2 BR 2 BA, 
parquet floors, Large screen porch, lawn svc 
incl, w/d hkups, Jacuzzi tub, 
$975/rent, 1019 NW 43rd Avenue 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
WALK TO UF! 2 BR duplex, 
CH/AC, hard surface floors, will 
Consider small pet, $825/rent 
120-A NW 10th Street 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
DUCK POND CHARMER! 2 BR 
House, carport, parquet floors, sunroom, 
Stainless appliances, w/d hkups, $950/rent 
537 NE 9th Street 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
FALL RENTALS ARE HERE! 
1, 2, 3,4 & 5 BR Houses & apartments! 
Contact us for pricing & availability! 
Carl Turlington Real Estate, Inc. 372-9525 
www.TurlingtonRealEstate.com 5-14-09-
2-2 
2BR/2BA CONDO in Hawthorne Reserve, 
Grd Floor, by Pool, Cent H/AC, Water 
Incl, Avl July/Aug. $950 321-258-4513 
email:durawicker@aol.com 5-26-09-5 -2 
3/2 Condo w/ W/D/Garage in gated golf 
course community. Pool, jacuzzi, gym, club­
house. Pets Allowed! 1850/mo. 
352-328-8099. kwmullikin@gmail.com 
5-26-5-2 
SERANOLA PINES APTS 
Off SW 34 St near post office 
1 BR $565; 2BR $635 
Call for Daily Specials 352-335-0420 5-28-
09-6-2 WOODLAND TERRACE APTS 
Off SW 34th St near post office. 
1 BR $535; 2BR $565 
Call for Daily Specials 352-335-0420 5-28-
09-6-2 
1/2 Block from campus near Turlington. 
Nearly new 1-br condo, covered parking, 
fully equiped, corner unit, yr. lease, $857/mo, 
available Aug 15. Call 904/891-1311. 6-11-
09-10-2 
$1000-$1400 3BD Houses, Walk or Bike to 
UF, central air, W/D hook-ups , pet friend­
ly, fenced yards, wood floors, see photos 
rentalworkshop.com (352) 505-9264 
5-21-09-4-2 
$500-$700 2BD apts. Historical downtown, 
W/D hook-up, central heat & air, porches, 
Bike to UF 10 to 15 min, great size! Cute! 
rentalworkshop.com (352) 505-9264 
5-21-09-4-2 
$1000-$1650 4&5 BD Houses, Walk or 
Bike to UF, central air, W/D hook-ups, pet 
friendly, fenced yards, wood floors, 
see photos @ rentalworkshop.com 
(352) 505-9264 5-21-09-4-2 
$500-$700 1 BD apts. Historical downtown , 
W/D hook-up, central heat &air, porches, 
bike to UF 10 to 15 min, great size! Cute! 
rentalworkshop.com (352) 505-9264 
5-21-09-4-2 
QUIET NEWER COMMUNITY 
Great for grad students Townhouse 
2BR/2.5BA (2 master suites). W/D, close 
to campus, $1100/mo. Call 561-369-5813 
5-14-09-2-2 
3Bd/2Ba house Archer Rd area near 
Target. Large fenced yard with deck. W/D 
hook-ups, carport. $1100/mo. Includes water 
and lawn care. 352-213-1567 5-26-5-2 
2BR/1.5BA Condo for rent in Casablanca 
East. Spacious, Quiet, Screen Porch, W/D, 
Community pool, and on bus route. Close to 
UF/Shands. Available August. $775/mo. Call 
246-5958. 6-4-09-8-2 
3BR 2BA Home, Quiet Shaded Lot, Nice 
Yard. BTWN Sante Fe and UF. Mid-June . 
$1,100 772-631-1448 
5-26-09-5-2 
4Br 2Ba Close to UF Pool 
Culdesac.parking, Lrg rooms, Lr, Dr, W/D, 
Lrg Deck overlooking 20 acres woods, 
carport, storage. $1800.00 Avail. June 1 
Office#338-0164 
6-11-09-10-2 
Immaculate House for Rent 
3BR/2BA, 2 Living Areas 
Wet Bar, Wood Flooring, 2 Car Garage 
Refrigerator, Washer and Dryer Included. 
$1800/mo. 080. Call 817-980-1722 5-26-
09-5-2 
Need a 2 bedroom ... 
With washer/dryer? 
We have 2/1.5 townhomes for 
$667! Available TODAY. 
No move-in fees & Pet-friendly . 
376-4002*pinetreegardens.com 
8-17 -09-25-2 
Rockwood Villas Townhouse 
Quiet area great for pro stu 
Nice 3/3 only $1125/mnth 
Near mall and bus routes 
Call Jared (941 )737-6997 6-11-09-10-2 
SW 43rd St. Near Archer & 1-75, 2bd 2.5 bath 
townhouse. Close to Uf & Santa Fe.2 assign 
parking & comm pool. W/D & kitchen appli­
ances.$850 & security deposit.906-822-0149 
wellsthw@yahoo.com 5-26-09-5-2 
$525, 1 BR apt, spacious.very quiet, energy 
efficient, private gated patio, Trees w/lots of 
greenspace, 1807 NW 10th St. prefer grad/ 
mature person.(352)376 0080; (352) 284 
3873; postj@bellsouth.net. 5-28-09-6-2 
3BR/1 BA, carport, W/D hook-up, fenced in 
yard. Sec. 8 Available. Call for info 352-224-
5693 or 352-303-9831 5-26-5-2 
IMMACULATE 3BR/2BA IN MILLHOPPER 
Area. Hardwood floors, renovated kitchen. 
$1150/mo. 2006 NW 36th Terr. Call 215-
7199 6-9-09-10-2 Duckpond Large Upstairs 1BD/1BA apt. 
above old Victorian , window AC, WD ac­
cess in Garage. No Pets. Aug 1st. $600mo 
+ $600/deposit. 736 NE 2nd St. 850-291-
4969. 5-28-09-6-2 
ATTENTION STUDENTS! 
Available now. Nice 1 BR/1 BA apt. Close to 
campus & convenient to everything. $395/ 
mo. Call Richard 371-4367 5-26-09-5-2 
GREAT 2BR HOUSE 
Cent A/C, wd firs, W/D hk-up, fenced back­
yard. 611 NW 34th Ave. Avail now. Flex 
lease. $750/mo. Call for appt. 352-318-8822 
5-26-09-5-2 
DUPLEX $700 2 BR 1 BA dishwasher, wash­
er, dryer.large back yard, UF close & down­
town, quiet, 724 NW 19 AVE. Cats, prefer 
grad or mature person. (352)376 0080,(352) 
284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net 5-28-09-6-2 
Modern 1 BR luxury-style apartment: W/D, 
balcony, D/W, central ale, ceiling fans, park­
ing, Awesome location. Walk to UF, library, 
stadium, bars, restaurants , stores. Flexible 
dates/lease: $875 call 904-446-5210 5-14-
09-1-2 
2 Bdrm 1 Ba. Unique custom apt w/porcelain 
tile thruout. All new bath (tub,tile,toilet,vanity 
,lighting). Spacious kit w/new stainless appl. 
Bdrms have new carpet,ceiling fans. Drapes 
& blinds thruout. Avail. cable/Internet. W/D. 
Near bus route. Sorry no pets. $735/mo. Call 
727-423-9463. 5-28-09-5-2 
2br, 11/2b, Southfork Oaks, Washer, dryer, 
dishwasher, microwaver , toaster oven, new 
carpet, ceiling fans, low util, On bus route 
to UF, close to Archer Rd & Oaks Mall, 650 
month, Call 352-376-6683. Avail June 1st. 
5-28-09-5-2 
Great opportunity! 1 br/1 bth apt. for rent at 
Windsor Park. 2nd (top) floor. Wireless DSL 
internet/Cable w/ HBO, tennis courts, pool, 
gym, washer/dryer. Alarm ready. Car wash. 
Close to UF. $750/mo. 786/262-8310. 6-4-
09-7-2 
PETS FREE 4 bed 2.5 bath avail aug $2k 
month Walk to U.F. Wood Floors Cool ski 
lodge style home 424 nw 27th terrace call 
broker/owner Larina Hintze 352-262-7462 
5-28-09-5-2 
WALK TO U.F. wood floors, fenced yard 
4 bed 2.5 bath avail aug 424 nw 27th terr 
$2k month broker/owner Larina Hintze 
325-262-7 462 5-14-09-1-2 
PETS FREE wood floors corner/end unit 
behind Oaks Mall 3 bed 2 bath $1050 
month avail aug 352-262-7462 broker/ 
owner Larina Hintze 5-14-09-1-2 
Wood Floors Bike to U.F. 4 bed 2 bath 
820 nw 20th st with large bonus room and 
fireplace $2300 call broker Larina Hintze 
352-262-7 462 5-28-09-5-2 
*$350*-rooms available immediately or in 
summer/fall in 4/4 University Terrace Condo. 
No security deposit, free internet & cable! On 
bus routes 12 & 35; minutes to UF campus & 
shopping on SW 34th St. Call 352.514.3398 
6-18-11-2. 
EFFiCIENCY , 2 Large Rooms 
Only + shared bathroom. Across from 
Stadium. Kitchen has frig, most people 
Bring in a hotplate or microwave. No Stove! 
1830 NW 1st Ave. $340/Mo. Please drive by 
then call to view. Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 5-28-5-2 
2BR 1 BA Apt 1 BLK to UF! 
Carpet, Central H & Air $725/Mo 
1234 Sw 1st Avenue #A. Call 
Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 x10 5-28-5-2 
DUCKPOND AREA 
1 BR 1 BA Duplex $375/Mo 
812 NE 8th Avenue. Call 
Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 x10 5-28-5-2 
1 Room Efficiency , 300 Sq. ft. Tile 
Floors, Window A/C, Screened Porch 
Across from Stadium. 
1806 Nw 2nd Avenue $450/Mo 
Call Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 5-28-5-2 THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 ■ ALLIGATOR , 17 
1BR 1BA 1 BLK to UF! 
1218 Sw 3rd Avenue $450/Mo 
Window A/C, Nat gas ht, Carpet 
Call Merrill Management Inc 
352-372-1494 x10 5-28-5-2 
NEW LUX CONDO 
Bus/Bike to UF. 2BR/3BA, appliances + TV. 
$1150/mo. Call Natasha 321-438-7717 or 
Arsenio 407-497-9024 6-16-09-20-2 
Summer Sublease -1 BR in 2/1 available May 
1st -3 blocks from midtown, walk to campus, 
16 NW 20th Dr. $450/month + 1/2 utilities 
(negotiable). Contact Mike mschwartzseid@ 
aol.com or 352-514-6114 5-21-09-30-3 
June-July, 2/2, $850/Mo 080, Hampton 
Oaks, 1100 sq ft flat apt. On RTS 5, 20, 75. 
W/D, walk-in closet, screen porch, D/W, 
gym, pool, pets OK. Long-term lease avail. 
305. 725.07 48. 5-28-09-19-3 
Subleasing my apartment in Campus Lodge, 
Building 4 for the entire Summer. Apartment 
is located next to the pool on the third floor 
and it has vaulted ceilings. Price is negotia­
ble. (954) 646-0516 6-11-20-3 
2/2 CAMPUS LODGE 3 FLOOR APT! MAY­
AUGUST $400 (negociable) utilities includ­
ed. FULLY FURNISHED! FREE tanning, 24 
hour gym, huge pool, washer/dryer, painted 
Contact Carly: csande22@ufl.edu 5-14-09-
7-3 
Summer sublease. Room available in 3/2 
house, $350/mo, furnished, includes elec, 
cable,wireless,etc. ,W/D, fenced backyard , 
on bus rt, or easy bike to UF. Avail May 1 
thru Aug 15. Call 407 920-2259 
5-14-09-6-3 
1 BLK ACROSS FROM UF/Library West! 
$410/month for 1 BR/1BA in 2/2 at Looking 
Glass Apts. Great location, price great­
ly reduced! Can lease through August. 
561.261.2249 5-19-09-5-3 
Jefferson 's 2nd Ave May-Aug20 Sublet 
1 BR/1 BA in 2BR/2BA. Furnished, includ­
ing 42 inch plasma, utilities included. 
Regular-$700 /mo, will rent for $400/mo. 
Call: (814) 222-4000 5-14-09-4-3 
SUMMER SUBLEASE 
2 rms in house.for 1-2 people $530/mnth 
Walking distance to UF 
Available May 8th thru July 31st 2009. 
Contact: 301-639-4666 5-21-09-5-3 
summer sublet at university terrace west 
available may-aug. 1/1 of a 48/48, all 
females, right by the pool 
utilities/net/cable included, no pets 
$400/mo, call 850-766-6532 anytime 
5-21-09-4-3 
1 BR in a 4/4 Gainesville Place Apartments. 
$425/month all inclusive rent; utilities, wash­
er/dryer, internet etc. fully furnished.summer 
sublease, flexible lease terms. call 321-302-
1175 7-2-09-14-3 
3 Br 2 Ba at Madison Pointe. Take over 
lease Aug 1, 2009 -Jul 30, 2010. Pool; 
Sundeck; Tennis & basketball courts; W&D; 
Screened patio; 24 hr alarm, fitness centr; 
$1077/mth unfurnished. I'll pay Madison 
Pointe 1st 3 mths rent. Available 8/1/09. 
<richardglaws@cox.net>; 352-377-2697 
5-21-09-4-3 
3BR/2.5BA townhouse available Aug 4th. 
Incl W/D, DW, Cable, HBO, wireless inter­
net, pool, hot tub, clubhouse, pets available. 
Sublease for 1 year wino deposit. $1050/mo. 
Call 317-2965 5-26-09-5-3 
Roommate Matching HERE 
Oxford Manor 377-2777 
The Landings 336-3838 
The Laurels 335-4455 
Greenwich Green 372-8100 
Hidden Lake 37 4-3866 
8-17-25-4 ) -::2 Blocks To UF -Female & Co-Ed:: -
Room in 4br condo incl utils, internet, cable 
TV, pool. Very Nice $349. 283-8777 
www.Gainesville-Rooms-4-Rent.com 8-17-
09-25-4 
1 BR/1 BA or 2BR/2BA avail ASAP 
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/ 
mo 080 + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd. 
y1tek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 5-19-
09-57-4 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED! 4BR/4BA 
Clean & Quiet condo at University Terrace 
West.$450 rent includes: Cable, HS Internet, 
and ALL utilities Fully furnished . MUST SEE! 
Call Dory@ (954)816-1468. 5-14-09-20-4 
Female roommate needed. Live in a beauti­
ful new house w/ sec alarm, bus stop, fast 
internet, cable, quiet area, pool. Can be fur­
nished. $375/month. Joyce 941-724-0961. 
5-26-09-22-4 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED! 
Beautiful 3BR/2BA house in North Wood 
Neighborhood .$400 rent+ utilities. Pet 
Friendly & on bus route.MUST SEE! Call 
Jessica(352)222-6900 5-14-10-4 
2BD/2BA CAMPUS EDGE $500+ 1/2 utl./ 
month Male UF Student Looking for UF 
student roommate , no smoking, no drugs. 
Vaulted ceilings and Tile floors. 
ufhousing@hotmail.com 5-21-09-7-4 
2 bedrooms/bath 4 rent in NE Gville house. 
House has wifi, wash/dryer, and 5 min from 
uf. Rent is $390 plus 1/3 utilities. Call Jon at 
359-9798 5-21-7-4 
Roommates wanted for 4/2 house close to 
campus. Fully furn except BRs. $500/mo in­
cludes utils, cable, internet, W/D. Avail now 
or fall. 352-318-5437 7-9-09-18-4 
Christian female to share 2bd/1 bth @ 
Piccadilly on SW 34th/Bike or bus to UF/ 
Move in now or August/fun but serious stu­
dent/non-smoker/$500 includes all utilities & 
DSL.Email :marth417@ufl.edu 5-14-09-3-
4 
Female, N/S needed for own Room comfy 
furn house on bus#10 to UF, SFCC, easy 
bikeride To UF,3/2, lg.screen porch, priv 
fenced yard,$300+1/3 util 215-8601 more 
info 5-14-09-3-4 
Available 5/1/09 Looking for professional or 
graduate student for private bed/bath in 2/2.5 
townhouse in Magnolia Place (39th Ave). No 
smoking. No pets (have 2 cats). $450 + 1/2 
util. 262-6123 5-26-09-5-4 
Close to Campus. Serious student to 
share 2BR-2BA condo, Archer Rd between 
Shands & 34th St, Sec sys!, fully eqpd, pool, 
ample parking, RTS. $425/mo + 1/2 cable, 
internet & util. Call owner 904/891-1311 
6-11-09-10-4 
Roll out of bed for classes. Walk/bike to UF, 
Shands, VA. 2/1 to share@ Summit House 
Condos. Nice, quiet & recently renovated. 
$400 Imo + 1/2 util. $200 dep. No pets per 
complex. Call 352-843-0220 5-28-6-4 
Need Female Roommate for 1 yr lease 
(starts Aug) @ $480/m w/ utilities. Apt is 2/2 
flat model at Mount Vernon Apts. Call Emily 
@ 4072421679 or email oyama@ufl.edu. 
7 -30-09-22-4 
Renovated , beautiful condo.'Close to 
Shands, VA, campus. Prefer female. $525/ 
mo includes utils. Call (386)871-7184 8-28-
09-30-4 
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe neighborhood 
across from Plaza Royale. On bus route. No 
alcohol or drugs. Furn or unfurn. $325 + 1/4 
util. Avail 6/1/09. No pets. 371-3837 5-26-
09-5-4 
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-side 
condo. $435/mo/room , + utils incl. Direct 
bus to UF 3 mi. Bball, pool, exercise room, 
nicely furn. 3rd Fir. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656 , Sebastian 352-87 4-8905 6-30-
09-13-4 18, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
•1 br w/pvt entrance avail in 2BR condo Cent 
AC/H. 2 pools. Walk to UF. 375/mo 
•1 BR hdwd flrs, pvt ba avail in beautiful NW 
house close to UF $395/mo 
352-316-3930 www.gainesville-rent.com. 
5-21-09-4-4 
2 ROOMS NOW OPEN $100 P/W + $85 
P/W. Full cable/TV, each room. Working 
man's house. Very quiet. Call 376-0384 for 
info. Daytime or evening. 6-11-10-4 
Lg 3/2 avail July. Master BR has walk-in clos­
et & pvt BA. Other 28Rs share big BA. Super 
living rm, kitchen & fireplace w/bookshelves. 
$565 & $445/mo incl utils, W/D & swimming 
pool. 5 min to UF. Call Kristoff 332-5030 
5-28-09-6-4 
WALK to UF from a 4/2 NW house. 
Furn or unfurn bd $435 INCLUDES all 
util,wifi,cable,parking- No pets/smoking . 
Available 8/1 yrly lease 727-726-2915 5-26-
09-5-4 
****UNBEATABLE LOCATION**** 
5 blks from UF. 5 lg rms avail for fall.1 avail 
now. Reserve yours today. Balconies, ceiling 
fans, wd flrs, W/D, indiv leases, no short­
term. No pets. $400/mo incl utils 226-4111 
5-28-09-5-4 
1 or 2 rooms avail for clean m/f in 4/2.5 
house for fall. 1 rm avail for summer. Master 
Bedroom $425, other $400 + 1/3 ulil. Close 
to campus, big backyard, on bus route. Call 
Katie 407-399-7877 5-28-09-5-4 
2 Female roommates needed to share a 
new 4/2 house in a quiet neighborhood 3 mi. 
W of 1-75 w/ cable, internet, security alarm. 
475/mo. utilities included. Call 352 331 8794 
8-6-23-4 
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED 
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $299/mo 
includes electric, cable TV, internet, pool, 
laundry facility. 914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 
5-28-09-5-4 
) 
SEE ALL CONDOS 
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM 
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551 
8-17-25-5 
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF 
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4 
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman, 
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 8-17-25-5 
Brand new luxury condos starting at $220k. 
Granite tops, tall ceilings, private balcony, 
steel & concrete construction , alarm system. 
Call Eric Wild at 352-870-9453 8-17-25-5 
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC• 
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL 
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite 
Counters , 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF. Matt 
Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551 
8-17-09-25-5 
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN! 
THE PALMS· New Ultra-Luxury Condos. 
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric 
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879 
8-17-09-25-5 
Charming 1952 Florida Bungalow in 
Downtown Alachua, FSBO.com, Must sell 
ASAP (relocating) , 3/2, 1800 sq. ft., 1 acre 
fenced corner lot, $170,000 (reaonable offers 
will be considered); 5 blocks from downtown 
Alachua, very walkable community. 352-514-
8565 5-21-09-4-5 
2001 2BR/2BA MOBILE HOME 
in Oak Park Village. Incl appliances , 10x10 
shed, awning. $12,000. 352-424-0687 5-26-
09-5-5 
IRS Public Auction -May 28th 10am. 
Location/Property 1301 SW 75th Ave 
Plantation FL. 3bd 2ba with Garage and 
Pool More Details at: www.irsauctions .gov or 
contact Sharon W. Sullivan (954)654-9899 
5-14-1-5 ) 
IRS Public Auction -June 3rd 10am. 
Location Sarasota County Justice Center 
2071 Ringling Blvd Sarasota FL. Property 
1516 Southbay Dr. Osprey FL. Minimum Bid 
$264,000 . www.irsauctions .com or contact 
Sharon W. Sullivan (954)654-9899 5-14-
1-5 
4Br 38a Foreclosure! $12,500' Only $217/ 
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 3 
Br $199/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext 
5798 5-14-1-5 
Free List of private, large acreage land hold­
ings being liquidated by Timber Co. www. 
timberlandliquidators.com 5-14-1-5 
NORTH CAROLINA MOUNTAINS-Nice flat 
lot in Andrews, conveniently located and bor­
ders a large rushing creek with view of the 
mountains! Only $35,000. http://valleytown­
realty.com (800)632-2212 valleytownrealty@ 
verizon.net 5-14-1-5 
LAKEFRONT BARGAIN! 135 ACRES (was 
$269,900) Now Only $179,900. Nicely wood­
ed with dockable deep waterfront on Warrior 
Lake. Perfect for outdoor recreation/ hunting/ 
fishing. Convenient access 1-20. Excellent 
financing. Call now (800)564-5092 , x1492 
5-14-1-5 
Lake Access 4.5+ AC only $54,900 Beautiful 
oaks, great location, ready to build. Owner 
financing. Call Owner (866)352-2249 5-14-
1-5 
Lake Lot Deedback! 3.3 AC-$18,200 FREE 
BOAT SLIPS! (was $34,900) Back on mkt 
for balance owed! Hardwood lot w/ deeded 
access to private lake, pavilion & free boat 
slips. Country rd frontage, utilities, warranty 
deed. Excellent financing. Must see, call now 
(888)792-5253 , x2288 5-14-1-5 
) 
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC 
Extra thick, pillow-top, mattress & box. Name 
brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 
will deliver. 8-17-09-25-6 
BED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC 
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 8-17-09-25-6 
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400 
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must 
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7 490 8-17-09-25-6 
BED· KING· $170 PILLOWTOP 
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas­
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver. 8-17 -09-25-6 
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost 
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516 
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516 
8-17-25-6 
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests 
avail. Dovetail cons!. New, in boxes. Can de­
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100 
(352) 372-7490 8-17-09-25-6 
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail 
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846 
8-18-09-25-6 
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table, 
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New, 
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100. 
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 8-18-
25-6 
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/ 
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899 
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. 
Never used. 352-377-9846 8-17-09-25-6 
''BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW" 
"Full $100 Queen $125 King $200" 
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516. 
8-17-25-6 BED-QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat­
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130 352-377-9846. 8-17-25-6 
Bed-All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop 
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with 
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516. 
8-17-25-6 
BEDROOM SET-$300 BRAND NEW 
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard , 
2 Nightstands , Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must 
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 8-17-09-
25-6 
FUTON · $60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With 
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in 
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 8-17-25-6 
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New 
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031 
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still 
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 8-17-25-6 
5 piece bedroom set (including computer 
desk), 4 chaired glass top dinette set, glass 
top center table, TV stand, plus a printer and 
DVD player. $680. 786-412-9907 T.B. 5-28-
5-6 
'"MOVING SALE'" 
minifridge TVs beds tables chairs desk vac­
cuum weights lazyboy yard equip patio furn. 
grill shelves rugs curtains Sat 5/16 7-2pm 
2717 SW 2nd Ave 5-14-1-6 
CASH PAID FOR LAPTOP'S 
Buy -Sell -Trade Any Condition 
336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz Joel 8-17-
09-25-7 
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS 
Network specialists 
We buy computers and laptops 
Working and Non-working 
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street 
8-17 -09-25-7 
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS 
Network specialists 
We buy computers and laptops 
Working and Non-working 
378-4009 , 607 NW 13th Street 
8-17-09-25-7 
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE 
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS 
• Best Prices in Town• 
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355 
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN) 
8-17-25-9 
eeePARKINGeee 
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-17-09-25-10 
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS 
are underway .. 
bikes, computers , printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370 
8-17-09-25-10 
Buy • Sell • New • Used 
~YP- ..... e ..... r_ ~ Yard Sales 
Need to sell--Want to buy 
We've Got Everything! 
Visit superyardsales.com 
5-19-09-13-10 
bushnell voyager telescope tripod 5x24 find­
erscope 80.00 jvc camcorder vhs w/case 
needs bait 25.00 john wayne clock large 
poster size on wood laminate 20.00 
(352) 214-8068 5-19-3-10 How You Can Make $1.2 Million with Your 
Ideas even when 98% of your clients tell you 
Get Lost. www.doiop .com/web-traffic-secrets 
5-28-09-5-10 
METAL ROOFING. 40 yr Warranty-Buy di­
rect from manufacturer 30/colors in stock, 
w/all accessories. Quick turn around. 
Delivery available. Gulf Coast Supply & Mfg, 
(888)393-0335 www.GulfCoastSupply.com 
5-14-1-10 
100% RECESSION PROOF! Do you earn 
$800 in a day? 25 Local Machines and Candy 
$9,995. (888)629-9968 802000033 CALL 
US: We will not be undersold! 5-14-1-10 
"BUILDING SALE!" ... "UNPRECEDENTED 
LOW PRICES". REDUCED DEPOSITS. 
FLEXIBLE DELIVERY . 25X30 $5,990. 30X40 
$8,990. 35X50 $10,800. 40X60 $13,990. 
50X100 $27,900. OTHERS! (800)668-5422. 
Pioneer Steel Manufacturers , since 1980. 
5-14-1-10 
***WWW .RPMMOTORCYCLES .COM** 
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR 
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S 
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL 
FOR PRICES+ DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974 
8-17-09-25-11 
*****New Scooters 4 Less***** 
Motor Scooter Sales and Service! 
Great Scooters, Service & Prices! 
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271 
www.NS4L.com 
8-17-09-25-11 
***GatorMoto*** 
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1 yr Warranties 
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 8-17-08-
25-11 
SCOOTER SERVICE 
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271 
8-17-09-25-11 
***www.BuyMyScooter.com*** 
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter 
All on one site! Check the website or call 
336-1271 for more info! 8-17-09-25-11 
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail­
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275 
8-17-08-25-11 
SWAMP CYCLES 
Closest to Campus. Largest selection, 
Best Customer Service. 
Motorcycles , Scooters, Accessories & Service. 
633 NW 13th Street www.swampcycles.com 
8-17-25-11 
••••••scooTERs•••••• 
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC 
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS 
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St. 
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974 
8-17-09-25-11 
1t111 ~l!Jtas ) 
•FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS • 
•Running or not!• 
•NEED HONDA, TOYOTA , PICKUPS 
•over 15 yr svc to UF students 
•call Don@ 215-7987 8-17-25-12 
CARS · CARS Buy•Sell•Trade 
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes 
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars 
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com 
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150 
8-17-25-12 
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS! 
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS , ETC. 
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622 
8-17-25-12 @_f-1_ .... ll ___ ~_l!J_t_a_s __ _,) 
*FAST CASH PAID* 
For any running cars or trucks. 1995 and up. 
Clean or ugly. Segovia 352-284-8619 8-17-
25-12 
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?** 
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? 
On site available. Call Steve 352-226-1973 
8-17-25-12 
CARS FROM $29/MO! 
Hondas, Chevys, Jeeps and More! 
$0 Down, 36 Months @ 8.5% apr. 
For listings call 800-366-9813 ext 9765 
5-28-09-32-12 
JUNK CARS HAULED AWAY 
***FREE!!!*** 
Must have title! Metro GNV only! 
Call Don 215-7987 8-17-25-12 
2005 Jeep Wrangler -Rocky Mountain 
Edition 46K miles for only $16500 0.8.0 
V6, Auto, AC, 4WD, Dana 44 axle, Red with 
Black top, Full doors -Call 352-328-4197 
6-1-09-7-12 
WE BUY JUNK CARS 
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980 
8-17-09-24-12 
DONATE YOUR VEHICLE RECEIVE 
$1000 GROCERY COUPON UNITED 
BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION Free 
Mammograms , Breast Cancer Info www. 
ubcf.info FREE Towing, Tax Deductible , 
Non-Runners Accepted, (888)468-5964. 
5-14-1-12 
Police Impounds! 97 Honda Accord $500! 96 
Honda Civic $500! for listings call (800)366-
9813 ext 9271 5-14-1-12 
Acura lntegra 96 $650! Honda Civic 96 
$500! Toyota Camry 97 $700! Ford Taurus 
98 $500! Police Impounds! For listings call 
(800)366-9813 ext 9275. 5-14-1-12 
) 
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS: 
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings 
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade * 
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 9-28-
50-13 
UF GRAD PAYS MORE 
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top$$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090 
8-17-09-25-13 
BE AN INSPIRATION! 
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and 
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll 
have lots of fun! And you will make a new 
friend! Contact 219-6948 5-21-09-25-13 
The American Cancer Society 
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed! 
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED 
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule. 
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call 
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested. 
$$$$ NEED MONEY $$$$ 
Will pay you cash for guns, gold, motorcy­
cles, cars, or anything of value. (561 )252-
3135 6-2-30-13 
) 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau­
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad­
vertiser before giving out personal informa­
tion or arranging meetings 
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS? 
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be 
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re­
cord, drug-free, personal references . 
www.carrsmith .com for details. 8-17-25-14 EARN $60 THIS WEEK! 
Donate Plasma & Save a Life 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Best part-time job you'll ever have. 
NEW DONORS 
Bring this Ad and Earn an 
Extra $5 on Your 2nd Donation. 
DCI Biologicals 150 NW 6th St. 
352-378-9204 
8-17 -09-25-14 
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$ 
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur­
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 8-17-09-25-14 
BARTENDING 
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL 
No experience necessary , training provided. 
800-965-6520 ext 138 8-17 -09-25-14 
CNA TRAINING CLASS: $250! Work at your 
own time & pace in your own home! To get 
program on DVD's call 352-597-2559. For 
online program visit www.lapcnatraining. 
com Get started right away! 8-17-25-14 
Paradigm Properties 
Leasing Specialist , PT 
Sales & Customer service exp. 
EOE, DFWP 
Apply on-line at: www.teamparadigm .com 
352-375-2152 ex 301 8-17-25-2 
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM 
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 8-17-
09-25-14 
FUTURE GMs 
Now hiring assistant managers 
GatorDominos.com /jobs 
8-17-25-14 
MOTHER 'S HELPER -JONESVILLE 
SUN-THURS NIGHTS JULY '09-JUNE '10 
1st grader help w h/w, supper n tidy house. 
email : norial@mac .com 
7-2-30-14 
PHONE SURVEY INTERVIEWERS 
WANTED. Start work today! No sales. 
Opinion research only! Flexible schedules! 
Perceptive Market Research 336-6760 ext 
4081 . Call now! 8-17 -09-25-14 
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED 
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and 
Communication skills. PC skills needed. 
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G. 
352-371-5888 X 111 8-17-25-14 
G8RBAY.com 
eGet Paid & Have Fun Flexible Hrs 
ecompetitive $ 
eRetail/Sales Experience Pref eBay exp. + 
Resume to g8rbay@bellsouth.net 8-17-09-
25-14 
Smokin'N ates 
NOW HIRING 
Experienced Notetakers and Editors 
SUMMER and FALL 2009 
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com 
5-14-09-10-14 
SUMMER WORK 
GREAT PAY 
-Flex Sched 
-Start Now or after finals 
-Customer Sales/Service 
-No Exp necessary 
-All majors welcome 
All ages 17+,conditions apply 
(352) 371-9675 
6-11-09-18-14 
Childcare needed in my SW home. M-F 8am-
4pm. Must have own transportation , refer­
ences and like kids. $8.00/hr (352)494-8848 
5-19-8-14 
IHowlGotlnAUIIJjJi 
Have a 3.6 GPA & want to earn some extra 
cash? We are hiring notetakers for summer 
& fall '09. Go to www.HowlGotanA.com 
5-19-09-7-14 Quality child caring center is looking for dedi­
cated people who love working with children. 
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA 
in education . Benefits available with FT. Call 
377-2290 or 373-1481 5-28-09-7-14 
HELP WANTED! Fantasy Sports Company 
looking for aggressive sports fans to 
promote product this summer. 
GENEROUS COMMISSIONS PAID! 
Interested? Contact bruce@paythefan .com 
5-26-09-5-14 
Looking For A Summer Job? 
Drinking Water Filtration Industry 
Is Experiencing Extraordinary Growth 
Enjoy Freedom & Flexibility 
Earn High Commission Plus Bonuses 
www.SupremeDrinkingWaterSolutions.com 
5-19-09-3-14 
Part Time Webmaster for pestcontrolbiz.com 
and others. Must know ecommerce. $12 hr. 
Send qualifications to 
alwoodward@pestcontrolbiz .com 5-14-09-
2-14 
Looking for Outgoing Personalities to be 
Mary Kay Beauty Consultants! Work your 
own schedule! If interested in the business or 
to buy product, contact Tabitha at 386-937-
3431 or tkzbug@yahoo.com 5-21-4-14 
FULL TIME NANNY 
Located in SW Gainesville. Experience re­
quired. 352-363-0378. 5-21-09-4-14 
Sales/marketing candidate. SERVPRO 
Energetic , bubbly ,outgoing. F /T, salary, 
weekly bonus.commission.Resume to 
servpro9519@bellsouth.net fax 352-374-
6591.servproacw.com 5-26-09-5-14 
Babysitter needed for 2 children (4 & 6). 
Afternoons 12:15pm-5-6pm. Desired start 
date 5/18/09. Must have references & cur­
rent cpr. Pay rate of $9-10/hour depending 
on experience. Please call 352-339-1696. 
5-21-09-4-14 
Babysitter 
wanted for the summer.Flex hrs , daytime, 
minimal driving,Two 12 yr old boys, $10/hr 
352-376-7249 5-26-09-5-14 
Graphic Designer. Unique long term 
opportunity. Full time position with 100% 
employee owned Renaissance Printing. 
Extensive training & benefits -health, 401 K 
etc. Creativity and lndesign experience a 
must. Apply now, 4130 NW 16th Blvd. Drug 
test. 6-4-09-8-14 
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring 
Counter Help, Sandwich Makers, Bartenders . 
Accepting Applications Tues 5/12 -Fri 5/15 
from 9am-11 am at both the 13th St. and 34th 
St. locations. 5-14-2-14 
MOSES MEDIA INC. has 18 immediate 
openings for National Internet Sales Reps for 
our downtown office. Will train. Commission 
based. Applicants must have great communi­
cation skills, be self motivated and computer 
literate. Telemarketing exp. a plus. Please 
call Don or Carrie at 352-378-9901 
5-26-09-5-14 
Bright Futures Gal Typist/Asst. 
Computer Savvy. 3-9 hrs/wk. Leave phone# 
at 378-9771 5-14-09-2-14 
PT Housekeeper-Personal Assistant Busy 
executive with 4 small children referenc­
es required, email to: tony@mcknight.ws 
5-19-09-3-14 
One day great breakfast chef from 10am-
2pm plus prep time. Sunday, June 14th at 
residence . Please contact at 
paulsrothstein@yahoo .com 5-28-6-14 
DOCTOR HELPER/SCRIBE -PT 
Req: Medical terminology , nice handwriting, 
good spelling. $12-13/hr. Fax resume 352-
378-7009 5-21-09-4-14 
Clerical/Technician Position FT 
Please apply in person 
lnsitute of Veterinary Spec. 
4011 NW 43rd St. Suite A 5-26-5-14 
SERVER WANTED -FT/PT 
Accept applications from 2-4pm. 1624 SW 
13th St. Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse . 
5-21-09-4-14 Social coach needed for bright shy 7 yo boy 
undergoing painful life transitions . 4-6 hours/ 
week, Williston Rd., flexible. Email qualifica­
tions to roddafan@live .com 5-21-09-3-14 
Female UF Student Caregiver Needed for 
26 yr old disabled girl. Must have personal 
low-profile vehicle (ie, no SUVs). Duties incl 
toileting & companion services. Two shifts 
available. Either Saturday or Sunday, 9:00 
a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Luxurious work conditions . 
$10/hr. Call 377-1306 . 5-21-09-3-14 
Marketing and Light Web-Design PIT project 
work. Super flexible & great resume exp. 
Must be detailed and creative. Call John 352-
598-9899 5-19-09-2-14 
Attention smokers! Do you want to quit smok­
ing? Smokers are needed to participate in a 
smoking cessation study. You will be com­
pensated for your participation. If interested , 
call the UF Smoking Lab & Clinic at 352-273-
2151 or email us at ufsmokelab@gmail.com. 
5-19-2-14 
GREAT SUMMER JOB IN ALL FLORIDA 
MARKETS! GET PAID ON A DAILY 
BASIS! EARN MONEY FOR A COLLEGE 
SCHOLARSHIP! Do you enjoy talking to 
people, working outdoors and setting your 
own hours? Help people save money by sell­
ing our awesome 2 for 1 coupon book, loaded 
with thousands in savings at great Columbus 
area businesses . We pay top $$$ for every 
book sold and every single representative 
can earn a College Scholarship from $500 to 
$2,500 by the end of summer if you come 
onboard now. 
For more information , check out our website 
at www.EnjoytheCityScholarship.com or, 
register by email at: etcrecruiting@aol.com 
5-19-2-14 
Help Wanted. No Truck Driver Experience­
No Problem. Wil-Trans Will Teach You How 
to Drive. Company Sponsored CDL Training. 
Must be 23. (888)368-1205 5-14-1-14 
Over 18? Between High School and College? 
Travel and Have Fun w/Young Successful 
Business Group. No Experience Necessary. 
2wks Paid Training. Lodging, Transportation 
Provided. (877)646-5050 . 5-14-1-14 
$600 Weekly Potential$$$ Helping the gov­
ernment PT. No Experience . No Selling. Call: 
(888)213-5225 Ad Code: M 5-14-1-14 
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes , 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship , reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 
www.carrsmith .com 8-17-25-15 
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER 
The countryclub for horses & owners. 
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x 
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock. 
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa­
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175 
everglade-equestrian.com 8-17-25-15 
Want to be a CNA? Don't want to wait? 
Express Training Services can get you certi­
fied under 3 wks! Hands-on exp, no videos. 
Day/eve/wkend. Class sizes limited. 338-
1193 for details expresstrainingservices.com 
8-17-09-25-15 
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training 
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout 
339-2199 
8-17-25-15 
TLC HORSEBOARD 
All facilities & amenities , quality instruc­
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762. 
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 8-17 -25-15 
** GATOR MOVING & STORAGE** 
Local and long distance moving 
One item or a houseful! 
10% off with this ad! FL Reg IM 19 
Call Now! 352-374-4791 , 800-797-6766 
8-17-09-25-15 THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009■ALLIGATOR , 19 
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem­
ory & concentration . Elminate bad habits. 
Past life regression . Learn self hypnosis. 
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH, 
NGH certified 379-1079 8-17-25-15 
T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING 
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands 
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE* 
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355 
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle) 
8-17-25-15 
Mini Maxi Warehouses ; corner Waldo Rd & 
NE 31st Ave; 10 sizes, student/staff rentals; 
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 
$20 off any warehouse rental! 352-373-6294 
or 1-800-559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 
8-31-09-79-15 
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding. 
Owner housing. Dressage , stadium jumping, 
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities. 
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges. 
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie 
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 6-18-
09-30-15 
ALGEBRA PROBLEMS? 
Pro math tutor w science deg. Step-by-step 
solutions. Easy payment through PayPal. 
MathTutorSteve@gmail.com 5-26-10-15 
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS 
for ALL ages. My EXPERIENCE : 10 yrs-gui­
tar & a lifetime-piano. If interested call 352-
256-3800 or email gidonherman00@gmail. 
com 5-21-09-9-15 
Concealed Permit -apply now and have it by 
August. Required training only $60. Includes 
everything . Sunday classes 10am to 2pm. 
Good in over 30 states. E-mail to reserve a 
seat. director@bushtactics.com 5-28-9-15 
FLIGHT TRAINING -Sky Chiefs Aviation. 
Earn your pilot cert. FAA Approved Advanced 
Flight Simulator (AATD). Best value in FL. 
www.skychiefsaviation .com. 5-21-09-5-15 
Want to be a Pharmacy Tech? Workshop / 
books/national cert exam for only $800. 
All classes taught by pharmacist. 1 night/ 
week for 6 weeks. Next class 6/10/09, Call 
Express 352-338-1193 or 
exp re sstra in in g services . com/pharmacy 
8-17-09-25-15 
**MUSIC LESSONS** 
Fiddle, guitar and mandolin lessons. Various 
styles. Contact Alan Stowell 372-9248 5-28-
09-6-15 
SAVE $$$ on Advertising! Run your clas­
sified ad in over 100 Florida newspapers 
reaching over 4 MILLION readers for $475 
-that is less than $4 per newspaper. Call 
this newspaper or (866)7 42-1373 for more 
details or visit: www.florida-classifieds.com. 
5-14-1-15 
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal , *Computers, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (866)858-2121 , www.Centura0nline. 
com. 5-14-1-15 
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (888)349-5387 . 5-14-1-15 
THE TRUE YOU! 
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks 
Only$119! 
Gain muscle while you lose fat 
Groups forming now. 339-2199 
8-17-25-16 HIV ANTIBODY TESTING 
Alachua County Health Dept. Call 
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) 
All Women's Health Center 
ABORTION 
Free Pregnancy Test 
RU-486 Available 
378-9191 
www.abortiongainesville.com 
8-18-25-16 
ONLINE PHARMACY Buy Soma, Ultram, 
Fioricet, Prozac, Buspar $71.99/90 
$107/180 Quantities , PRICE INCLUDES 
PRESCRIPTION! Over200 Meds$25Coupon 
Mention Offer:#91A31. (888)389-0461. tri­
drugstore.com 5-14-1-16 
) 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING 
Alachua County Health Dept. Call 
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee) 
*Family Chiropractic* 
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F. 
373-7070 
8-17-25-18 
SAVE ON RAYBAN /SUNGLASSES 
University Opticians 
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480 
8-17-09-25-18 
MODELS NEEDED 
No exp necessary. Long hair preferred. 
No cutting! Must want curls. 
New product. EINSTEINS 
600 NW 75th St. 331-4340 , 331-4413 6-2-
10-18 
FREE ENGLISH CLASS! Tuesdays at 7 p.m. 
beginning April 28th at Vineyard Christian 
Fellowship 3536 NW 8 Ave. Adults and chil­
dren welcome! Call Sarah at 352-338-3645 
for info. 5-21-5-20 
AM TREASURES Thrift store NOW OPEN! 
Tues-Sat. 10am-6pm Visit us today 16642 
sw 132nd Lane Archer, FL 32618 352 275 
8433 Donations Accepted! 5-26-5-20 
) 
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET 
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301 
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255 
12-9-09-99-21 
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS 
Open To Public Wed-Fri-Sat-Sun 1 pm-6pm 
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand 
gatorskeetandtrap .com 352-372-1044 
8-17-09-97-21 
Rocky Creek Paintball 
In Gainesville * Better Prices 
Better Fields* Better Call 371-2092 
12-9-09-99-21 
Love is a Skill. Be its Master 
Men: Are You Studying the 
Most Important Subject of All? 
Read the Manual of Romance: $20 
www.ManualofRomance.com 5-14-2-21 
-GMG TRANSPORf 
FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures 
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30 ) 
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also 
Reverse trips Credit card payments , no xtra 
charge pay by phone or online-$35 O/W 
-$45 R/T www.gmgtrans .com 352-215-8196 
8-17-25-23 THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
UF SOFTBALL 
Veteran Gators 
start title run at 
NCAA Regional 
By ADAM BERRY 
Alligator Staff Writer 
aberry@alligator.org 
Last season, the UF softball team enjoyed unprecedented 
success, losing only two regular-season games and reach­
ing the Women's College World Series for the first time in 
program history. 
At 55-3, the No. 1 Gators find themselves in almost the 
same position this year, but this time around, UF will enter 
the NCAA Tournament with a slightly different mindset. 
This team has already made a run deep into the postsea­
son, as it reached the semifinals of the WCWS last year, and 
the Gators started this season with a national champion­
ship as their ultimate goal. 
"Last year, it was a different feel. This team's on a mis­
sion," UF coach Tim Walton said. "We want to get better 
-I'm not talking about wins and losses, just about getting 
better." 
With the final objective in mind, UF will host NCAA 
Regional play in Gainesville starting Friday. Florida A&M 
(30-30), Lehigh (36-16-1) and Texas A&M (31-19), which 
ended UF's postseason run last year, round out the double­
elimination bracket. 
The Gators will first face the Rattlers at 6 p.m. on Fri­
day, with the Aggies and Mountain Hawks kicking off the 
weekend at 3:30 p.m. 
The winners of Friday's games will meet at 1 p.m. on 
Saturday, followed by the losing teams at 3:30 p.m. The 
losing team from the 1 p.m. game and the winning team 
from the 3:30 game will meet at 6 p.m. The championship 
game will take place at 1 p.m. on Sunday, and if necessary, 
a second game will be played at 3:30 p.m. 
By putting up 19 runs during the final two games of 
the Southeastern Conference Tournament, the Gators have 
shown that their bats are as hot as they have been all sea­
son. 
SEE SOFT, PAGE 21 Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff 
UF softball coach Tim Walton oversees an experienced team that reached the 
Women's College World Series semifinals last season. UF hosts FAMU on Friday. 
JU errors close non-conference slate with win 
Mooney's second HR of season breaks tie 
By ANTHONY CHIANG 
Alligator Writer 
At this point of the season, great 
teams take advantage of every mis­
take their opponents make, and UF 
did just that on Tuesday. 
The Gators' first 5 runs of the 
game were unearned, and No. 13 
UF (36-17) cruised to a 7-4 home 
victory against Jacksonville (33-18) in its final non-conference game of 
the season. 
"Down the stretch that's pretty 
much what it boils down to," UF 
coach Kevin O'Sullivan said. "Any 
time you can force teams into er­
rors, you have to take advantage of 
that." 
The Dolphins scored 2 runs in 
the second inning to take an early 
2-0 lead, but it didn't last long. After back­
to-back singles 
by Josh Adams 
and Matt den 
Dekker to start 
the bottom of 
the second, the 
O'Sullivan first costly er-
ror of the game 
was made by Jacksonville's starting 
pitcher Garrett Dunlap. 
SOFTBALL REGIONAL SCHEDULE SCOREBOARD Dunlap fielded a sacrifice bunt 
attempt but threw the ball away, 
and Adams came into score UF' s 
first run. 
"We fell behind 2-0, and we 
wanted to make sure we got on the 
board," O'Sullivan said. "Dunlap's 
decision was right, but he just kind 
of threw the ball away down the 
third-base line." 
Later in the inning, Teddy 
Foster drove in den Dekker on a 
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 21 
TONIGHT ALLIGATOR 
www.alligatorSports.org 
UF ready 
for home 
SEC meet 
■ THE GATORS WILL HOST 
FOR THE SEVENTH TIME. 
By JESSICA ETTER 
Alligator Writer 
For the first time since 1998, UF 
will host the Southeastern Con­
ference Outdoor Championships 
beginning today at 2:30 p.m. and 
running until Sunday evening at 
Percy Beard Track inside James G. 
Pressly Stadium. 
The Gators have hosted the SEC e Outdoor Champi­
onships six previ­
ous times: 1960, 
1970, 1974, 1981, 
1989 and 1998. Track 
The Seminole 
Twilight Invitational in Tallahas­
see this past weekend proved to be 
exactly what the Gators needed to 
continue making progress toward 
NCAA glory. 
The Gators' objective going into 
Tallahassee was to gain momen­
tum before the SEC meet. 
They responded with four event 
victories and 11 NCAA regional­
qualifying marks. 
Freshmen Ben Davies and Mi­
chael Anderson won the javelin 
and steeplechase, respectively. 
Natalie Moser took home her 
second pole vault title of the sea­
son, and junior Mariam Kevkhish­
vili won the women's shot put. 
UF coach Mike Holloway 
stressed the importance of team 
success, rather than individual 
performance. 
"We are doing what we have 
always done," Holloway said. "We 
aren't focused on one athlete, we 
are focused on Florida." 
The men's outdoor team has 
been ranked in the nation's top 
10 throughout the entire season 
and jumped to the No. 1 spot in 
the U.S. Track & Field and Cross 
Country Coaches Association poll 
on April 29. 
"We don't put pressure on our 
athletes," Holloway said. 
SEE TRACK, PAGE 21 
ONLINE 
■FRIDAY: 
Texas A&M-Lehigh, 3:30 p.m. 
Florida A&M-UF, 6 p.m. 
■SATURDAY: 
Winners face off at 1 p.m. 
Losers play at 3:30 p.m. NHL Playoffs 
Penguins 
Capitals 
MLB 
Rays 6 
2 
8 
6 ■The No. 13 UF baseball team (36-17, 17-
10 SEC) wraps up its regular season with 
a three-game set against Kentucky (27-24, 
11-16 SEC). Senior Stephen Locke (3-1, 5.08 
ERA) will get the start for the Gators. ■ Adam Berry and Phil Kegler break 
down several UF sports topics in the 
most recent alligatorSports Podcast. 
Check out the podcast on iTunes or at 
alligatorSports.org. 
Orioles THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009■ALLIGATOR, 21 
Panteliodis strikes out career-high six, picks up fifth victory 
Andrew Stanfill/ Alligator Staff 
UF shortstop Mike Mooney is greeted by teammates after his 3-run homer during the Gators' 7-2 win 
against Jacksonville on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium. It was the junior's second HR of the season. 
Bruder named national player of the week BASEBALL, from page 20 
fielder's choice to tie the game at 2. 
However, the game was decided by 
an unlikely source of power. 
After another error by Jacksonville 
in the fourth inning, shortstop Mike 
Mooney drilled a 3-run home run 
over the left-field fence, only his sec­
ond homer of the season. The home 
run was not only the difference in the 
game but also a personal milestone. 
"It's my first-ever season with 
more than one home run, so that's a 
change," Mooney said. "Even in high 
school, it was only one (home run)." 
Hidden behind the advantageous 
hitting and Mooney's rare power 
was the good outing from freshman 
left-hander Alex Panteliodis (5-5, 4.11 
ERA). 
He was on a pitch count of 50, but 
he was able to notch his fifth win of the 
season anyway after giving up only 2 
runs and striking out a career-high six 
batters in four innings of work. Both 
runs came in the second inning, but 
Panteliodis was able to settle down 
after that. 
"It felt good, especially after I gave 
up that home run," Panteliodis said. "I just went out there and started hit­
ting my spots and just got into a little 
groove." 
O'Sullivan believed it was the best 
his freshman has thrown the ball this 
season. 
"His fastball was down and it had 
life," O'Sullivan said. 
After two straight wins, the Gators 
will need solid pitching as they head 
into their final series of the season in 
position to accomplish all the goals 
they set for themselves before the sea­
son. 
A pair of lefties will face off in 
tonight's opener against Kentucky 
(27-24, 11-16 SEC) at McKethan Sta­
dium, as senior Stephen Locke (3-1, 
5.08 ERA) will face Wildcats junior 
James Paxton. The Gators are 3-1 in 
SEC home series this year and have 
gone 10-3 at home, including sweeps 
of Tennessee, Alabama and South 
Carolina. 
UF, 17-10 in the SEC, currently 
holds a two-game lead over Georgia 
in the race for the Southeastern Con­
ference East Division crown entering 
the three-game set with Kentucky. 
"Everything is in front of us," 
O'Sullivan said. "We control our own 
destiny." 
SO FT, from page 20 a loss would have had virtually 
no effect on its postseason des­
tiny, UF remained focused on 
winning every game. Tournament. 
The sophomore right fielder, 
who was named to the All-Tour­
nament Team as well as earn­
ing All-SEC First Team and SEC No. 1 men set sights on NCAA title 
The only area of concern en­
tering the postseason will be the 
team's performance in the field, 
as UF committed four errors 
during its last two games. 
"We have to work on a little 
bit of defense -that's mainly 
what we need to focus on -but 
everything's going in the right 
direction," right fielder Kelsey 
Bruder said. 
With the Gators currently on 
a 21-game winning streak, com­
placency would be an issue for 
many teams. 
But even at the Southeastern 
Conference Tournament, where "It means that we finished out 
strong, that we beat every team 
that we stepped on the field to 
face," left fielder Francesca Enea 
said of the importance of win­
ning the tournament title. 
"It's more about pride and 
showing other teams who we 
are." 
BRUDER NAMED NATIONAL 
PLAYER OF THE WEEK: The 
Amateur Softball Association 
named Bruder its USA Softball 
Player of the Week on Tuesday 
for her performance in the SEC Bruder All-Defensive 
Team honors, 
led the Gators 
with a .571 
batting aver­
age in Knox­
ville, Tenn. 
Bruder tal­
lied four hits, 
4 runs, two doubles, a home run 
and five RBIs at the tournament, 
putting up a 1.286 slugging per­
centage and .700 on-base per­
centage in the three-game tour­
nament. TRACK, from page 20 
"All we ask is that they come 
out and perform at a high lev­
el." 
During the Penn Relays in 
late April, the team of hurdlers 
consisting of Kallinka Pitt, Den­
nis Martin, William Wynne and 
Jarius Cooper set a school record 
of 54.30 seconds while defending 
UF's title in the Shuttle Hurdles 
Championships of America. 
"We feel good about our team 
as a whole, and we are just going 
#11 Florida vs. Kentucky 
Fan Appreciation Series! 
Tonight@ 6:30 PM 
Youth League Day -Youth teams in uniform will be admitted free. 
Family Value Hour -Dollar menu available from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
Visit Gator Zone.com /baseball to print a 2-for-1 admission coupon! 
Friday @ 6:30 PM 
T-Shirt Giveaway -The first 1,000 fans receive white Gator Baseball t-shirts. 
Pepsi Family Night -Purchase 4 GA tickets, 4 hotdogs and 4 sodas for $20. 
Family Happy Hour -Dollar menu available from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
Visit Gator Zone.com/baseball to print a 2-for-1 admission coupon! 
Saturday@ 4 PM •Notetimechange (Senior Day) 
Family Value Hour -Dollar menu available from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
Peanuts on sale for only$ 1 and Burgers are half price all day! 
Pick up free admission coupons at local Blockbuster Videos! 
T-Shirt Giveaway -The first 1,000 fans receive gray Gator Baseball t-shirts. 
Storybook Saturday- UF student-athletes will be reading children's stories on the 
Dizney Plaza starting at 3 p.m. 
LAST REGULAR-SEASON SERIES OF THE YEAR! -to go out and perform to the best 
of our ability," Holloway said. 
After the SEC Champion­
ships, the Gators will participate 
in the NCAA Regionals on May 
29-30 in Greensboro, N.C., and 
the NCAA Outdoor Champion­
ships from June 10-13 in Fayette­
ville, Ark. 
"From the beginning of the 
season, our major goals were 
to be conference and national 
champions," Holloway said. 
"At the end of the season, we 
have a goal of being the best in 
the country." 
Swinging in the 
Swampfor 
South Africa 
Golf Tournament 
' ay31 
rt 
Mark 
18-hole unch, 
gifts, a tests 
Orspo 100 
and p our 
Proce hay a 
LlkaBa and 
Kalkste ary 
Scpool ica 
Hosted by UF Levin College of Law 
and High Springs Community School 
Contact Holly Marini at 
(386) 290-7705 or hmarini @ufl. 
edu by May 20th to sign up. 22, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
UF MEN'S GOLF 
Gators seek NCAA Championships berth in Austin 
By ANTHONY CHIANG 
Alligator Writer 
The veteran-filled UF men's golf 
team is ignoring the issue com­
pletely. 
The possibility that the Austin 
Regional might end up being its 
last tournament together will not 
be brought up. 
"This will not be our last tourna­
ment. We have nationals," senior 
Billy Horschel said. 
Before the No. 8 Gators can 
advance to the NCAA Champion-ships, they will have to finish in the 
top five of their regional beginning 
Thursday in Austin, Texas. 
UF will enter the event as the 
No. 2 seed and will try to advance 
to nationals for the ninth consecu­
tive year. However, advancing is 
not the sole goal for UF. The Gators 
have set their sights on a regional 
victory. 
"We don't want to just make it to 
nationals, we want to win regionals 
and go into nationals with a lot of 
momentum," Horschel said. 
Other than its annual home 
• 
• 2009 SOFTBALL 
· CHAMPIONSHIP 
REGIONALS 
1rtX]~ G'.](IOOP 
~~~ 
~ ~ ~ Dtn3 ~C7f3 
--
(352) 376-4482 
advertising@alligator.org alligai'or event, the Gator Invitational, UF 
has not won a tournament since 
October 2006. This puts pressure played its last tournament, but the 
team has used that pressure to stay 
motivated during the long layoff 
before the regional. Horschel, Tim McKenney, Tyson 
Alexander, Toby Ragland and Will 
Strickler to contend for a spot in the 
NCAA Championships. 
Horschel 
win," he said. on Horschel 
and his team­
mates to notch a 
first-place finish 
before the end 
of their college 
careers. 
"The pres­
sure we feel is 
the pressure to While the UF women's golf team 
was playing in the NCAA East Re­
gional on Gainesville's Mark Bo­
stick Golf Course last weekend, the 
men's team took a three-day trip to 
Tampa to practice a grueling three 
times a day. 
"I wouldn't consider the long 
layoff a break," coach Buddy Alex­
ander said. "It's a veteran group of three 
seniors and two juniors, and they 
still have big stuff left to play for," 
Buddy Alexander said. 
But those five will not bring up 
the inevitable end to a long and suc­
cessful journey together -at least 
not yet. 
It has been 25 days since UF The Gators will send out "That will not be brought up un­
til that night before the last round 
of nationals," Horschel said. 
"Cabana" 
to 47464 
for info • Lowest Price In Galnesvllle 
• First bus stop to UF 
• Offering 2, 3 & 4 Bedrooms furnished 
each with private bath Your Choice: 
$1250 or 
Scooter & $600* 
When Signing 
12 month Lease! 
• 24 hour Fitness Center, Computer Lab & Study Rooms 
'Restrictions apply. Contact the leasing office for details. 1601 SW 51st Terr. 
Expires 5/15/09 Gainesville, FL 32607 
www.cbgainesville.com 352-335-2000 
Alligator Summer Special ........ _ ... ,...._ 
[t) [t) 
The Independent Florida Alligator 
is giving away Free Color Ads 
to our contract customers. 
Call Your Sales Rep Today! 
LIMITED TIME OFFER 
allij3i0r 
Client must sign and complete standing ad or column inch contrad in order to receive bonus free ad. One contrad 
per client. All contrads must be completed by Thursday, July 30, 2009, before the free ad can be placed. Last days 
to run free ads are August 4 and 6, 2009. Special Sedions and issues after these dates are not acceptable for free 
ads. Bonus ad cannot be broken up into smaller ads. THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009■ALLIGATOR, 23 
FORMER GATORS 
LaPorta, Augenstein called up to MLB UF faces UGA in 
third showdown By PHIL KEGLER 
Alligator Staff Writer 
pkegler@a lligatororg 
Two former Gators have recently 
been called up to the big leagues. 
UF's all-time home runs leader 
Matt LaPorta was called up by the 
Indians on May 2, and the left field­
er debuted May 3 against the Tigers. 
The 24-year-old went O for 4 night 
but hit his first major-league home 
run on May 4 against the Blue Jays. By JOSEPH R. HOLZER 
Alligator Writer 
It's almost poetic how the No. 15 women's tennis 
team will be facing a bitter rival in No. 2 Georgia in the 
Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tennis Championships on Fri­
day. In a rubber match, no less. 
UF's former first baseman was 
acquired by the Indians on July 7, 
2008, from the Brewers as part of the 
CC Sabathia trade. 
Including last night's matchup 
against the Chicago White Sox, 
LaPorta has played six games and 
has four hits in 18 at-bats (.222), one 
home run and two RBIs. yr1g e ater Coming off their dramatic home win Sunday against 
Florida State, the Gators (16-9, 7-4 Southeastern Confer­
ence) advanced to third-round play at College Station, 
Texas. 
The Gators split their first two meetings with the 
Bulldogs (25-2, 10-1 SEC), upsetting them in Gainesville 
4-3 on March 13 and losing to them 4-2 in the semifinals 
of the SEC Tournament in Fayetteville, Ark., on April Syndicated Conten 25. Georgia went on to win the SEC Tournament title. 
The third match will be on a neutral court, and UF 
coach Roland Thornqvist hopes it is played outdoors. Right-handed pitcher Bryan Au­
genstein made his debut for the Dia­
mondbacks on Wednesday at home 
against the Reds. Augenstein gave 
up four runs in 6.1 innings and was 
in line for the loss at press time. 
MOVING ON: Forward Allan Chaney 
is transferring to Virginia Tech, and 
defensive tackle John Brown will 
attend Northeast Mississippi Com­
munity College, according to several 
published reports. 
Chaney, who came to Gainesville 
from Baltimore, played in 23 games 
last season and averaged almost 10 
minutes per game but saw his play­
ing time steadily decline during 
conference play due to injury. 
He played in only one of 13 games 
after Feb. 3 and was suspended dur­
ing the National Invitation Tour­
nament. He will have to sit out the 
2009-10 season and will have three 
seasons of eligibility remaining. I 
"We played them here and played them well," 
Thornqvist said. "Then we played them inside at the 
SEC Tournament, which might've been in favor of e 
Women's 
Tennis Georgia. (The wind) was blowing five 
miles per hour, and the committee 
decided to go in somehow. I'm hop­
ing it's blowing, and I hope we play 
outside." 
One of the most important factors 
for the Gators has been their home-
court advantage, as the team has won 
67 straight matches at Linder Stadium. Giving up that 
edge for a neutral site won't be easy for the team, but 
the women have a familiar foe in front of them. 
While they stumbled in indoor matches this season, 
they have been stellar outside. Thornqvist attributes 
this to spectacular conditioning and heart. 
And UF has fought tooth-and-nail all spring. Six of 
its nine losses were decided by a 4-3 score, despite los­
ing veteran Megan Alexander for the season and play­
ing freshmen on courts 3 through 5. 
"There have been plenty of opportunities for this 
team to pack it up and go home," Thornqvist said. "We 
lost to LSU. We lost to Ole Miss. It's easy to feel sorry 
for yourself and just go away, but these guys refuse to 
do that." 
Freshman Jo Mather, who clinched the win against 
the Seminoles, said she is nervous but excited for her 
first Sweet 16 appearance. Brown can play right away for 
the NMCC football team because he 
is going to the junior-college level. 
The Lakeland High graduate came 
to Gainesville in 2007 rated as the 
nation's fifth-best defensive tackle 
recruit according to Scout.com but 
never made much of an impact for 
the Gators due to numerous inju­
ries. Former UF first baseman Matt LaPorta made his MLB debut with the 
Cleveland Indians on May 2. The Gators' all-time home run leader has 
one homer and two RBIs in 18 major-league at-bats. "Roland said that this was just the icing on the cake, 
however we did (in the regionals)," Mather said. "All 
of us were just playing with all our hearts. It's just a 
bonus to make it to the tournament." 
HEALTH 
INSURANCE 
Chip Williams "Students need Health Insurance. 
Help protect yourself from the rising cost of 
medical services. You deserve quality health 
insurance coverage, and it is available for 
you. We at Chip Williams & Associates will 
help you acquire that insurance." 
WE FIND ANSWERS. 
CHIP WILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES 
A Contracted General Agency For: Independent Insurance Agents 
... BlueCross BlueShield 373 0775 u ~"~"!:~:~~"""' olthe -® ® Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association 
3669 S.W. 2nd Avenue Form Number: 18533-599SU DENTAL WHITENING 
RESEARCH STUDY 
Protocol # 2009035 IRB#195-2009 
The University of Florida Periodontal Disease Research Clinic is 
seeking individuals for a research study that will compare the safety 
and whitening effect of two experimental tooth-whitening products 
to a marketed tooth-whitening product. The study requires that you 
come to our clinic for 5 visits over approximately a 6 week period. You 
will first need to schedule an appointment to see if you qualify for the 
study. 
You may be eligible if: 
❖ You are between the age of 18 and 65 
❖ You are in good general health 
❖ You have all of your upper front teeth WITHOUT 
fillings, crowns, bondings, or veneers 
❖ You have never whitened your teeth 
Eligible participants will receive an an oral examination, a 
product kit, and financial compensation of up to $150.00. If 
interested, please call our office at (352) 273-6675 between 8 
AM and 1 PM M-F for more information and to schedule a pre­
screening visit. llFE~outh 
43"1t!'l'1'1'ifl :j@nl3'1Ml4 ♦ 
presents the 
performing Saturday , May 30th 
at the following blood drives: 
Publix at 5200 SW 34th St. 
10 am to noon 
High Springs Plaza 
1-3 pm 
Butler Plaza W alma.rt 
1-3 pm 
Come participate in the "Singling 
for Life" program and support 
your local bloodbank 24, ALLIGATOR ■THURSDAY, MAY 14, 2009 
ua1THE 
ESTATES 
SW 2oth Ave 
SW 24th Ave 
ZERO DOWN 
$500 GIFT CARD OR RATES FROM $472 UNIVERSITY 
OF FLORIDA 
ZERO DOWN 
$120 GIFT CARD OR RATES FROM $399 