9I
A
ft
pm
9
0
Gum
7
:1
( F
the independent floridaalligator,aiy
L @
Editor Phil Kegler Cover Photo Photo Illustration by Andrew Stanfill and Matt Tripp; Photos by Andrew Stanfill
Alligator, Friday, November 13, 2009
Different
Expectations
Boynton, Macklin help give Florida new identity
By ADAM BERRY combined 23 games and missing consecutive averaging 12.5 points and 6.2 rebound
Alligator Staff Writer NCAA Tournaments for the first time since game, but the physical play of the South
a berry@a IIigator org Donovan's first two years at UF. ern Conference was too much for the ou
"I think the core of our guys have been position forward to handle, as he aver
Nine of Billy Donovan's 13 players this sea- through it. We've been through the rough fewer rebounds in conference games (5.5)
son are holdovers from last year's squad, but times," junior forward Chandler Parsons said. Calathes (5.9) or Parsons (5.6). Donovan
he might as well be coaching a new team. "We've been to the NIT two years in a row, also forced to start the 6-foot-8, 230-pt
Nick Calathes, Florida's leader on the court and obviously we don't want to go back to Dan Werner, a more natural small forwa
and most productive player thelast two years, that." the power forward spot.
is gone. So is Walter Hodge, the last remain- It remains to be seen whether the new-look With Macklin, Donovan can keep
ing player on both of the Gators' back-to-back Florida basketball team will reach Donovan's and Werner fresh, return some of his pl
national championship teams. 10th NCAA Tournament at UF or make its to their natural positions and count on a
What's left is a mix of new names and fa- third-straight NIT appearance. Regardless of physical presence on defense.
miliar faces -a team with a chance to estab- the destination, this year won't be the same as "Vernon Macklin is just a monster d
lish its own identity and a desire to leave the the last two. there. He's something I have never pl
une xetations and disappointing finishes
behind them-.
With an outlook as new as their talentedtransfercenter and heralded freshman guard,
the Gators are a far cry from the team that took
the floor in the O'Connell Center the past two
seasons-
"It's interesting because I feel like in a lot of
respects we do have somewhat of a new team
although the players are somewhat similar."
Donovan said. "I feel different being around
this team and these guys right now than I did
last year."
Between the prominent additions of Ver-
non Macklin and Kenny Boynton, and the
benefits they will provide UF's veterans, the
Gators have transformed their lineup of out-
of-position players to a traditional, stereotypi-
cal starting five.
No longer carrying expectations of instant
success or an undeserved sense of entitlement
this year's team has something to prove.
A new identity might be just what the
Gators need to get back on track -and backs per
-east-
ut-of-
agedthan
-was
und
rd, at
Tyus
ayers
new
down
played
with before in my life," Parsons said. "Never
The Big Man played with a guy like him who can change
The ideal solution to the Gators' well-doc- the game on the defensive end so much by
umented frontcourt issues may have been sit- getting every rebound, by blocking every shot,
ting on the bench last year. dunking everything. He's just an animal."
The 6-foot-10, Macklin practiced
240-pound Macklin, with the team last
who transferred to in a lot ofrespects we do have somewhat of a new team, year but could
Florida after two ' not play due
years at Georgetown,BillyDonovan to NCAA
has been hailed as the inside presence rules. He admitted he would not
the team has missed since Marreese Speights have been much help last year given his unfa_
left UF early for the NBA. As a sophomore in miliarity with the system and physical condi-
2007-08, Macklin averaged 3.4 points and 2.1 tioning, but that didn't make it easier to sit on
rebounds while playing only 12.8 minutes per the sidelines.
game in a crowded Hoyas frontcourt. "There was a time at practice last year when
Caught between the departure of one natu- I didn't have everything figured out," Macklin
ral center and thearrival of another, the Gators said. "I was thinking about like, 'What am I
struggled down low throughout the 2008-09 doing? This is tough. I'm sitting out a whole
season. Alex Tyus, better suited to play pow- year. I'm working for nothing.'
er forward at 6-foot-8 and 220 pounds, was "Butthen when coach Donovan called me
forced to start at center and match up with out, I started working toward that, and I start_
bigger, stronger opponents. ed seeing improvement from a lot of guys. So
Tyus held his own in the post last year, I said, 'If I keep this up, we'll make a big im-
Matt Tripp/Alligator Staff
Florida freshman guard Kenny Boynton immediately steps in as one of the Gators' top scorers. Boynton was a McDonald's High School
All-American as well as the third-leading scorer in Florida high school history. Rivals.com ranked him the No. 12 overall recruit.MattTripp / AigatorStaff
Florida center Vernon MackIn will finally take the court for the Gators after sitting out
the 2008-09 season due to NCAA transfer rules. He spent two years at Georgetown.v tIet hottet~ty ~'~tq
provement."
Given the way opponents dominated UF in
the post last year, the hype built up Macklin to
be more than just an incoming big man who
could fill a need. He became the light at the
end of the tunnel -the Gators' eventual sav-
ior, a title he undeservedlyreceived and is still
looking to shed.
"Coach Donovan helped me out a lot on
that. The media has put a lot as me being this
savior," Macklin said. "It has nothing to do
with me. .It's the whole team."
But Macklin wasn't theonly one who had
to deal with extreme expectations before tak-
ing the floor for Florida.
The Scorer
While Macklin was sitting on the Gators'
bench last year, the team's second supposed
savior was dominating defenses and breaking
high school scoring records in South Florida.
Boynton's reputation and list of accom-
plishments precedes him: a McDonald's All-
American, Rivals.com's No. 12 overall recruit
in the class of 2009, a Class 6A state champion,
a back-to-back AAU junior national champion
and the third-leading scorer in Florida high
school history.
Boynton's reputation as a score-first guard
led to the belief he would single-handedly
make up for the departure of Calathes and
Hodge. Those two comprised UF's starting
backcourt and accounted for a third of the
team's scoring last season.
Like Macklin, Boynton won't be able to
save the program on his own no matter how
many points he scores or how well he adapts
to all the roles he foresees himselfplaying.
"He's not a savior. He's one guy, and he's
a freshman," Donovan said. "He's going to be
a good player here -and I have no doubts
about that -but I think the expectation that
he's going to be this total impact player would
be totallyunfair to him."
The hype only became more intense as
Boynton's Florida debut drew closer. He aver-
aged 33 points per game during his senior sea-
son to cap off his career at Plantation American
Heritage High, and his new teammates have
said he can get off any shot he wants one-on-
one.
But the expectations don't bother Boynton.
Far from it, actually.
"I want to live up to them, so I just keep
working so more people talk about me," Boyn-
ton said.
The 6-foot-2, 183-pound Boynton brings a
newfound confidence and swagger to a pro-
gram in need of both after two disappointing
seasons. But Donovanhasbeen most impressed
by Boynton's ability to put aside the numerous
accolades hereceived in high school and focus
on making himself and his new team better.
"Kenny's got unbelievable belief in himself,
which is great, but there is a level of humility,"
Donovan said. "For a kid as highly profiled as
him, he's really done a pretty good job of help-
ing create even more chemistry on our team."
Boynton knows his strength is putting
points on the board, but he hopes to immedi-
ately establish himself at Florida as being more
than just a scorer. He said he also wants to be
recognized as a defensive specialist, leader
and true point guard.
This year, Donovan may ask his new do-
everything guard to take on all of the above
assignments.
"If one day he wants me to go out and just
be a defensive guy, then that's what I'm gon-
na do," Boynton said. "If he wants me to be
a point guard this day, I'll do that. And if hewants me to shoot the next day, that's whtIl~'
do."
The Attitude
Even with a more traditional roster and a
crop of talented new players, it's not entirely
personnel that makes this year's Florida team
different. It's also a top-down shift in philoso-
phy and mentality.
From Donovan to each of his players, the
Gators have taken into account what held
them back the last two years and focused on
rectifying those problems.
It started with a move Donovan and his
staff made before practice even started: creat-
ing a tougher nonconference schedule. With
matchups against Michigan State and Syra-
cuse beforeSEC play begins, Donovan will test
his new team early on.
The last two years, he attempted to ease
into the season -a move that resulted in a
3-14 record against top-50 RPI teams and an
overconfident group of young players who
would face a rude awakening during the con-
ference slate.
The schedule also includes a game against
Xavier in the middle of SEC play.
With their coach's commitment to turning
around the program made clear by his offsea-
son statement, the burden of improvement
then fell to his veteran players. They had to
make strides in terms of leadership and com-
mitment to do their part.
"The last couple years, we were real imma-
ture, and that's the bottom line," Werner said.
"Being more mature is going to make it feel
like a new group."
Theiredeveloping maturity, along with the
threat of losing their jobs to new players, cre-
ated a competitive atmosphere that had been
absent the last two years, affecting the team's
younger players -even as early as offseason
scrimmages.
"Even in the pick-ups, you see people are
more competitive," sophomore center Kenny
Kadji said. "People don't want to get punked
and stuff like that."
But the newfound effort wouldn't mean
quite as much had the Gators not gotten in bet-
ter shape during the offseason. Eight of UF's
11 losses last year came by six points or fewer,
and six were by four or fewer -something
that motivated the team to improve its condi-
tioning and endurance.
"We've got a different feeling in the whole
gym. Everyone's working sohard," Parsons
said. "We've got conditioning tests. Every-
one's passing those when more than half our
team wasn't last year. We'recoming in here
at 4 or 5 in the morning just working our tails
off."
Donovan said he struggled to get his team
to put forth enough effort in practice last sea-
son. Now that his players are at least physi-
cally capable of keeping up with what's asked
of them, he can finally focus on preparing his
team for each game -and for a potential re-turn to the national prominence the program
reached earlier under his watch.
"There are a lot of people who have a lot of
questions about this team and what they can
do and what they can become," Donovan said.
"The exciting and challenging part is dealing
with those things.
"There are some things I'm seeing that at
least make me feel like as a team we are mov-
ing in the right direction."
Whethertheright directionleads the Gators
to another NIT or back to the NCAA Tourna-
ment, this year -at the very least -things
will be different.
the independent florida
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 103 ISSUE 58 We Inform. You Decide.7~YK
111
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
Downtown festival to feature 250 artists
By MEG WAGNER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Downtown Gainesville is trading traffic
for pedestrians and paintings this weekend
for the 28th annual Downtown Festival and
Art Show.
Organizers expect about 100,000 peopleto visit the outdoor art gallery over the
course of the festival, which will be held
Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5
p.m.
The festival will showcase the work of
about 250 artists, chosen from a pool of
more than 650 people.
"Gainesville is a culturally enriched com-munity that embraces the arts," said Linda ranked the festival No. 27 on its list of the
Piper, events coordinator for the City of nation's top 200 art shows. The list is com-
Gainesville Department piled and ranked by artists, who vote on
Around of Parks, Recreation and which festivals are most profitable.Gainesville Cultural Affairs. "There The downtown festival has been on the
is so much to see, I sug- list since 1996 and has risen in the rankings
gest you plan to spend the whole day."
This year, Sunshine Artist Magazine SEE FESTIVAL, PAGE 4
Most Americans
favor texting ban
0 HOLCOMB: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING
RIVALS DRUNKEN DRIVING.
By SHAYNA TUCKER
Alligator Contributing Writer
-.Brooke Barber texts while driving.
"Why call when you can text?" she said. "Plus, if
you're on the phone, you can't listen to music."
But most Americans don't share her view.
Ninety-seven percent of Americans support a ban on
texting while driving, according to a recent New York
Times/CBS News poll.
Texting while driving distracts the driver because
concentration is on the conversation, and he or she can't
react quickly enough, UF Police Department Capt. Jeff
Holcomb said.
Eighty percent also support a ban on talking on the
phone while driving, according to the poll.
Holcolmb feels texting is more dangerous than talking
on the phone, though he feels both are unsafe. A law ban-
ning the two would make the roads safer, he said.
Linda Crider, a bicycling and traffic safety expert at
UF, said she would also support a ban.
"You cannot depend on people to make good judg-
Thomas Plevik/ Alligator ment as to what would be considered distracting them,"
Poorhouse on the Plaza she said. "Most think driving. doesn't require full con-
A pair of fake legs sticks out from boxes set up on the Plaza of the Americas Thursday as part of Actions! centration."
UF Hunger and Homelessness Week, which runs from Nov. 15 to 21. Fifty percent of those polled said the punishment for
texting and driving should be as severe as it is for drunk-
en driving.
SEE POLL, PAGE 4
STUDENT LIFE
Students virtually plant, harvest crops on Facebook
By AMANDA MILLIGAN
Alligator Writer
When UF junior Gloria Tavarez
wakes up in the morning, she har-
vests her crops.
Knowing what to plant next in-
volves strategy. She considers howlong each crop will take to grow,
making sure they'll be ready to
harvest in between classes. During
these gaps in her schedule, she can
dash to a computer lab and log into
Facebook, home of FarmVille.
However, she makes sure the lab
isn't busy. She doesn't want to playa game while there's a line of people
waiting -it's kind of embarrassing,
she said.
"You have to make sure no one's
looking," she said.
But to Tavarez, it's worth it.
"It's kind of pathetic, but it's a lot
of fun," she said. "At first I thoughtit was really boring, but then it got
addicting."
Tavarez said she logs in at least
three times a day to check Farm-
Ville, a Facebook application with
more than 63 million active monthly
users.
UF students like Tavarez are partof this group, growing and harvest-
ing virtual crops while earning coins
and helping out neighboring farms.
She said it's a fun distraction and
a good form of procrastination.
Christopher Sessums, a postdoc-
SEE FARMVILLE, PAGE 4
San Diego Great Dane named world's tallest dog
LOS ANGELES (AP) -A dog named
Titan lived up to his name Thursday
when he earned the title world's tallest
dog.
The 4-year-old white Great Dane
from San Diego is blind, deaf, epileptic
and undergoes acupuncture and chiro-
practic adjustments every three weeks,
owner Diana Taylor said.
"Titan is magical," she added. "He's
low-key, calm and has a wonderful de-meanor about him. He gets along with
all dogs, even the tiny ones.
The massive canine is often mistaken
by young children for a horse or cow.
Titan's official height, as measured
by a veterinarian, is a hair over 3 feet
tall from floor to shoulder.
Titan weighs 190 pounds and doesn't
stand on his hind legs because it isn't
good for him. If he did, Taylor figures he
would stand 80 or 82 inches tall.Today
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9 Sunny
CROSSWORD 13 74/49
SPORTS 14
visit www.alligator.org0 Quarterback Tim
Tebow (right) will
be squaring off
with South Carolina
coach Steve Spur-
rier for the final
time Saturday. UF
heads to Columbia
looking to finish 8-0
in conference play.
See Story, Page 14.
2, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
News Today
LOCAL
Foundation plans walk for
suicide awareness
Scott Sumrow was a Nation-
al Honor Society member who
dreamed of designing and build-
ing airplanes. He also suffered
from depression. Shortly after his
18th birthday in 2001, Scott took
his life.
Since Scott's passing, more
than 250,000 Americans have
taken their lives -an average of
32,000 annually, according to the
American Foundation for Suicide
Prevention.
To reach out to survivors and
bring awareness to the commu-
nity, the foundation is hosting
the Out of the Darkness Commu-
nity Walk at Westside Park on
Saturday from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
Registration begins at 8 a.m.
Jacksonville's fourth Out of
the Darkness walk was held on
Oct. 24, but Saturday's event is
Gainesville's first. Coordinators
expect 75 people to attend.
The 5K walk will raise aware-
ness about depression, mental
illness and the toll suicide takes
on our society, said Kathy Sum-
row, Scott's mother, Out of The
Darkness Walk chairwoman and
AFSP Florida First Coast Chapter
Board chairwoman.
Participants can walk in si-
lence, share memories of loved
ones or walk simply to remem-
ber, she said.
All proceeds will go to the
foundation for research, edu-
cational programs, community
outreach and survivor support.
"My favorite part has to be
the support those who have
lost someone to suicide feel and
share," Sumrow said. "There is
a special kinship at these events
between those who have been
brought together under such sad
and tragic circumstances."
Students enrolled in the Psy-
chology of Suicide class are help-
ing coordinate the event.
"Suicide isn't a subject you
can learn from a textbook," said
psychology senior Sarah Mead.
"There aren't really right an-
swers."
For event information or to
volunteer, contact 904-891-4351FORECAST
TODAY
ij
SUN NY
74/49SATURDAY
SUN NY
80/50
or tlsumrow@bellsouth.net.
If you or someone you know
is in suicidal crisis or emotional
distress, contact the National
Suicide Prevention Lifeline by
calling 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
-HILARY SHEINBAUM
Expo to highlight
careers for women
UF Students in Free Enter-
prise is hosting a Women's
Career Expo today from 9 a.m.
to noon at the Center for Inno-
vation and Economic Develop-
ment at Santa Fe College.
The event consists of a panel
discussion, resume and inter-
viewing workshops and a ca-
reer fair for women looking to
re-enter the work force after a
prolonged absence.
Laura Bosco, one of the co-
ordinators of the event, said
she wanted to plan the event
after her mom went through
the process of finding a job.
"That was something that
I helped her with and saw
some of the problems she went
through," she said.
The expo is hosting organi-
zations that will give attendees
advice from dressing for suc-
cess to making transitions from
one job to another.
The participating organiza-
tions include FloridaWorks,
02B Kids!, the Gainesville Area
Women's Network, TempForce
of Gainesville and the Center
for Business and Entrepreneur
Incubator.
Each organization will have
a booth where participants can
stop by and get information on
things such as child care op-
tions, networking, and wom-
en's health and confidence.
Jenny Seltzer, another coor-
dinator for the event, said the
expo's purpose is to make these
organizations more accessible
to local women.SUNDAY
SUN NY
79/50MONDAY
SUN NY
80/58TUESDAY
riit
SUN NY
80/58
"It's just kind of bringing the
local community resources to-
gether with the women who need
their services," Seltzer said.
-ELIZABETH BEHIRMAN
ON CAMPUS
Ceramic arts club to sell
pottery at Art Bash tonight
UF's ceramic arts club, H.O.T.
Clay, will have its final day of
the student-made pottery sale
today at the annual Art Bash
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Fine
Arts Complex.
Money raised helps the club
pay for the costs of conferences
and visiting artist workshops.
All of the items on sale are
handmade pieces created by club
members. The pieces include
cups, bowls and other various
sculptures.
H.O.T., which stands for
"hand-built or thrown" (differ-
ent pottery techniques) had a
make-a-thon to prepare for the
sale, said Jon Burns, a ceramics
graduate student and member of
H.O.T. Clay.
The club members met for
a few hours and made as many
pieces as they could.
There were about 500 pieces
displayed Tuesday, Burns said.
Prices range from $10 to $75,
on average.
The event is a way for the
club to not only raise money, but
to show off its members' work.
"We feel it's really important
the community knows what we
do as artists," Burns said.
-MARISSA LYONS
The Alligator strives to be
accurate and clear in its news
reports and editorials. If you
find an error, please call our
newsroom at 352-376-4458
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.
Pappas & Tapley
Orthodontics
ecialists in Orthodontics
*
invisalign
( <
Call today for a complimentary evaluation 332-7466 or visit www.ptorthodontics.coma the independent florida
Not officiallyrVOLUME 103 ISSUE 58 ISSN 0889-2423
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc, of Gainesville, Florida
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
Editor Kristin Bjornsen,
kbjornsen@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Brian Kelley, bkelley@alligator.org
Managing Editor/ Online Jennifer Jenkins
jjenkins@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Andrew Stanfill,
astanfill@alligator.org
Metro Editor Emily Fuggetta,
efuggetta@alligator.org
University Editor Chelsea Keenan
ckeenan@alligatororg
Opinions Editor Will Olsen, wolsen@alligator.org
Sports Editor Phil Kegler, pkegler@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Kyle Maistri, kmaistri@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Bobby Callovi, bcallovi@alligator.org
Editorial Board Kristin Bjornsen, Brian Kelley,
Jennifer Jenkins, Will Olsen
Photo Editor Harrison Diamond,
hdiamond@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor Matt Tripp mtripp@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Ashley Ross, aross@alligatororg
the Avenue Editor Lane Nieset, Inieset@alligatororg
Graphics Chief Jessica Warshaver
Copy Desk Chiefs Jack Benge, Adam Berry,
Emily Blake, Joe Holzer,
Rachael Pino
Copy Editors Alex Chachkevitch, Sanika Dange,
Ashley Hemmy, Corey McCall,
Amanda Milligan, Emily Morrow,
George Pappas, Paul Runnestrand,
Jennifer Smith, Erica Zayas
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-496-0265 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Advertising Director Rose Sierra, rsierra@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston,
vlivingston@alligator.org
Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
Intern Coordinator Sara lngebretsen
Display Advertising Clerks Sara Ingebretsen, Shaun O'Connor
Sales Representatives Zoya Avyaeva, Jen Cowie,
Caitlin Dilks, Natasha Dykes,
Brittany Fayne, Joaquin Martinez,
Megan Meckstroth,
Samantha Owen, MelanyValderrama
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FI ND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario
CIRCULATION
Operations Assistant David Carlson
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
Comptroller Ramona Malloy
Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligatororg
Accounting Clerks Dyana Sanchez
Assistant Bookkeeper Amanda Miller
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Judy Moore
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
Imcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin,
sgocklin@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, Doug Eastman,
Shaun O'Connor, Briana O'Sullivan
Editorial Production Staff Erica Ervin, Jocelyne Sanchez,
Max Weissler
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc , PO Box
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257 The Alligator is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods During UF summer academic terms The Alligator is
published Tuesdays and Thursdays
TheAlligator is a member ofthe Newspaper Association ofAmerica, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18
Summer Semester $10
Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
Full Year (All Semesters) $40
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W University Ave Classified advertising can be placed at
that location from 8 a m to 4 p m Monday through Friday, except for holidays Classifieds also can
be placed at the UF Bookstore @ Copyright 2005 All rights reserved No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-
tions IncGetting the degree.
Now get the SMILE you want to go Sp
with it and make a great first impression.
It's never bee$ easier! 
invisai
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
Local experts discuss climate change, clean energy
By BRANDON BRESLOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
One of UF's newest organiza-
tions welcomed students to dis-
cuss issues of clean energy, global
warming and carbon emissions
with four local experts Thursday.
"Clean Energy: When & How?"
was sponsored by The Dynamo, a
student-run group that encourag-
es its members to conduct policyresearch and contribute to public
debates. More than 50 attended
the event in Pugh Hall.
Lance Legel, president of the
organization and moderator of the
discussion, said he chose the top-
ics of climate change and renew-
able energy for the panel to dis-
cuss because of their urgency and
broad appeal.
"Individuals can help and
communities can help, but theseproblems are international," said
Harald W. Keg-
elmann, CEO of
Advanced Solar
Technologies
Inc.
Other mem-
bers of the panel
included Sanford
Berg Berg, director of
water studies for
UF's Public Utility Research Cen-ter; Panos M. Pardalos, a UF dis-
tinguished professor of industrial
and systems engineering; and Sean
McLendon, sustainability program
manager for Alachua County.
The panel spent a majority of
the event discussing its own ideas
of how technology and different
levels of government can contrib-
ute to the solution of carbon emis-
sions and global warming.
Although their plans varied,panel members agreed that the en-
tire planet will need to take part in
solving these problems.
"We have to roll up our sleeves,
and we have to participate,"
McLendon said. "We are citizens
that live in a democracy, and we
have the ability to change our fu-
ture."
For more information on The
Dynamo, visit the group's Web
site at thedynamo.org.
Campaign reminds county workers of on-the-job texting ban
* COURTS DISCUSSING WHETHER
TEXTS ARE PUBLIC RECORD.
ByCJ PRUNER
Alligator Writer
As Randall Reid and his wife were tour-
ing the Louvre Museum in Paris during a
vacation last summer, his eyes fixed upon a
classic statue depicting a man gazing into a
marble cell phone."Oh look, honey, he's texting," he joked
as his wife, Connie, snapped a photograph
of Reid, Alachua's county manager, striking
the same pose with his own cell phone.
Although it started off as a lighthearted
jab at antiquity, the picture has now become
the banner for a more serious message -
it's now being used in the city's campaign
against text messaging while on the job.
The phrase "Thou Shall Not Text," serves
as a reminder to all 900 city employees to
keep their fluttering fingers in check whileon the clock.
"I wanted to do something more than
just a morning e-mail," Reid said. "I have a
warped sense of humor."
According to Reid, the ban
Local is the city's way of leaning on
News the safe side while the Florida
Attorney General's Office and
the courts decide whether text messages
should be considered public record.
After consulting with the city attorney,
Reid believes that text messages should beconsidered as such.
"It doesn't help if chief legal authorities
don't take a position," he said.
Although the message may appear daunt-
ing, Reid wants his employees to take an ac-
tive role in the campaign. He has opened up
the floor for employees to submit new ideas
for the poster's caption.
"We want to address this issue proactive-
ly," said Reid, who does not use text mes-
saging. "We go to great strides to be open
and transparent."
*Now~ Mon-Sat LAP
Open 11am -9pm TO
Sun 12pm-9pm
Grocery PC & MAC
just Around the R EPAIR rn Corner
-Kielbasa -Ham
-Deli Meat- Cheese -Salads
-Fish -Cakes -Candy- Pierogi C1 MILE FROM UF& More NEXT TO GATOR TEXTBOOKS
3312 SW 35th Blvd
'& Nxtt Koh's entrane [371$$
WE IVER
.depbie
SUN-WED 11AM-3AM 672- 6111
THURS, FRI & SAT FREE WIFI
I1AM-4AM NEXT TO SWEETBAY
WWW.JDOOBIES.COM 34TH ST. PLAZA
4, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
Art show ranks in top 30
FESTIVAL, from page 1_
over the past decade. This is the
third year in a row that it is in the
top 30.
"When we were in the top 80,
and the top 60, that was amazing.
Twenty-seven is a dream come
true," Piper said.
As it has grown in popularity,
the downtown festival has become
increasingly competitive.
"I've had to turn so many peo-
ple down. Everyone wants a piece
of the action," Piper said. "Fifteen
years ago there were 160 booth
spots and only 165 artists that ap-
plied."
Preference is given to local art-
ists, and during the selection pro-
cess, those from Florida are given
an extra point and Gainesville art-
ists are given two extra points.
"[The festival] is a way to show-
case local art; that's the whole rea-
son why it began," Piper said.
Artists of all media will display
paintings, sculptures, ceramics,
jewelry, photography, woodwork
and other arts and crafts.
Visitors can also expect live
music and entertainment on threestages, a hands-on activity center
where children can complete art
projects, 50 booths from nonprofit
organizations, a rock climbing
wall and plenty of food vendors.
Piper said the historic down-
"I've been to many art
shows in the state of Flori-
da, and what makes us so
unique is our venue."
Linda Piper
Events coordinator for the depart-
ment of Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Affairs
town setting is what makes the
event so special.
"I've been to many art shows
in the state of Florida, and what
makes us so unique is our venue,"
she said.
"The festival is so large that
it must be held when there's an
away Gator [football] game, or
there wouldn't be enough hotel
rooms," Piper said.
Visit go-rts.com for information
on how thefestival will affect the bus
system.
50 percent say texting, DUI
penalties should match
POLL, from page 1
Holcomb said that though
he doesn't think the punish-
ment for cell phone use should
be as bad as driving under
the influence, he does believe
texting rivals it in level of dan-
ger.
"While intoxicated, the
driver is at least trying to con-
centrate, whereas with texting,
driver's concentration is on the
phone, [and] both hands are
typically in use," he said.
Crider compared the texting
craze to the cultural addiction
of smoking in the past.
"We knew as a culture
smoking wasn't good for us,"she said. "It was harmful to our
health and safety, yet every-
one did it, so we maintained it
as part of our way of life. We
know certain driving behav-
iors are unhealthy and unsafe,
yet everyone
National does it so we
News keep on."
Crider said
her motherhood and job teach-
ing college students has made
her aware of the tendency to
follow the pack, regardless
of whether young people see
their behavior as unsafe.
"Nothing-bad-will-hap-
pen-to-me syndrome pre-
vails," she said. "As parents
and teachers, we pray a lot."The application has 63 million active users
FARMVILLE, from page 1
toral associate in educational technology, said Farm-
Ville's agrarian nature might have something to do
with its popularity.
He said the United States has its roots in farming,
which has the connotation of being something pure
and positive. FarmVille also has the feel of being
"green," he said, and its way of rewarding work with
coins can instill a sense of affirmation in the user.
"It affects us emotionally in a positive way," he
said. "It makes sense that it would be popular."
Sessums said online social gaming applications
like FarmVille take the place of games people played
as children, like kickball. Online gaming allows for
this kind of social play, but it also lets the player
switch roles or identities.
Tavarez said she wanted to live on a farm whenshe was a kid, and with FarmVille, she's able to take
care of a farm of her own.
"It looks pretty, without the stink or the mess,"
she said.
.While FarmVille involves a lot of features that are
similar to real farming, Michael Gunderson, an assis-
tant professor of food and resource economics, said
it's not totally accurate.
He said the main difference between the game
and real farming is biological processes don't occur
on a schedule.
"You don't just show up, and it's ready to go," he
said.
Despite the discrepancies, he likes the application.
He said people tend to think of agriculture as not re-
quiring much education or savvy.
"Real agriculture couldn't be further from [that],"
he said.
7rinj .[(Lquors
Sailor Jerry 1.75L.$ 19.99
Svedka 1.75L.$19.99
Jameson Whiskey 75m.$19.99
39th Ave in Publix Plaza
Rodeheaver Boys' Ranch Needs the
Donation of Your Vehicles:
Cars * Trucks * Vans
Motor Homes -Boats
Motorcycles * Tractors
CALL 1-800-741-2001
We'll Pick It Up Free
charity caring for up to 
"
prmanent positive
ietl settigsne.....S. aturd ays
Free BeerFridays Live3J
Beat the Clock
Lv .-- 171. 35U2-378-7
1718W.Unv.1 " LOffice Deebo
A Gainesville police car and Gainesville Fire Rescue trucks respond after a robbery at Office
Depot on Northwest 13th Street and Northwest 10th Avenue. One man was injured and was
taken to the hospital after the robbery.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 5
VerOgnwireless
Satisfy your app-etite.
Instant access to exciting applications including games, VZ Navigator and V CAST Music with Rhapsody.
Plus, get a 15% faculty and staff discount.
On calling plans $39.19 or higher with a l-sor 2-yr. agreement.
ka.-Aw-405 NORTH
4 RA, N
-Large 3" touch screen with tactile feedback
* Optional snap on attachments like a full QWERTY
keyboard or optional game controller
NOW $7 99ONLY 79
$179.99 2yr price-$100mil
in rebate debit card. Requires a
Nationwide Calling Plan.
Call 1.888.VZW.4BIZ (899.4249)
VERIZON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS STORES Open 7 days
Technicans available at select locations
CLERMONT 1415 E Hwy. 50 352-243-6826 LAKE C
GAINESVILLE 3401 S.W. Archer Rd. 352-378-8828 LEESB
Oaks Mall Kiosk 352-331-0379 OCALA
3401 SW Archer Rd. 352-378-8828 OCALA
3626 SW Archer Rd. 352-491-2500 OCALA
LADY LAKE 870 N. Hwv. 27/441. Ste. G. 352-350-2861Click verizonwireless.com/getdiscount
ITY Lake City Ma 386-719-2173
URG Lake Square Mall 352-787-2449
2613 S.W. 19th Ave. Rd 352-620-0025
HUB/EAST 2606 SW 19th Ave. Rd. 352-25
WEST 4414 SW College Rd. 352-237-8697Visit any Communications Store
BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
1-800-899-4249
In Collaboration with
Alcatel-Lucent eAcepta os Lar
Matricula ConsularVisit verizonwireless.com
to find a Club near you.Nokia TwistTM
* Unique square design that twists
open to reveal a OWERTY keyboard
-V CAST Music with Rhapsody® and
Visual Voice Mails capable
NOW $ 99
ONLY
$149.99 2-yr. price -$50
mail-in rebate debit card.Go InNe
Activation fee/line: $35.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subjeceto CustomerAgmtand Calling Plan. Device capabilities: Add' charges& conditions apply. Offers & coverage, varying byservkie, notavailableeverywhere. Networkdetails& coverage maps atverizonwireless.com. Rhapsodyand the Rhapsody
logo are trademarks and registered trademarks of RealNetworks, Inc. Tetns® & 1985-2009 Tetris Holding, LLC. Game Technology 02009 Electronic Arts Inc. EA and the EA logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Are You Smarter
Than a 5th Gradery and 02009 JMBP, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All company names, trademarks, logos and copyrights not the property of Verizon Wireless are the property oftheir respective owners. All Rights Reserved. 02009 Verizon Wireless VERSASwitch to America's Largest and Most Reliable Wireless Network.I
6, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
Editorial
his week the world celebrated momentous changes in
history, and America celebrated some changes of its
own. By contrast, things have been a little slow around
the Alligator; the most noteworthy thing to happen this week
is the mysterious disappearance of the friendly rats that live
in our walls (if you're reading this, we miss you). These
epic world events only make the mundane state of affairs in
Gainesville harder to bear. With that in mind, we are happy
to present you with a don't-let-the-small-town-blues-get-you-
down edition of.
Darts & Laurels
Because one day, we promise you'll graduate and move on
to the real world (well, most of you).
On Monday, somewhere in the real world, millions of peo-
ple marked the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall
with celebrations and dominoes. One thousand giant domi-
noes were placed over the former site of the wall to symbolize
its fall, and as we watched them topple we thought of only one
thing. Ronald Reagan descending from the clouds, hammer
in hand, destroying the Wall like an angry Thor. While George
H.W. Bush got to watch the fall from the Oval Office, we all
know who really brought these changes to Berlin, and that's
why we would like to give an even-better-than-the-Hulk-
smash LAUREL to Ronald Reagan for bringing freedom to
Germany, and the world, and the universe, forever.
In America this week, a momentous event took place that
will no doubt match the historical significance of those in Ber-
lin (no, it's not the health care legislation). On Wednesday
night, Lou Dobbs announced that he will be leaving his post
as CNN's resident lunatic, seeking a "new way" to advocate
his views. No longer will CNN viewers be plagued by opinion
polls like, "Should the sleazy bureaucrats in Washington be al-
lowed to continue stealing the money of hardworking Ameri-
cans?" (98 percent no, 1 percent yes, 1 percent undecided).
No longer will they see his groundbreaking investigative
pieces, like the one about the thousands of filthy Mexican im-
migrants who bring leprosy into the U.S. each year (yes, he
ran it. no, of course it's not true). But Lou needs some kind
of outlet for his populist-rage, so we are forced to present a
thanks-for-giving-Lou-a-job LAUREL to Fox News (in ad-
vance). Because if the speculation is true, and Lou plans to run
for public office, our heads might just explode.
.And Fox is where he belongs anyway.
The Department of Darts and Laurels, inundated this week
with gripping, important local news, has decided to bring you
none of it, opting rather for cheap shots at local figures over
mundane mistakes (notice a theme?).
Last Friday, UF President Bernie Machen was driving in a
downtown parking lot when he hit another car. Deciding that
he "did not feel that there had been an accident," he fled with-
out leaving a note, according to GPD spokesman Keith Kameg.
For his hilarious cowardice, we throw a thought-you'd-get-
away-with-it-didn't-you DART at President Machen. (If we
were vengeful, it would be aimed at his car window.)
Next up, three UF fraternities are in trouble for allegedly
allowing underage drinking at events over the summer and
early fall. In one case, the line really may have been crossed, as
one fraternity is accused of giving alcohol to two 17-year-old
girls, one of whom was rushed to the emergency room after
vomiting in a SNAP van. For denying the charges, claiming
the girls entered uninvited and were "breaking and entering,"
we throw an own-up-to-the-beer-bong DART at Sigma Phi
Epsilon.
On Wednesday, about 240 people showed up at University
House apartments on Northwest 13th Street for what was an
attempt to break the Guinness World Record for longest mas-
sage chain. For the shameless self promotion, and for falling
so short of your goal (even with the Hooters girls out in force),
we have to throw an epic-massage-fail DART at University
House.
That's it for this week. Go make some real news, Gators!
a ll te independent forida
alligator R
Kristin Bjornsen
EDITOR
Brian Kelley
Jennifer Jenkins
MANAGING EDITORSWill Olsen
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator encourages comments from readers Letters to the editor should not exceed 150
words (about one etter-sized page) They mustbe typed, double-spaced and must include the
author's name, classification and phone number Names wiii be withheld if the writer shows
just cause We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, styie and iibei Send letters to
ietters@aiiigatororg, bring them to 1105 W University Aye , or send them to P0 Box 14257,
GainesviIle, FL 32604-2257Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial
cartoons are also welcome Questions? Caii 376-4458Opinions ALLIGATOR
www.a Iigator.org/opinions
%j4j O (fZT-k WOL YOU 08oQ9 AP 10 bE PoT2
0C)3 C / PIN I- -TII J
/ /
I fr~ltYCr PJAZ PC16077 dS- m~k
iNq4PPt Pqp4bAr&JC/O -b QbLIOUL
6s&IOoot csxf
Guest column
Muslim beliefs not reflected in shooting
M ay Peace be Upon You.My name is Nora Zaki, and I am a student at UF.
I am also a Muslim. After hearing about the mass
shooting by Maj. Nidal Malik Hassan at Fort Hood, Texas,
on Nov. 5, 1 was shocked and upset. I want to express some
comments from a Muslim perspective about this event.
First, I want to express my sincere condolences to the vic-
tims of this horrible incident. Muslims pray five times a day,
and so after each prayer, I will ask God to help the families
of the victims and the Fort Hood community. I also express
my prayers for the family of Hassan, for I am sure they are
dealing with a hard time too.
Second, I want to express my disgust and shame for what
Hassan did. I know that the media will portray the unfortu-
nate fact that he is a Muslim, and I have already seen him be-
ing labeled a Muslim terrorist onnews Web sites. The Council
on American Islamic Relations was the first Muslim organi-
zation to denounce the act. The statement said, "No political
or religious ideology could ever justify or excuse such wan-
ton and indiscriminate violence. The attack was particularly
heinous in that it targeted the all-volunteer Army that pro-
tects our nation. American Muslims stand with our fellow
citizens in offering both prayers for the victims and sincere
condolences to the families of those killed or injured."
The circumstances regarding Hassan's harassment by
fellow military members is unfortunate and discriminatory.
But no one has a right to take the lives of innocent people.
And that goes for soldiers fighting the war in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan, too. I am sure Hassan was upset by the fact that
many innocent Muslims are killed by U.S. soldiers, but that
doesn't justify him killing some people at Fort Hood, regard-
less of whether they are Muslim.
I just hope Muslim Americans realize how lucky they
are to live in America. Truly, what a great country this is. I
was born and raised here and have taken it for granted until
I've learned more about how other Muslims are treated in
other Muslim minority countries, and even Muslim majorityNora Zaki countries. I don't agree with all of U.S.
Speaking Out foreign policy, but I respect the values
this nation was founded on, and I re-
spect America. In fact, these values are
complementary to Islam.
I would like to end with a historical story, an encounter
between different peoples. During the time when the Proph-
et Muhammad was revealing his message in Mecca, the most
powerful clan realized that his message was challenging its
unfair social order and polytheism, which led to lucrative
business for the clan. So some of Muhammad's followers em-
igrated to Abyssinia, in modern-day Ethiopia. The Abyssin-
ian king, who was a Christian, was known for his tolerance
and "being respectful and fair with his people," writes Tariq
Ramadan, author of "In the Footsteps of the Prophet." Some
emissaries from the clan that tried to persecute the Muslims
tried to magnify the differences of the Muslims and Christians
by presenting them to the the Abyssinian king. The Muslims
told the king about their religion, and he heard the meaning
of what they said: "Their God is the same, whatever the dif-
ferences between their texts and our beliefs; their values of
respect and justice are the same, whatever the discrepancies
between the religions' text.' The king heard and welcomed
those believers of another faith," Ramadan wrote.
Muslims in America can relate to this story. America
has allowed Muslims to live their lives seeking opportunity
while maintaining their faith. Of course hardships and some
unfairness exists, but Muslim Americans should be thankful
nonetheless. Let me end with this: Muslims are people who
can do terrible things. Islam is a beautiful and perfect reli-
gion, but a few Muslims have distorted its teachings. Please
do not confuse the religion with its followers because they
can be completely different.
"And be patient in adversity: for verily, God does not fail
to requite the doers of good!" -Quran 11:115.
Nora Zaki is a UF student.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Reader response
Today's question: Should texting Monday's question: Would you 4% YES
while driving be banned? pay $100 to see Brett Ratner?96% NO
97 TOTAL VOTES
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgCA WT )A)
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Kava can cause liver damage
I am astounded that your reporter would
give a green light to anyone promoting kava.
The herb can cause serious liver problems. The
coffee "professor" who has been researching
kava for 11 years should have advised the re-
porter about the numerous lawsuits against
companies selling this stuff.
Terry Polevoy, MD
Ontario, Canada resident
Herbal tea can react with prescriptions
As a third-year pharmacy student, I want-
ed to remark on your article concerning kava.
Many patients don't believe herbals and sup-
plements are medications, so they fail to tell
their doctor that they are taking them.
However, many herbals, kava included,
cause significant interactions with many com-
mon medications.
In some cases, not being aware that an
herbal product can interact with a medication
can be life threatening if there are no symp-
toms of drug inefficacy.
So please be careful when taking what may
seem to be a harmless herbal.
Crystal Mason
UF pharmacy student
* U UAlligator balances fraternity coverage "Republicans aren't actually conservative,"
I am writing this letter to commend the Spieler asks what the conservative principles
Alligator on the way in which it reported the are. I would like to try to answer that. Conser-
story "Fraternities charged with providing vatism operates off the ideas of personal free-
alcohol to minors." Contrary to the way in dom, limited government interference in the
which stories involving the Greek community daily lives of its citizens and a strong capitalist
are typically reported, this article displays the society. It also stands for fiscal responsibility
relevant conflicting viewpoints inherent in any and strong national defense. The government
news story. Hopefully the level of journalistic shouldn't help those who aren't willing to help
quality present in this story will continue to themselves. Sorry to bust your ideological
be present in all of the Alligator's future news bubble, but there are people who, no matter
articles, particularly stories regarding events how much help you give them, will continue
that are crucial to the daily lives of hundreds to be self-destructive, make bad decisions and
of young men. I applaud the effort to contact contribute nothing to society. They should not
each of the relevant organizations. be given a free ride on everyone else's dollar.
While I'm disappointed that your newspa- As far as President Barack Obama failing,
per sees fit to print a story regarding charges it is not so much a desire for the man himself
that, if it lacked the involvement of fraternities, to fail but rather a desire for his ideology to
would never have gotten the attention of the fail. What ideology you ask? Rampant govern-
writers, I am proud that you saw fit to do it ment spending, redistribution of wealth, un-
with some sense of journalistic responsibility. warranted taxation, government restrictions
Now, when can I expect stories regarding the on constitutional rights and a mentality that
hundreds of non-Greek-affiliated UF students the freest and most generous nation on Earth
charged with alcohol-related crimes as well as owes every other country an apology.
those who face UF Student Conduct and Con- So please, Mr Spieler, avoid gross general-
flict Resolution sanctions? izations. For every conservative you point out
Albert Berdellans who feels we should end Medicare and high-
UFstudent way spending, I can point out a liberal who
feels we should have full governmental con-
U U U trol of the private sector and wishes to institute
communism.
Letter generalizes conservative principles
In response to Frederic Spieler's letter,Sean Gellis
UFstudentT-shirt displays offensive messages
On Tuesday night, The Laboratory, a local
bar/cafe on University Avenue, unveiled its
new promotional T-shirts. One of the T-shirt
designs was offensive and misogynistic, por-
traying a woman's buttocks (her face was not
shown) as she was entangled in tentacles. The
accompanying caption read, "The Laboratory:
more fun than a night in Japan!"
Not only does this image objectify the fe-
male body, but it blatantly conveys rape im-
agery. Despite vocal protests from myself and
two other female patrons of the establishment
(and likely some silent protests), owner Larry
Bruce continued to promote the shirt with its
misogynistic imagery. Bruce states that only
two shirts were made as "gags" and were giv-
en away, not sold; however, this does not mol-
lify the offensive nature of the shirt, and the
notions that female objectification and rape
are a "gag" magnify the ignominy of the shirt.
In addition to its offensiveness, the image
perpetuates violence toward women, a trend
on the rise. According to the Parents Television
Council, violence toward women on television
has increased 120 percent in the last five years.
Promoting a business using rape imagery and
objectifying women is unacceptable. I want
Bruce to recall the offensive shirts and issue
a public apology. Until then, I am boycotting
The Lab and will unabashedly tell this story.
Desi Krell
UFgrad student
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
alligator and@I IIJ1 gahorg
announces the openingsfor the positions
Editor,
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
AND
Managing Editor/Online,
Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the reception desk
at the entrance of the first floor of The Alligator Building at 1105 W.
University Ave., each weekday between 1:00 and 4:00pm from now
until November 20. Please do not call. Further written information
is available at the time an application is picked up. Please allow up
to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need for the
application process. The application must be returned to the same desk
by 4:00 pm, November 23. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at The
Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public beginning at 4:00 pm,
Sunday, December 13. Applicants must be present at that meeting to
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience at The
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employerr ---------- *9
(C R E A M E R Y)
Free plain,
,YWa4ffleI cone:l
I with purchase of a Love-It
I Signature with this coupon. I
alltga9or orts
Tune in for the latest Gatorssports news and analysis from our
beat writers and columnists.
Check it out on aligatorSports.org or
subscribe on Tunes.
Quitting Time
Wish you
never started
smoking? Now
is the time to stop.
People quit all the
time and so can you.
392-1161, ext. 4281http://www.shcc.ufl.edu/gatorwell I
Make Your Plans Today. I7nierjsi Liquor
Polar Ice (flavors only) 1.75 @
99# after mail-in coupon
30 pk Light Beer.$ 11 .99
Bacardi 1.75L .$19.99
U niversity Ave. & 34th
8, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
PICKS, from page 14
can score on the Alabama defense. Plus, Phil Kegler hates fun, football
and America, so there's no way any of his picks are going to hit this
weekend. -KYLE MAISTRI
Now, on to the picks!
In first place for the second straight week with a 54-45 record is Kyle
"I'm going to go slip into a coma" Maistri, whose body shut down and
immune system failed after playing two short hours of flag football
Wednesday afternoon.
Nipping at his heels at 52-47 (because he's short and Kyle's heels
are at eye level) is Bobby "I didn't get enough nap time" Callovi, who
refused to wake up before 10 a.m. to podcast today. It's not our fault
your babysitter forgot to warm up your bottle before putting you to
sleep Thursday. We told her to dab a drop of alcohol on your gums to
ease the teething pains.
The last picker above .500 at 51-48 is the Tampa Tribune's Mike "Mu-
phy's Law" DiFerdinando, who lives his life by that standard: anything
that can go wrong, will. We don't want to say he worries about every-
thing, but he's been freaking out about whether or not the sun will rise
for the past week.
Sitting in fourth place at 48-51 is Mike "Starbucks makes me gassy"
McCall, who loaded up on coffee for his test and then unloaded on his
classmates. At least he didn't save it for the long trip to Columbia.
In a tie for fifth at 46-53 is the Gainesville Sun's Ed "Hola, mami"
Aschoff, who is attending LATIN LADIES NIGHTv @ 101 DOWN-
TOWN. Como se dice, "Once you go black, you never go back"?
Tied with Ed is the Florida Times-Union's Mike "How can we insult
such a kind, elderly man?" DiRocco, who is old and short. We're on
deadline and uncreative. Enjoy!
Free falling to seventh place at 44-55 is Phil "Kontact" Kegler, who
bulldozed one of our copy chiefs during our Veterans' Day flag footballgame. Kegs obviously wasn't clear on the rules, resulting in a collapsed
lung for our poor friend.
In eighth place at 43-56 is Jeremy "What's it like to write a check for
$30K?" Fowler, who broke the rules of conversation with Urban Meyer.
Never talk about politics, religion or money. He didn't ask you what it
was like to write that $6.49 check for got2b glued styling spiking glue,
did he?
In ninth place at 40-59 and closing in on last is Joe "Do you look for
holes when you run?" Goodman, who was proud to get Tim Tebow to
say, "Yeah, I look for the holes," in a quote. Way to go, Joe.
Holding down his usual position in dead-last place at 38-61 is Ben
"I'm totally Mr. December" Volin, who was disappointed to be left out
of the Nice Jewish Guy calendar. His wardrobe: a yarmulke and noth-
ing else.
WVU (+9) at CINC
UT (+4.5) at MISS
UK (-3) at VAND
IOWA (+17) at OSU
STAN (+11) at USC
BAMA (-12) at MSU
AUB ( 4.5) at UGA
UTAH (+ 19.5) at TCU
ND (+7) at PITT
UF (-15.5) at SC
WVU (+9) at CINC
UT (+4.5) at MISS
UK (-3) at VAND
IOWA (+17) at OSU
STAN (+11) at USC
BAMA (-12) at MSU
AUB ( 4.5) at UGA
UTAH (+19.5) at TCU
ND (+7) at PITT
UF (-15.5) at SCKM
CING
MISS
UK
IOWA
USC
BAMA
UGA
UTAH
PITT
UF
MDR
CINC
UT
UK
OSU
USC
MSU
AUB
TCU
PITT
UF13C
WVU
UT
UK
IOWA
STAN
BAMA
UGA
TCU
ND
UF
PK
CINC
UT
UK
IOWA
USC
MSU
AUB
UTAH
ND
UFMDF
WVU
UT
UK
IOWA
STAN
BAMA
AUB
TCU
ND
UFMM
WVU
UT
UK
IOWA
USC
MSU
AUB
UTAH
PITT
UF
JF JA
WVU WVU
UT UT
VAND UK
OSU IOWA
USC STAN
BAMA MSU
AUB AUB
UTAH UTAH
ND ND
UF SCEA
WVU
MISS
UK
IOWA
USC
BAMA
UGA
UTAH
PITT
SC
BV
CINC
UT
UK
IOWA
STAN
MSU
UGA
UTAH
ND
SC
I / NJURY ____REPORT statistical breakdown
FLORIDA SOUTH CAROLINA
-OUT 35 Points Per Game 21.3
DT Brandon Antwine (shoulder) 10.1 Points Allowed Per Game 20.4
CB Moses Jenkins (concussion) 198 Passing Yards Per Game 246WR Carl Moore (back)
CB Jeremy Brown (back) 240.7 Rushing Yards Per Game 121.6
S Dorian Munroe (knee) 134.4 Passing Yards Allowed Per Game 160.1
-QUESTIONABLE
RB Mike Gillislee (hamstring)
-PROBABLE -
LB Brandon Hicks (hamstring)
0 I
* *
2nd ANNUAL
TALENT SHOW
Doors Open at 6:30pm
Rion Ballroom
November 14, 2009
DON'T DRINK & DRIVE98
51/113 (45%)
34/126 (27%)
33/43 (44%)
12/15 (27%)
+4Rushing Yards Allowed Per Game
3rd Down Conversions
3rd Down Defense
Red Zone Scoring Efficiency (TD %)
Red Zone Defense (TD%)
Turnover Margin
The Alligator has sales intern positions
available for the Spring semesters.You will
receive classroom training, firsthand sales
experience, and an opportunity to improve
your communication skills.This resume
builder otters a flexible
schedule with a
minimum of 10
hours per week.
Call Sara or Rose
at 352-376-4482
or email resume to:
advertising@alligator.
Vorgalligatr145.6
58/145 (40%)
55/145 (38%)
28/36 (44%)
26/31(55%)
-1NUMBERS
Percent of games won
81 by Florida under Steve
Spurrier.
Percent of games won
85 by Florida under Urban
Meyer.
Seasons for the Gators
0 with fewer than nine wins
under Spurrier or Meyer.
SEC titles won by the
Gators under Spurrier or
Meyer.
63 Games it took Spurrier
to get to 50 SEC wins,
tied for sixth fastest in SEC
history.
Games it took Meyer
to get to 50 SEC wins,
tied for the fastest.
INJURY
-OUT
DE Dev n Taylor (sternum)
OL Kevin Young (knee)
DT Kenny Davis (ankle)
OL Terrence Campbell (neck)
WR Dion LeCorn (leg)
-QUESTIONABLE=
DE Cliff Matthews (shoulder)
-PROBABLE -
S Chris Cull ver (shoulder)
OL Jarriel King (concussion)
A
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Classifieds
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds
For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent For Rent
furnished furnished unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
$430 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-1
WOW! Live for $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
Cable Internet Utilities
Furnished Tanning 24 Hr Gym
TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838
* 3801 SW 13th St
12-9-75-1
Save Some Green
2's from $789 * 3's from $829
FREE Cable*Tanning*Gym
www.greenwichgreen.net
352.372.8100
12-9-09-75-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsinGainesville.com
12-9-75-1
$369 all inclusive 4/4
$489 all inclusive 2/2
Roommate Match * Full Student Suites
New Furn42" Flat Screen
Now Feline Friendly
352-271-3131*GainesvillePlace.com
12-9-75-1
*MOVE IN TODAY*
Starting @ $349, $0 to sign
All inclusive, fully furnished
2/2's, 3/3's & 4/4's close to UF
3700 SW 27th St. 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
12-9-09-75-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF--$299/MO
Everything Incl + Fully Furn!
Rms avail in 4BR Call Eric, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-1
SUN ISLAND
FURNISHED 2BR AVAILABLE
352-376-6720
12-9-09-75-1
ALMOST SOLD OUT
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-1
2BR/2BA Furnished Apartment in Windsor
Park. $450/ea. room. FREE Internet and
cable! New W/D. On bus route to UF. 305-
788-5681/windsor5l5@gmail.com. 11-23-
09-45-1
2 bdrm/ 2 bth, fully furnished townhome
in Haile Plantation, SW Gainesville, front
garden, back porch. $950-$1050 for short or
long term. Ideal for visiting scholars, sabbati-
cals. 352-331-3183 11-19-09-30-1
CASABLANCA WEST
Townhouse near UF, Shands, shopping.
Easy access. 2BR/2.5BA; great for student/
family. Only $850/mo; 1st mo rent free & flex
terms. Ready to move in! Ed 305-972-6432
11-17-09-25-1
4 bdr house, tenants needed
$350/month + Util (avg $100/month)
5 mins from SantaFe 15 from UF, free ample
parking, end of cul-de-sac, wooded lot.
Call Zack-813-713-7341 11-17-09-15-1
DUCKPOND -BIKE TO UF.
Fully furnished room upstairs. Share all
downstairs Only $80/week + 1/3 utils. Two
rooms avail. 872-8388 11-13-09-10-13 blks from campus!! For rent 4/2. Each
room $400/mo. Includes utilities & Internet.
Beautiful pool & courtyard. A great place to
live in a great location. 813-690-8989. 11-
13-09-10-1
0
C, r 0 "i ' "191"
Tradition of Student Living
Fully furnished student suites
Starting @ $399 all inclusive
3700 SW 27th St 373.9009
LexingtonCrossingUF.Com
12-9-09-40-1
Oxford Terrace I -Furnished 1BR/1BA in fur-
nished 4/4 Condo. Near Sorority Row- Avail
Jan-June(or longer) $500/mo inc $30 toward
util. PARKING SPOT, washer/dryer, internet
NYFL@aol.com 11-16-09-6-1
Walk to Campus. Indiv. leases available at
Oxford Terrace. Private bedroom and bath.
Washer/Dryer, Dishwasher, cable, internet
and utilities included. Campus Realty 352-
692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com
12-9-09-20-1
Walk to Campus. $380 per month, cable in-
ternet, utilities included. Indiv. lease, short
term, furnished. Campus Realty 352-692-
3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 12-
9-09-20-1
$385-3 bed/3 baths open in 4/4 Countryside
condo. Rent alone or with friends! On routes
9 and 35, all utilities included, for Spring or
longer. Call Nalini @ 352.514.3398. 11-23-
10-1
For RentF unfurnished
QUIET, CLEAN, LOTS of GREEN SPACE.
Rustic 1BR apt. $375/mo.
*1BR cottage $435/mo. Call 213-8798 or
mobile 213-3901. 12-9-09-75-2
*LYONS SPECIAL*
$99 1st month's rent 377-8797
12-9-09-75-2
Amazing Values @ Arbor Park!
1 brs from $539 732+ sq ft
2brs from $599 1015+ sq ft
3brs from $750 1223+ sq ft
Water Included Pet-friendly
335-7275 * www.arborpark.com
12-9-09-75-2
Tired of Roommates?
Hate Living Far From Everything?
Downtown One Bedrooms Now Leasing!
Move-in TODAY for only $699!
Pool*Free Parking*Blocks to Campus
www.arlingtonsquare.org*338.0002
12-9-09-75-2
1 & 2's * SPECIAL RATES!
1 BR/1 BR $465 * 2BR/1 BA $569
No Move In Fees! *Quiet
Beautiful Pools * Pets Loved!
Park Free Across From UF! 372-7555
12-9-09-75-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included.
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner.
538-2181 Iv message 12-9-09-74-2
Quality & Affordability!
1br $559 / 2br $619--$649
3br $749 / 4br $899
W/D, pool, B-ball/tennis courts!
We love Pets! Call @ 376-4002
www.apartments.com/pinetreegardens
12-9-09-75-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood firs, washer dryer
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish.
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-
up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg 12-9-09-74-2
No deposit, No move-in fees!!!
Huge 1/1's 2/2's 3/3's
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
12-9-75-2
** ELLIE'S HOUSES **
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or
352-215-4990 12-9-09-75-2
Live SECONDS from UF!
Studios & 1 Beds from $499 & $575
FREE Parking Near UF
NEVER worry about Game Day Parking!
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Come see our 1/1, 2/2 & 3/3 townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Alarms*Pet Friendly
*Sign Today, Get up to $1800 Cash Back*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-445512-9-09-75-2
Affordable Living & Close to Campus
Huge 2's available for only $678
3500 Windmeadows Blvd
www.spanishtrace.org* 373-1111
12-9-09-75-2
Cobblestone Apartments-NW 23RD BLVD
Move in now or Fall 2010.
2 & 3 Bedroom Townhomes.
Private Bathrooms-W/D-Screened porches
BB Court-Tanning-24 hr fitness-Dog Park
352-377-2801 cobblestoneuf.com
12-9-75-2
A SPECIAL PLACE TO CALL HOME
1 BR from $585
2 BR from $625
3 BR from $755
Tanning*Fitness*Tennis*Pool*Playground
Washer/Dryer*Fireplaces*Pools
Call us for a tour! 376-2507
12-9-09-75-2
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-2
1, 2, 3's! madisonpointe.org
Enormous Screened Patio!
W/D-Walk-in closets-Tanning
Fitness Center-Full size bball court
NW 23rd Blvd*352-372-0400
12-9-75-2*POLOS
Three Pools! Three Bus Routes!
Two Jucuzzis! Business Center!
Billards Room! Fitness Center w/ Free
weights! Sand Volleyball!
Tennis Courts! Basketball Courts!
Close to UF, Shands, 1-75, & Shopping!
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms for NOW & Fall!!!
GREAT SPECIALS!!!
1/1-$684 2/2-$512w/all util 3/3-$399w/all util
2330 SW Williston Rd.
www.ThePolosUF.com 352-335-7656
12-9-09-75-2
Huge Private Dog Park
1's from $499 *aWaive all fees
Close to UF, Shands, Butler Plaza
Pet Friendly * 376-1248
www.hiddenvillageapt.com
2725 SW 27th Ave
12-9-74-2
1's, 2's and 4's
AS BIG AS A HOUSE!
Great School Districts
Free Personal Training
75SW 75th Street Call 332-7401 12-
9-75-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-9-09-75-2
MUSEUM WALK
2/2's -$945 CABLE & WATER Included
All Inclusive roommate matching -$606
ParknRide Bus Route-Always be on time!
3500 SW 19th Ave*www.museumwalk.com
* 379-WALK*
12-9-09-75-2
HUGE 5 BED HOUSE!
3 baths, enclosd front patio
W/D, Wood Flooors, Fireplace
3 blocks to UF! Pets welcome!
372-7111 * 106 NW 10 Street
12-9-09-75-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm Floor Plans;
Starting at $830. Corporate units available.
Furniture Packages Include: Washer/Dryer
Workout Rm, Tennis Court; Swimming Pool;
Sauna etc. Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvilllas.com
text (lakewood)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
0 SPYGLASS 0
Individual Leases: Furniture Packages
Inc Washer/Dryer, FREE Hispeed Internet;
Rates start at $399
Every Unit is an End Unit
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
701 SW 62nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass)@65586
12-9-09-74-2
ACROSS FROM UF!
Studios -$465, includes electric!
Wood floors available. FREE parking.
1225 SW 1 Avenue * Pets welcome
372-7111 No move-in fees!
12-9-09-75-2BRAND NEW REDUCED RATES!
1's, 2's, 3's
Inclusive Pkgs Available
* Pet Friendly!
Immediate or Fall Move In
352-374-3866
12-9-09-75-2
Walk to Class!
1brs from $499 -150 ft from UF!
Move-in today. FREE parking!
Pets Welcome! No Move-in Fees.
372-7111 * 1216 SW 2nd Ave
12-9-09-75-2
$399 FOR EVERYTHING
All Inclusive Student Suites
Roommate Match*Feline Friendly!
42" TV*Astroturf Soccer Field
352-271-3131 *GainesvillePlace.com
75-212-9-
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133
12-9-09-75-2
*Fully Furnished*All Inclusive*
Roommate Matching
2 MONTHS FREE
*Brand New* Gated*Upscale 1br-4br*
3000 SW 35th Place
EnclaveUF.com*352.376.0696
12-9-09-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALK TO CAMPUS
1BRs from $550 2BRs from $600
Sun Bay s Sun Key s Sun Harbor
352-376-6720 www.sunisland.info
Ask about our new pet policy & other specials
12-9-09-75-2
Wake Up 10 Min Before Class
.AND be on time!
Studios from $499, 1s from $575
$0 M/I Fees, Pet Friendly
371.7777 CollegeParkUF.com
12-9-09-75-2
5 Check out our apartments. Priced from
$400-$525. Close to shopping & university.
5 Also 3BR/2BA house available. $900/mo.
No section 8. Call 335-7066 for info. 12-9-
09-75-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
Ask about our move-in specials!
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-2
877-288-2921 352-332-3199
www.cmcapt.com/foxhollow
12-9-09-74-2
REDUCED 1st Mo 1/2 off! 2/2 off ofSW 35th
PI, Close to UF & bus route. Great for grad
students! Builiding is 3 yrs old w/ only 1 prev
tenant. W/D, D/W, tile & carpet in BDs $800/
mo Avail ASAP, no smokers. (904) 386-6485
11-16-09-76-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Pine Rush
1 bdr. from $459 2bdr. from $639
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
10, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
For Rent For Rent For Rent
unfurnished unfurnished unfurnished
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Homestead
2/1 from $629 2/2 from $749
SW Archer Rd. Area
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Gator Village
1 bdr. from $489
Near Downtown and 6th Street
Ph. 372-3826 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Sunrise
1bdr. from $435 $300 Amex card
Near UF, Schands and VA
Ph.372-4835 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Summer Place
1 bdr. from $435 $300 Amex card.
Just off SW 34th St.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
11-30-09-85-2
WALK & BIKE TO UF
01 BR/1 BA $425
* 2BR $450-$620 -W/D incl
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com 12-9-09-75-2
ONE MONTH FREE RENT!
1 & 2 bedrooms located near Hilton
Off of SW 34th Str. Close to UF
$350 SD some w/ W/D or hkups.
Water & trash incl. Call Now!
Union Properties 352-373-7578
www.rentgainesville.com
12-9-09-72-2
The Grove Villas
Rental Community
Ask about our Move-in Specials
Gated Community
6400 SW 20th Ave
877-704-2172 888-373-0849
12-9-09-50-2
ONE BLOCK TO UF (WALK TO CLASS)
3 bed 1 1/2 bath House- $1725
3 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utilities)- $1575
1 bed 1 bath Apt (incl. utlities)- $645
Near SW 1st & 2nd Ave and SW 12th St.
No dogs (available now or spring semester)
Negotiable lease terms
call 352.337.9600 for more info 11-30-55-2
LARGE 2BR/1BA
Tile floors, except BRs. Covered patio. Close
to Shands. Only $550/mo. 1 yr lease. Call
352-372-3131 12-9-09-41-2
SERENOLA PINES APTS
Off SW 34th St. near post office. 1BR $560;
2BR $635 Call for daily specials 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
WOODLAND TERRACE APTS
Off SW 34th St near post office. 2BR $560;
1BR $520. Call for daily specials. 352-335-
0420 11-30-09-37-2
HOUSE avail Dec 1st. 3BR/2BA, 1.5 miles to
UF, near the Landings Apts. On UF bus rte.
Bike to UF. Fenced backyard, fireplace, cent
H/AC. 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo. Call 327-
2931 or 376-6183 11-13-09-28-2
1BR/1BA apt, $499/mo. 3320 SW 23rd St.
Each unit has a private gated court yard. On
bus route close to Shands, VA & College of
Vet Med. Pets <50bs arranged. 352-377-
2150 or paloverde3320@yahoo.com 11-
30-09-35-2
PET'S PARADISE
$390 -$650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR,
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099 11-24-
09-30-2
www.AndreeRealty.com
We specialize in rentals, sales & property
management. Try us. 352-375-2900 11-30-
09-30-2
HISTORIC DUCKPOND
1BR/1BA apt in vintage house. Hardwood
floorstile, renovated kitchen, quiet, blocks to
downtown $575 per mo. STUDIO $475/mo.
306 NE 6th St. 379-4952 11-23-09-24-2Holiday Special/Big Time Savings 1BR 1BA, Grad II Apts
NO MOVE-IN COSTS 1Blk to UF! Central H & Air,
Free Rent (Don't Pay Anything until 2010) Carpet, Laundry Fac. On site,
Please Hurry.Only Few More Units Inclds Wtr, Swg, Pst Cntrl &
Garbage. $500/Mo. 1236 SW
Rocky Point Apartments Country Gardens 4th Avenue. Call Merrill
3100 SW 35th Place 2001 SW 16th St Management Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-
352-376-1619 352-373-4500 13-2
Regency Oaks South West Villas 1 BR 1 BA Apt, Central H & Air
3230 SW Archer Rd. 3643 SW 20th Ave 2 Blks to UF, Carpet, xtra room
352-378-5766 352-336-9000 1029 Sw 3rd Avenue $500/Mo
Call Merrill Management Inc
We Speak Spanish 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
11-20-09-20-2
2 BLKS TO NORMAN HALL!
2BR 1 BA Apts $600/MoFirst Month Free! Beautiful, spacious 3/2 5 B Aks to UF, Central H &Air
condo, centrally located 1.5 miles from UF. Laundry Fac. Carpet, Pets Allowed.
VERY LOW UTILITIES! Pool, W/D. Quiet; no 829Sw 5th Avenue.
pets, please. Reduced to $975. Exit Realty Call Merrill Management Inc.
Producers 352-316-6842. 10-20-09-7-2 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
$550/month Large 2/1 Apt close to UF/ 2BR 1 BA, Carpet, Window A/C,
Shands W/D hookup,D/W, balcony No pets Nat gas ht. 1 BLK to UF $600/Mo
625 SW 11th Ln Call 352-231-3002 or 1216 SW 3rd Avenue. Call
email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-09- Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494
15-2 X10 11-25-09-13-2
2901 NW 14th Street
Working at Shands or VA- nice 2/1 @ 1 BR 1 BA Apt Near Sams
Summit House across the street. $700/mo + Club. Carpet, Window A/C,$200 dep. Call 352-8430-0220 to see. 11- Nat gas ht. Inclds Wtr, Swg,
25-21-2 pst contrl and garbage. $425/Mo
Rental Refs a must! Call
$550 Roomy 2/1.5 townhalf,Shands Merrill Management Inc
arealaundromat plus wd hookup,adjacent to 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2
Ag campus, city busses,your fenced yard.
quiet, nice, affordable.900 s.f. 3BR House for rent
386-972-4115. Moritae@yahoo.com Wood floors, front/back porch. 2035 NW 35th
11-18--09-15-2 Ave. Close to UF, SFC busline. $750/mo.
Available now. Flex lease. 352-318-8822
Baxter Cottage 11-13-09-5-2
2BR/ BA UBrght pucea, 01cmW ete Avremod- 3bd/2ba home for rent. Fireplace, huge kitch-
dCent AC/Ht,wood flrs, DW, W/D, NS, en, walk-in closets, backporch w/ garden,eled, $650+util. A r4 l large yard w/ creek, great view, 2 car garage.NPets. $650+util. ATucker458@aol.com Any pets welcome. 1475 w/o utilities. 561-11-30-21-2 818-0103. 11-13-09-4-2
WWW.BIKETOUF.COM Move In Ready. Close to Campus and
1 BR from $575 Shands 1,2,3,& 4 bedrooms & individual
2 BR from $625 leases. Campus Realty 352-692-3800 rent-
3 BR from $745 als.campusrealtygroup.com 12-9-09-20-2
Tan ning*Fitness*Ten nis*Pool
Washer/Dryer*Pets Welcome! Two bedroom one bath condo for only $450
Call us for a tour! 377-7401 per month. Move in ready. On busline.
12-9-09-40-2 Washer/Dryer and Dishwasher. Will not last
long. Campus Realty 352-692-3800
FREE Rent until January 2010!!! rentals.campusrealty.org 12-9-09-20-2
Sundowneu r$ dr.e r$ $475-Female only for 1/1 in 3/3 CampusStudio from $439 lbdr. from $ View Condos. Furnished living/dining,Walk to Butler Plaza W/D,3rd Floor Unit, Newly built. BedroomPh. 377-2596 www.gremco.com furn available. Lease ends July 2010. Walk11-30-09-85-2 to campus, shands, VA. 727-776-7098 11-
24-10-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!!
Courtney Greens 2 BR / 2.5 BTH Townhouse
Totally Renovated 1 bdr. from $599 Kensington North -3870 SW 20th Ave.
1 MONTH FREE! Near Oaks Mall BRAND NEW tile & carpet, W/D, D/W,
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com INCLUDES utils & ethernet, pets welcome
11-30-09-85-2 Only $800/mo. Call 561.251.5425 11-23-
09-8-2
FREE Rent until January 2010!!! 2 BR 2.5 Bath Townhouse behind UF HiltonAshton Square off of 34th St. Washer/Dryer $600 Call 352-2/2 from $739 3/2 from $799 860-2202 11-20-7-2
1 MONTH FREE! Huge floorplans.
W/D hookup Near Oaks Mall 2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS CONDO -$750
Ph.333-1120 www.gremco.com Avail Dec. 2009 or Spring 2010.
11-30-09-85-2 Gladys or Dan at 786-201-1158 or 305-491-
7333. OR gladysazocar@yahoo.com 11-
COTTAGE 1 BR/1BA w/carport 19-09-6-2
$500/mo Near university in historic district.
Call 352-332-8481 11-18-09-10-2 0 3BR/1BA HOUSE
____________________________ 819 NW 10th Ave $850/mo
S 2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE
1 Block to UF! GREAT LOCATIONS 7209 SW 45th Pl. $600/mo
1 BR and 2BR Apts. See our list at No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114 11-30-09-
www.merrillmanagement.net 10-2
or call Merrill Management Inc
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2 Dramatically reduced rent of $350 for 1 BR
downtown townhouse. Sublease could start
3BR 1.5 BA with family Room anytime after mid December. Vaulted ceil-
Tile Floors, Laundry Room, ings, huge bedroom with private bathroom.
Central H & Air, Carport Call 352-870-5004 11-30-10-2
319 NW 16th Avenue Close to UF. Lg rm in a nice NW home.$800/Mo. Call Merrill Management Fenced back yard. 375/mo. Washer/dryer.Inc 352-372-1494 11-25-09-13-2 Cable internet/TV. Mike 352-316-3930 11-
19-09-5-4
2BR 1BA Apt 1BLK TO UF!
Grad II Apts Special: $675/Mo FIRST MONTH FREE MILLRUN CONDO
Central H & Air, Dishwasher Close to UF, cute & clean 2BD/2BA
1236 Sw 4th Avenue. Call 1000sq ft, storage/laundry room with W/D
Merrill Management Inc hk-ups, pool. Pets considered. Rent $695/
352-372-1494 xlO 11-25-09-13-2 mo Phone (352) 359-8311 12-9-09-17-2THlE GIFT GUIDE
WINTER 2009
The Alligator offers great gift ideas to
more than 52,000 readers!
This is the perfect opportunity
to promote your business to UF and SFC
students, faculty and staff looking for
graduation gifts and holiday shopping.
Feature your gift items on our themed pages!
Deadline:
Friday, November 1 3
Run Date:
Friday, November 20
Call your sales rep today:
352.376.4482
i 
heidependent IlridalligatorNew 1BR/1BA in 3/2 for spring/summer -2
blocks from UF for $650 negotiable. Female.
Easy to move-in w/parking & furn avail. Util,
W/D, internet included. Call 954-593-6753
11-16-09-6-3
Rent huge master bedroom at Sabal Palms!
2 blocks from UF!
Private bath, granite countertops,
washer and dryer. $710.
Available Spring and Summer 407-496-4610
11-16-5-3
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
DEC FREE: lbr/lba in 2br/2ba. Female to
share in Looking Glass Apts. Walk to cam-
pus. Washer/Dryer, Lease to August. $495/
month + 1/2 utilities. 352-871-0162 11-20-
09-8-3
Sublease 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 at Gainesville
Place. $399/mo. furnished with W/D. Utilities,
internet, and cable included. Available
January-August
Call (727)804-4765 11-19-5-3
eRoommates
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-9-75-4
1BR INDIVIDUAL LEASES IN FURNISHED
4BR CONDOS. 2 blocks to UF. $345/mo incl
elec, cable tv, internet, pool, laundry facility.
914 SW 8th Ave. 378-4626 11-30-09-55-4
Enjoy A Romatic Old House
Near library downtown. $295-375/rm + utils.
Short term. No pets. No smoking. 378-1304
11-23-09-30-4
1 month free-Share 2B/2B MH in Cornerstone.
Furn rm avail now. $200 N/R dep. $400/mo
or $100/wk util incl. Laundry/cook/clean svc
avail. Near bus/shops. 30 day notice to va-
cate. Some pets ok. Call 331-0762 11-16-
20-41BR/1BA or 2BR/2BA avail Jan 1st.
for responsible mature individual. $400-$800/
mo OBO + utils. Brandywine on Archer Rd.
yttek@hotmail.com or 305-332-6566 11-13-
09-16-4
WALK TO UF 1 or 2 rooms in a 4/2 apt.
Ind. leases end 7/31/10. $295/month/room.
No pets. 1740 NW 3rd PL Call 352-231-3002
or email hodgeproperties@cox.net 11-16-
09-15-4
Walk or bike to UF, Shands orVA. Roommate
needed for nice 2/1, $350/mo + half utilities
at Summit House on SW 16th Ave. Recently
renovated. $200 dep. Call 352-843-0220 to
see. 11-25-21-4
Female wanted to share new 3BR/3BA home
near campus(SW area)2400sf. On bus route.
Washer & dryer included. Furnished, except
your bedroom. $425 plus utilities. Serious,
non-smoking students only. 813-610-1698
11-20-15-4
Female roommates needed. Live in a big new
house w/ bus stop to UF, quiet/relax area,
fenced yard,private pool. 520/month all inclu-
sive. Joyce 941-724-0961. Must see House
Pics: tinyurl.com/mbs77r 11-25-15-4
A clean, preprofessional, non-smoking room-
mate for a 2/2.5 townhome close to UF and
Santa Fe. $400 + 1/2 of the utilities (cable
and internet included), W/D, Bdr unfurnished.
Contact Gene at 561-827-4970. 11-13-09-
5-4
Female roommate needed, 4/2.5 townhouse,
1-75 and Newberry, all included, gated, $400
baezwpa@bellsouth.net 954-557-4769
1-19-09-30-4
$385-Female roommate needed for 1/1 in
4/4 Univ. Terrace condo with all utilities in-
cluded, fully furnished, on routes 12 and 35,
very clean, for Spring or longer. Call Anu @
352-262-0628. 11-23-10-4
Roomate wanted at Madison Pointe fur-
nished 2br-2bath Spring Semester. I am
a male 5th year eng. student graduating in
spring. Contact for more info at
oshea03@ufl.edu or call 352-231-2709. 11-
18-5-4
I
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009 U ALLIGATOR,11
Real Estate Real Estate l Furnishings Computers MotorcyclesMopeds
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SEE ALL CONDOS
WWW.UFCONDOS.COM
Matt Price Campus Realty, 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
NEW CONDOS -WALK to UF
3 Blks to UF. For Info on ALL 1, 2, 3, 4
Bedrooms for Sale, Call Eric Leightman,
Campus Realty at 352-219-2879. 12-9-74-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURYNEWCONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office. Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, Campus Realty 352-281-3551
12-9-74-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS -New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call Eric
Leightman, Campus Realty, 352-219-2879
12-9-74-5
Gator Getaway -Exp old Florida. 20 acre lot 4
miles south of Archer. Century old live oaks,
high & dry, beer & turkey. 15 mins from Gville.
Investment priced $6500/acre. Certified ap-
praisal as of 9/8/09. 352-528-2406 Ten
11-30-09-30-54bed/3Bath home in Savanna Pointe, just off
the Prairie. $479,500. Rural setting yet
urban proximity. MLS#308127. Dawn Realty
Visit VernonClouser.com for all the Details.
Off Williston Rd, just West of Country Club
11-17-8-5
4Br 2Ba Foreclosure! $11,500! Only $217/
Mo! 5% down 15 years @ 8% apr. Buy, 3 Br
$199/Mo! for listings (800)366-9783 ext 5798
11-13-1-5
FORECLOSED ONLINE HOME AUCTION
800+ Homes I BIDS OPEN 11/16 Open
House: 11/7, 14 & 15 View Full Listings &
Details Auction.com REDC I BrkrCQ1031187
11-13-1-5
FORECLOSED HOME AUCTION 300+
FLORIDA Homes Auction: Dec 5 REDC I
View Full Listings www.Auction.com RE No.
CQ1031187 11-13-1-5
LAND BARGAIN 21+ AC Only $89,900
Beautifully wooded acreage close to FL/GA
border. Enjoy end of road privacy! Perfect
for weekend getaway/ cabin in woods/ horse
farm. Possible subdivide. Excellent financ-
ing. Call owner now (912)674-0320
www.GAforest.com 11-13-1-5
FORECLOSED ONLINE HOME AUCTION
800+ Homes I BIDS OPEN 11/16 Open
House: 11/7, 14 & 15 View Full Listings &
Details Auction.com REDC I BrkrCQ1031187
11-13-1-5
Furnishings
BED -QUEEN -$120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand,
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
Copyrighted Material
Available from Commercial News ProvidersBED -FULL SIZE -$100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT -$400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490 12-9-09-74-6
BED -KING -$170 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated.
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can
deliver. 12-9-09-74-6
CHERRY SLEIGH BED solid with Pillowtop
Mattress & Box. All new still boxed. Cost
$1500, sacrifice $450 352-333-7516
Sofa $175 Brand new in pkg 333-7516
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $6500, must sell, sacrifice $1100
(352) 372-7490 12-9-09-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather.
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail
$2650. Sacrifice $750. Call 352-377-9846
12-9-09-74-6
DINING ROOM Beautiful cherry set w/table,
6 Chippendale chairs, hutch & buffet. New,
still in boxes. Retail $5200, sacrifice $1100.
Must sell. Can deliver. 352-372-8588 12-
9-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160 332-9899
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box.
Never used. 352-377-9846 12-9-09-74-6
**BEDS -ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still
in plastic, direct from factory! 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name brand
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver.
$130 352-377-9846. 12-9-74-6
Bed- All New King! 3pc Orthopedic pillowtop
mattress set. Brand NEW, still in plastic with
warranty. Can deliver. $200 352-333-7516.
12-9-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 6 pieces include: Headboard,
2 Nightstands, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must
sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846. 12-9-09-
74-6
FUTON -$60 Solid Oak Mission Style. With
plush mattress $160. All brand NEW still in
box. Can deliver. 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
Bed-FULL size pillowtop mattress & box. New
in plastic, warr. Can del. $100 317-4031
SOFA $185 Brand new! Love seat $150 still
in pkg. Can del 352-333-7516 12-9-74-6
SMALL APT SIZE REFRIGERATOR
Ideal for dorm. Good condition. $40/OBO.
Call 352-336-4493 11-13-5-6
Computers
CASH PAID: Laptops & Cameras
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
AC adapters Joel 336-0075
www.pcrecycle.biz 12-9-09-74-7
40
C IMlP U TE R5S
12-9-74-7
Computer Help Fast Gatorland Computers
House/Dorm Fast response. No waiting/
unplugging/hassels. $30 Gator discount w/
ID. Certified MCSE Technicians. 338-8041.
www.GatorlandComputers.com 12-9-74-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-09-71-7
Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just
looking to add a second to that collection?
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
NEW & USED BIKES FOR SALE
WE REPAIR ALL BRANDS
* Best Prices in Town *
SPIN CYCLE 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (DOWNTOWN)
12-9-74-9
al For Sae
*@@PARKING@@
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF.
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-9-09-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway.
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more.
All individuals interested in bidding go to:
surplus.ufl.edu 392-0370
12-9-09-75-10
THE ORIGINAL RALLY TOWEL. YOU'VE
SEEN THEM IN THE STADIUM, NOW
GET YOUR OWN. THE ORIGINAL RALLY
TOWEL. JUST HOW BIG OF A FAN ARE
YOU? www.therallytowel.com 11-24-09-
14-10
METAL ROOFING TAX CREDIT! 40 yr
Warranty. Direct from manufacturer. 30 col-
ors in stock Quick turnaround. Delivery avail-
able. Gulf Coast Supply & Manufacturing,
(888)393-0335 www.gulfcoastsupply.com
11-13-1-10
ALL CASH VENDING! Do you earn $800 in a
day? 25 Local Machines and Candy $9,995.
(888)629-9968 B02000033 CALL US: We
will not be undersold! 11-13-1-10
**ADT, FREE Home Security System! ($850
Value.) Purchase Monitoring Services & $99
Activation. That's It! PLUS Remote & Panic
Alert FREE. (888)511-5869. 11-13-1-10
%1 CyCies peds
***WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM**
FULL SERVICE REPAIR SHOP 11TH YEAR
OEM + AFTERMARKET PARTS + ACCY'S
HUGE TIRE SELECTION IN STOCK, CALL
FOR PRICES + DISCOUNTS 352-377-6974
12-9-75-11
*****New Scooters 4 Less*****
Motor Scooter Sales and Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-9-09-75-11
***GatorMoto***
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit
shop can beat these prices! lyr Warranties
included. 376-6275GatorMoto.com 12-9-09-
75-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates!
Will service any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-9-09-75-11
***www.B~uyMyScooter.com***
Buy A New Scooter, Buy A Used Scooter
All on one site! Check the website or call
336-1271 for more info! 12-9-09-75-11
GATORMOTO Gville's #1 service facility. We
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275
12-9-09-75-11@00000 SCOOTERS 000000
RPM MOTORCYCLES INC
SALES, SERVICE, PARTS
Many Brands Available 518 SE 2nd St.
www.RPMmotorcycles.com 377-6974
12-9-75-11
**SCOOTER RENTALS**
Rent for a day, week, semester, or rent to
own! Reserve now for Game Day Weekends!
NS4L.com 352-336-1271 12-9-09-75-11
OF Autos
OFAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS S
ORunning or not!0
NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
SOver 15 yr svc to UF students
OCall Don @ 215-7987 12-9-75-12
CARS -CARS BuyOSellOTrade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-9-75-12
$500! POLICE IMPOUNDS!
HONDAS, CHEVYS, TOYOTAS, ETC.
For listings 800-366-9813 ext 4622
12-9-75-12
**HEADLINERS SAGGING?**
POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK?
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
12-9-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call K.T. (352) 281-9980
12-9-75-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime 352-339-5158
11-16-09-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up.
352-338-1999 12-9-49-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
No credit check
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090 12-9-49-12
92 Nissan Stanza $999 cash
98 Grand Am $999 cash
96 Kia Sephia $1299 cash
96 Chevy Cavalier $1499 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Honda Accord $1499 cash
96 Lincoln Mark 8 $1999 cash
97 Mazda Millenia $1999 cash
95 Pontiac Bonnville $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
92 Chevy Camero $1999 cash
96 Mits Galant $1999 cash
98 Chrysler Cirrus $1999 cash
96 Plymouth Minivan $1999 cash
352-338-1999 12-9-40-12
97 Jeep Cherokee $1900
96 Chevy Astro Van $1900
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $2500
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
95 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Dodge Ram PK $2900
98 Pontiac Transport $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
97 Mercury Grand Marquis $2900
00 Hyundai Elantra $2900
94 Toyota Station Wagon $2900 SOLD
97 Mits Diamonte $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
94 Honda Accord $2900
94 Toyota Camry $2900
96 Cadillac Deville $2900
01 Hyundai Sonata $2900
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
12, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
Autos[ Help Wanted Help W Help Wanted Help Wanted
Sun City Auto Sales
60 Day pay off
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999 12-9-48-12
2003 Honda Civic, 79k $8999 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 115k $8499 CASH
2003 Honda Civic, 69k $8999 CASH
2002 Honda Odysee, 117k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2003 Nissan Sentra, 80k $6999 CASH
2005 Nissan Altima, 94k $9999 CASH
2006 Suzuki Aerio, 54k $8999 CASH
2001 Nissan Altima, 99k $5999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
2002 Toyota Camry, 76k $8999 CASH
2004 Toyota Corolla, 111k $7999 CASH
1999 Toyota Sienna, 135k $5999 CASH
2002 Toyota Corolla, 68k $6999 CASH
352-375-9090 12-9-40-12
Students Guaranteed Financing!
Do you have a valid drivers license?
Do you have a part time job?
Ride today for $750 down!
Call Angie @ 352-672-5048 11-19-10-12
1995 gold Mazda MX-6; 135,000 miles
Manual transmission, fully loaded,
looks and runs great, high mpg.
email:tracker1833@ufl.edu
ph:561-376-9509 11-18-09-5-12
1999 Honda Civic $200! 2001 Nissan Altima
$350! 2003 VW Jetta $400! POLICE
IMPOUNDS! for listings call (800)366-9813
ext9271 11-13-1-12
W Wanted
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
* Gold * Diamonds * Gems * Class Rings
* ETC * Top Cash $$$ or Trade *
OZZIE'S FINE JEWELRY 373-9243. 2-10-
74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
forgold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds,
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-75-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment.
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided.
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
IVE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
BE AN INSPIRATION!
Take a blind lady to Mass on Sundays and
for walks and shopping as needed. We'll
have lots of fun! And you will make a new
friend! Contact 219-6948 11-20-09-74-13
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP ME
LEARN TO RAKE KNIT A HAT, second and
fourth wednesdays of each month. These
hats are made for people in Haiti. Come and
have fun with Lenora. Call 219-6948. 11-
20-09-74-13This newspaper assumes no responsibility
for injury or loss arising from contacts made
through advertising. We suggest that any
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings
,tthe indepnde lorid1,aliigatir
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales
staff in outside newspaper advertising sales.
Motivator needed who works well with a
constantly changing staff.
Duties include training university students
in outside newspaper sales, layout and
copy writing. Must work well within and
meet daily deadlines. Good organizational
skills a must. Newspaper ad sales back-
ground an advantage. Modest salary, good
benefits and excellent working environment.
With resume, send cover letter that must
include salary requirements, to: General
Manager, The Independent Florida Alligator,
PO 14257,Gainesville,FI 32604 or
email to tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
LIKE TO WORK WITH LUXURY CARS?
Bright? Enthusiastic? Like people? Must be
over 22, stable work history, clean driving re-
cord, drug-free, personal references.
www.carrsmith.com for details. 12-9-75-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! -Sandy's Savvy
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 12-9-09-74-14
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138 12-9-09-75-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs
12-9-75-14
PHONE AGENTS NEEDED
Must have Excellent Vocabulary and
Communication skills. PC skills needed.
Apply Now! 6020 NW 4th Place, Suite G.
352-371-5888 x 111 12-9-74-14
DOMINO'S
Now hiring Delivery Drivers -$12-$16/hr
You need a great attitude & dependable car.
Hiring lunch, dinner & late night shifts. Our
closing drivers earn $100 per night. Apply
@ any of our 8 location or @ gatordominos.
com/jobs. 12-9-09-75-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for
various positions. Flexible schedules and
competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more
at www.gleim.com/employment 12-9-09-
82-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys 12-
9-09-73-14
Graduate debt-free. Earn cash while attend-
ing college. For a confidential interview call
1-800-577-2021 & please leave your name &
number TWICE 12-9-68-14
0%ont TeUlt UIU
GTM M__61takIca
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Mention this ad and receive special discount
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215Breakthrough product, everyone wants it,
eveyone needs it. 50% commissions paid
bi-monthly. For an interview, call 1-800-577-
2021 12-9-68-14
PT Sales /Leasing Agents Needed
Help students find their new apartment!
Great pay plus bonuses. Sales experience &
outgoing personality required. No real estate
exp req (training provided). Send resume,
cover letter & avail schedule to
hr@trimarkproperties.com
12-9-65-14
Earn Extra Money. Students needed ASAP.
Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery
Shopper. No Experience Required. Call
1-800-722-4791 11-20-41-14
North Gainesville Baptist
Church
Independent & Missionary
www.ngbcfl.org
Heritage Park bldg
3401 NE 34th St
352-388-9050
ME, @hld
New Life Community
Chapel
International Day: Celebrating
Our Uniqueness
Sunday Oct. 18 : 10:30 AM to
NOON
International Dinner, guest speak-
ers and music
All are welcome, but space is
limited.
RSVP by Oct 15
New Life Community Chapel
Westside Park Rec. Center
Sundays at 10:30 AM
www.newlifecommunitychapel.org
phone: (352) 214-4462
Episcopal Chapel House
Chapel of Incarnation
Chapel of Incarnation
www.ufchapelhouse.com
2 weekly communion services,
lovely garden, sweet fellowship,
holy fun! 352-372-8506
Creekside Community
Church
College Bible Study, Sun 7pm
Prayer and Praise, Wed 7:30pm
Worship Service, Sun 1 0:30am
For more info email Mary at
madmadamoo@gmail.com
pw~i~Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children.
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call
377-2290 or 373-1481 11-13-09-27-14
Your roommate hasn't done the dishes in
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the
Alligator Classifieds.
Telecommunications--Software Engineers/
Programmers C/C++ programmers for
Embedded digital TV software (Cable,
Satellite, Video over IP). Nagravision has
openings in our Atlanta and Gainesville, FL
offices. 2-7 years experience. Competitive
salaries, benefits, relocation. Send resume
or questions to: resumes.atlanta@lw.net
11-25-09-28-14
aulff Aoavi
Chabad Lubavitch
Jewish Student Center
-Your home away from home.
-Friday Night Live!
-Services & Shabbat Dinner.
-7:30pm ALL FALL
-352-336-5877; 2021 NW 5th Ave.
-(5 blocks north of the stadium)
-www.JewishGator.com
Unitarian Universalist
Fellowship
Imagine a religion embracing
many different beliefs. including
yours.
Join us on Sunday at 11 AM
4225 NW 34th St.
Info: 377-1 669 or www.uufg.org
and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube
zhuflo
Gator Wesley Foundation
Sunday worship 11 am at the
Presbyterian and Disciples of
Christ Student Center 1402 W.
Univ. Ave. with FREE lunch to
follow. Thursday evening the Ga-
tering/Bible Study 8pm. Office
located 104 NW 1 4th Street.
For full schedule of events visit
gatorwesley.com
Trinity Metropolitan
Community Church
Offering truely open and GLBTS?
inclusive Christian worship.
Sunday Worship, 10:15a.m.
11604 SW Archer Road
For info: mccgainesville.org
Or call: (352) 495-3378
'Tearing Down Walls; Building
Up Hope"
Universal Faith Ministries
Universal Faith Ministries Inc
invites you to our open session
Bible Teachings Tues at 7pm
Night of prayer Fri at 7pm andYARD WORK Mowing. Car detailing. Pool
maintenance. Back up shipping. Errands.
Miscellaneous duties. Must have a valid driv-
ers license and good driving record. Own ve-
hicle. Truck preferred. Please apply on line at
http://www.gleim.com 11-13-09-10-14
Hair models wanted for long hair in motion
studies. Hip-length or longer only. No experi-
ence necessary. $70 to $120 and hour. Call
352 792-1824 modelslh@yahoo.com
11-19-09-12-14
Barn help needed 1 day per week
Exchange for boarding or lessons
EXPERIENCE NECESSARY!
Call 359-4149 11-17-09-10-14
ISunday worship at 11 am
1930 NE Waldo Rd Gainesville
You may call 352-505-3005
University City Church of
Christ
Gators for Christ campus ministry
college group meets at Univer-
sity City church on Sundays at
9:30am and Wednesdays at
7pm -practical application from
God's word, plus service projects,
large group events, free meals,
and much morel. (directions and
events calendar at
www.gatorsforchrsist.org)
Faith Presbyterian Church
1 Oam Worship -Lunch Following
9am Sunday School
5916 NW 39th Avenue
Phone: 352-377-5482
www.fpc-gnv.org
First Presbyterian Church
www.1stpc.org
Sunday Worship:
Early service-8:30am Chapel,
Worship-1 0:55am Sanctuary
College Ministry:
College Cafe-Following 10:55am
worship service. Free home-
cooked meal.
Trajectory-Wednesday night
7:30-9:30pm. Discipleship stud-
ies, Recreational activities,
Missions and Evangelism.
"Set the Trajectory of your life
on Christ"
Redemption Orthodox
Presbyterian Church
Christ-centered preaching
Joyful traditional worship
Rev Joel Fick, Pastor
Meets: 7th Day Adventist Church
2115 NW 39th Avenue
Worship at 10:30am
Evening Instruction at 6:00pm
www.redemptionopc.org 327-8127G u i d el,
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 13
J Help Wanted Help Wanted f Help Wanted Services Health Services
Opus Cafe -Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at
a fast paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website, www.opus-cafe.
com, click on the employment tab, and
follow the directions.
11-16-09-8-14
Spring Design Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking young artists
with experience in
Fireworks or Photoshop to learn from our
Web design
team. Interested? Email
lnternship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-09-10-14
Spring Programming Internship!
352 Media Group is seeking talented stu-
dents with experience in Web programming
and development.
Interested? Email
Internship@352media.com for details! 11-
19-10-14
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email your
course listing and a brief description about
yourself to ufl@sharenotes.com
START EARNING TODAY! 11-20-09-10-14University of Florida
Survey Research Center
408 W University Ave. suite 106
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$8/hr + BONUS + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES 12-9-
09-20-14
Sales rep for Internet finance company.
Must work independently & meet deadlines.
Strong attention to detail & organization.
Research skills required. Sales experience
a plus. Salary starts at $24k/year + commis-
sion. Send resume to jobs@nationaltech-
mark.com or fax 1-866-728-4579 w/Financial
Sales in subject. 11-23-09-10-14
Programmer needed w/experience in ASP
&/or ASP.net, Javascript programming, re-
lational databases, Perl &/or PHP, Ajax,
JSON, & semantic web development w/
CSS. $32,000/yr commensurate w/exp. Fax
1-866-728-4579 or jobs@nationaltechmark.
com w/"Programmer" in Subject. 11-23-
09-10-14
Finish the crossword over one
of our great daily lunch specials!
THE SWAMP RESTAURANT
1642W. University Ave. | 352.377.9267
www.swamprestaurant.com
dii.w . .0eee 0 0
A0 .1U
Copyrighted Material -
Syndicated Content'O
Available from Commercial News Providers
* .
r
Sd11I
IC
5-IBench Scientist: Self-motivated individual
with strong problem-solving skills to work in
analytical testing. Knowledge of ELISA meth-
odology and basic immunology is desirable.
Basic laboratory skills, attention to detail, and
ability to manage multiple projects required.
B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory ex-
perience may be substituted. Email resume
to info@elisa-tek.com. 11-16-09-5-14
Sitter/math tutor needed for 2nd & 6th grade
girl & boy. Transport from school to home.
week days: M T W F 3p to 6:30p, sometimes
to midnight. Some Sundays: 1 la to midnight.
Contact 352-332-6465 11-16-09-4-14
PRC NOW HIRING
Find a job you'll love. Immediate Openings
for Customer Care Representatives. $10.00
to $10.50 per hour. Paid Training and mul-
tiple schedules available. For more informa-
tion contact us at 386-326-5030 or 386-326-
5008 or apply online at www.prcnet.com
1-5-09-20-14
$10 Gift Card to Sign Up!
The first 50 women and 50 men that sign up
for www.takemeintrade.com with a real photo
and detailed profile with receive a $10 iTunes
Gift Card. 11-20-09-7-14
Students wanted to provide personal care
assistance to a child with developmental dis-
abilities. Afternoons 3-7p. Vehicle needed.
Apply at Vendorslynz@gmail.com Attach
resume 11-17-09-3-14
RV delivery drivers needed. Deliver RVs,
boats and trucks for PAY! Deliver to all 48
states and Canada. For details log on to
www.RVdeliveryjobs.com 11-13-1-14
Help Wanted. No Truck Driver Experience -
No Problem. Wil-Trans will teach you howto
drive. Company Sponsored CDL Training.
Must be 23. (800)610-3715. 11-13-1-14
Help Wanted. Join Wil-Trans Lease or
Company Driver Program. Enjoy our
StrongFreight Network. Must be 23.
(800)610-3715. 11-13-1-14
F Services
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes,
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan,
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830
www.carrsmith.com 12-9-75-15
EVERGLADE EQUESTRIAN CENTER
The countryclub for horses & owners.
Customer lounge w/full kitchen & bath. 250' x
160' riding ring, round pen & jump paddock.
Lessons. 30 acres, 40 matted stalls, 19 sepa-
rate paddocks. 24-hr security, 352-591-3175
everglade-equestrian.com 12-9-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm
tech? Express Training offers courses, days,
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos.
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com 12-9-09-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling Exclusive Facility
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-9-74-15
TLC HORSEBOARD
All facilities & amenities, quality instruc-
tion; 15 minutes from UF. Jan at 376-7762.
Greathouse Equestrian Ctr. 12-9-75-15
-HORSE BOARDINGHourly work available. 12 x 12 stall -cement
block barn. Good grass turnout with room to
run! Limited # of stalls available. $350/mo.
352-472-2627 for info & directions. 12-9-
09-74-15
HYPNOTIST -Stop smoking. Improve mem-
ory & concentration. Eliminate bad habits.
Past life regression. Learn self hypnosis.
Low Student Rates. Leonard Umans AAPH,
NGH certified 379-1079 12-9-75-15T-SHIRT SCREEN PRINTING
Greeks-Sports-Clubs-Bands
*Call or Stop by for a QUOTE*
MONSTER PRESS 373-3355
424 W UNIV AVE (in Spin Cycle)
12-9-74-15
Mini Maxi Warehouses; corner Waldo Rd &
NE 31st Ave; 12 acres, student/staff rentals;
UHaul warehouse complex, trucks, trailers. 6
x 10 rentals $39/mo! 352-373-6294 or 1-800-
559-2449 Also 100 sheds for sale. 12-9-09-
68-15
Gator Slide Farm: Horse boarding.
Owner housing. Dressage, stadium jumping,
X-country. Lessons/schooling opportunities.
Feeding/mucking mitigate monthly charges.
Visitors always welcome. Contact Dibbie
352.466.3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com 1-7-09-
120-15
GUTTER & ROOF CLEANING
Free Estimates. Super Service! Lic & Ins.
Steve "The School Teacher" 352-377-7086
12-9-09-74-15
HORSE BOARDING Premier facility next
to Canterbury. Stall or pasture board from
$250. Two sand/clay arenas, round pen,
jumps, lessons. Work avail to defray costs.
352-472-9977 weecfl@gmail.com 1-19-09-
95-15
* * GREAT BANNERS & SIGNS**
Full-color Decals@Exhibits@Vehicle Wraps
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
** PLAQUES AWARDS TROPHIES **
Name BadgeseButtonseADA Signs
Top QualityeFast ServiceeLow Prices
www.signpower.com
SignMasters 335-7000
1-29-83-15
BEGINNER GUITAR & PIANO LESSONS
For ALL ages.
My EXPERIENCE: 10 yrs-guitar & a lifetime-
piano. If interested call 352-256-3800 or
email gidonherman00@gmail.com 11-19-
45-15
FLOOR COVERING
James R. Langford Inc.
Carpet Vinyl Repairs
Restretches Installs
Call Jim 352-222-8827
12-1-14-15
Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout
Florida. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put
us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.
florida-classifieds.com. 11-13-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home.
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting,
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance.
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified.
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com. 11-13-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING -Train for high
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA
approved program. Financial aid if qualified -THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-9-74-16
Think you're pregnant?
Free pregnancy tests & referrals
Free, confidential advising
For appt., call 352-367-2716
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
38-1612-8-
OFPersonals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app't (optional $20 fee)
*Family Chiropractic*
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-9-74-18
SAVE ON RAYBAN/SUNGLASSES
University Opticians
300 SW 4th Ave. 378-4480
12-9-09-75-18
IMMIGRATION LAW
Marriage Green Cards
Employment Visas & Naturalization
www.ruthlaw.com (352) 335-6748
2-2-40-18
Sint Notices
ZUMBA Party and Food Drive to benefit
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. Friday, Nov.
13, 5:30-7pm. Doors open 5pm. Donation $7
+ 3 canned goods or $10 cash. 601 S. Main
St. 904-742-0188 www.ZumbaGypsy.com
11-13-4-20
E tain nt
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun -Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-9-09-99-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet -Trap -Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com 352-372-1044
12-9-09-75-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville * Better Prices
Better Fields * Better Call 371-2092
12-9-09-99-21
OSOBAHAMAS SPRING BREAKOOS
Complete 5-Day packages from $189.
All packages include round-trip cruise and
hotel. www.BahamaSun.com 800-867-5018
FL Seller of Travel Reg No 35585
3-1-09-85-21
SL Rides
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of
Maintenance (888)349-5387. 11-13-1-15 V E
GMG TRANSPORTFHealth Services FREE WiFi on buses -New Departures
Thur 1 & 4:30 / Fri 1 & 4:30
Ret Sun 2 & 4 pm -Mon 2 pm -Also
Reverse trips Credit card payments, no xtra
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING charge pay by phone or online- $35 O/W
Alachua County Health Dept. Call -$45 R/T www.gmgtrans.com 352-215-8196
--- 2 I -12-9-74-23 -7 or appL0Loap e
All Women's Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-9-75-16Lost & Found
LOST: FIRE OPAL RING
On 10/30 around Publix on 34th St/Williston
Rd. LARGE REWARD. Call Donna 376-3439
11-16-09-4-25
Sports
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009ALLIGATOR
www.allIigator.org/sports
Picks
Column
SITE: Williams-Brice Stadium,
Columbia, S.C., (cap. 80,250)
KICKOFF: Saturday, 3:30 p.m.
TV: CBS
We're nearing the home stretch of
this year's picks column, and maybe
picking against the spread wasn't
such a good idea.
In alligatorSports Brand Picks
Columns past, our writers would
routinely put up impressive win-loss
records, with under-.500 performanc-
es as tangibly real as guest picker Ben
Volin's chances of finishing above
.500 this year.
Only three of us are above .500,
and leader (and genius) Kyle Maistri
is threatening to become the first to
go 10-games over.
Of course, if you take out the
"qualified" beat writers, the alliga-
torSports guys aren't doing too bad
except for our editor .
The genius and the disappoint-
ment will now argue the upcoming
Alabama-Mississippi State game.
MISSISSIPPI STATE WILL COVER THE
+12 SPREAD BECAUSE .Alabama
will suffer a letdown after clinching
the SEC West. The Crimson Tide have
also shown an ability to allow lesser
opponents to stick around much like
the Gators. Plus, Dan Mullen needs
a signature win in his first season af-
ter falling short against LSU, Georgia
Tech and Houston at home. It'll be
two teams that love to run the ball, so
I see the Bulldogs keeping it close.
-PHIL KEGLER
ALABAMA WILL COVER THE -12
SPREAD BECAUSE .the Crimson Tide
are looking to make a point. After
close wins against LSU and Tennessee
in their last two games, the Bulldogs
are the perfect red-headed stepchild
for big, bad 'Bama to beat the crap
out of. Unless Johnthan Banks has a
couple interception returns in him, I
don't see any way Mississippi State
SEE PICKS, PAGE 8UF FOOTBALL
Tebow faces Spurrier for final time
taa< v<S 7:
Harrison Diamond/ Alligator Staff
Quarterback Tim Tebow is 2-0 as a starter against South Carolina. The Gators
have defeated the Gamecocks by an average of 35 points the last two years.
JF offense vs. South Carolina defense
W 0
Jeff Demps Tim Tebow
a
Deonte
Thompson
Stephon
GilmoreAaron Marcus Murice Mike Carl DavidHernandez Gilbert Hurt MaurkicePounceyJohnson Nelson
Pouncey
Devin Ladi Nathan Clifton
Taylor Ajiboye Pepper Geathers
S e e9
Antonio Shaq Eric
Allen Wilson Norwood
DeVonte Holloman Chris CulliverQ
Riley
Cooper
Akeem
AugusteBy PHIL KEGLER
Alligator Staff Writer
pkegler@alligator org
It isn't common for Florida to face an opponent whose
coach roots for the Gators. Then again, Gainesville used to
be home for Steve Spurrier.
The South Carolina coach will face his former team for
the fifth time when No. 1 Florida (9-0, 7-0 Southeastern
Conference) heads to Columbia for a 3:30 p.m. kickoff Sat-
urday.
"I pull for the Gators, sure," Spurrier said this week. "Al-
most all their games are on TV, and we're usually a night
team.
"We realize we're pretty big underdogs and the Gators
are a very good team. But they know we're going to try to
win.
Florida quarterback Tim Tebow will face the 01' Ball
Coach and the Gamecocks (6-4, 3-4 SEC) for the final time.
The first two meetings have been memorable, although
likely more for Tebow than Spurrer.
In 2007, Tebow completed 22 of 32 passes for 304 yards
and two touchdowns and rushed for 120 yards and five
touchdowns as Florida won 51-31.
Last year, he threw for 173 yards and two touchdowns
and added another score on the ground as the Gators hand-
ed Spurrier his worst loss in The Swamp, 56-6.
"It's just the way it worked out. I think it's cool," Tebow
said. "Last SEC game and it's versus coach Spurrier, who's
done so much for the SEC and just changed the SEC in a lot
of different ways, especially early on in the '90s and what
he's done for the SEC and for college football in general.
"Anytime you go against a coach like that it's going to
be special."
While Florida has won 17 of the last 18 matchups, South
Carolina proved to be a pest in 2005 (30-22 South Carolina
win) and '06 (17-16 UF win) -Spurrier's first two years.
Despite having already clinched the SEC East, the Gators
aren't losing focus. If anything, they can see the finish line
with two of their biggest goals still left -an undefeated
season and a third national title in four years.
"It gets easier when you're playing for championships,"
UF coach Urban Meyer said. "We've been pretty fortunate
here. We've been playing for championships pretty much
every year. I've been on staffs in places where it's reallyhard when you're not playing for (anything). It actually
gets easier (here). Our focus is pretty good."
Major C C
Wright
Ryan Brandon
Stamper Spikes09
Ahmad
Black
AJ
Jones
8 ~ D DT TPrn
Janoris Jermane SersO Carlos
Jenkins Cun ngham Sander Hunter Dunlap
Kyle Lemuel I Hutch Weslye
Moe Alshon Nunn Garrett Jeanpierre TJ Eckerson SaundersBrown Jeffrey Chisolm Johnson
Stephen Garcia : _ Patrick
W DiMarco
Kennny 
.
Miles NJoe
Haden
alligatorSports Podcast
* Phil Kegler and Kyle Maistri join
host Adam Berry to preview the
Florida-South Carolina game with
special emphasis on UF's
OC. Check it out on iTunes.alligatorSports.org
E The UF soccer team opens NCAA Tourna-
ment play tonight against Ilinois State. The
cross country team travels to the SEC meet.
The volleyball team hosts LSU, and the
women's basketball team opens its season.TEEING OFF WITH MIKE McCALL
E Thanks to Tennessee coach Lane Kiffin for making me look like a sucker.
Around when my story with his quote, "We've had zero arrests in 11 months
here," was hitting the printer early Thursday morning, three of his players were
being cuffed for armed robbery. This robbery earns the Vols negative street cred.
They used pellet guns, got zero dollars and used a Prius as the getaway car.U F defense vs. South Carolina offense
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009 U ALLIGATOR, 15
Basketball Jones
By EUGENIO TORRENS
Alligator Staff Writer
etorrens@alligator org
Everyone in the Colonial Center on Jan. 27,
2008, knew the ball was going to Jordan Jones
with one second left.
"I love the pressure situations," Jones said.
She got open two steps behind the three-
point line and let the ball go.
Swish.
Unfortunately for Jones and the South Car-
olina Gamecocks, time expired before the ball
left her hand. Florida won 60-57.
"We knew we were inheriting a kid that
could hit the game shot," UF assistant coach
Brenda Kirkpatrick said.
Fast forward to the present. UF will host
Stetson tomorrow to open its 2009-2010 sea-
son.
In addition to four incoming freshmen, one
more new player will be donning orange and
blue: Jones.
The Gamecock turned Gator transferred
from USC in the summer after her freshman
season in Columbia, S.C.
She didn't go far, making the 6-hour trip
south to Gainesville to stay in the Southeast-
ern Conference.
"I think that's the toughest conference in
basketball," Jones said.
Because of NCAA rules regarding trans-
fers, Jones had to sit out last season. It was
a trying ordeal for her, physically and even
more so mentally.
"It's almost like every day blended togeth-
er because every day I would come in, I'd go
to practice, then I'd leave and get home and
there was nothing really to look forward to,"
Jones said.
BIRTHING COMPETITIVENESS
Growing up, Jones competed with her
brother Tanner, now 18, in just about every-
thing. And it's not hard to see where that com-
petitive spirit came from.
"Everyone likes to win a lot in our family,"
Jordan and Tanner's mother, Angela Jones,
said. "You either get good at it, or you're real
unhappy for a while because someone beats
you.
"I feel like I'm a completely differ-
ent player than I was my freshman
year at South Carolina."
Jordan Jones
UF redshirt sophomore guard
The pairing competed in everything: bas-
ketball, baseball, Monopoly, checkers, video
games. If one was crossing the street, the other
might walk a bit faster. Then the other would
walk faster, until walking turned into sprint-
ing.
Anything the two could find a way to com-
pete in, they did.
"My mom always said I would quit if I
wasn't winning," Jones said. "I don't think I'll
ever admit that he can beat me in something.
Maybe he had his lucky days."
Jones remembered living on a cul-de-sac,
playing basketball with Tanner until the front
light of the house came on which meant it was
time to come inside.
And though Jones' eventual claim to fame
would be basketball -she averaged 14 points
per game for the No. 1 high school basketball
team in the nation her senior year at Collins
High School -her first sport was softball,
which she started playing at the age of 2.
By the age of 11, Jones was the pitcher on
Tanner's baseball team.
So when Jones showed interest in basket-
ball in sixth grade, it came as a surprise to her
mother.
It was evident Jones had some innate bas-ketball talent. By the end of her sixth grade
year, she was the leading scorer on the team.
"I'm always amazed at her desire to be as
good as she can be," Angela said.
FRESHMAN THIRTEEN
Emerging from the high school basketball
scene as the 50th best player in the nation, ac-
cording to Sports Illustrated and Rise Maga-
zine, it may have been no surprise that Jones
landed in the SEC, one of the toughest confer-
ences -if not the toughest -in women's col-
lege basketball.
She signed as a Gamecock under then-
head-coach Susan Walvius. Rather than be-
ing ushered in slowly, Jones was thrust into a
starting role at USC against stiff SEC competi-
tion.
"I really wasn't sure if I belonged," she
said.
A shooter by nature, she was asked to play
the point, something she hated at first and did
only because it was demanded of her.
It didn't prevent Jones from making an im-
pact.In her freshman year, she led the Game-
cocks in scoring, netting 13.1 points -ninth
among all SEC players.
With an ability to shoot it from deep range,
she led the SEC and was third in the countrywith 3.03 three-pointers per game.
The Gamecocks ended the season 16-16
and on April 14, 2008, it was announced that
Walvius resigned effective May 31.
Jones admitted the decision upset her be-
cause of the rapport she had established with
Walvius.
Her initial inclination was to leave, but after
her mom calmed her down a bit, she decided
to do research on other possibilities.
"Honestly, when you're in the recruiting
process, (the coach is) who you build a rela-
tionship with," Jones said. "You go to a school
and you really want to play for that coach.
That was the hardest thing. They brought in
a new coach."
Looking back, Jones said the coaching
change was a blessing in disguise because it
led her to Gainesville.
Jones lined up visits to UF, Kentucky, Au-
burn and Georgia.
Her mind was made up after she attended
a Gators softball game during the 2008 Wom-
en's College World Series run.
"This was the only visit I had to take,"
Jones said.
She did it again. She was drawn to a coach.
Amanda Butler.
"I just can't imagine anyone not wanting to
play for coach Butler," Jones said.
.,- -.._. ..
UF guard Jordan Jones is eligible to play this season after transferring from South
Carolina. She led the Gamecocks in scoring in 2007-08.ANNO PRACTICUM
With a new school in front of her and USC
behind her, Jones arrived in Gainesville part
seasoned sophomore, part baby-faced fresh-
man.
"I carried around a campus map for the
first two months I was here," Jones said.
Butler said dealing with the newness fac-
tor is one of the hardest aspects of transfer-
ring, getting acclimated even though she had
already been in college one year.
Jones' lost sense of direction paled in com-
parison, though, to the helplessness she felt
sitting out for an entire year.
"No matter how ready you think you are,
sitting out for an entire season takes a mental
toll," Butler said.
The coaching staff tries to keep players sit-
ting out engaged and challenged but admitted
it is hard making inactive players feel as spe-
cial as those playing in games.
"That is tough, sitting out," Kirkpatrick
said. "It's hard to feel like you're contributing
because most kids gauge their contributions
on what they're doing in the games."
It was especially hard on Jones when the
Gators were losing because she was forced to
watch, powerless to help.
Playing sports since she was in elementary
school, the 601 days between Jones' last orga-
nized college basketball game and the Stetson
game marks the longest stretch she hasn't put
on a jersey for a meaningful game.
During that year off, she set goals for herself
in practice such as scoring a certain amount of
points, or being more aggressive and driving
to the rim more. But it hardly softened the
blow of not being able to play.
"Every single day, bringing 100-percent
effort -that was the hardest thing, knowing
that I didn't have a game to look forward to or
playing time to earn," Jones said.
She didn't regret transferring but ques-
tioned whether or not she could stick it out.
She knew she would be able to hone her skills
with a whole year off, but she didn't realize
how hard it would be.
One of her teammates, Susan Yenser, knew
how tough it was.
A transfer from Clemson, Yenser decided
she needed a change of scenery after two
years. She sat out Butler's inaugural year at
UF, 2007-2008.
"I know that there's some days when you
walk in the locker room and you're just like
'Man, it doesn't really matter what I do to-
day,"' Yenser said. "I definitely felt for J.J., and
I would try to pick her up."
Jones leaned on Yenser as the older men-
tor. The two had lunches where Yenser would
check on Jones to see how she was coping with
her year off.
And though it may have been hard to ap-
preciate at the moment, Jones was reaping the
rewards of practicing for a whole year without
any pressure.
Indeed, she pointed out several facets of
her game that had improved including her
3-point shot off the dribble, her ball handling
and her ability as a scorer.
She's also grown accustomed to, and now
embraces, the point guard position she dread-
ed at USC.
Defense, too. Playing last year on the scout
team, Jones got all the exposure to defense she
could have wanted.
"When this year came, I didn't want to look
back on last year and say 'Wow. I sat out all of
last year and it was a waste -that I didn't get
better,"' Jones said.
She doesn't think that now. Her expecta-
tions this year are huge, and last year only fed
her ever-growing anticipation for this season.
"I feel like I'm a completely different player
than I was my freshman year at South Caro-
lina," she said. "Last year was an overall suc-
cess.
16, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
k
Ii
I9p
20, ALLIGATOR U FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2009
UF faces less pressure in 2009-10
* FLORIDA WILL HOST
STETSON ON SUNDAY.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator org
Two years removed from standing
on top of the college basketball world,
Florida is finally stepping out of its
own shadow.
The Gators will open their season
Sunday at 4 p.m. against Stetson at
home, underneath the banners com-
memorating their back-to-back na-
tional championships, but the pressure
and expectations associated with them
are a distant memory at this point.
UF is not ranked in the AP pre-
season top 25 for the second time in
three years -although it received 53
votes in the poll -and was picked to
finish fifth in the Southeastern Confer-
ence East this season behind Kentucky,
Tennessee, South Carolina and Van-
derbilt.
"Not a lot of people are expecting
stuff from us, so we've got nothing to
lose," senior forward Dan Werner said.
"We've got the underdog mentality to
just go out there and play our game."
The last time the Gators were
picked to finish fifth in their division
was 2005, when they performed well
above the expectations and won theirfirst national title.
Werner, a freshman role player on
the 2006-07 team, said the lower ex-
pectations have taken some pressure
off the young Gators. That hasn't been
the case the last few seasons, however,
especially the year after the NCAA
Championship.
"I think we were all tight," added
Werner, now the team's only senior.
"Right now, we're just playing real
loose."
Unlike concerns voiced by UF coach
Billy Donovan during the last two
years, Werner doesn't think the team's
more relaxed demeanor is a sign of the
players taking things for granted or
feeling arrogant without having prov-
en anything on the court.
"As long as we play hard, it's a
good thing that we're playing loose,"
Werner said. "I just think that's the
makeup of our team. Just really laid
back and easy going."
Without one player as the under-
stood go-to guy for direction and guid-
ance, the Gators have developed better
chemistry.
Donovan pointed to Werner as a
leader by example and attitude in prac-
tice, and sophomore Erving Walker as
UF's floor general at point guard, but
neither is a particularly vocal presence
on the court.
Chandler Parsons has taken on anincreased leadership role as well. Dur-
ing the Gators' two exhibition games,
the junior forward was the team's
emotional center, leading huddles and
challenging teammates to play better
defense at halftime after a lackluster
first five minutes against Webber In-
ternational.
Donovan also pointed to redshirt ju-
nior center Vernon Macklin as a vocal
leader due to his age and experience,
and freshman guard Kenny Boyn-
ton echoed that opinion when asked
which of his new teammates he looks
up to the most.
"I think he's a great leader in the
way he talks to us," Boynton said.
"And he's probably older than all of
us."
Donovan cautioned that all his
players have areas in which they need
to improve or become more consistent
before they can truly be the team's
leader -a title he is reluctant to be-
stow on any one person.
"Who's the catalyst, the focal guy
out there? I don't know if it's anybody,
per se," Donovan said. "There is re-
spect inside our team for one another,
but I think they all try to do different
things in different ways.
"If anything, it's going to be more
of a collective group where you have
several people basically trying to fill
that role."Andrew Stanfill / Alligator Staff
UF forward Dan Werner said the team is facing a lot less
pressure this year after being picked fifth in the SEC East.
STARTERS
AU
PG-Erving Walker SG-Kenny Boynton SF-Dan Werner PF-Alex Tyus C-Vernon Macklin
5-8, So. 6-2, Fr. 6-8, Sr. 6-8, Jr. 6-10, R-Jr.
RESERVES
" Wear polarized
sunglasses.
" Look for the manatee's
snout, back, tail, or
flipper in the water.
" Call 1-800DIAL-FMP,
*FMP or use VHF
Channel 16 if you spot
an injured manatee.
* Don't discard trash into
the water.
* Stay in deep water
channels. Avoid running
your motor over seagrass beds.
* Look, but don't touch. Please
don't feed manatees.
Save the ManateeoClub
1-800-432-JOIN (5646)
500 N. Maitland Ave.
Maitland, FL 32751
www.savethemaiatee.org F
OPE RAT E WIT H CA REF-Adam Allen, 6-8, R-So. G-Hudson Fricke, 6-1, Jr.
F-Erik Murphy, 6-9, Fr. F-Chandler Parsons, 6-9, Jr.C-Kenny Kadji, 6-10, So.
G-Ray Shipman, 6-5, So.
Don'tTeLLFUi it Up
G T MUwCcw14
Specializing in Collision repairs on all makes
Mention Lhis ad and receive special discount
33 SE 13th Road www.GT-motorcars.com 371-0215
2010-2011 SPECIAL EVENTS BUDGET
The following is the proposed 2010-2011 Special Events Budget:
Special Event Amount
Asian-American Kaleidoscope $54,661.00
Black History Month 50,399.00
Hispanic Heritage Month 59,990.00
Residence Hall Week 35,148.00
Islam Awareness Month 22,232.00
Jewish Awareness Month 29,967.00
Pride Awareness Month 34,508.00
VISA International Month 50,341.00
TOTAL $337,246.00
If you have any questions concerning this budget, please contact the Student Senate office at
392-1665. Any amendment to this budget can be expressed to your student senator at 392-1665.
Any amendment to this budget must be sponsored by a student senator. The deadline to submit
amendments to the Senate Office, Room 307C J. Wayne Reitz Union, is November 16th at 4:00
pm. This budget will be considered by the fUl Senate on first reading on November 17th at 7:30
pm in room 282 J. Wayne Reitz Union.G-Kyle McClanahan, 6-1, So.
PG-Rod Tishman, 6-5, Fr.
Jessica Warshaver / Alligator Staff
:08 Seconds
Thursda- Night
collegee Night
* Ladies Drink Free
-$150 Longnecks for Everyone
Friday
* $3 -lack amnd -lagqer
-$1.D Longnecks
Salturda!J
-$2 Longnecks
* $4 U-EiiII-It
SR D D n IEia a
01 W. .IU rsi'y A ve.
